<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0205
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0205.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Star Banc Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STRZ WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAR BANC Corp. (Cincinnati) -- John C. (Jack) Dannemiller
was elected a director of this banking concern, succeeding
Mark T. Johnson, who retired in July. Mr. Dannemiller is
president, chief operating officer and a director of Bearings
Inc., Cleveland.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0204
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0204.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Building Blocs
   ---
   Sticking Points:
   Is the 1992 Timetable for
   European Integration Too Optimistic?
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R37
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- As the nations of the European Community move
toward economic integration at the end of 1992, it's already
clear that tomatoes will be able to travel across national
borders with no impediments -- which is more than the people
who eat them may be able to do.
   Bureaucrats and national negotiators have already agreed
upon more than half of the 282 regulations that are needed to
make the new Europe fully integrated. (Tomatoes and other
goods, for example, will be able to move across internal EC
borders without stopping at border checkpoints.) But the
bureaucrats are now encountering more than a few glitches
that are slowing the work -- threatening to make 1992 a more
incomplete integration than had been predicted or hoped for.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The issues range from taxes to auto imports to worries
about terrorists and rabid dogs. No issue is more important,
however, than the free movement of people across borders. For
the average EC citizen, the removal of border controls on
such movement is "the most visible and tangible proof of the
reality of a unified Community," says EC Commission President
Jacques Delors.
   The sticking point here is the failure of member nations
to agree on a common immigration policy. If they can't break
the logjam, people moving around the EC will still be
standing in line to show their passports while they watch the
tomato trucks whiz by. To get the people moving freely, the
EC will somehow have to reconcile in one immigration policy
the widely differing ones of member nations.
   Germany, for one, doesn't require visas for temporary
visitors from East Bloc nations. This wouldn't have mattered
much a couple of years ago. But with the breakdown of Soviet
domination of Eastern Europe and the freedom of movement
people there have gained, the EC nations will have to contend
with a flood of new visitors, many seeking jobs and a new
life in the West.
   Adopting an EC-wide policy like Germany's is worrisome to
member nations such as France, Spain, Italy, Ireland and the
Netherlands, where unemployment rates range from 9% to 16% of
the work force. But these nations, too, have liberal policies
of their own toward certain favored states, usually former
colonies. A lot of compromises will have to be made.
   There are other reasons for concern beyond the sheer
number of immigrants that might be attracted by an open
policy. The UK, for one fears that a lax policy will to
easily allow in drug smugglers, terrorists and other
criminals -- who, once inside the EC, will be able to move
all over it without check. But at the same time, citing
issues of national sovereignty, the UK is reluctant to go
along with the solution favored by other nations: creation of
an EC police force modeled after the American FBI.
   So the immigration matter is stuck in the mud, at least
for the moment, along with some other complex issues in the
1992 program. Still clinging to concerns for their
sovereignty and traditions, the 12 EC states each have at
least one or two items in the 1992 agenda that they would
like to toss out the window and are reluctant to give way on.
   The French and Italians, for instance, want their auto
industries protected against wholesale invasion by Japanese
car makers. They, along with Britain, Spain and Portugal,
currently limit the number of Japanese cars sold in their
countries. During a negotiating session in Brussels earlier
this year, French European Affairs Minister Edith Cresson
declared that "the final aim" of the Japanese car makers is
"to conquer market share and then kill" their European
competitors.
   But the countries that don't restrict Japanese auto
imports, including Belgium, Germany and the Netherland, are
loath to put EC-wide restrictions on them. They fear that
limiting imports would also limit competition, leading to
higher auto prices for EC customers. One possible solution:
persuade Japan to voluntarily limit its exports to the
now-protected markets for a transition period, which could
last until 1997 or 1998.
   Tax policy is another headache. Because few governments
are willing to give up much control over taxes, only a few
trade-related tax measures were included in the 1992 program
-- and even these are stalled. They include stopping double
taxation on companies operating in two or more states, and
reducing the difference in the EC states' widely varying
value-added tax rates. Christiane Scrivener, the EC
commissioner in charge of the tax dossier, says: "Taxation is
one of the thorniest issues, precisely because it has to do
with both sovereignty and money."
   The EC countries are having similar troubles trusting each
other's health standards. Britain is worried that allowing
free trade in animals will jeopardize one of that nation's
proudest achievements -- the eradication of rabies. Other
countries have similar worries about certain plant diseases.
As a result, only about half of the 100 plant-health and
veterinary items in the 1992 program have been passed, and
most experts believe that some of them will still be
unresolved after 1992.
   Reaching agreement on these and other matters would be
difficult enough in stable times, and these are times of
flux. Diplomats, national parliaments, the EC Commission and
others directly involved in the 1992 agenda are being
distracted by the need to handle all sorts of things beyond
the writing and approval of regulations -- the Gulf crisis,
the opening of the East Bloc, demands on Europe to help the
Soviet Union, new applications for EC membership from
Austria, Cyprus, Turkey and Malta, and on and on. The
community has "a lot on its plate," British Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher said recently, urging other EC members not
to let the momentum behind 1992 slow down.
   Moreover, the global economy looks much shakier now than
it did during the first 2 1/2 years of 1992 negotiations,
when growth was brisk. If it slips into a full-blown
recession or worse, the EC nations will be likely to become
even more protective of their own interests and industries,
and much more reluctant to make the compromises they might
have agreed to when they were flush.
   The difficulties they've already been having in resolving
issues are exasperating enough to the Eurocrats. "If we have
to check every box, crate or trainload of goods that crosses
a border to make sure they don't contain any rabid dogs, then
the single market will be a farce," grumbles one EC official.
   But in almost the same breath, he predicts that for all
the difficulties, the 1992 program will indeed be a success.
Most of the sticking points will start to come unstuck in
months to come, he believes. The reason? So much has already
been done and so much momentum built up that 1992 has become
an irresistible force. "No government wants to take
responsibility for it failing," he says.
   There are signs that he may well be correct. Even the
sticky border-controls problem may be yielding, at least to
some extent; earlier this year, France, Germany, Belgium, the
Netherlands and Luxembourg agreed to remove immigration
controls among themselves, and other states have asked to
join them.
   Success for the 1992 program is also seen by those who
point out that the measures already passed have transformed
the business landscape in Europe, creating a surge of
investment and building up political pressure to get the rest
of the program passed on time. "In many ways, European
business has already gone beyond 1992," says Sir Leon
Brittan, the EC commissioner for financial services and
competition policy. "What it offers is already being built
into company planning for the next century."
   Nevertheless, some businessmen and others with a stake in
the success of 1992 are trying to prepare the public for the
fact that when the magic date of Dec. 31, 1992, arrives,
there may be more than a few loose ends left to tie up. Price
Waterhouse, the management consulting firm, has gone so far
as to suggest that the deadline be abandoned.
   Noting that formal talks on such complex matters as a
single Eurocurrency and a more unified foreign-policy and
political structure won't even begin until December, Price
Waterhouse maintains in a recent EC review that the deadline
is not really meaningful. "Those persisting with a blinkered
view of a deadline {more than two years away} had better
think again," the study says.
   ---
   Mr. Nelson, based in Brussels, is a staff reporter for The
Wall Street Journal Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0203
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0203.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   ...But Relatives of Captives in Kuwait
   And Iraq Despair Over U.S. Belligerence
   ----
   By Susan C. Faludi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   A majority of Americans, the polls say, favor military
action against Iraq -- even if their fellow Americans are
still trapped there. But Patty Hale is "definitely not with
the majority."
   Her husband, Edward, was working on an oil rig on Kuwait's
northern border at dawn on the day of the invasion. He was
among the first American citizens captured and whisked away
to Iraq. "I can't imagine that anybody who has a family
member there would be interested in dropping bombs," she
says, "unless they were interested in instant divorce. And
that's certainly not in my mind." Mr. and Mrs. Hale have been
married 22 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The relatives of the U.S. citizens in Kuwait and Iraq
observe with muted horror as public support for combat
appears to mount. On Aug. 8, 49% of Americans favored
military action even if hostages were harmed, a USA
Today/Gannett News Service poll found. By Aug. 22, the same
poll found that figure had risen to 54%. And in a Wall Street
Journal/NBC poll taken this week, 53% of Americans surveyed
said they would support military action in spite of the
hostages.
   Michael Saba, founder of Coming Home, a group representing
hostage relatives, said that for all of the family members,
"their concern was with this attitude of
let's-go-over-there-and-kick-their-butts. It's extremely
frightening to them."
   But Mr. Saba said that many relatives of hostages he has
talked to feel compelled to publicly support Mr. Bush's
hawkish stance. "They don't want to sound unpatriotic," he
says.
   Donnita Cole is "a military mom and a hostage wife." Her
son is a U.S. soldier stationed in the Saudi desert, her
husband "a human shield" somewhere in Iraq. She mailed her
son and his unit a big box of provisions this week --
including more than 300 paperback books to occupy the hours
under the desert sun. But she has no mailing address for her
husband.
   "I'd like for these people {calling for military action}
to talk to me," Mrs. Cole says. "I would like for them to
tell me, face to face, that my Johnny is expendable. . . .
These are still live human beings we're talking about."
   John Cole had begun work as a drilling supervisor four
months before the invasion, and Mrs. Cole was about to join
him. She had rented their Texas home, packed all their
belongings and even booked her tickets when she got word that
Iraqi troops were marching into Kuwait. Her daughter called
with the news a half hour after midnight, Aug. 2. "From 12:30
on, all night long, I tried to call him. Every 20 minutes for
the next four days, I tried to call him." She never got
through.
   The day of the invasion, Ingrid Pawlowski was in Kuwait
City with her husband, Paul, an architect for an engineering
firm, and her seven-year-old daughter, Tess. Gunshots woke
them at 6:30 a.m. They spent the next several weeks treading
softly behind their drawn curtains, conserving a rapidly
dwindling food supply and "fearing a knock on the door," Mrs.
Pawlowski says. "I'd measure the success of the day by how
afraid I felt." She and her daughter finally got out, but Mr.
Pawlowski had to stay behind. She has not heard from him.
   "War is all very nice when you are sipping martinis in
your New York apartment, speculating on the pros and cons of
armed conflict," she says. "I think there's very little
understanding of what the realities are over there."
   Mrs. Pawlowski says the press bears some responsibility
for the warlike mentality: "There seems to be less focus in
the media on the hostages" than in past Middle East hostage
crises -- and more interest in combat.
   Betty Seago's husband, Guy, an electronics teacher, was
hauled in by Iraqi troops while trying to flee in a
four-wheel-drive through the desert. "I try not to listen to
the polls," Mrs. Seago says softly. "It looks like we're
heading toward war, but I try not to dwell on it. I go to
church a lot."
   The bellicose posture of Americans in the polls marks a
shift from American public attitudes toward past
hostage-taking episodes in the Middle East -- from the
drawn-out Iranian crisis of 1979-1981 to the imprisonment of
Americans in Beirut following the 1985 TWA hijacking over
Greece.
   Ironically, while these two past events involved far fewer
people, Americans were far more leery then of taking military
steps that might jeopardize hostages. An ABC/Washington Post
poll in June 1985, for example, found that six in 10
Americans favored giving in to the hijackers' terms if the
alternative meant further injury to U.S. hostages. A 1985 CBS
poll reported similar results.
   During the Iranian affair, when President Carter openly
and repeatedly declared that saving hostage lives was his
first priority, a majority of Americans agreed with him; most
1980 opinion polls showed that most Americans opposed
military action for fear it would endanger the hostages.
   But today, not only do more Americans seem less anxious
about the fate of their trapped countrymen, some even want to
fault the hostages themselves for their plight.
   "On almost every talk show I've been on," Mr. Saba says,
"someone calls in and says, `Well, it's their fault for being
in that part of the world in the first place.' There's a lot
of this blaming-the-victim business going around. Why have
people gotten so hardened?"
   The much larger number of hostages involved may be one
reason. "It's such a big situation and there are so many
people involved, it's hard to personalize it," Mr. Saba says.
   Mrs. Hale, however, her voice breaking as she speaks, has
no trouble personalizing the situation. For those having
difficulties, she recommends the following technique: "Maybe
they should take a look at their husband or their wife across
the dinner table and think how would it feel if they were the
ones there."
   (See related story: "Americans Support Bush's Tough Stance
on Iraq, Backing Military Action Despite Hostages..." -- WSJ
Sept. 21, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0202
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0202.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Big Green Trade-Killing Machine
   ----
   By Virginia I. Postrel
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Californians will vote in November on what may be the most
significant piece of protectionist legislation in decades.
But few voters will think of it in those terms.
   The legislation is Proposition 128, the California
Environmental Protection Act of 1990. Called "Big Green" by
supporters and "the Hayden Initiative" by detractors, this
omnibus initiative runs 39 single-spaced, typed pages of
dense legalese, sprinkled with multisyllabic chemical names.
Its most radical provisions apply to pesticides and other
agricultural chemicals, and it is these sections that imperil
free trade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Before one can grasp the free-trade implications, however,
one must get a handle on the legislation's faulty "science."
Rejecting the toxicologists' fundamental principle that "the
dose makes the poison," Prop. 128 proceeds from the
unsupported assumption that a "toxic" is a "toxic,"
regardless of the dose.
   Prop. 128 would prohibit Californians from using any
pesticides demonstrated to cause cancer or reproductive harm
in tests on either humans or two different animal species,
regardless of dosage. The initiative would also require
manufacturers of "high hazard" pesticides -- those suspected
of being carcinogens -- to prove that these chemicals do not
cause cancer. Lacking such proof, these chemicals, too, would
be banned.
   The National Resources Defense Fund and other Prop. 128
supporters adamantly maintain that the ban would apply
initially to only 19 chemicals listed as known carcinogens or
reproductive toxins by the Environmental Protection Agency.
This narrow reading makes for good public relations, but it
doesn't stand up to scrutiny. In fact, Prop. 128 could ban
two-thirds of the agricultural chemicals used in California.
To understand why, you have to dig into the esoteric language
of the initiative -- a daunting assignment.
   Prop. 128 would ban even those pesticides whose inert
ingredients alone fail to pass muster. The proposition
defines "inert" to include contaminants of inert ingredients,
such as the chromium in clays used to deliver sulfur or the
benzene in oil sprays. Ironically, sulfur is a staple of
organic farming -- as well as a fungicide essential to
California's $1.4 billion grape industry. And oil-based
sprays are widely used in integrated pest-management
programs, which reduce the use of pesticides by fighting bad
bugs with good bugs.
   Even accepting the NRDC's narrow reading, however, Prop.
128 would ban such common agricultural chemicals as Captan, a
fungicide used on grapes, almonds and cotton -- California's
three leading export crops. While there is no ready
substitute for Captan, other chemicals are more replaceable
-- at a price. Trifluralin, used for weed control on 75% of
California's tomato crop, can be replaced with pebulate -- at
an additional cost of $7 an acre, estimates Leonard P.
Gianessi of Resources for the Future, a Washington-based
environmental research and education group. California
farmers are understandably opposed to Prop. 128.
   But the initiative doesn't merely prohibit use of these
chemicals by California growers. It also bans the sale of
food containing their residues -- including food produced
outside the state, whether foreign or domestic. This
provision would presumably protect California farmers from
less-regulated competition.
   Prop. 128's trade provisions could move California toward
the dream of the most radical wing of the green movement:
dividing the country into narrow bioregions, cut off from
trade. The result could be empty produce shelves in
California supermarkets.
   Washington state apple growers, for instance, ship some 10
million boxes, or 15% to 20% of their crop, to California
each year. Derl Derr, president of the International Apple
Institute, says many of those apples contain trace amounts of
chemicals whose residues would be prohibited by Prop. 128.
Marketing "adulterated" apples in California would open the
apple vendor to fines of $10,000 to $25,000 per violation per
day. So rather than selling their crops in California,
suggests Mr. Derr, many apple growers would turn to other
states.
   Indeed, more than a fifth of all fresh fruits and
vegetables brought into California in 1988 contained residues
that would be banned under Prop. 128, reports Sandra
Archibald of Stanford University's Food Research Institute.
This doesn't imply, however, that the residues were
dangerous. Of nearly 2,300 samples of fresh tomatoes from
Mexico tested over a five-year period, the Food and Drug
Administration found none that exceeded federal tolerances
for pesticides. Some 70%, however, would be prohibited under
Prop. 128. More than 99% of U.S. imports of fresh tomatoes
come from Mexico.
   By establishing a separate trade policy for the nation's
largest state -- and one that eschews mainstream science --
Prop. 128 runs directly counter to the Bush administration's
trade stance. In talks on the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade, the U.S. is pushing hard to break down
agricultural trade barriers and harmonize food-safety
standards. In place of willy-nilly import regulations, U.S.
negotiators propose that an arbitrator decide whether an
importing country's standards are scientifically based, using
United Nations standards as a guide. U.N. standards are less
restrictive than existing U.S. rules and much less stringent
than those set by Prop 128.
   Even without any revisions, GATT might classify Prop. 128
as a nontariff trade barrier, making the U.S. subject to
retaliatory action. In response to Prop. 128, the U.S. trade
representative asked the International Trade Commission to
hold a hearing and prepare a report on the initiative's
potential impact on trade. An interim report will be released
by the end of this month, with the final report due by Dec.
31.
   Initiative supporters reacted ferociously. The NRDC issued
a press release calling the hearing part of "a larger
Administration strategy" that is "intent on preventing
California from enacting its own pesticide standards."
Although the NRDC claimed in its testimony that Prop. 128 is
legal under GATT, since it applies equally to all producers,
its press release seemed to concede the issue. It said the
ITC report could provide ammunition to "foreign importers,
who could use the report as a basis to challenge Big Green as
a violation of international trade regulations."
   In truth, however, Prop. 128 supporters couldn't have been
terribly surprised to run into conflict with GATT. "There
seems to be a growing concern about how trade affects the
environment, about how GATT should address those issues,"
says Eric Christensen, an attorney with the NRDC's
international program.
   And environmentalists increasingly see free trade as the
enemy. Green economic theorist Herman Daly, a World Bank
economist, calls for the U.S. to abandon the free-trade
system and impose stiff tariffs to "greatly reduce the
incentive to produce goods for the American market." He also
criticizes capital mobility even within the country and urges
a sharp reduction in interstate commerce.
   On a more mundane level, attorney Steven Shrybman notes in
the Naderite Multinational Monitor that liberalized trade
policy "will make it more difficult for countries to maintain
or implement tough environmental standards without
undermining the competitiveness of their domestic industry."
   Mr. Shrybman, who is counsel for the Canadian
Environmental Law Association, calls the U.S.-Canada Free
Trade Agreement "a disaster, because the environment was
utterly and completely ignored. . . . We lost the ability to
regulate the environment and energy development in Canada."
   Just as international competition provided a powerful
check on the ability of organized labor to raise wages ahead
of productivity, so it promises to restrain environmental
zealotry. And just as labor tried for decades to limit
imports from countries not blessed with an NLRB, so the
eco-protectionists campaign to save American farmers from
foreign pesticide users.
   There is widespread international support for bans on
demonstrably dangerous chemicals and regulation of hazardous
residue levels. But Prop. 128 represents an American
idiosyncrasy, the belief that everything man-made will kill
us. Environmentalists who oppose both trade and chemicals
have every interest in turning that conviction into a trade
barrier.
   ---
   Ms. Postrel is editor of Reason magazine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0201
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0201.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- TCBY Enterprises Inc.:
   Fiscal Third-Quarter Profit
   Declined 42% to $6.7 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   TBY
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TCBY Enterprises Inc. said fiscal third-quarter net income
fell 42%, adding that it doesn't expect to post "positive"
same-store sales for the year.
   In the nine months ended Aug. 31, TCBY said same-store
sales fell 12.7%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Little Rock, Ark., chain of frozen-yogurt stores said
third-quarter profit was $6.7 million, or 25 cents a share,
down from $11.5 million, or 43 cents a share, a year ago. In
late August, the company said it expected such a drop,
largely because of increased competition and bad weather.
   Sales and franchising revenue fell 11% to $43.6 million
from a restated $49.2 million. TCBY said it opened 99 stores
in the quarter, bringing the total to 1,894.
   TCBY said it is continuing to implement programs for sales
outside stores. But it added that "additional sales from
these programs are not expected to reach significant levels
in 1990." The company said it is also testing in-store menu
items such as salads, Slim-Fast shakes and Slim-Fast frozen
products. TCBY franchisees have complained recently about a
paucity of new products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0200
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0200.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Survey
   ---
   Going East:
   CEOs Are Bullish on Investment in
   Eastern Europe, but Worries Remain
   ----
   By George Anders
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R24
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN CANDA FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   EASTERN EUROPE has found democracy on its own, but it will
have plenty of help in discovering capitalism.
   A new survey shows that one-third of corporate chief
executive officers in the U.S., Asia and Western Europe plan
to build or buy factories in Eastern Europe over the next
five years. The CEOs' bullish investment plans reflect a
belief that political liberalization in Eastern Europe is
paving the way toward eventual profits for foreign investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier this year, for example, General Electric Co. of
Stamford, Conn., paid $150 million to buy a majority interest
in Tungsram Co., a Hungarian lighting company. GE Chairman
Jack Welch said when the investment was announced that he was
making a "substantial bet" that moving into Hungary would pay
off.
   But while international executives are optimistic, they
are also wary. They display, for instance, little of the
giddy optimism that abounded five to 10 years ago when China
appeared to be undergoing a similar opening to foreign trade.
The reasons for the current caution? Executives cite concerns
about Eastern Europe's bureaucracy, its political instability
and its restrictions on foreign companies' ability to extract
hard currency.
   Those are some of the preliminary findings that emerge
from a poll of chief executive officers in the U.S., Europe,
Japan and Pacific Rim nations. The survey was conducted
jointly by The Wall Street Journal, the management consulting
firm of Booz-Allen &amp; Hamilton Inc., and Nihon Keizai Shimbun,
Japan's leading business newspaper.
   Some 158 responses were tabulated at press time;
subsequent calculations may slightly alter some of the exact
percentage responses but won't change broad trends.
   "Executives see opportunities in Eastern Europe because of
the large consumer market and the educated labor force,"
explains Joseph Nemec, a senior vice president at Booz-Allen.
Most of that interest is concentrated among manufacturing
companies, Mr. Nemec observes; service and financial
companies aren't yet convinced that Eastern Europe's business
climate is suitable.
   The survey shows that interest in Eastern Europe has
picked up decisively, compared with a similar 1989 survey of
chief executives. Last year, a mere 5% of executives said
they planned to make capital investments in either Eastern
Europe or the Soviet Union in the next five years. This year,
34% of executives say they intend to make Eastern Europe part
of their capital-investment mix by 1995. Meanwhile, 13% of
executives say the U.S.S.R. will be part of their investment
mix by 1995.
   Don't expect foreign companies to start making toothpaste
in Tirana or sofas in Sofia, though. The capital cities of
Albania and Bulgaria -- in fact, those entire nations --
aren't likely to see much foreign investment.
   Instead, U.S., Asian and West European chief executives
cite a narrowly drawn list of East European countries that
appeal to them. No. 1 on the list is East Germany, soon to
become part of a unified Germany. Of executives planning East
European investment, 87% plan to do so in what is currently
East Germany. Next on their list is Hungary, cited by 68%,
followed by Poland, at 55%, and Czechoslovakia, at 47%.
   Yugoslavia, Romania and Bulgaria appeal to only a few
hardy (or naive) chief executives. And absolutely none of the
executives surveyed say they plan to invest in Albania.
That's little wonder: Albania is the only East European
nation to have largely withstood the wave of political
liberalization sweeping through the region. It also has the
least developed local economy.
   The most optimistic outlook toward Eastern Europe and the
Soviet Union comes from Japanese executives. Only 3% of
Japanese executives, for instance, see serious trouble
financing any East European or Soviet expansion. In contrast,
36% of U.S. executives and 27% of West European executives
identified financing as a major barrier to entering those
markets.
   Similarly, just 30% of Japanese executives identified East
European government regulations as a major impediment to
doing business in the region. That compares with 42% for both
U.S. and West European executives.
   Still, Japan isn't exactly putting its money where its
mouth is. Eastern Europe accounts for just 0.7% of Japanese
companies' world-wide capital-spending plans by 1995. That
compares with 1.8% of U.S. companies' overall spending plans
and 4.6% of Western European companies' spending plans.
   The predominant areas for capital investment world-wide
remain the U.S. and Canada, which get a 36% share, Western
Europe, at 21%, and Japan, at 18%.
   Although few executives plan to do much investing in the
U.S.S.R, they have plenty of opinions about the Soviet Union.
A remarkable 96% say they like Soviet leader Mikhail
Gorbachev, though nearly one-third of executives have some
doubts that he can keep his position until 1995.
   Some 86% of respondents think there will be sustained
economic liberalization in the Soviet Union in the next five
years. Most of them, however, seem to believe that the Soviet
economy is too backward to register much global clout in the
next five years. Only 19% of respondents think it's likely
that the U.S.S.R. will become a major economic power.
   ---
   Mr. Anders is a staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's New York bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0199
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0199.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Bride and Groom, Who Wore
   Denim, Will Honeymoon in Jersey
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   NYTA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the society-page equivalent of tearing down the Berlin
Wall, the New York Times is opening up its weddings section
to the masses.
   For years, the wedding and engagement announcements in the
Sunday Times -- dubbed the "merger and acquisitions page" by
close readers -- tended to focus heavily on the scions of
such dynasties as the du Ponts and the Rockefellers.
Impressive pedigrees and Ivy League degrees appeared to
ensure prominent mention on the pages, but how to get
mentioned at all was a riddle for more common folk.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But now, as part of an effort to adopt a more egalitarian
look for the 1990s, the Times is featuring more minorities,
public school graduates, and just plain working stiffs in its
wedding reportage. To satisfy readers' curiosity, the
newspaper is increasingly running photos of couples instead
of just brides, and mentioning the couples' ages as well.
   And from now on, to answer the really burning question,
particularly among those still single, the Times is going to
start selectively recounting how couples met.
   "How they met will only be included if the answer has some
very strong journalistic content that makes the announcement
a better story," says Bill Adler, a spokesman for the Times.
The couple who met toiling together in the Peace Corps in
Botswana, for example, are more likely to have their story
immortalized than, say, the pair who hooked up at a singles
bar.
   Not every innovation sticks, of course. In August, the
Times tried printing names of brides and grooms in boldface
type, like in a gossip column. Editors said it cluttered the
page and dropped the idea.
   While Times officials say there has never been a policy
favoring the prominent, they acknowledge that the perception
among readers may have been that only the upper crust was
welcome. Editors point out that in recent months, there have
been more blacks and Asians on the page, as well as
interracial couples.
   The paper is reaching out to minorities by putting the
word out to various professional and social organizations
that there is a new openness. And it has started a recorded
telephone message that walks young marrieds-to-be through the
intricacies of filling out a Times wedding-announcement form.
   "The yardstick for the page has always been achievement,
not social prominence," says Mr. Adler. "Now we want it to
reflect society at large."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0198
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0198.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Minorco Pretax Profit
   Rose 41% in Fiscal '90;
   Gold Fields Sale Cited
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   MNRCY U.CGL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Minorco S.A., a Luxembourg-registered,
London-based holding company, said pretax profit jumped 41%
in the year ended June 30, partly reflecting the sale of its
stake in Consolidated Gold Fields PLC.
   Pretax profit for the group, whose holdings focus on
international mining and minerals operations, jumped to $223
million from $158 million. Sales rose 60% to $265 million
from $166 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   South African-controlled Minorco earned $1.6 billion on
the sale of its 29.9% stake in Consolidated Gold Fields to
Hanson PLC in August 1989, which followed its own aborted bid
for Gold Fields.
   The sale helped double Minorco's year-end cash and
short-term investment holdings to $1.76 billion from $871
million and sent income on financial operations up 42% to
$236 million from $166 million.
   Minorco also said Chester Crocker, former U.S. assistant
secretary of state for African affairs, has joined its board.
   Profit after taxes and minority interests fell 18% to $229
million from $280 million, hurt by a sharp fall in
undistributed earnings on investments to $12.9 million from
$124 million a year earlier, when the holding in Gold Fields
was included. Earnings per share fell 18% to $1.35 from
$1.64.
   Net profit attributable to shareholders, however, nearly
tripled to $784 million from $280 million, boosted by a $555
million extraordinary gain, representing profit on the Gold
Fields stake minus restructuring costs at its Engelhard Corp.
affiliate and a write-down of its interest in Western Gold
Exploration &amp; Mining Co. A year earlier, Minorco had a
$100,000 extraordinary gain.
   Sales were boosted by Minorco's higher income from
financial operations as well as the inclusion of $28.9
million in sales from Independence Mining Co., a U.S. gold
mining group that Minorco bought for $705 million in March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0197
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0197.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Visa, MasterCard Consider
   New Limits on Card Issuers
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   T SNV CCI F
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Visa and MasterCard are considering
restrictions on who can issue their cards as banks cry foul
over the phenomenal success of AT&amp;T's new credit card.
   Senior executives at Visa and MasterCard, the two big
umbrella organizations for bank credit cards, say the reviews
are aimed at ensuring that membership regulations provide "a
level playing field" for all card issuers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Any restrictions probably would have little effect for
consumers, but could throw down new hurdles for companies
looking to get into the credit card business.
   Big banks resent the ease with which American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph, with its Universal Card, is capturing market share
in one of the banking industry's most lucrative businesses.
AT&amp;T's Visa and MasterCard credit cards are issued by
Universal Bank in Atlanta, a subsidiary of Synovus Corp. The
debate over membership restrictions was reported yesterday by
American Banker, a trade publication.
   According to a spokesman at Visa, among the options under
consideration are closing membership or ensuring that
membership is restricted only to financial institutions.
Methods by which new members would compensate banks that
spent millions of dollars over the past 20 years building
their credit card businesses also are being studied, he said.
No attempt to oust AT&amp;T from the business appears to be under
consideration.
   "We need to seek a method insuring that new entrants pay
their fair and equitable share to compensate for the large
investments and risks you have taken in establishing and
building the Visa system," Charles T. Russell, president and
chief executive of Visa, told bank credit card executives
earlier this week.
   James Bailey, the group executive in charge of credit
cards at Citicorp, the nation's largest issuer of cards, told
the executives that his bank "spent 20 years and billions of
dollars building {a credit card} infrastructure. I'm all for
competition, as long as everyone plays by the same rules."
Citibank is one of several credit card issuers that have
filed complaints against AT&amp;T's credit card operation with
the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Communications
Commission.
   In addition to AT&amp;T, the tremendous profits in credit card
operations have already drawn such nonbank competitors as
Prudential Insurance Co. of America and Ford Motor Co., both
of which issue cards through small banks that are part of
their financial services subsidiaries.
   "Any time you have a business as profitable as this, it's
going to attract competitors," said Alex W. Hart, chief
executive of MasterCard. Mr. Hart told bankers that it isn't
MasterCard's intention to restrict membership, but that the
organization is reviewing membership policies to ensure that
they are consistently applied, clear, fair and establish a
level playing field.
   "We want to be sure that the value our members have put
into the MasterCard system is respected, but we also
recognize that competition is a fact of life in the credit
card business," he said.
   Spencer Nilson, editor of a newsletter for the credit card
industry, said that it is unlikely that the credit card
organizations could legally prevent nonbank members from
joining or oust nonbank members already in the organization.
   "AT&amp;T has changed the face of the industry," he said. "The
big players who invested all the time and money in the system
over the years have a legitimate beef, so Visa and MasterCard
have to at least put up a front. But I don't think they can
pull it off."
   Bankers on the governing boards of both bodies said they
haven't been given any specific proposals and don't know when
they will.
   The effect for consumers would be minimal. The credit card
industry already offers a wide range of options, and AT&amp;T's
main contribution has been its marketing clout.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0196
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0196.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Scarce Money:
   A Shortage of Capital
   Around Globe Worries
   Top Finance Ministers
   ---
   Officials See Crunch Keeping
   Interest Rates Too High,
   Economic Growth Weak
   ---
   Funds Are Fleeing the U.S.
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Wall Street Journal staff reporters
   Marcus W. Brauchli in Tokyo,
   Michael R. Sesit in New York,
   Peter Truell in Washington
   And Tim Carrington in London
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   For the world's finance ministers assembling in Washington
this weekend, the looming economic problem isn't an oil
shortage but a capital shortage.
   Japan and West Germany, which provided the two great
reservoirs of capital that fueled the world economy in the
1980s, now face domestic problems that are draining those
reservoirs dry. Meanwhile, the ever-growing U.S. budget
deficit continues to siphon off the capital that remains
available.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The upshot: a global monetary squeeze that threatens to
keep interest rates high and economic growth low.
   "We're in a world-wide credit crunch," says Barton Biggs,
chief market strategist at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "That's why
interest rates and international credit rates are as high as
they are." The crunch is likely to dominate the talk at next
week's annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank.
   For the U.S., which became addicted to foreign capital
over the past decade, a global capital shortage could have
profound effects. Already, foreign investors from Tokyo to
Turin are avoiding U.S. securities. In the first half of
1990, they unloaded a net $7 billion of U.S. stocks and
slashed their net purchases of U.S. bonds by 48% from a year
earlier.
   And despite widespread fear that foreigners are buying up
America, direct investment in U.S. real estate and factories
has plunged to a third of last year's pace, according to the
Commerce Department.
   At the same time, Americans are investing more heavily
overseas. If first-half trends continue, Americans will buy a
net $62 billion of foreign stocks, bonds, real estate, and
plant and equipment this year, up 16% from last year.
"Foreign buyers are turning skeptical toward U.S.
investments, and U.S. investors are starting to vote with
their feet," says Susan Hering, an economist at Salomon
Brothers in New York.
   Investors' mad dash out of the U.S. is partly the natural
result of a weak economy. With consumer and business spending
stagnant, the U.S. needs less capital now than it did during
the mid-1980s boom. If a full-fledged recession hits, sagging
demand could push down interest rates despite the global
credit squeeze.
   The capital crunch still might hobble the U.S. economy. At
the very least, interest rates won't fall as fast as they
would if capital were plentiful. Spending by businesses,
farmers, home and auto buyers and even financially strapped
governmental bodies could be damped, and an economic recovery
could be delayed.
   Many of the troublesome global trends were at work before
Iraq marched into Kuwait. The Mideast crisis, however, has
aggravated the resulting problems.
   The biggest change has come in Tokyo, once a seemingly
endless fountain of capital for the world. The recent plunge
in Tokyo's stock market is eroding the foundations beneath
Japan's behemoth banks, which, unlike U.S. banks, are allowed
to hold stock and to count up to 45% of the unrealized gains
on those stockholdings as part of their capital. With the
value of those holdings cut sharply, the banks are scrambling
to replace the lost capital.
   "It's a harsh situation," says an analyst at Nikko
Securities Co. So severe is the need for capital that
Mitsubishi Bank Ltd., Japan's fourth-largest, is thinking of
selling a stake in its wholly owned Bank of California
subsidiary.
   Moreover, Japanese banks are revamping their businesses
and talking about slashing lending. If they do, the Nikko
analyst predicts, cutbacks would be sharpest in offshore
markets, where the banks face foreign-exchange risk as well
as strong interest-rate competition and thin margins. At the
moment, Japanese banks, which hold 12% of U.S. bank assets
and substantial amounts in Europe, do nearly half of all
cross-border lending.
   "They're concerned that they don't disrupt their domestic
operations; so, they're looking overseas," says J. Brian
Waterhouse, a banking analyst in Tokyo for James Capel &amp; Co.,
a British securities firm. The result: less capital and
higher borrowing costs world-wide, he says.
   Already, according to the Ministry of Finance, Japanese
investors have pulled $8.9 billion out of the U.S. stock and
bond markets in the first six months of this year. That
retreat marked a dramatic reversal of net capital flows in
the five previous years, when $180.98 billion in Japanese
money poured into the U.S.
   For some U.S. borrowers, the Japanese problems are hitting
home quickly. Last month, a credit-rating agency downgraded
two of Japan's biggest banks, Fuji Bank Ltd. and Dai Ichi
Kangyo Bank Ltd., and earlier this week Moody's Investors
Service Inc. said it was reviewing for possible downgrading
the long-term ratings of three more Japanese banks, Long-Term
Credit Bank of Japan Ltd., Mitsubishi Bank and Tokai Bank
Ltd. Such downgradings could be important to hundreds of
American municipalities, which rely on the high credit
standings of big Japanese banks to generate low-cost loans;
the banks, in effect, guarantee the borrowings.
   "A big transition is taking place," says Nobuyuki Ueda,
senior economist at Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan. "The
public will still be able to get money from Japan -- if they
are willing to pay."
   Chase Manhattan Corp., the New York bank holding company,
also felt the squeeze recently when it tried to tap the Tokyo
market for $100 million in capital. The effort foundered in a
flood of similar fund raisings by capital-hungry Japanese
banks. And at a U.S. Treasury refunding in August, Japanese
investors took only a fraction of the bonds they normally
buy.
   Some in Japan worry that conditions could deteriorate
further, particularly if the nation's sky-high real-estate
values fall to earth. "Sooner or later, banks are going to
have to sell off assets, and if they do that, stock prices
will go down further," says Kazuo Nukazawa, a managing
director of Keidanren, Japan's powerful federation of
economic organizations. "Then, land prices will be affected.
If it's too quick, that will affect the stability of the
entire financial system, not only in this country {Japan} but
in the U.S."
   Indeed, the land question is what most rattles analysts.
"The banks' experience in the real-estate market is very
similar to the experience with the Third World countries,
which have accumulated large amounts of debt," says Long-Term
Credit Bank's Mr. Ueda. "They cannot retreat. If they try to
pull out their money, it will result in a very serious
problem for the whole world."
   In Europe, the capital shortage began emerging early this
year, when West Germany committed itself to economic
integration with East Germany. Even before Iraq invaded
Kuwait, West Germany foresaw massive government outlays --
about $40 billion this year and $55 billion next year -- to
bail out the East. That's enough to devour the excess capital
that Germany has been shipping overseas.
   Since the Persian Gulf crisis, higher oil prices have
pushed up those numbers rapidly. Chase Investment Bank, a
London unit of Chase Manhattan, now puts the German bailout
cost closer to $54 billion this year and $76 billion next
year.
   Already affected is the much-ballyhooed tunnel under the
English Channel. In a bit of bad timing, the Anglo-French
project approached its bank syndicate last month in search of
nearly $4 billion in new credit. The banks, shaken by events
in the Gulf, hesitated. The talks continue, and officials say
the misgivings can't be blamed entirely on the Mideast. But
"it has made it more difficult," one banker says.
   Nowhere is the tightening supply of credit felt more
surely than in the U.S. -- the world's leading credit junkie.
Because Americans save so little, the nation has only a small
pool of its own capital to draw on. And that pool is sucked
nearly dry by the unquenchable thirst of a debt-ridden
federal government.
   The latest administration estimates have the U.S.
borrowing $250 billion next year to fund the deficit, and
some private analysts say a recession could push that over
$350 billion. That leaves little money to finance private
investment unless foreign lenders pitch in. Throughout the
1980s, they happily obliged, and their capital flowed freely
to the U.S.
   The world, however, has changed. Now, many foreigners say
they have better things to do with their money than invest it
in the U.S. "We have had a very small dollar exposure over
the last 12 to 18 months," says Heinrich Looser, a senior
vice president at Bank Julius Baer &amp; Co. in Zurich. Instead,
the bank has been investing in European currencies such as
the German mark, Dutch gilder and French franc.
   "We have been very bullish on these currencies because of
the free Europe: the reintegration of the East into Europe,
the whole economic upswing that is expected from the fall of
the Berlin Wall last November and the investment
opportunities arising from free-European markets," Mr. Looser
says. Shrinking tariff barriers, uniform manufacturing
standards and the free flow of capital expected to result
from the "unification" of the 12-nation European Community in
1992, he adds, "will increase efficiencies and produce
superior investment results."
   As investors flee the U.S., the dollar has dropped. Since
the end of 1989, it is off 7% against the mark, 4% against
the yen and 14% against the British pound. And many
economists and currency traders are betting that the U.S.
currency will fall even more in the next few months. The
prospects of such a drop could further deter foreigners from
buying U.S. securities.
   For the U.S. government, the capital flight poses a
painful dilemma. With a possible recession looming,
administration officials want the Federal Reserve to ease
credit and try to stimulate the economy. The Treasury keeps
calling on the Fed to cut short-term interest rates.
   Yet, lower short-term rates in the U.S. would send more
foreign investors scurrying back overseas, where rates remain
high. It also would raise fears that the Fed is abandoning
its battle against inflation. The result would be even less
capital from abroad and a still-lower dollar. So, the Fed has
been hesitant to move.
   The Treasury's desire for a looser monetary policy and its
casual attitude toward the depreciating dollar already are
setting it at loggerheads with some other major
industrialized nations. At a recent meeting in Paris, the
major European countries, in particular, opposed any easing.
That debate is expected to continue tomorrow at another
meeting of the industrialized nations' officials in
Washington.
   In testimony to Congress this week, Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan left no doubt about the seriousness
of the capital shortage. The amount of foreign savings
available to the U.S. "has been declining," he said. "We
can't count on {foreign savings} indefinitely in the future."
The need to improve the savings rate in the U.S. and to
reduce the dependence on foreign capital "may well be the
most important long-term policy issue that confronts this
country," he said.
   His solution: "At a minimum," the U.S. should "bring the
federal budget deficit down and reduce its drain on" savings.
   The U.S. administration and Congress continue negotiations
on a deal that would cut the deficit by about $50 billion
next year and $500 billion over the next five years. Michael
Boskin, chairman of the President's Council of Economic
Advisers, says a "credible growth-oriented budget deal" would
encourage investors and "buoy the dollar." That, in turn,
might allow the Fed to ease credit.
   Even with a budget deal reducing the U.S. drain on global
capital, the supply of funds is likely to remain tight. And
so, many analysts are on edge. "I'm extremely worried," says
Rimmer de Vries, chief economist at Morgan Guaranty Trust Co.
"There are elements of a hard landing in the picture: little
growth, rising inflation, budget problems and a somewhat
weaker dollar. I don't think that's a soft landing."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0195
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0195.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report)
   ---
   Going Global in the New World
   ----
   By Bernard Wysocki Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R3
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TIANANMEN Square. Eastern Europe. Kuwait.
   Change has rarely been so swift, so widespread. For
business, the new order clearly offers the potential for
incalculable prosperity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But it comes at a difficult juncture. For at a time when
"going global" has become a competitive necessity, the
international business landscape seems to change almost
daily.
   China, for instance, has suddenly regressed -- its image
transformed from one of stability to one of fragility and
riskiness. Eastern Europe, which a year ago seemed a backward
bulwark of socialism, is widely regarded as one of the great
economic growth areas of the 1990s. And in the Mideast, after
the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, oil prices turned suddenly
volatile, threatening to toss the world's economies into
recession.
   Who will survive -- and thrive -- in this new world?
   It isn't easy to predict, but one thing is clear:
Companies can't simply pretend that the rest of the world
doesn't exist. Wherever a company is based, whatever a
company makes, competition is pushing it to think globally.
Even the executives of a small Oregon company that makes
robotic-vision systems to cut french fries discovered
recently that a Belgian company had developed a similar,
competing device.
   Such competitive pressures are growing in all the world's
major markets. U.S. companies are intensifying their efforts
in Europe and Asia. European companies are pushing hard into
the U.S. and Asia. And Japanese companies, once focused
heavily on exports to the U.S., are buying and building
aggressively almost everywhere.
   The result is that companies that were primarily domestic,
or merely exporters, are becoming truly global at a furious
rate. All of which leads to far-flung operations and a much
greater degree of complexity.
   How will American companies fare in this new world? Many
U.S. companies long ago staked out beachheads overseas,
especially in Europe. They also did what few European
companies could bring themselves to do: They considered
Europe a single market. Today, as Europe hurtles toward
economic unity by the end of 1992, many American companies
are already well positioned.
   Ford Motor Co., Merck &amp; Co., Coca-Cola Co., International
Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. are just a
few of the companies with strong, profitable operations in
Europe.
   In Asia, too, many U.S. companies have persevered and
prospered. McDonald's Corp. and Walt Disney Co. are among
them. Also successful are companies as diverse as Du Pont Co.
and Amway, the latter having sold more than $500 million in
housewares door-to-door in Japan last year.
   Yet there are also signs of American companies in retreat
from abroad. Some U.S. companies, including Chrysler Corp.
and Honeywell Inc., have cashed out part of their stakes in
Japan. Many U.S. banks, in particular, are withdrawing from
overseas, even from some of the fast-growing markets of Asia.
   Does this matter? It could matter greatly. Competing in
the 1990s is likely to require large amounts of long-term
investment overseas in many of the most important industries
-- in autos, in electronics, in pharmaceuticals. The
necessity to be "insiders" rather than mere exporters is
growing day by day.
   The insider status becomes particularly important should
the world economy tumble into protectionist regional trading
"blocs." If trade were to be relatively free within North
America, Europe or Asia, but relatively restricted between
blocs, then a significant presence inside each bloc would be
crucial.
   For the U.S., such a trading-block world conjures up a
nightmarish scenario: An American regional bloc could turn
out to be the debt bloc -- a collection of countries that
import capital, run big budget deficits, and invest
pathetically small amounts in new ventures.
   Fortunately, no such thing is preordained. These days, in
fact, it seems that no idea is too bold, too farfetched, to
be taken seriously. At a recent meeting at the Japan Society
in New York, management guru Peter Drucker, asked about the
likelihood of an East Asian trade bloc, responded, "If China
breaks up under regional warlords, then we'll see an East
Asian bloc."
   Two years ago, Mr. Drucker might have been laughed out of
the room. The breakup of China? Impossible.
   It no longer seems like such a radical idea.
   ---
   Mr. Wysocki, a news editor in The Wall Street Journal's
New York bureau, served as continuing editor of this Wall
Street Journal Report.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0194
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0194.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Global Tactics
   ---
   Reality Check:
   After Tiananmen Square, Businesses Take
   A Harder Look at Opportunities in China
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R7
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST FMC HON
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   FOR MANY YEARS, a business investment in China mirrored
riverboat gambling: a lousy today, not much of a yesterday --
but what a glorious tomorrow it would be when Lady Luck
finally changed.
   Foreign businesses had to endure inefficient workers,
constantly changing regulations and interminable negotiations
with an impenetrable bureaucracy. For that honor, they paid
top dollar for nearly everything. But it was worth it: With
China rapidly shedding its socialist past, good times were
always thought to be right around the corner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Then came Tiananmen Square.
   Today, for the first time in nearly a decade, the future
seems so far off that it's the present that counts. As a
result of the political, moral and economic crisis sparked by
the government crackdown and killings in the nation's capital
last year, "the perception of the China market has altered
dramatically," says William Abnett, executive director of the
Washington State China Relations Council, a trade group.
"Tiananmen's biggest impact was to dash the hope of China
becoming reformist, of becoming capitalist."
   Few companies are throwing in the towel yet. Most are
hunkering down, nurturing the projects at hand. Nearly
everyone still sings the praises of the "long-term view."
   But these days, more companies are evaluating their China
operations for what they are, not for what they might become.
That, they concede, is what they should have been doing all
along. They're counting costs, driving harder bargains and
picking partners carefully. And they're taking a second look
at their China strategy in the cold light of opportunities
available elsewhere in Asia -- or in newly beckoning Eastern
Europe. What's more, those who shouldn't be there in the
first place are staying home.
   "The balloon is out of the China bubble," says Martin
Weill, director of business advisory services for the
U.S.-China Business Council, a trade group. "Maybe it should
have been out sooner." Jerome Cohen, a New York attorney who
advises clients on doing business in China, agrees. "Now you
find very few people who are dewy-eyed about China. They come
in more clear-eyed, more explicitly comparative" with other
opportunities.
   American business's love affair with China has always been
an on-again, off-again romance. Little wonder: In a centrally
controlled economy, a change of heart at the top can produce
breathtaking about-faces in business opportunities. In 1985,
for example, the Chinese turned on the credit spigot, and the
number of foreign-venture agreements jumped 40%. By 1986, the
government had clamped down, and the number plunged again by
half.
   Such changes proved frustrating. Still, China kept making
tempting progress toward what many believed would be a brave
new world. The country was establishing a legal structure,
moving toward resolving vexing foreign-exchange problems and
focusing its own agenda more clearly.
   By far the biggest comfort for companies was the
perception of vibrant leadership at China's helm. Deng
Xiaoping had installed Party Secretary Hu Yaobang and Premier
Zhao Ziyang -- a pragmatic, Western-leaning team. "I
personally met with Deng and with Zhao Ziyang," says James A.
McClung, FMC Corp.'s vice president, international. "Their
philosophy was right . . . and the way they were directing
people was correct. You couldn't help but be impressed."
   People willingly suppressed their skepticism of a few
years earlier. "Basically we found that no one was prepared
for the extent and seriousness of political and social
unrest," says Michael Griem, a consultant with A. T. Kearney
Inc. who advises companies on projects in China. Agrees Mr.
McClung: "We never realized the underlying problems until
Tiananmen Square."
   Today Hu Yaobang is gone, his death the force that set in
motion the demonstrations leading to the government crackdown
last year. Zhao Ziyang is in political exile. Conservative
elders appear to be wresting power from Deng Xiaoping. And no
new generation of leaders is evident. Behind the repression
simmer palpable feelings of public resentment and violence.
The next few years are unpredictable.
   Absent the aura of progress, the underlying reality looks
grimmer. Just before the events of June 1989, Mr. Griem of A.
T. Kearney found companies grappling with a litany of
problems. Raw materials were hard to find, costs were higher
than expected, managing ventures required more executive time
than planned, government involvement in joint ventures was
growing, and labor was less efficient than anticipated.
Still, many companies were forging ahead, often pressed by an
enthusiastic Chinese government. U.S. foreign investment in
China was soaring.
   Since Tiananmen Square, companies are addressing those
problems more directly, and new foreign investment has ground
to a near halt. Here are some of the things they are doing.
                                                                                                       

   Seeking alternative sources of supply: Mr. Abnett of the
Washington state trade group was recently asked to brief a
major retailing company that bought large quantities of
clothing from China. That company, he says, is now trying to
diversify its supply sources. So are others. According to Mr.
Griem at A. T. Kearney, companies now realize the fragility
of the Chinese supply line. "China is still a valuable
source," says Mr. Griem, "but if you miss the Christmas
season, then Christmas is over. Where China may have had an
opportunity to be the predominant source, what's ended up is
China is now a good source, but not the only one."
                                                                                                       

   Negotiating longer-term ventures: In general, Westerners
wanted very long-term ventures to give them adequate time to
amortize start-up costs, says A. J. Robinson, executive vice
president of Portman Overseas Inc. The Atlanta-based
real-estate company is a partner in a $200 million complex in
Shanghai. But the Chinese pushed for short-term ventures and
fast returns. Mr. Robinson says Tiananmen Square strengthens
Westerners' hands in seeking longer terms for ventures. His
company is looking to tack a few years on its term.
                                                                                                       

   Resisting pressure: Many companies found themselves
pressured by the Chinese to expand in ways that weren't
economically feasible. Eager to develop their remote interior
regions, the Chinese pressed companies to join ventures
there. They wanted Honeywell Inc. "to move into the interior
and set up a medium-tech industrial-instrumentation joint
venture," says Michael Bonsignore, the company's president,
international. "Even on cursory inspection, there was no way
the local infrastructure . . . could support it. We became
part of China's efforts to build an infrastructure. It wasn't
a pragmatic idea."
   Now, he says, Honeywell is back in the driver's seat.
"Those discussions regarding local manufacture have really
gone quiet," he says. "It gives Honeywell an opportunity to
decide what makes sense in terms of the long term. Before, we
were being pressured."
                                                                                                       

   Shifting strategies: Some companies' China game plans
contained more than a little wishful thinking. In particular,
some joined Chinese ventures simply hoping for access to one
billion potential consumers. The post-Tiananmen reality is
forcing a re-evaluation. James Stepanek, a visiting lecturer
at Yale University's management school and until recently a
Beijing representative of a Fortune 500 company, cites one
company's switch: "They are viewing China now less as a
market and more as a factory" producing goods for export.
"That's a fundamental change."
   On the other hand, companies such as FMC that started by
marketing products to China are re-evaluating their plans to
make things there. "We were focusing on doing things in the
country. Now we will shift {back} to a marketing strategy,"
says FMC's Mr. McClung. What's more, companies that had
planned to expand existing ventures have grown more cautious:
"The big-ticket investment is going to be pushed way
downstream," says Mr. Griem.
                                                                                                       

   Cutting costs: Mr. Cohen's law firm, Paul, Weiss, Rifkin,
Wharton &amp; Garrison, recently closed its Hong Kong office,
which specialized in China business. It distributed the
reduced workload among staff in Beijing, Manila, New York and
Washington. "It's a more efficient, less expensive way of
getting through a period that could last a number of years,"
says Mr. Cohen. Others are pressing the Chinese to reduce
costs that the foreign businesses readily acceded to in
happier times. "In the past {the foreigners} would say, OK,
we'll just pay this," says Mr. Robinson of Portman. "Now
foreign partners are going to try to drive a better bargain.
You're crazy if you don't."
   ---
   Ms. Bennett, a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's
New York bureau, reported from China between 1983 and 1985.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0193
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0193.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Home Savings Bank
   To Suspend Payment
   Of Quarterly Dividend
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   HMSB AHM
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Home Savings Bank, whose shareholders just
approved the bank's acquisition by H.F. Ahmanson &amp; Co., said
it will suspend payment of the third-quarter dividend.
   Robert Pondt, Home Savings' senior executive vice
president, said the board of directors voted to suspend the
18.75-cent-a-share payout in the hope of saving about $2
million by the end of the year. The quarterly dividend was
last paid on July 19.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Pondt said the suspension of the payout wasn't at
Ahmanson's request, but he added that it could enhance Home
Savings' value to Ahmanson. He also said payment of a
fourth-quarter dividend depends on earnings reported for the
current quarter and completion of the acquisition, which is
expected by year end. However, he said the bank expects flat
third-quarter earnings.
   The acquisition, valued at about $300 million, was
approved Wednesday by Home Savings' shareholders, and is
subject to regulatory approval.
   Home Savings, with assets of $1.5 billion, operates 13
full-service banking offices in the New York metropolitan
area.
   H. F. Ahmanson of Irwindale, Calif., with more than $47.6
billion in assets, is the parent company of Home Savings of
America and The Bowery Savings Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0192
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0192.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Rankings
   ---
   The World's 50 Largest Insurers
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R30
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ranked by assets as determined by Worldscope; Figures are
based on each company's 1989 fiscal-year results.
   (In millions of U.S. dollars at Dec. 31, 1989, exchange
rates; percentage change based on home currency)
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

  -----------                       From              Net
 1989   1988              Assets    1988   Capital  Income*
                                                                                                       

   Prudential (U.S.)
  1      1               $163,967     7%     $9,943 $  743
                                                                                                       

   Nippon Life (Japan)
  2      2                148,632    18       5,496  5,003
                                                                                                       

   Zenkyoren (Japan)
  3      --               113,423    13       1,785    203
                                                                                                       

   Dai-Ichi Mutual (Japan)
  4      3                103,477    19       4,139  3,419
                                                                                                       

   Metropolitan Life (U.S.)
  5      4                 98,740     5       5,303    310
                                                                                                       

   Sumitomo Life (Japan)
  6      5                 88,006    21       3,060  2,692
                                                                                                       

   Aetna (U.S.)
  7      6                 87,099     7       8,128    639
                                                                                                       

   Allianz Group** (W. Germany)
  8     49                 78,871    N.A.     8,493    557
                                                                                                       

   Prudential Corp. (U.K.)
  9      9                 63,119    27      17,737    444
                                                                                                       

   Equitable Financial (U.S.)
 10      7                 61,708     6       2,444     15
                                                                                                       

   Cigna (U.S.)

                                                                                                       

   Meiji Mutual (Japan)
 12     10                 57,372    21       2,246  1,794
                                                                                                       

   Travelers (U.S.)
 13     11                 56,563     6       5,844    424
                                                                                                       

   Tokio Marine &amp; Fire (Japan)
 14     12                 53,421    23      19,529    647
                                                                                                       

   Nationale-Nederlanden (Netherlands_
 15     15                 48,683    13       6,487    610
                                                                                                       

   Asahi Mutual (Japan)
 16     14                 47,374    19       1,927  1,678
                                                                                                       

   New York Life (U.S.)
 17     13                 46,648     7       2,674     57
                                                                                                       

   American International (U.S.)
 18     17                 46,143    23      10,485  1,367
                                                                                                       

   Union des Assurances de Paris (France)
 19     19                 45,811    23       5,251    592
                                                                                                       

   Teachers Insurance (U.S.)
 20     16                 44,374    15       2,618    101
                                                                                                       

   Australian Mutual (Australia)
 21     33                 44,335    N.A.    11,024  3,249
                                                                                                       

   Zurich Insurance (Switzerland)
 22     --                 37,167    27       4,946    232
                                                                                                       

   Mitsui Mutual Life (Japan)
 23     20                 36,238    19       1,374  1,195
                                                                                                       

   State Farm Mutual (U.S.)
 24     21                 35,493    15      18,028    419
                                                                                                       

   Yasuda Fire &amp; Marine (Japan)
 25     --                 34,672    26      10,273    N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Allstate*** (U.S.)
 26     24                 34,010    14       6,793    815
                                                                                                       

   Loews (U.S.)
 27     29                 32,451    26       7,490    907
                                                                                                       

   John Hancock (U.S.)
 28     25                 32,344    10       1,778    142
                                                                                                       

   American General (U.S.)
 29     22                 32,062     5       8,236    464
                                                                                                       

   Norwich Union (U.K.)

                                                                                                       

   Standard Life (U.K.)
 31     27                 31,149    27       7,083  3,064
                                                                                                       

   Yasuda Mutual Life (Japan)
 32     26                 31,014    21       1,563  1,326
                                                                                                       

   Aegon (Netherlands)
 33     31                 30,471    15       7,603    352
                                                                                                       

   Transamerica (U.S.)
 34     28                 29,840    12       9,889    332
                                                                                                       

   Royal Insurance (U.K.)
 35     34                 28,540    29       5,003    145
                                                                                                       

   Northwestern Mutual (U.S.)
 36     30                 28,515    12       2,075    372
                                                                                                       

   Assicurazioni Generali (Italy)
 37     35                 28,495    13       4,294    453
                                                                                                       

   Legal &amp; General (U.K.)
 38     32                 28,186    26       7,434    164
                                                                                                       

   Commercial Union (U.K.)
 39     38                 25,424    27       3,070    281
                                                                                                       

   Principal Mutual Life (U.K.)
 40     39                 25,305    13         916    217
                                                                                                       

   Assurance Generales de France (France)
 41     47                 25,254    26       2,564    445
                                                                                                       

   Lincoln National (U.S.)
 42     44                 25,070    20       2,796    269
                                                                                                       

   Massachusetts Mutual (U.S.)
 43     37                 25,062    11       1,453    142
                                                                                                       

   Nationwide Insurance (U.S.)
 44     40                 25,044    12       3,013    261
                                                                                                       

   Swiss Life Insurance (Switzerland)
 45     43                 24,517    14         898    635
                                                                                                       

   Winterthur Group (Switzerland)
 46     41                 24,432    12       1,934    175
                                                                                                       

   Sun Alliance &amp; London (U.K.)
 47     42                 24,358    24       4,981    348
                                                                                                       

   Taisho Marine &amp; Fire (Japan)
 48     36                 24,192    22       7,972    237
                                                                                                       

   Swiss Reinsurance# (Switzerland)

                                                                                                       

   Sun Life (Canada)
 50     46                 22,410    12       2,155    206
                                                                                                       

   *For mutual companies, net income means net change in
capital reserves
   **Allianz consolidated life business in 1989
   ***Subsidiary, listed for comparative purposes
   #1988 figures
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0191
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0191.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Clean Harbors to Take
   Charge for Rejection
   Of Its Incinerator Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   CLHB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRAINTREE, Mass. -- Clean Harbors Inc., denied state
permission to build a proposed hazardous waste incinerator,
said it will take a pretax charge of about $16 million that
will result in a loss for its third quarter, ending Nov. 30.
   The waste cleanup and hauling company said the one-time
charge will be related to a write-down of its investment in
the incinerator. The state Department of Environmental
Protection, in a decision that followed the recommendation of
the state Public Health Department, said the company's site
in Braintree isn't suitable for the project. It said the site
is in a heavily populated area and lacks an adequate buffer
zone between it and the area's residents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Clean Harbors spokesman said the state's decision
"clearly stated that the factors which caused them to reach
the decision that the site is not suitable aren't mitigable."
Clean Harbors has been planning to build the incinerator for
several years, but opposition among local residents has been
strong.
   In the year-earlier third quarter, Clean Harbors had net
income of $1.6 million, or 18 cents a share, on revenue of
$33.5 million.
   The company also said it had fiscal second-quarter net of
$1.4 million, or 16 cents a share, up 7.5% from $1.3 million,
or 15 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 16% to
$40.6 million in the period ended Aug. 31 from $35.1 million.
For the fiscal first half, net rose 17% to $2 million, or 23
cents a share, on revenue of $75.1 million, from $1.7
million, or 19 cents a share, on revenue of $68.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0190
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0190.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Apple Bancorp Ends
   Its Attempt to Block
   Stahl Takeover Bid
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   APK
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Apple Bancorp, ending a long, contentious
battle with Stanley Stahl, said it terminated two trusts it
created as its last attempt to block the real estate investor
from gaining control of the thrift holding company's board.
   The move effectively clears Mr. Stahl to complete his
tender offer of $38 for each Apple share, or an indicated
$179.4 million, and install a majority on Apple's board. Mr.
Stahl currently has a 30.3% stake in the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Investors, some of whom described the latest news as a
"done deal," reacted positively, boosting the price of Apple
stock $5.50 to $36.375 a share in composite trading on the
New York Stock Exchange yesterday.
   But one analyst cautioned that Mr. Stahl could still back
out of the offer. "For economic reasons he might not want to
proceed," said Reid Nagle, an analyst with SNL Securities.
   Separately, Mr. Stahl said in a statement he expects to
complete the offer, which expires Oct. 1. As of Sept. 4,
about 2.8 million, or about 46% of the shares outstanding had
been tendered, giving Mr. Stahl control of about 76% of the
company.
   A spokesman said Mr. Stahl should have no problem with
financing the completion of the offer, which would be in cash
that he holds in certificates of deposit.
   The announcement followed Mr. Stahl's assertion earlier
this week that the trusts violated conditions of his tender
offer. Last week, Apple established the trusts to pay for
costs that its officers and directors might incur in
litigation between the bank and Mr. Stahl, and to compensate
employees who might incur costs in enforcing the pacts.
   The trusts were the last of several barriers Apple raised
in the past year to prevent Mr. Stahl from seeking control of
the company without completing the tender offer. Tactics
included rescheduling its annual meeting to come after the
completion of the tender offer and adopting anti-takeover
measures.
   Yesterday, Mr. Stahl said he and Apple had begun
negotiating adequate assurances that Apple will,
simultaneously with the completion of the offer, elect his
nominees to form a majority on the board.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0189
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0189.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CPC International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CPC
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CPC INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.) -- Gordon
Granger was named president of the Latin America consumer
foods division, effective Oct. 1, at this food company. Mr.
Granger, 53 years old, succeeds Osvaldo Martinez, 65, who
will retire Jan. 1. Mr. Granger was previously vice
president, consumer operations, for CPC's Latin America
division and concurrently general manager for its Brazilian
subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0188
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0188.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   An Anti-Consensus Defense of the Census
   ----
   By Martha Farnsworth Riche
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   Nearly everyone is saying the census is a flop, but
everyone is wrong. If a successful census is one that counts
all the people, then the 1990 census is as close to a success
as we can reasonably expect.
   The first two phases of the census operation are complete
-- the mailing out and mailing back of questionnaires and the
personal visits by enumerators. By the end of July, the
Census Bureau had contacted more than 99% of all known
addresses, and had more than 99 million completed
questionnaires in its computer. Now the census safety nets
are in place, and the census effort has both the time and the
resources for them to function effectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late last month, the Census Bureau sent preliminary counts
of housing units, by block, to nearly 40,000 counties, cities
and other local governments to check for accuracy. These
groups are complaining just as loudly as the public did in
the spring -- the numbers are below everyone's estimates,
including the Census Bureau's. But that's the point of the
process. The bureau will recanvass blocks where local
officials disagree with the counts. This procedure was too
rushed in 1980 to be effective, but if local officials do
their jobs, there's enough time for it to work this year.
   At the same time, the bureau is using its new Management
Information System to integrate information about missing
housing units, and to target blocks for recanvassing. All
those press accounts of missing units have been fed into the
system, as well as information received from calls to the
bureau's hotline, letters from individuals and community
groups, and information from the Postal Service.
   Census Bureau Director Barbara Everitt Bryant told a
congressional hearing last month that "statistical sample
checks show no evidence of large blocks of missing housing
units." But when a newspaper wrote that housing units in one
city were reportedly misclassified as containing only one
person, the bureau used the MIS to search for excessive
occurrences of one-person households nationwide. As a result,
Ms. Bryant said, interviewers were sent back to 58,000
households in nine census districts. The numbers local
officials are reviewing now don't include any of these
corrections.
   These and similar procedures will probably produce a
census count that is as complete as we have ever seen. The
public doesn't think that's happening because it looks at
specific instances where the basic procedures fail and then
projects that failure onto the whole. But the reality is that
the basic procedures can't work on their own any more. In a
complex society, it takes a bundle of procedures to produce a
complete count of the population.
   The mail census is the cheapest procedure: It counts the
share of the population that is willing and able to
cooperate. That share is evidently declining, and not just
among the general public. The Direct Marketing Association
reported last month that an embarrassingly low fraction of
its members cooperated with the government's request to avoid
mailings around Census Day.
   Personal visits -- the classic census procedure -- are
expensive but inevitable when so many households lack
English-language facility, literacy skills or familiarity
with filling out questionnaires, particularly wordy
government efforts like the census questionnaire. And there
are always households that are not willing to be counted. Now
that the census is computerized, we have a better chance of
counting them. That's why this census will probably be a
success -- if you define success as counting just about
everybody.
   However, if you define success as a complete and accurate
array of information about just about everybody, then the
census is less successful. About 3% of the housing units now
recorded in the census data base contain what the bureau
calls "last-resort" information. This means that the bureau
made up to six attempts to contact people in person or on the
phone. When that failed, census-takers got information from
neighbors, letter carriers or building superintendents. In
some cases, people hadn't provided all the information
requested; in other cases they hadn't provided any.
   Although the nationwide use of last-resort information
isn't terribly significant, it is significant in larger
cities -- that's where the basic procedures seem increasingly
inadequate. According to Ms. Bryant, preliminary data for New
York City, in particular, suggest that last-resort data may
have been substituted for more than the usual hard-to-count
populations. That would explain why so many New Yorkers think
they haven't been counted: Someone else provided information
for them.
   The use of last-resort data obviously reduced the number
of people who had been expected to answer the long, detailed
census questionnaire. So did other emergency procedures. For
example, all people who chose to give their census
information over the telephone hotlines were administered the
short form. Evelyn Mann, New York City's chief demographer,
says this situation "thinned" the detailed data, and biases
those tabulations toward the characteristics of people who
cooperated with the census.
   New York City may be a special case, but it may also
signal the census-taking environment of the future. That
raises the ultimate question about the success of the census:
its cost-effectiveness. According to the General Accounting
Office, the cost of counting each housing unit (in 1980
dollars) rose from $5 in 1950 to $12 in 1980. Due in part to
the unexpectedly low public cooperation, it will reach an
estimated $17 per unit in 1990.
   Let's leave to the political arena the issue of whether
the government should adjust census results for people who
slip through the bureau's safety nets. Thanks to computerized
statistical firepower, this census will probably produce the
best estimates yet of how many of them there are.
   ---
   Ms. Riche is national editor of American Demographics
magazine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0187
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0187.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Theater:
   Gozzi's Enchanting Fable
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Houston -- One of history's hottest literary rivalries
took place in Italy in the 18th century between playwrights
Carlo Goldoni and Carlo Gozzi. Both men agreed that commedia
dell'arte, the improvisational comic form that had
entertained Italy and the rest of Europe for 200 years, was
at a crossroads. Goldoni felt that in the future commedia
should be more realistic, with stock characters like
Pantalone and Harlequin behaving like real people rather than
stereotypes. Gozzi wanted commedia to go in the opposite
direction -- toward fantasy and theatricality, with more
emphasis than ever on masks and make-believe.
   On the face of it, Goldoni won the argument. Realism,
which reached its apogee in the plays of Ibsen, Strindberg
and Chekhov at the end of the 19th century, has dominated
most of the 20th. Seeing Gozzi's "The King Stag," however,
one wonders if Goldoni's triumph may not have been a Pyrrhic
victory. Realism is hard put to match the enchantment of the
production now at the Alley Theater here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Like many of Gozzi's plays, "The King Stag" is a fable.
Other Gozzi works, for example, have titles such as "The
Serpent Woman," "The Blue Monster," and "Zeim, King of the
Genies." Two of his best known plays later became operas:
Puccini's "Turandot" and Prokofiev's "The Love of Three
Oranges."
   "The King Stag" takes place in the Oriental kingdom of
Serendippo, where the handsome young monarch, King Deramo
(Thomas Derrah), having already interviewed 748 young women,
still has not found a wife. Tartaglia (Mark Zeisler), the
devious prime minister, wants his daughter Clarice (Ellen
Kohrman) to bag Deramo, but she is in love with Leandro (Ben
Evett), the son of Pantalone (Steven Skybell). Meanwhile,
Leandro's sister Angela (Bari Hochwald) loves the king, but
the evil Tartaglia is determined to keep this beauteous
damsel for himself.
   In the enchanted forest of Miracoli, Tartaglia sees his
chance to foil the king and win Angela. Deramo has learned an
incantation with which he can transfer his soul into the body
of a dead creature. When Tartaglia challenges him to
demonstrate his magical powers by sending his soul into the
corpse of a stag, the king says the magic words and makes it
happen, whereupon Tartaglia, repeating the king's sorcery,
implants his own spirit in the dead body of the king.
   Now, inhabiting the king's body, he returns to Serendippo
to pursue Angela. The king, in the body of the stag, has his
soul transferred once again to that of a frail old man who
has died. When he returns to his kingdom, Angela, realizing
that Deramo is now in the body of the old man, must come to
terms with accepting him in this form and rejecting
Tartaglia. (One is tempted to say: shades of "Prelude to a
Kiss," the current Broadway show in which a young woman's
soul inhabits an old man's body.)
   As is proper in a fairy tale, all ends happily with the
lovers restored and Tartaglia dead.
   The current production of "The King Stag" originated at
the American Repertory Theater (ART) in Cambridge, Mass., and
all of the performers are from the ART. The play has a witty,
eminently playable English text by Albert Bermel and was
directed by Andrei Serban. The true heroine of the evening,
however, is Julie Taymor, who not only created the
imaginative masks, paper animals and other creatures, but is
responsible for the choreography. The music is by Ms.
Taymor's longtime collaborator Elliot Goldenthal.
   Borrowing techniques from Chinese, Japanese and Indonesian
theater, Ms. Taymor has created a visual world that is pure
delight. The production opens with a blue figure looming
above the stage on stilts, waving ribbons that create an
ever-changing pattern of bright red circles. On one side of
the stage Russ Gold, the production's lone musician, plays
cymbals, percussion and other Asian-styled instruments. Soon
a sorcerer, Durandarte (Rodney Scott Hudson), enters looking
for his magic green parrot, which has escaped. Meanwhile,
prop men come on stage with paper birds on the end of long
fishing poles, which they move above their heads to simulate
flight. As these multicolored dragonflies and other winged
creatures swoop and soar above the stage, the scene is set
for an evening of bewitchment.
   When King Deramo and his prime minister Tartaglia enter
the forest of Miracoli, we see in the background a parade of
beguiling animal shapes projected on a screen in the manner
of Indonesian shadow plays; armadillos slither and lions and
deer prance and leap across the stage. Once in the forest the
two men encounter two life-size paper stags manipulated by
prop men. Moving in tandem, the stags become lyrical emblems
of the beauty of nature. There also is abundant humor in the
piece. Smeraldina (Lynn Chausow), flirting outrageously with
every man in sight, fancies herself an irresistible femme
fatale. Unfortunately, she is a would-be trophy wife whom no
one, including the king, sees as a prize.
   For the performers Ms. Taymor has created costumes, masks
and headpieces adapted both from commedia dell'arte and from
Asian theater. Tartaglia, for instance, has elements of a bat
and a bear, but actually is a unique creation. With a
headpiece puffed out both in cheeks and forehead, he wears a
cape that is jet black in back and vivid yellow on the
inside. The cape has struts, like those in a bat's wings, and
when he raises them he is an ominous figure encircled in
gold. The "deus ex machina" is a huge bear hovering over the
proceedings with elongated arms created by sticks inside
voluminous sleeves.
   "The King Stag" lasts an hour and a half without
intermission and in the final stages the fable itself becomes
tiresome. The world of Gozzi, however, as seen through the
eyes of Ms. Taymor, remains fresh and utterly delightful
throughout.
   The production first entered the repertory of the ART
several years ago and since then has been performed in Europe
and Tokyo. The current engagement, which runs through Sept.
30, is its longest continuous run in the U.S. The exchange of
productions such as this is a welcome development among
regional professional theaters. Rather than each theater
attempting to re-create both the visual effects and deft
playing style of the ART company, how much better to move the
entire production. After this it plays at Philadelphia's
Annenberg Center, Oct. 3-7.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0186
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0186.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Building Blocs
   ---
   Blocking Trade?
   Free-Trade Alliances May Turn
   Out to Be Just the Opposite
   ----
   By Bernard Wysocki Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R31
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM CANDA EUROP JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   REGIONAL TRADING ALLIANCES. Slowly -- and haltingly --
nations seem to be embracing them. Which leads to a question:
Are trading alliances a boon or a hindrance to international
trade?
   The answer is yes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Free-trade agreements within regions are designed to
expand trade and are roundly welcomed by most economists. The
worry is that such agreements can easily lead to the dreaded
protectionist trading blocs -- defensive pacts that set up
barriers around regions and prevent the flow of goods from
one region to another.
   What might a world of regional trading blocs look like?
The accompanying map portrays one such world -- based on
today's conventional wisdom (see accompanying illustration --
WSJ Sept. 21, 1990).
   On the left-hand side of the map is the Americas bloc. As
the strongest nation economically and politically, the United
States is naturally at the center of the bloc. Canada and
Mexico would be important secondary players in the Americas
bloc, as would the rest of Latin America.
   The U.S.-Canada free-trade agreement, which took effect
last year, is widely regarded in the U.S. as an expansion of
free trade. But it is viewed with alarm by some Japanese as
the beginning of a regional, protectionist bloc. The same is
true about the recently discussed possibility of a free-trade
agreement between the U.S. and Mexico.
   The same conflicting perspectives define the second bloc
on the chart -- the European bloc. The 1992 economic
integration of Western Europe and the dramatic developments
in Eastern Europe suggest a potential for a large and strong
economic alliance. But the question remains: Will European
unity be primarily a trade-expanding measure by the EC
countries? Or will it facilitate the erection of
protectionist walls, the so-called fortress Europe?
   And in Asia, there is much talk these days about a "yen"
bloc, linking Japan's economy more closely with the economies
of other Asian countries. The result, as in North America and
Europe, would be a more self-sufficient region, better able
to provide both raw materials and markets within the region
-- and perhaps more willing to reduce trade with America or
Europe.
   Japanese government officials loudly assail regional
trading blocs that serve as protectionist trade umbrellas.
But they also concede that blocs may be an unfortunate but
emerging trend.
   "There is a little bit of cohesiveness among the nations
of the Pacific Rim," said Kazuo Nukazawa, managing director
of Keidanren, the Japanese big-business organization, on a
recent Public Broadcasting Service television program.
"Largely, they are afraid of American protectionism or
European protectionism."
   Whether blocs emerge is impossible to say. Already,
however, many companies are hedging their bets by
establishing a large presence in each region. Hence the
recent flurry of cross-border acquisitions and the rash of
global alliances and joint ventures. Direct investment, as
the U.S. discovered in the 1950s and 1960s in Europe, is the
way to become an "insider" in foreign lands. In a world of
blocs, mere exporters, are the biggest losers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0185
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0185.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Schering AG Acquires
   Research Divisions
   From Shell Oil Unit
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8A
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SCH RD SC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- Schering AG said it acquired the cancer and
biotechnology research divisions of Shell Oil Co., the U.S.
unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
   The West Germany pharmaceuticals and chemicals company
said it acquired the research and development divisions of
Triton Bio Sciences Inc. through its Schering Berlin Holding
Co. in Cedar Knolls, New Jersey.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Terms weren't disclosed, but a Schering spokeswoman said
the purchase was a cash deal.
   The acquisition from Shell only affects the research and
development divisions of Triton, based in Alameda, Calif.,
Schering said. The company said the acquisition will widen
its research in cancer therapy and strengthen its
biotechnology activities.
   Triton's Leukemia compound Fludara I.V. recently received
a recommendation of approval from the advisory committee of
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Schering said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0184
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0184.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mastercard Moves
   To Decentralize, Opens
   An Office in Singapore
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   SINGAPORE -- MasterCard International took the first step
in decentralizing its management, marketing and
member-support services when it opened its first regional
headquarters in Singapore.
   The Asia-Pacific office will oversee Hong Kong, Sydney and
Singapore -- and two representative offices -- Beijing and
New Delhi.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   James A. Cassin, president of MasterCard's Asia/Pacific
operations, said the office will be the prototype by which
subsequent regional headquarters will model themselves.
   Between four to six more regional offices are expected to
be opened by the end of 1992. These will be for the U.S.,
Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and
Canada.
   The New York office will then become an umbrella for the
overall coordination of each region, being responsible for
the broader policy decisions of the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0183
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0183.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   From the conclusion of "The Long Pretense: Soviet Treaty
Diplomacy, 1917-1990," (Transaction Publishers, 1990) by
Arnold Beichman:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The changes for the better which take place almost daily
in the Soviet Union and on its periphery have created a
favorable world opinion toward President Mikhail Gorbachev to
a degree that no other Soviet leader, including Josef V.
Stalin during World War II, has ever enjoyed. Last year Jimmy
Carter described Gorbachev as "the most humanitarian of the
world's leaders."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0182
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0182.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Shop Talk
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   For Mom-and-Pop stores, you should know,
   I've sympathetic pains --
   They break no laws, but even so,
   They still wind up in chains.
   -- Dick Emmons.
   ---
   Environmental Update
                                                                                                       

   Our affluent society has produced such a proliferation of
golf courses, we can't see the forest for the tees.
   -- Daisy Brown.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0181
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0181.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sabena Asks Belgium
   For a Cash Injection
   To Finance Expansion
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP B.SAB BAB KLM
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Sabena is seeking an injection of six billion
Belgian francs ($185.8 million) from the government to
finance an ambitious expansion plan, a spokesman for the
Belgian carrier said.
   Separately, the spokesman said Sabena's operating loss for
the year will be wider than 1989's loss of 1.26 billion
Belgian francs. He declined to elaborate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to an article in Le Soir, a Belgian daily, the
funds Sabena is seeking would be part of a six-year, 97
billion Belgian franc expansion program that will boost the
airline's fleet to 91 aircraft in 1996 from the current 41.
   The expansion is related to the formation of Sabena World
Airways, an operating subsidiary Sabena has formed with
British Airways and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines to convert
Brussels into a major European passenger air service hub.
British Air and KLM each have a 20% stake in Sabena World
Airways, with Sabena holding the remaining 60%.
   Sabena is 53%-owned by the Belgian government.
   Andre Pahaut, the carrier's chief executive officer, said
Sabena would boost fares 5% to 8% starting in October.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Family Ties With an Athenian Twist
   ----
   By Bruce Bawer
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   When, in 458 B.C., Aeschylus won the Athenian equivalent
of the Tony award for his "Oresteia," little did he know that
2,447 years later Thomas Berger would come along and turn
that trilogy's weighty story of passion and vengeance into a
glib, hollow novel called, of all things, "Orrie's Story"
(Little, Brown; 276 pages; $18.95), and set in an American
town shortly after World War II.
   In the original, Agamemnon, king of Argos, returns home
after the conquest of Troy only to be murdered by his wife,
Clytemnestra, who has never forgiven him for sacrificing
their daughter, Iphigenia, and who has been stepping out with
his cousin Aegisthus. A decade later, Agamemnon's son,
Orestes, prodded by his sister, Electra, avenges their
father's death by killing Aegisthus and Clytemnestra, and is
tried and acquitted by the goddess Pallas Athene.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Given Mr. Berger's focus, in previous novels (among them
"Vital Parts" and "Changing the Past"), on backstabbing wives
and bleak ironies, his interest in a story about a war hero's
murder by his spouse is no surprise. And given his fixation
on mother-son attachment and father-son antagonism, it's no
surprise either that the Orestes figure has a full-blown
Oedipal complex.
   Indeed, it is less true to say that Mr. Berger has
"modernized" Aeschylus's dramatis personae than to say that
he has assigned their traits to slick characters who are
largely interchangeable with figures from his earlier novels.
Thus he turns Orestes into a wimpy college kid named Orrie;
Aegisthus into a mysteriously successful businessman named
E.G.; Agamemnon into a hapless chump named Augie Mencken who
pretends to have been away at war but who has in fact been
down South courting one Cassie; and the sympathetic
Clytemnestra, now a shrew named Esther who drowns Augie in
the tub for his Army insurance.
   Most of Aeschylus's people have counterparts here:
Orestes's friend Pylades becomes Paul Leeds; Apollo becomes
defense attorney Anthony Pollo; Pallas Athene becomes Judge
Thea Palliser. Very tidy and faintly witty. But whether
"Orrie's Story" is meant to be goofy or profound is hard to
say. Doubtless Mr. Berger means to underscore the
timelessness of deceit, stupidity, crassness and evil -- to
show, in other words, that the travails of the House of
Atreus are as contemporary as ever. But if his goal is valid,
his book is offhand and mechanical, its action dictated in
large part not by the temperaments of his own characters but
by the need to parallel Aeschylus. Those hungry for a
20th-century "Oresteia" would, in short, be far better off
reading Eugene O'Neill's "Mourning Becomes Electra."
   ---
   The death of a father and the family ties that give life
meaning are subjects often explored by Paul Auster. His
arresting novel "Moon Palace" (1989) was about M.S. Fogg, a
college student who, after the death of his only relative and
substitute dad, elected to abandon himself to "the chaos of
the world," steadily spending his inheritance and forsaking
work and friends in the hope that "the world might ultimately
reveal some secret harmony to me, some form or pattern that
would help me to penetrate myself."
   Similarly, when Jim Nashe, the 32-year-old protagonist of
"The Music of Chance" (Viking, 217 pages, $18.95), is
abandoned by his wife and learns his long-lost father has
died, he quits his job -- he's a Boston fireman -- and spends
a year driving around the U.S., gradually depleting the
$200,000 his old man has left him. He enjoys his isolation,
freedom and irresponsibility, enjoys the feeling of having
"taken life into his own hands."
   His money nearly gone, Nashe meets Jack Pozzi, a young
hustler whom he stakes with his remaining assets to a poker
game with two lottery millionaires. Pozzi not only loses
everything but ends up owing the men a large sum -- a debt
that he and Nashe work off by reconstructing a medieval wall
on the men's estate. The estate is a virtual prison: Nashe
and Pozzi are fenced in, have no phone or car, and are
supervised by a man with a gun. Will they ever, we wonder, be
allowed to leave? More to the point, does Nashe really want
to leave? For he doesn't really mind his prison -- which
ironically, like his year on the road, affords him the luxury
of not having to decide what to do with his life.
   The novel is a tour de force about freedom and
imprisonment, motion and stasis, order and randomness. As in
"Moon Palace," Mr. Auster asks if the world's seeming
arbitrariness is in fact governed by some secret harmony,
some music of chance. Wittily, he works in allusions to such
esoteric sages as William of Occam and Zeno of Elea, who saw
a divergence between life and logic.
   Yet this is no drab, schematic novel of ideas. On the
contrary, it is a rich, dazzling performance -- its story
beautifully paced and shaped, its tone powerfully ominous,
its prose unfailingly limpid, supple and energetic. One keeps
waiting for Mr. Auster to misstep, but he never does. If in
"Moon Palace" this sometime player of post-modern word games
seemed to be moving toward an authentic, sharply focused
vision of the human condition, in "The Music of Chance" he
would appear to have reached his destination.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Eastern Europe
   ---
   Timely Tips:
   Some Friendly Advice for
   Our New Capitalist Friends
   ----
   By Gil Schwartz
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R22
</SO>
<LP>
   WELCOME, HORST and Vlad and Todor and Piotr and, yes, even
you, Boris] The era of international opportunity is
thundering down upon us, and the borders that distinguished
the old global order are fast becoming history. The world is
opening like a giant bazaar, and in the not-too-distant
future it is possible to see one giant market speaking one
common language: capitalism. Bravo]
   Many who ply their trade on an international scale will
find it necessary to conduct some business right here in the
U.S.A., even if we aren't the big shots we used to be. We
want to do our share to help you. So here's our contribution:
some all-American rules for non-U.S. business people as they
wend their way around our halls of commerce.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tip 1
                                                                                                       

   JUST SAY YO]: At the start of any good American business
relationship is a lusty American greeting. A crusty
end-of-the-paw squeeze from a knobby cluster of British
digits leaves a lot of us understandably cold. So get in
there right off the bat and let us know you're darned happy
to see us. Who knows? It just might be great to know us]
                                                                                                       

   Tip 2
                                                                                                       

   SISTERHOOD IS INEXORABLE: Cut out that sexism] Honestly.
   A female executive I know visited Japan a couple of years
ago. She was one of about six people who could talk about her
highly technological subject intelligently. She appeared in
the board room of the corporation pumped for a serious
meeting. She wore her best suit. Within 15 minutes every
senior Japanese official in the room had politely asked where
her husband was. She replied that her husband was at home in
New York, taking care of their three-year-old daughter. At
last it dawned on them: She was a secretary. They brusquely
asked to see her boss. She made it clear that she was IT. The
meeting proceeded. The only other thing to report is that
about halfway through the morning, my friend asked for
directions to the Ladies' Room. There wasn't one.
   Come on, guys. American women aren't going to go away even
if you want them to. They're fit. They're rested. And they
came to play. Get with the program.
                                                                                                       

   Tip 3
                                                                                                       

   EAT, DRINK AND BE MERRY: Americans love lunch. We also
love breakfast and dinner. We'll even take a short snack, if
we must. And in this era of contracting budgets, we do esteem
those who feed and water us, whether the plastic is
indigenous or imported from some outlandish location.
   Remember, however, that most sane Americans still view
such digestive events as essentially social. And watch that
menu, OK? This is dinner, not a round of "quien es muy
macho." A pal of mine was over in Japan to close a deal not
long ago. In the midst of negotiations, the group repaired to
dinner. While eating his lobster, my friend was jolted when
the creature turned its eye stalks around and gazed directly
at him. It was . . . alive.
   Don't forget: We like to kill our food before we eat it.
You know that. Be nice.
                                                                                                       

   Tip 4
                                                                                                       

   THE CUSTOMER IS ALWAYS STRANGE: We're Americans] You may
think you know us from Radio Free Europe or the Voice of
America. But there are some things that may still surprise
you. We don't take naps after lunch or drink tea unless we're
sick, and we eat our salad before the main course. We're
proud of the way we do things over here, even when we don't
do them very well. And we have needs, see? Are you listening?
Do you really and truly care? We'll love you for it]
                                                                                                       

   Tip 5
                                                                                                       

   NO GLOATING: The Germans have the World Cup. The Poles
have the Pope. The Japanese have their entire perception of
their perfect culture. We had advertising. Now the British
have it. That's fine. All's fair. But as you proceed to buy
our businesses and mesmerize our consumers, try not to be so
gosh darned jolly about it. Just do it.
                                                                                                       

   Tip 6
                                                                                                       

   SPEAK SOFTLY BUT CARRY A BIG BERLITZ: Last month I tried
to put together a Korean-manufactured product. It was
intended to be a bicycle when completed. About halfway
through, I read something like: "Inserting pivot A axle and
carefully into B groove not intended until sprocket assembly
remaining when open (see Fig.32B)."
   We expect this from instruction manuals. We actually
relish it. But not in person. When it comes to face-to-face
conversation, we turn hopelessly xenophobic. Please to not it
forget.
                                                                                                       

   Tip 7

   BROWN SHOES DON'T MAKE IT: Tune into the culture, babe. In
most places except Los Angeles, the heavy business uniform is
still dark blue or gray in winter and khaki on the most
informal days of summer. A sport coat? Grow up.
   This is as it should be. People are doing serious business
here, or like to think they are. We don't, on the other hand,
like to look like a bunch of FBI guys. Take my advice. Leaf
through a couple of recent Esquires or GQs. Then go shopping.
                                                                                                       

   Tip 8
                                                                                                       

   CHARITY BEGINS WITH CONSULTING: So OK. Our products aren't
necessarily the best. Our management style needs honing. Our
workers are expensive and sometimes unproductive. We messed
ourselves up] We admit it]
   But we are the only ones who truly understand how we broke
things bad enough to fix them. And pretty soon, thanks to our
performance in the '80s, a lot of us will be out there on the
street, offering our wisdom. So hire us. Be forewarned: We
don't come cheap. The going rate is $1,000 a day, minimum.
Rest assured, though. We'll be forever grateful, and you'll
get a full two-page report at the end of every month.
                                                                                                       

   Tip 9
                                                                                                       

   AS LONG AS YOU HAVE YOUR HEALTH. . . : Chill out, dudes.
Wake up and smell the coffee. Stop and smell the roses. The
bird that's too early can end up with nothing but worms. The
1990s will be all about the reduction of international
stress. You first.
   ---
   Mr. Schwartz is a writer and business executive in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Occidental Petroleum Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OXY WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM Corp. (Los Angeles) -- John F.
Riordan was elected to the additional post of chief executive
officer of the company's MidCon Corp. natural gas
transmission subsidiary. He succeeds O.C. Davis, 70 years
old, who continues as chairman. Mr. Riordan, 54, is also
president and chief operating officer of the unit, based in
Lombard, Ill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Unit's Jetliner Orders
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   BA BAB
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE, Wash. -- Boeing Commercial Airplane Group said
British Airways ordered five more 757 jetliners valued at
about $270 million. Three previously held 757 options were
converted to firm orders, and the additional two medium- to
long-range jets had been ordered but not previously
announced, Boeing said.
   Boeing Commercial Airplane, which has received 663 orders
for the 757 aircraft, is a unit of Boeing Co., a commercial
aircraft maker and defense contractor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Failed Siberian Petrochemical Plan
   Shows Limits of Soviet Capabilities
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SURGUT, U.S.S.R. -- When the Kremlin approved plans in
December 1988 to build five huge petrochemical plants in
Siberia with Western help, officials touted the project as a
showpiece of perestroika.
   The scheme was a blockbuster, with one estimate putting
total investment at $70 billion. The plants would turn huge
amounts of Siberian natural gas, currently wasted, into badly
needed plastics. And the Kremlin, hoping to show it was
serious about foreign investment, invited Western and
Japanese companies to build and run the plants through joint
ventures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But less than two years later, instead of five huge
complexes, only one is being built -- a relatively modest $2
billion extension of an existing plant. And its finances
haven't even been sorted out. Plans for the other complexes
have been shelved.
   Dozens of foreign companies, interested in the projects as
a way to break into the Soviet market, have left,
disillusioned. Rather than stimulating the ailing economy,
the plans have fueled an angry debate over government
industrial policy and the environment.
   "The idea of five plants was just gigantomania," says
Alexei Makarov, director of the Institute of Energy Research
at the Academy of Sciences. "The whole thing was very risky
and badly worked out."
   The fate of this "project of the century," as critics have
derisively dubbed it, marks the end of an era when the
Kremlin could ignore basic economics. For the first time,
government planners were forced to admit that a scheme of
this size is beyond their capabilities.
   Western officials say the petrochemical complexes also
illustrate the gulf that divides Soviet aims from those of
foreign partners. The Kremlin wants foreign firms to invest
large amounts in risky industrial projects, but most Western
companies look to much smaller plans that yield a more
certain payoff.
   "It's like ships passing in the night," says Mark S.
Vecchio of the U.S. law firm Coudert Brothers. "Conceptually,
joint ventures are almost doomed to failure because of the
differences in approach."
   Soviet officials have long been concerned with waste in
the Siberian oil fields, where a colossal 15 billion cubic
meters of gas is simply burned off every year. The flares
pollute the Siberian landscape. The petrochemical industry is
also in a sorry state; the Academy of Sciences says half the
machinery in Soviet refineries is obsolete or barely working.
   The petrochemical industry was thus deemed a priority area
when Mr. Gorbachev changed Kremlin policy toward foreign
investment by allowing joint ventures. In December 1988, the
government approved the five complexes. Dozens of prospective
partners, including Occidental Petroleum Corp., Italy's
Montedison S.p.A., and Japan's Mitsubishi Group, came to
Moscow for talks.
   Trouble began quickly. Four different government
ministries held separate negotiations without coordinating
their efforts, putting off several prospective Western
partners. The Kremlin's attitude to financing didn't help.
The scheme was far costlier than any of its past projects,
but the government refused to give credit guarantees. Joint
ventures should pay their own way, it argued. But the huge
investments would have to be financed by debt. And without
Soviet guarantees, the foreign companies argued, no
commercial bank would ever lend the money.
   Soviet organizations worried, too. More than a dozen
feasibility studies, undertaken by government agencies since
the initial Kremlin decision, describe an economy so
inefficient that it couldn't build two petrochemical
complexes in Siberia, let alone five. In May 1989, Gosplan,
the State Planning Committee, urged more study of the five
proposed plants.
   A month later, the Academy of Sciences put a $70 billion
price tag on the scheme and said the projects "significantly
exceed the real possibilities of the nation." The cost would
divert investment from the economy and risked raising foreign
debt to dangerous levels, its report said.
   In a letter to the newspaper Izvestia, 11 scientists
contended that the plants would wreck Siberia's environment,
turning it into "the garbage heap of the world."
   On the defensive, the government scaled back to just two
plants, in Tobolsk and Surgut. But, determined to go ahead,
last November it ordered work on the two to be speeded up.
   Two weeks later, Combustion Engineering Inc. of the U.S.
signed an agreement with a Soviet ministry to build the $2
billion Tobolsk plant inside an existing petrochemical
facility. The U.S. firm also continued negotiations on the
Surgut plant.
   But the Tobolsk signing ceremony was held up when one of
Combustion's key partners, McDermott International Inc.,
dropped out of the project. The Kremlin then got cold feet
about the financing and insisted on renegotiating the
contract. The venture was finally registered in May. But
Maxwell Asgari, who heads Combustion's Moscow office, says a
decision on financing Tobolsk won't be made until May 1991.
Until then, the two sides will use up their equity in the
venture.
   The Surgut complex is even more troublesome. A second
Gosplan report frets that Surgut can't handle such a big
project. It forecasts electricity shortages there by 1995
even without the new plant, and says roads, housing and
transport are all inadequate to support it.
   One of Gosplan's biggest worries is that inefficient
Soviet construction could severly hamper the plant's
profitability and raise the amount of hard currency debt
incurred. As it woefully pointed out, the original Soviet
plant in Tobolsk took 15 years to build and still isn't
ready.
   Gosplan was also unhappy about terms of the joint venture.
The Soviet side would do most of the work and incur most of
the debt, while the U.S. firm would just cash in on the
profits, it complained. "These conditions don't correspond to
the international principles of joint ventures," it said.
   Combustion Engineering's Mr. Asgari has heard such Soviet
arguments before. "They refuse to understand that in the
Soviet Union today, you aren't going to get any bank to
provide any money without a Soviet government guarantee," he
sighs.
   Environmental fears may now kill off Surgut for good. The
State Committee for Environmental Protection claims the plant
would severely damage the local environment, particularly the
river Ob. "It may be good for business but it's bad for the
environment," says Vladimir Goncharenko, one of Surgut's
activists, who already have held three rallies to protest the
project.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Appian Way
   Is Hurt by Neglect,
   Theft, Development
   ---
   Oldest of All Roman Roads
   Is Victim of Desecrations
   And Its Fans Lose Hope
   ----
   By John Perrotta
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   Halt, oh wayfarer, and face left to this sepulcher, in
which are the bones of a good, merciful friend of the poor. I
beg you, traveler, do not inflict any damage unto this tomb.
Gaius Attilius Evodus, freedman of Serranus, pearl vendor on
the Holy Way, lies inside this monument. Farewell, Wayfarer.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ROME -- The Appian Way, oldest and most beloved of all
Roman roads, endured its first 2,250 or so years pretty well.
   Of course, funerary monuments and villas lining it have
been pillaged for their statues and blocks since at least
medieval times. And in the 1700s, the famous road's paving
stones were hauled off and diced into cobblestones for
streets and piazzas in downtown Rome.
   But in recent years the Appian Way -- which runs 330 miles
from Rome to Brindisi on the heel of the Italian boot -- has
suffered its gravest assaults.
   Trucks, buses and cars barrel down the initial -- now
mostly asphalted -- stretches of the ancient highway, past
Quo Vadis Church, threatening fragile monuments and
two-millennia-old Christian and Jewish catacombs buried
alongside or beneath it. Rome's beltway slices through the
Appian Way -- the idea of a beltway underpass beneath the
ancient road never got off the blueprints or beyond political
bickering.
   Ciampino military airport looms nearby. Uncontrolled
development has put apartment buildings within eyeshot of the
road, which, in parts built slightly up on a lava flow, once
provided uninterrupted views of farmland dotted with flocks
of sheep.
   In 1984, the medieval Appian Tower collapsed from neglect.
Old toilets, mattresses, tires, dirt and rubble from
construction sites are dumped by the road beyond the beltway.
With only a handful of guards along the entire Appian Way,
almost all the sculpted marble intact at the time of World
War II has been plundered.
   Says Lorenzo Quilici, author of several books on the
Appian Way and a professor at the University of Rome: "Stolen
are not just small decorative pieces, such as heads, statues,
boundary markers, altars -- but also columns, inscribed
stones, cornices, and friezes that, for their dimensions and
weight, certainly required the use of cranes and heavy-duty
vehicles."
   He adds: "Today there is less of a collective conscience
to respect our cultural patrimony. . . . Today everyone wants
a piece of marble in his villa."
   Prof. Quilici also says the boom in the art and
antiquities market has added to the desecrations.
   In the late 1970s, Italy's superintendent of archaeology
brought several of the remaining valuable pieces to the
National Museum of Rome, replacing them with copies cast in
cement.
   During the first half of the 1800s, popes and artists did
much to fix up the road, putting marble statues back into
their upright positions and raising brick panels to which
were attached sculpted fragments. In this way, the fragments
could be admired on the spot where they were found, instead
of being hauled off to a museum or a private collection.
   "Look how our culture has regressed," since the time of
those popes and of sculptor Antonio Canova, "who wished that
these very pieces of marble remain to be enjoyed where they
were found," says Prof. Quilici.
   Romans of all classes were buried along the first
stretches of the Appian Way, which then were outside the
capital -- Roman custom forbade burial within city walls.
Most Roman consular roads -- highways built by a consul, one
of two supreme government officials -- were dotted with
tombs. But the gracious funerary monuments of the first dozen
or so kilometers of the Appian Way -- the mausoleums, small
temples, altars, pyramids, tumuli, funerary columns, stelae
and exedrae -- earned the road the epithet "Regina Viarum,"
or queen of roads.
   The labyrinthine catacombs also were used by persecuted
Christians and Jews for religious services. Saints Peter and
Paul were believed to have been buried for a time in St.
Sebastian's Catacombs, which burrow under the Appian Way.
   Like all Roman roads, the Appian Way's first use was for
military conquest of non-Romans living in Italy. The road,
which was begun at the Circus Maximus, eventually extended
all the way to Brindisi. Construction was started in 312 B.C.
by censor Appius Claudius; once completed, it provided Rome
with a land-sea route to more advanced cultures in the
Eastern Mediterranean area. Average travel time on foot: two
weeks.
   Beyond Rome, the road now is drivable or walkable only in
parts, though sections of it have been in continuous use.
Roman bridges, viaducts and more tombs are found all along
the way, including what is reputed to be Cicero's tomb near
Formia.
   After World War II, villas were built close to the Appian
Way, often heedless of ruins, and sold or rented to people in
the film industry, politicians, diplomats and other
well-heeled types. But today building along or near the road
is forbidden.
   But beyond the ban on building along the road, little else
has been done. Critics say that in the end, city, regional
and state administrators are to be blamed for not taking more
action.
   A plan by the Public Works Ministry to make the
monumental, initial 14-kilometer stretch of the Appian Way
and lands flanking it a 2,500-hectare (6,200-acre) national
archaeological park was signed into law in 1965. Such a park
was first proposed in 1809. But political friendships between
city administrators and private landowners have prevented
lands from being expropriated and the plan implemented, Prof.
Quilici and others say. To this day only 5% of the properties
have been expropriated.
   Anna Maria Ramieri, a spokeswoman in the office of the
Rome counselor for culture, says the accusations are
"suppositions" with "no proof." But "it's clear that
{landowners} put pressure on the politicians," she says.
"Otherwise, why would {the deadlock} continue?"
   Another law was passed in 1988 -- this time by the Lazio
region, which surrounds Rome. The law provides the framework
for a consortium among Lazio and the cities of Rome, Ciampino
and Marino -- all bisected by the Appian Way. Once delegates
are named, the consortium should draw up details for
expropriation of the most important properties, says Luciana
Vagnoni of the office of the regional counselor for town
planning. Her hope is that once formed, the consortium will
attract money from the European Community and the Italian
state, whose aid led, for example, to the purchase of private
properties in what are now the Roman Forum and Trajan's
Forum.
   But here, too, Mrs. Ramieri and others say administrators
aren't fundamentally interested in saving the Appian Way.
   Critics add that the Appian Way is just a better-known
example of decay and neglect in many of the cultural
artifacts of Italy. They note that, in a country rich in art,
the annual budget for the Cultural Properties Ministry is
only two-tenths of 1% of total government spending.
   A scintilla of hope lies in the example of another
consular road, the Flaminian Way, which once ran north from
Rome to Rimini. In a decade, segments of this road close to
downtown Rome and some archaeological sites along the way,
including Livia's villa, have been reclaimed or rescued from
abandon.
   In archaeological importance, the Flaminian Way is but a
side street to the Appian Way. Still, observers regard it as
a model of what can be done.
   "Being present at the site every day and in touch with it
are important," says Gaetano Messineo of the state
archaeology superintendence for Rome and instigator of the
project. Sitting in his office in a building believed to have
been a fourth-century arch commemorating Constantine's
victory over Maxentius, Mr. Messineo says his efforts on
behalf of the road almost cost him his job because of
political cross-fire and infighting.
   He adds: "Crucial to the Flaminian project's success was a
will to carry it through."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss to Vote Sunday on Nuclear Power,
   An Issue Inflamed by Kuwait Invasion
   ----
   By Margaret Studer
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   ZURICH, Switzerland -- Swiss voters go to the polls Sunday
to decide on a future with or without nuclear power. The
outcome is far from certain.
   Iraq's invasion of Kuwait has given the issue an Adrenalin
push as voters are forced to face Switzerland's vulnerability
as a small country heavily dependent on outside sources of
energy. About 65% of Switzerland's total energy needs come
from foreign oil sources. This dependence is balanced against
health and safety concerns over nuclear power plants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The sensitivity of our situation is illustrated by
Kuwait," says Edwin Somm, Swiss executive vice president of
Asea Brown Boveri AG in Zurich.
   Like other industrialized countries, a certain complacency
had set in after 1986, when cheap oil started to flow. But
now there are concerns over energy's significance for
Switzerland's future economic growth, jobs and national
security.
   "Energy is the most important theme of our times,"
declares Vreni Spoerry, a Zurich representative in the
national parliament.
   Three proposals will confront the Swiss electorate next
weekend. Two are a direct result of the 1986 Chernobyl
disaster, which shocked anti-nuclear groups into gathering
enough signatures to force national votes on their concerns.
   One proposal would stop construction of future nuclear
plants and demand that present facilities close as soon as
feasible. The second would place a 10-year moratorium on
building any new plants.
   Switzerland currently has five nuclear plants producing
around 40% of the country's electricity.
   The Swiss government has strongly advised citizens to vote
against both initiatives. "It would be irresponsible to give
up nuclear energy as an option," says the government in a
brochure sent to every household to explain the issues.
   In the brochure, which includes all viewpoints, supporters
of the initiatives declare: "In a thickly populated country
like Switzerland, nuclear power plants are an unacceptable
risk."
   The third proposal is on a parliamentary decision to give
more powers to the federal government to determine energy
policy. The government would be empowered to lay down
guidelines for energy consumption, including the right to set
standards for energy use in factories, automobiles and
appliances.
   In 1983, such central control was refused in a referendum
as a majority of cantons refused to go along. This time
around there is said to be considerably more support.
However, prominent voices are still opposed. "We won't save
energy, but face a flood of state regulations," protests
Heinz Allenspach, Swiss Employers' Association director. "All
we will get is more bureaucracy."
   Hanging in streets throughout Switzerland this week are
posters with warning messages. Pedestrians are bombarded on
the one hand with warnings that if they vote against nuclear
energy, calamity will result through a breakdown of transport
and health facilities. On the other hand, they are asked
ominously from a poster depicting the Swiss flag: "Where do
you go after the nuclear catastrophe?" Coming as somewhat of
an emotional relief are dry appeals against the encroachment
of the state.
   Switzerland isn't the only country faced with the nuclear
decision. The U.S., where nuclear power plants produce 19% of
the country's electricity, has pondered the issue since the
Three Mile Island accident in 1979. Sweden voted in 1980 to
gradually stop nuclear power use; but faced with finding an
alternative, it is now engaged in a debate over whether doing
so is possible. Italians voted after Chernobyl to drop
nuclear power development, and the government is betting on
an expansion of coal and gas production.
   However, Switzerland will be the first country to vote on
the issue since the threat to Western oil supplies from the
Iraqi crisis.
   In July, a survey by Zurich market researchers Isopublic
AG indicated that the Swiss would vote against nuclear
energy. Those surveyed were given a choice of three
alternatives: a stop, a moratorium, or continued
construction. About 46% wanted a stop; 25% a moratorium, and
19% favored continuation of nuclear power plant construction.
About 10% were undecided.
   No survey has been made since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
"I wish that I'd been given the chance," says Isopublic
spokesman Robert Kappeler. "Through this crisis, public
opinion could have altered substantially."
   Also, he points out, the referendum campaign is now in
full swing, and "that can change a lot in the way people
think."
   For 30 years Alexander Euler, an engineer and member of
parliament, has fought against nuclear power. He argues:
"Atom reactors produce dangers which cannot be controlled.
Nuclear energy technology presumes that people don't make
mistakes. But making mistakes is part of being a person."
   He pleads that it is possible to do without nuclear power
if electricity is used more efficiently, if more efficient
technologies are employed and if alternative sources of
energy are encouraged.
   "Every kilowatt-hour of nuclear energy endangers plant,
animal and human life," Mr. Euler maintains. "Every nuclear
power plant increases the possibility of a catastrophe."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Growth Slows to a 3.6% Rate;
   Officials Remain Optimistic on Outlook
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Economic growth in Japan slowed to a 3.6% annual rate in
the second quarter of this year from an 11.4% pace in the
prior three months, but officials remained optimistic about
the economic outlook despite rising oil prices and interest
rates.
   The Economic Planning Agency said gross national product,
the nation's total output of goods and services, grew an
inflation-adjusted 0.9% in the calendar second quarter, which
is the first quarter of the Japanese fiscal year, from the
prior quarter. In the first quarter, GNP expanded 2.7% from
the preceding three months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the slowing, agency officials said they don't
expect growth to be hindered, at least for the rest of the
year.
   Domestic demand accounted for growth of 2.4% in the second
quarter compared with the prior quarter, but external demand
contracted 1.5%, resulting in the overall quarter-to-quarter
growth of 0.9%. Within Japan, such factors as personal
consumption and corporate investment in plant and equipment
have been expanding steadily.
   The report comes amid growing concern about the global
economy and a world-wide squeeze on capital -- and the large
role that Japan plays in both. For instance, the recent
plunge in Tokyo's stock market is eroding the capital base of
Japan's big banks, which in turn is decreasing the flow of
capital to other countries. With less capital coming in to
the U.S., interest rates stay higher and economic recovery
could be delayed.
   Shinyasu Hoshino, Economic Planning Agency administrative
vice minister, said there weren't any signs of an overheating
economy. He said that the economy is continuing to grow
smoothly in the current quarter and that there is no reason
for pessimism about 1990's final quarter.
   In a bid to hold down inflation, the central bank has
raised its discount rate -- the rate it charges on loans to
financial institutions -- five times since May 1989, to 6%.
   Many economists and analysts expect Japan, which depends
on imported oil for most of its energy needs, to cope well
with the surge in oil prices in the wake of Iraq's invasion
of Kuwait. But some research groups have said the higher
prices will curb economic growth in Japan.
   Hirohiko Okumura, chief economist for Nomura Research
Institute, said higher interest rates and oil prices may
reduce the annual GNP growth rate by about 0.5 percentage
point in coming quarters. Still, he expects growth for the
current fiscal year of about 5%.
   Mr. Okumura said that combined with the 11.4% annual
growth rate of the first quarter, the latest data show that
"the Japanese economy is expanding very smoothly."
   Nomura Research forecasts real economic growth easing to
about 4% in the fiscal year starting next April 1, with
inflation in consumer and wholesale price inflation remaining
below 3%, Mr. Okumura said.
   Some government economists have said that the central
bank's monetary tightening, as well as the yen's strength,
which makes imports denominated in other currencies --
including oil -- less expensive, will counterbalance the
impact of higher oil prices. Still, the government's forecast
of 4% growth in GNP for the current fiscal year is more
guarded than those of many private economists, who predict
expansions greater than 4%.
   The economy has grown for 46 consecutive months, marking
the second-longest postwar expansion after a 57-month period
of growth between October 1965 and July 1970. Before the
Middle East crisis began, many economists had predicted that
the current expansion would break that record. Most retain
their optimism. A series of surveys conducted recently by the
Bank of Japan and the Finance Ministry also showed that the
economy is maintaining its momentum.
   Kenneth Courtis, a Tokyo-based economist for Deutsche Bank
AG, noted that such indicators as auto sales, housing starts
and midyear bonuses point to "very strong" growth in the
current quarter. But he predicted capital spending by
Japanese corporations will tail off in coming months, partly
because higher oil prices are causing other countries to
reduce their growth projections.
   Personal spending, which accounts for nearly 60% of GNP in
Japan, grew an inflation-adjusted 1.4% during the quarter
from the January-March period, when such spending rose 0.4%.
Corporate-equipment investment grew 3.8% from the
January-March quarter, when such investment expanded 3.5%.
   Housing investment grew 1.8% in the latest quarter, down
from 2% in the January-March period.
   External demand served to brake growth as exports fell
3.9% from the January-March quarter, when exports surged
9.1%, and as imports grew 3.2% from the prior three months,
when the pace was 2.1%.
   Government capital spending in the second quarter grew
2.1%, compared with a 1.4% expansion in the first period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Americans Take
   Pessimistic View
   But Don't Panic
   ---
   Poll on Economic Outlook
   Finds Lack of Confidence
   In Bank System, Stocks
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr. and Karen Slater
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BANKS (BNK)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Seeing economic trouble on the horizon, Americans are
battening the hatches but aren't stricken with panic,
according to a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll on personal
finance and consumer attitudes.
   The results add up to a bleak outlook on the part of
consumers and small investors about several major bulwarks of
the economy and the financial markets. Fully 55% of those
polled said they believe the banking system is just somewhat
sound or not at all sound. An equal number believe
residential real estate values are stalled and will stay the
same or go down in the near future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall, half of those polled said they think the economy
will get worse in the next year, a stark increase from the
one-third who held that pessimistic view only two months ago.
In a signal that they are concerned about their own finances,
half believe that a recession would affect them directly.
   And in what looks like more bad news for beleaguered Wall
Street, 52% of respondents said they were somewhat
uncomfortable or very uncomfortable about putting money in
stocks. No other category prompted such concern, including so
speculative a play as precious metals, about which 47% said
they were somewhat or very uncomfortable, and investment real
estate, which leaves 32% uneasy. Barely more than one in 10
describe themselves as very comfortable about stocks.
   Nevertheless, Americans coming off nearly a decade of
prosperity are hardly showing signs of hysteria. Half report
that their financial assets have increased in the past five
years, and they say they are doing just what you'd expect:
drawing in purse strings, trying to save more and cutting
back on big purchases. The poll, taken over four days ending
Tuesday, surveyed registered voters only. It is one of four
quarterly surveys that take an in-depth look at a specific
subject.
   "People are worried and pulling in, but they aren't
panicking," observe pollsters Peter Hart and Robert Teeter,
who conducted the survey for The Wall Street Journal and NBC
News. "While there is a distinct sense of hunkering down, the
fact is that these are by and large people who play it pretty
safe to begin with -- and thus still feel pretty comfortable
about their own money, despite their concerns about what is
happening in the overall economy," they say.
   For instance, despite their worries about the banking
system and the high-profile problems of the savings and loan
industry, Americans put certificates of deposit and savings
accounts at the top of the list of investments about which
they feel very comfortable or somewhat comfortable. About
eight in 10 respondents list CDs and savings accounts in
those categories.
   They're right to feel safe about those bank accounts:
Federal deposit insurance has protected all depositors up to
$100,000 per account. And they like that coverage despite the
huge $150 billion tab -- that's before interest costs -- for
the broke S&amp;L deposit insurance system they will be paying as
taxpayers. Of those polled, 52% oppose limiting depositors to
only one account insured to $100,000 (currently, depositors
can have an unlimited number in different institutions), an
idea that is in vogue on Capitol Hill these days. In a July
Journal/ NBC poll, a majority of voters opposed lowering the
$100,000 limit by 57% to 32%.
   In some other ways, however, the caution revealed in the
poll could be costly for investors. Many investment
professionals would question the respondents' deep uneasiness
about investing in stocks, at least over the long run.
   Right now, the preference for supersafe cash investments
like bank CDs is "about the right attitude, but most times
it's not," says James Solloway, director of economic research
at Argus Research Corp., a New York investment advisory firm.
"Undoubtedly, stocks are riskier than a CD, but over time you
are compensated quite nicely for taking that extra risk," he
says.
   About half of those polled say they are cutting down on
purchases and other spending, the highest level all year and
an increase from four in 10 who reported cutting back in
July. Only 10% said they are increasing spending. That was
the lowest level of the year. One-third of respondents say
they are putting off a major purchase, such as a home or a
new car, because of concerns about the economy.
   Three-quarters say they've found ways to economize in the
things they buy, and 56% have cut back on luxury items. Only
about one-third have changed vacation plans to save money,
which Messrs. Teeter and Hart take as a sign that consumers
aren't in a frenzied retreat.
   Americans do appear to be concerned about their stakes in
their homes. And they don't see real estate as a sure bet for
increasing value in the near future, as it was in many
regions over the past decade.
   Only about one-third believe they'd get more for their
house now than a year ago, while 27% think they'd get less. A
bare majority, 52%, believe this is a good time to buy a
home, while 38% believe it is not. Back in August 1986,
three-quarters said it was a good time to buy a home.
   There is not a single region where a majority believes
housing prices are on their way up. Still, regional
differences are striking. The Northeast clearly has the
biggest population of woeful real-estate value watchers. In
that region, a mere 28% of respondents see housing prices
going up. In other parts of the country, by contrast, about
45% of those polled see prices currently heading up.
   Lyle Gramley, chief economist with the Mortgage Bankers
Association of America, notes that home prices, as measured
by the median resale price of existing homes, rose 3% to 4%
over the past year. And he looks for "more of the same" in
the current year.
   David W. Berson, chief economist of Federal National
Mortgage Association, says that "even in deep recessions,
home prices tend to go up." That was the case, for instance,
in 1982. But he explains that one reason home prices rarely
drop is that many homeowners simply put off selling until
times are better.
   Perhaps not surprisingly, far fewer homeowners than
non-homeowners are expecting higher housing prices. Of
homeowners, 36% foresee higher prices. Of those who don't own
homes, 52% expect higher prices.
   ---
                      Rating Investments
                                                                                                       

   "Please tell me whether you would feel very comfortable
putting yor money in this type of investment, somewhat
comfortable, somewhat uncomfortable, or very uncomfortable
putting your money in this type of investment."
                                                                                                       

                                          UNCOM-      NOT
                           COMFORTABLE  FORTABLE     SURE
                                                                                                       

   Savings Account             86%         11%         3%
   Certificate of Deposit      77          17          6
   Bonds                       67          25          8
   Investment Real Estate      60          32          8
   Money-Market Fund           59          28         13
   Mutual Funds                48          35         17
   Precious Metals             38          47         15
   Stock                       38          52         10
                                                                                                       

   THE WALL STREET JOURNAL/NBC NEWS POLL
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   In War, Uncensored Press Is a Danger
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   In their never-ending search for perfection, journalists
recently have been trying to replace lawyers as this
country's most irresponsible (and accordingly
least-respected) profession. The task is formidable, but they
seem to be succeeding.
   Perhaps the worst symptom of the problem is the outpouring
of pious indignation that accompanies any attempt to force
moderation. This was amazingly clear in the appalling example
of journalistic elitism that recently appeared on your op-ed
page: Michael Gartner, president of NBC News, in his Aug. 30
Viewpoint column, "Covering the War Is CENSORED," observed
that he was understandably upset because the Pentagon
wouldn't allow his organization to disclose troop strengths,
installations, weaponry, security precautions, deployments or
other newsworthy tidbits of information. No matter that such
reporting would endanger the allied forces, especially when
coupled with the usual expert analysis detailing the best
ways of countering such measures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   America owes its enviable standards of domestic
tranquillity and economic prosperity to a relatively
non-oppressive government -- a government held in check by a
free and vital press. It is impossible to overstate the
importance of journalism in preserving our freedoms and
maintaining our way of life.
   However, the press can continue to serve in this crucial
role only if it is credible. Credibility requires
responsibility. Responsibility requires self-discipline --
enough self-control to prevent oneself from being turned into
a stooge, from divulging important military information, or
from otherwise giving aid and comfort to a ruthless enemy.
   William E. Baker
   San Antonio, Texas
   ---
   Every one of the categories of information Mr. Gartner
lists as prohibited would be useful to a military adversary
and could, in the event of war, contribute to loss of U.S.
lives and material.
   Had attitudes such as his prevailed in the press corps
during World War II, we might have lost that conflict, and
with it all First Amendment rights for everyone.
   Hubert C. Birnbaum
   New York
   ---
   As a retired USAF pilot who, even after a 22-year absence
from the cockpit, would like to be there, I sure as hell
would not want the bad guys to know who I was, where I was
located, where my family lived, how many planes, missiles,
spare parts, etc. we had available and, very importantly,
what security and perimeter defenses were built to protect me
while I was on the ground.
   R.L. Batts
   Major, USAFR (Ret.)
   Houston
   ---
   I'm pleased that the irresponsibility of the media in
times of crisis is being handled effectively.
   Peter A. Bergsten
   Cleveland
   ---
   The Saudi desert is a big place. It is important for me to
know that we may have as many as 250,000 personnel in that
sandbox and that they've got the right equipment. But I'm
happy believing that if NBC can't tell me the latitude and
longitude of Cpl. Smith (and, by extension, his unit),
neither can it tell the Iraqi commanders.
   William H. Raub
   Bethlehem, Pa.
   ---
   Restrictions placed on the press, and all good citizens,
were initial restrictions, for the safety and security of our
men and women in the armed services. Such restrictions were
put in place in World War II so the enemy would not know that
the Fourth Infantry Division was to land on Utah Beach on
D-Day; the First Division to land on Omaha Beach and the 82nd
Airborne &amp; 10th Airborne to drop in the vicinity of St. Mere
Eglise. All identification had been covered up or removed
from men and equipment.
   When it comes to a military operation, my money is on
trained professionals in the Defense Department. They're
responsible for the lives of our armed forces, not the
self-serving media. Mr. Gartner may cry all he wants, but the
real tears will be shed if we lose any of our fine young
soldiers. Let's hope and pray we don't.
   Thomas A. Welstead
   Bal Harbour, Fla.
   ---
   No doubt the media is at war. They are always at war, and
always the first to declare war. After all, the main product
of the media has become reporting "war" -- war on drugs, war
on poverty, war on peace. Now, we have scowling
correspondents deployed to Saudi Arabia, where they
breathlessly convert a truly boring tour of duty into what
they consider entertaining and informative reporting. All
complete with a background mosque or military base, mingled
with an editorial dose of footage from the Iranian/Iraqi war
archives -- with fly-covered civilian and military victims,
along with footage of our forces on exercise in the Mojave or
Twenty-Nine Palms. Turn the sound off and one would swear
this was indeed a real war being reported on. I imagine that
when colorized World War II footage of the North African
campaign becomes available, it too will be worked in.
   Armand J. Petri
   Sunnyvale, Calif.
   ---
   Our military has an obligation to keep its activities
secret; these are our sons and daughters whose lives are at
stake.
   What Mr. Gartner is really complaining about is that the
U.S. media has proved that it cannot police itself, not only
in regard to military secrets but in all other types of
reporting, and that the U.S. military has learned to react
accordingly.
   Robert S. Jacobs
   Greensburg, Pa.
   ---
   By Mr. Gartner's own account, media restrictions in Saudi
Arabia relate entirely to legitimate military secrets (size,
location and security precautions of military units) and the
personal safety of U.S. soldiers and their families
(names/hometowns).
   He insults the public's intelligence when he implies that
concealing those details will undermine democratic control of
U.S. foreign policy.
   In no way is the name of an air base or the number of
trucks in a convoy crucial information for policy making.
Such details are, however, invaluable to the guys aiming
Iraqi Scud missiles.
   If his reporters can't find something else worth
reporting, perhaps he needs new reporters. Or he could just
watch CNN -- like the rest of us.
   Harry F. Noyes III
   San Antonio, Texas
   ---
   The military buildup is not "undebated," as Mr. Gartner
argues. Every day, the major U.S. dailies devote three to
five full pages to covering it, and the op-ed pages are
filled with opinion columns. It has completely dominated the
U.S. public-policy debate for the past few weeks.
   This concept that the media has a right to know and
broadcast anything they wish, and that preventing them from
doing so in military situations is an infringement of their
rights, is preposterous. As a viewer and reader, I would
prefer not to know information I don't need to know than
endanger the lives of those who have been sent on this
mission.
   Marc Thiessen
   Alexandria, Va.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Antitrust Review
   Slows Close of Merger
   Of Avery and Dennison
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AVY DSN
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PASADENA, Calif. -- Avery International Corp. said its
merger with Dennison Manufacturing Co. has been delayed until
mid-October because the Justice Department is taking slightly
longer than expected to complete its antitrust review.
   "No problem is anticipated," an Avery spokeswoman said.
The office-products concern had expected the review to be
done by Sept. 28. Completion is now expected Oct. 12. The
merger with Dennison, an office-products manufacturer based
in Framingham, Mass., will close shortly thereafter, Avery
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Avery also reported that net income fell 30% to $13.3
million in the third quarter ended Aug. 31. The results
include $3.7 million in merger-related expenses, which
reduced per-share net by eight cents to 30 cents a share. In
the year-ago quarter, the company had net of $18.9 million,
or 43 cents a share. Sales in the latest quarter rose 6% to
$448.6 million from $422.7 million.
   Avery said "a weak world-wide industrial economy" hurt the
company. The company was also hurt by the bankruptcies of
three large European customers. Avery said strong
performances of its U.S. office products businesses didn't
offset weakness in overseas operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   National City Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   NCC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NATIONAL CITY Corp. (Cleveland) -- Roger M. Dalton,
previously senior vice president and director of community
banking at First Kentucky National Corp., has been named
president and chief executive officer of National City's
CommerceNational Bank of Lexington, Ky. Robert E. Showalter,
previously president and chief executive officer of
CommerceNational, has been elected president and chief
executive officer of National City's Ohio Citizens Bank of
Toledo. Robert G. Siefers, previously president and chief
executive officer of Ohio Citizens Bank, has joined the
executive management team at National City.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Empire Blue Cross &amp; Blue Shield
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   EMPIRE BLUE CROSS &amp; BLUE SHIELD (New York) -- Donald L.
Morchower was named executive vice president and chief
operating officer, a new post at this private, not-for-profit
health insurer. Mr. Morchower will be responsible for
customer service and sales and will retain his current roles
as executive vice president and chief information officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Unisys Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   UIS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   UNISYS Corp. (Blue Bell, Pa.) -- J. Carl Masi was named
vice president of corporate marketing at this computer maker.
Mr. Masi, 49 years old, succeeds Jack Holton, who was named
vice president, strategic account marketing. He was
previously chairman and chief executive officer for
International Data Corp., a high-technology market research
and consulting company, based in Framingham, Mass. Prior to
IDC, Mr. Masi held several senior level posts during 12 years
at Wang Laboratories Inc., in Lowell, Mass.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   GenCorp Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GY WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENCORP Inc. (Fairlawn, Ohio) -- Harry A. Shaw III,
chairman and chief executive officer of Huffy Corp., based in
Dayton, Ohio, has been named a member of the board. With Mr.
Shaw, the board expands to 11 members from 10 members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Americas:
   `The Mummies of Marxism' Gasp for Breath in Chile
   ----
   By Samuel Silva
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   SANTIAGO -- They were celebrating a birthday party. Almost
all of them were Communists who had known each other for
ages. The spirits were high; they were eating well, gossiping
and reminiscing about the old days.
   "I remember studying the layouts of all friendly embassies
in Santiago before jumping into East Germany's house in '73,"
boasted one of them. "I could burst into any of those
embassies anytime."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Yeah," said another one, "except that now what embassies
have we got left? There's no country to go to]"
   Their laughter silenced the bitter irony of their words.
The Chilean Communist Party, once the strongest in the
Western world after the Italian Communist Party, has lost its
"Vatican" in Moscow and is falling to pieces. Prominent and
longtime faithful members are withdrawing from the Central
Committee, if not quitting the party altogether. And some
very conspicuous faces -- some of the very same ones that
were a symbol of underground Chilean communism during the
Pinochet government -- have been expelled from the party by
their own peers.
   Take Luis Guastavino. A party member since he was 17 years
old, he has devoted his whole life to communism. Elected to
Parliament during three consecutive periods in the 1960s, his
albino face was an unmistakable trademark of proletarian
fire. He flew to exile after the military coup that overthrew
Socialist President Salvador Allende and, during most of the
17 years in which Gen. Augusto Pinochet ruled the country,
was an outstanding party figure: a member of the Central
Committee and an indisputable leader of Chilean communism,
someone whose voice was heard.
   No more. Mr. Guastavino was "separated" from the party in
August, after months of fierce internal struggle. Since his
arrival from exile in 1987, he had tried unsuccessfully to
launch a Chilean-flavored perestroika, urging the Central
Committee to abandon its policy of "popular mass rebellion"
and "national insurrection." Mr. Guastavino, now 58, believed
that the Central Committee had to change, but the Central
Committee thought otherwise.
   So if his voice was once heard with respect inside the
party, for the past several weeks it has been coming through
a loudspeaker outside: Mr. Guastavino has given interviews to
all media, friend or foe, accusing the Central Committee and
the Political Commission of being paranoid, Stalinists,
political morons. He even said that the people who now head
the party are "the mummies of Marxism," the worst insult of
all, since for decades the word "mummy" has been used in
Chile to identify aged ultraconservative right-wingers.
   Members of the Central Committee, enjoying the total
freedom of the press that now reigns in Chile, haven't kept
their mouths shut either. They have accused Mr. Guastavino of
"individualistic degradation," and they have called him quite
an extensive list of ugly names. Volodia Teitelboim, the
secretary-general, went as far as giving an interview to the
powerful and loathed newspaper El Mercurio, which supported
Gen. Pinochet's government, to "put things straight."
   In the midst of the battle, there was even some space in
the press for the Proletarian Action Communist Party, a tiny
Stalinist faction: It stated that neither Mr. Guastavino nor
Mr. Teitelboim were real Communists and that their words were
"offending Stalin and his great theoretical and practical
legacy."
   If Mr. Guastavino's story has been a media feast, it is by
no means the only symptom of disintegration. Nearly half the
members of the Party Youth's Central Committee resigned some
weeks ago, and Secretary-General Teitelboim said the party
was undergoing a growth crisis. Several well-known Communist
Party spokespeople, such as Fanny Pollarolo, Manuel Riesco,
Gonzalo Rovira, have either quit the Central Committee or
stated publicly their opposition to the party's current
leadership, hinting that it might be leading Chilean
communism into oblivion.
   This is hardly news in a world in which many national
Communist parties have been blown to smithereens from within
in less than a year. But given the 17 years of ruthless
right-wing military regime in Chile, which gave the local
Communist Party an aura of heroism and much more than a
handful of martyrs, things could have been different.
   The Soviet Union's economic and political crisis has had
its effect on local communism, of course. The Chilean party
aligned itself with Moscow since its very beginning and the
guidelines are now nonexistent. It was Mr. Guastavino himself
who said that losing the U.S.S.R. model was similar to Samson
being shorn of his hair.
   But the main reasons for the current ailments of the
Chilean Communists are their own misjudgments. They never
thought Gen. Pinochet would lead a fair plebiscite while he
sought to stay in power. But he did. Much less that he would
organize free elections if he lost the plebiscite. But he
did. Even less that he would step down if his candidate
didn't win those elections. But he did.
   The Communists insisted on overthrowing Gen. Pinochet with
weapons instead of using votes in political maneuvers. They
alienated the very same people they wanted to seduce when
they sponsored the creation of the Manuel Rodriguez Patriotic
Front guerrilla army. They never understood that almost all
Chileans yearned for quietness, after the psychological and
physical wars of the Allende and Pinochet governments.
   And the Communists were always late. Late to the massive
protest movements of the early '80s -- they declared 1986 as
the "decisive year" to overthrow Gen. Pinochet, when it was
obvious that all the momentum had waned. Late to the
plebiscite -- up to the very last minute they were telling
the people not to register and not to vote. Late to the
election of December 1989 -- they finally voted for the
current president, Patricio Aylwin, but had their own
separate list for Parliament and got no seats at all. A sad
story, for a party that had had 17% of Chilean votes.
   They have also been late in adapting to the rules of
democracy and freedom of the press. They found themselves
suddenly with their own newspapers, radio station and
magazines, with the possibility of coming out in the open
with no threat of being imprisoned for their words. And they
haven't been able to cope with the new scenario properly.
After everyone else, they are trying to gather the 37,000
signatures of membership they need to register as a legal
political party. They are now, and have been for many years
in Chilean history, behind history. They haven't been able to
put their act together, perhaps because they have no act left
at all.
   Two weeks ago marked a landmark for the Chilean left. It
was the 20th anniversary of Salvador Allende's election as
president. His family, back from exile, has built a huge
marble mausoleum for him in Santiago's main cemetery. He was
reburied on Sept. 4 with all the leftist parties present at
the burial.
   The Communists were also there, of course. The Guastavinos
and the Teitelboims. It was their burial, too.
   ---
   Mr. Silva is associate editor of America Economia, an
economic and financial news magazine based in Santiago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Concord Camera Corp.:
   Loan Is in Default, Owing
   To Losses, Unit Problems
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LENS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Concord Camera Corp., Avenel, N.J., said it defaulted on a
bank loan, citing poor results from retailing softness and
problems at its Hong Kong unit. The loan agreement allows the
bank to declare a default and seek remedies, but Concord said
it expects a waiver.
   For its fourth quarter ended June 30, Concord had a loss
of $2.4 million, or 57 cents a share, on revenue of $6.8
million. The annual loss was $3.2 million, or 77 cents a
share, on revenue of $28.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Concord sells 35mm and 110 cartridge cameras that it makes
in China under its label and private labels. Concord said
that softness in the retail industry in the fiscal third and
fourth quarters hurt camera sales, and that "wrongful actions
by certain former officers and directors" of the Dialbright
Co. unit in Hong Kong resulted in manufacturing disruptions
and revaluation of certain inventories. Concord said that the
unit has been reorganized, and that legal proceedings have
begun in Hong Kong against the former employees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kobe Steel to Help
   Voest-Alpine Supply
   Auto Firms in Europe
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KOB R.VAL
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Kobe Steel Ltd. will provide Austria's
Voest-Alpine Stahl Linz G.m.b.H. with technology to produce a
corrosion-resistant steel used by the automobile industry,
the Japanese company said.
   With this technology, Voest-Alpine could meet the steel
requirements of Japanese auto makers that are expanding into
Europe, a Kobe spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two companies signed a three-year agreement in Linz,
Austria, for Kobe to supply the technology and to guide the
Austrian company in making the so-called Hi-Super DN steel.
   Voest-Alpine is the fourth European company to receive
technical assistance from Japanese companies in making
corrosion-resistant steel for auto makers, the Kobe spokesman
said. The Austrian company is Europe's eighth-largest steel
producer, with output of 4.5 million metric tons of crude
steel last year. A metric ton is 2,204.6 pounds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Essay
   ---
   Bailing Out Gorby:
   Herewith Some Stealthy Alchemy in Which
   B-2 Bombers Are Converted to Toasters
   And Toothbrushes on Soviet Shelves
   ----
   By William E. Blundell
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R39
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   THIS LITTLE CONFECTION is about Mikhail Gorbachev, the
trackless swamp that is the Soviet economy, and what the U.S.
might do to pluck him from the ooze. But first we must
digress to deal with some seemingly unrelated matters. To
wit: A single B-2 Stealth bomber is quoted at $850 million,
out the door and including tax and license, as the boys in
the lizard-skin shoes like to say over at Belchfire Motors.
   That's provided Congress surrenders to the ungovernable
lust of the Air Force and lets its generals buy some. In
light of the recent unpleasantness in burnoose territory,
it's likely Congress will be panicked into doing so, and
never mind that in the present geopolitical climate the B-2
is as useful as a handle on a crowbar.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The current quoted price for the plane is, of course, a
fiction concocted for us proles who will have to pay the
bill. After the usual gold-plating by contractors,
subcontractors and sub-subcontractors (who will protest that
they had to jack up the price because of inflation, new
doodads demanded by the Air Force, and the unforeseen
consequences of a conjunction between Mars and Jupiter), the
B-2 will come in at more than $1 billion a copy.
   Bet the house on it. And keep that figure in mind, along
with this one: a roll of Charmin toilet paper costs 42.3
cents. What does any of this have to do with Mikhail
Gorbachev? Patience. All will become clear.
   Now, to the Soviet leader. We like him, do we not? It's
not just because he ended the Cold War, allowed his own
people to complain publicly that he is a screw-up, and is
backing us against Baghdad.
   We also like him because we recognize him; he is a
U.S.-style politician, a charismatic, flesh-pressing
speechifier in a good suit, a type with whom we are
comfortably familiar. But given the genial contempt we have
for our own politicians, is this an advantage? Yes.
   Contempt is a function of proximity, and we know Mr.
Gorbachev is too far away to foul up our lives in the same
way our own politicos have -- dropping us into S&amp;L hell,
tethering us to a national debt that has us toiling much of
the year just to finance government interest payments, and
making us watch while they bury their snouts in one
special-interest trough or another. Mr. Gorbachev enjoys all
the benefits of having a familiar style and none of the
drawbacks of having exercised it at our expense.
   Besides, if we don't help him, we might wake up one
morning and find him dispatched to dig cabbages in the
Ukraine while in his chair will be some kind of scary
throwback -- a pig-eyed, bullet-headed field marshal,
perhaps, who in a twinkling will have us out in our back
yards digging bomb shelters again. No thanks.
   So help Mr. Gorbachev we must. But how?
   The most obvious answer is to drop a few megatons of cash
on him. But we are a little short at the moment, what with
the S&amp;L thing and the Iraq-Kuwait thing and the national debt
thing and a U.S. economy that looks more and more like a
drunk falling off a tightrope.
   And even if we had the money, we ought to remember that
charisma and managerial skill are almost never found wrapped
together in the same politician. The record so far suggests
that Mr. Gorbachev, for all his charm, might lose his shirt
even if handed the monopoly franchise on cold beer in the
Sahara. We like him, but do we like him enough to throw
actual cash into the economic black hole over which he
incompetently presides? Nah.
   What, then? An alternative stunning in its simplicity
comes from Creative Solutions Associates Inc. (an outfit a
few of us cobbled up one afternoon in a local tavern that
promptly landed an SBA loan that will buy drinks for quite a
few more years). It addresses what Mr. Gorbachev really
needs, which is to get something up there on the shelves.
   His people want toasters. They cry out for toilet paper.
They want toothpaste that doesn't taste like nuclear waste.
They want VCRs and Levi's 501 jeans and meat and ketchup and
posters of Madonna, and if they don't get them pretty soon,
Mr. Gorbachev will be digging cabbages in the Ukraine.
   We have all this stuff, and under the Creative Solutions
plan we could deliver it without really spending any extra
money, at least in the way Washington understands spending.
All we have to do is not build, say, five B-2 bombers we
would have built otherwise.
   The plan: The Air Force wants 75 bombers, but after months
of posturing, it and Congress will agree on a smaller fleet.
Then, just as agreement is reached, adherents of the
Gorbachev bailout -- who have been waiting in the weeds for
this moment -- blindside everybody. They suggest that just
five fewer planes will rescue Mr. Gorbachev by allowing us to
send him, out of the $5 billion savings, any one of the
following (price research by Creative Solutions staff):
   -- 11,820,330,969 rolls of Charmin toilet paper, very
probably a full year's supply for the entire Soviet Union,
or:
   -- 1.42 million tons of ground beef, about 40 hamburger
patties for every man, woman and child, or:
   -- 2,512,562,814 tubes of family-sized Crest
tartar-control toothpaste, enough to whiten every Soviet
molar for months, or:
   -- A politically fetching package of 75 million pairs of
Levi's 501s for Soviet youth and the same number of GE
toasters for the suffering parents of same, with money left
over for other items.
   And that's all at retail. Even Congress ought to be able
to get volume discounts.
   Any legislator worth his franking privilege would snap at
this idea like a hungry trout. It gives something to
everybody without seeming to cost anything extra, and makes
all involved look like statesmen. Most important, we would
save Mr. Gorbachev by buying him precious time to get his
economic machinery running again.
   He would be grateful, and in time he would repay us. He
could send us one thing the Soviet Union still has in plenty
-- trees. (Ours have spotted owls sitting in them, and can't
be touched.) And we might even get him to take something we'd
be better off without. We could send him surplus lawyers.
Lots and lots of lawyers.
   ---
   Mr. Blundell is deputy editor of The Wall Street Journal
Reports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Moet Hennessy Posts
   23% Gain in Profit
   For 1990 First Half
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8C
</SO>
<CO>
   LVMHY U.GUI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
COSMETICS, PERSONAL CARE, OVER-THE-COUNTER REMEDIES (COS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The French drinks, perfume and baggage group LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton S.A. said consolidated profit
climbed 23% in the first half of 1990 and predicted that its
full-year results will show a gain of at least 15%.
   Profit for the half rose to 1.25 billion French francs
($237.2 million) from 1.02 billion francs a year earlier,
even though revenue rose only 2.2% to 8.82 billion francs
from 8.63 billion francs and operating profit slipped 0.9% to
2.33 billion francs from 2.36 billion francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   LVMH said the slow growth in revenue and the decline in
operating profit resulted from the French franc's weakness
against some other major currencies. The higher consolidated
profit figure, it said, took into account the results of its
currency-hedging program. It said that after adjustment for
currency factors, operating profit showed a 25% gain for the
period.
   "The group benefited from very strong growth in all of its
Far Eastern businesses, particularly in Japan, which offset a
slowdown of growth in the U.S.," the company said. It also
cited lower financing costs and its 24% stake in the British
drinks group Guinness PLC, which has just posted a 31%
increase in its first-half earnings.
   By sectors, cognac and spirits were the strongest
contributors to first-half operating profit, generating a 22%
rise to 1.1 billion francs from 900 million francs. LVMH said
the sector had strong demand growth world-wide, especially in
Asia.
   On the other hand, operating profit from perfumes and
beauty products fell 47% to 138 million francs from 258
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ameritrust Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   AMTR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERITRUST Corp. (Cleveland, Ohio) -- Three executives
have been appointed to the company's newly formed Credit
Policy and Risk Management Group. Peter R. Butcher, from the
San Francisco-based banking firm ICON Associates, has been
named executive vice president and senior credit policy
officer. He'll manage the corporation's loan portfolio and
develop and implement lending strategies.
   Kevin M. Blakely, from the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, has been named senior vice president. He'll
review credit and credit administration risk throughout the
corporation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Karl G. Grunwalt, a vice president of a unit of
AmeriTrust's Merchant Banking Division, has been promoted to
senior vice president. His duties include identifying and
overseeing management of potential problem loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Scholastic to Offer
   Stock to the Public
   Despite Weak Market
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Scholastic Corp., which for generations has
catered to children's reading needs, plans a stock offering
for an older crowd.
   Late this month, the company plans to offer 4.2 million
common shares, including 800,000 to be sold outside the U.S.
The issue is expected to be priced between $18 and $21 a
share, as noted in the preliminary prospectus.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The issue will have to weather a significantly weakened
initial public offering sector. IPO issuance has slowed
sharply, echoing the broad stock market drop in response to
the Persian Gulf crisis and its potential ramifications for
economic growth and inflation.
   The IPO "sector of the market is on the speculative fringe
to begin with," says Al Hadhazy, senior research analyst at
the "New Issues" newsletter. Overall market uncertainty has
an "especially dramatic" impact on IPOs, he adds.
   Scholastic, which distributes as well as publishes books,
magazines and educational materials, was taken private in
July 1987 by chairman Richard Robinson, a son of founder
Maurice R. Robinson, other members of the Robinson family,
management and certain other investors. If the offer comes in
the expected price range, existing holders stand to see a
hefty increase in the paper value of their shares, which were
purchased at an average $1.35 each.
   Of the 4.2 million common shares to be sold, 3.27 million
will be sold by the company and the rest by holders. While
owners of the common stock will have the right to elect
one-fifth of the board, the voting power of the company's
capital stock is vested in holders of Class A stock.
   The prospectus notes: "Richard Robinson and two trusts
controlled by members of the Robinson family {including
Richard Robinson} own approximately 95% of the outstanding
Class A stock, and, pursuant to stock options, Richard
Robinson alone has the ability to obtain in excess of 50% of
the Class A stock."
   In the year ended May 31, Scholastic had operating profit
of $24.3 million, up nearly 69% from $14.4 million in fiscal
1989. Revenue grew 25% to $374.6 million from $299.6 million
in fiscal 1989. In fiscal 1988 the company had a $6.7 million
operating loss on revenue of $246.1 million.
   Revenue has more than doubled from $180.3 million in
fiscal 1986, largely due to the growth of Scholastic's
children's book publishing business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jury Weighs Whether Boeing or Insurers
   Should Pay for $97.5 Million Cleanup
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   BA AET AIG UCL LK PCP
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal court jury in Seattle began deliberations this
week to determine who should pay $97.5 million to clean up
two hazardous waste sites in the Puget Sound area: Boeing Co.
or its insurers.
   During the four weeks of testimony, Boeing tried to elicit
that its insurance carriers are responsible for covering the
costs because it never expected pollution problems. The
insurers sought to prove that the airplane maker had long
been alerted to the potential fallout from years of dumping
but chose to ignore those warnings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case is being closely watched by manufacturers in
other industries, which face similar Superfund disputes.
Experts say that only one other Superfund case of this scope
has actually gone to trial. In December 1988, Shell Oil Co.
lost to its insurers over the $1 billion cleanup of a
toxic-waste site near Denver.
   The Boeing case involves two dumps in King County, Wash.,
where from the mid-1950s through the mid-1970s the company
shipped some 24 million gallons of waste, including solvents,
heavy metals and some acids. Boeing later agreed in
court-ordered settlements with regulators to clean up the
properties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, commonly known as
Superfund.
   In the trial, Boeing called witnesses who maintained that
the company pressed the owners of the waste sites to comply
with environmental regulations. The company also argued that
the state permitted it to dump when and where it did, and
that the methods of disposal it used were better than any
available alternatives.
   T.A. Wilson, who retired as Boeing chief executive officer
in 1986, testified that he never realized the company was
polluting. "I don't think we thought we were," he said.
   But the insurers, which include Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co.,
Hartford Accident &amp; Indemnity Co., American International
Group and underwriters for Lloyd's of London, countered with
their own witnesses. They brought to the stand a former
Boeing chemical engineer who said that the company had been
warned about the possibility of contamination at the sites,
but turned a blind eye to plans that called for more
sophisticated -- and more expensive -- waste-treatment
systems. Lawyers for the insurance companies drew the same
point from some of Boeing's own witnesses during
cross-examination.
   For the world's biggest commercial jet builder, the stakes
are high. Boeing has sued a number of other companies that
over the years also used one of the waste sites, Western
Processing, in an attempt to have them contribute more to the
cleanup. But these companies, including Unocal Corp.,
Lockheed Corp., Precision Castparts Corp. and Contintental
Can Co., have balked; they say they've paid enough already,
and Boeing still hasn't owned up to its fair share of the
trouble.
   "Even though we're on the industry side, we're interested
this time in what the insurance companies are able to show,"
said Larry Hard, who is representing Unocal. He said his
client and some of the other companies are preparing to go to
trial in about a year.
   Besides the $97.5 million of expenses being mulled now,
Boeing potentially faces cleanup costs at 13 other locations
around the country.
   Whether this case would serve as precedent, though, isn't
clear. Four state supreme courts and three federal appeals
courts have split over whether insurers can even be brought
to trial in Superfund cases. In January, the Washington State
Supreme Court ruled in a landmark 9-2 decision that Boeing's
claims for cleanup costs may be covered by the comprehensive
general liability policies at issue, paving the way for the
Boeing trial.
   The Seattle jury is expected to return a verdict any day
now, according to attorneys close to the situation. In
closing arguments on Tuesday, Boeing lawyer Robert Sayler
accused the insurers of engaging in "Boeing bashing" and said
pointedly: "They want to portray themselves as the Audubon
Society. They are not."
   "We think we presented a good case on the facts,"
countered George Bassett, a lawyer for AIG who presented
opening arguments for the insurers.
   "But insurance companies aren't always so well liked, and
Boeing is very well liked in this community," he
acknowledged. "We know it's going to be an uphill battle."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Building Blocs
   ---
   The Quiet Colossus:
   Canada Finds Its Trade Pact With the U.S.
   Isn't a Panacea, but Mexico Wants a Similar Accord
   ---
   Mexico
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R32
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   IS BUSINESS OVERLOOKING the obvious?
   When new trade and investment opportunities are mentioned,
Europe is the world on everybody's lips, the talisman for
financiers and investors in the U.S. and elsewhere. And with
reason. The economic integration of the European Community
nations in 1992 and the opening of potentially rich new
markets in the East Bloc countries promise big profits for
those who position themselves early and well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But while businessmen and money men alike rivet their
attention on the Old World, a new economic colossus is slowly
and quietly taking shape in the new one. Call it Canamerico.
   With only modest attention being paid, Canada, the U.S.
and Mexico are gradually moving toward creation of a single
huge trade entity. Canada and the U.S. have already signed a
trade agreement that will wipe out tariff barriers and other
impediments; Mexico, which has cast aside its former
protectionism, now wants a similar pact. It will probably get
it.
   If Canamerico indeed comes into being, it would be a
powerhouse by almost any measure, exceedingly rich in natural
resources (particularly coal and natural gas), technology,
agricultural production, capital, and available labor. But
Canamerico is not reality yet, and the road to trade
unification is proving a hard one, full of potholes -- as
both Canada and Mexico are finding out.
                                                                                                       

   AGUASCALIENTES, Mexico -- Better the devil you know than
the devil you don't know.
   The old saying applies well in Mexico today. It has a long
history of wariness toward its giant neighbor to the north,
the devil it knows so well, and for many years wrapped its
domestic industries in a cocoon of protectionism against
American and other foreign competitors. But over the past
four years it has been stripping away that protection,
exposing home industries to the cold winds of competition.
Now it wants to expose them even more by doing something it
had previously resisted -- entering into a free-trade
agreement with the U.S.
   Why? Because the devil Mexico doesn't know -- the ultimate
effect on it of operating without a trade pact -- looks even
more threatening now than Uncle Sam does. Mexico's leaders
are gambling that the risks to its own vulnerable industries
will be outweighed by major benefits, including further
pressure on companies to get lean, mean and competitive; the
opening of U.S. markets restricted now; and an infusion of
foreign capital.
   So, with a mixture of dread and anticipation, Mexican
business executives are bracing themselves for yet another
wave of fresh competition. One is Juan Manuel Martinez, who
is found here in Aguascalientes, a textile center 300 miles
northwest of Mexico City, stuffed inside an office no bigger
than a freight elevator.
   Mr. Martinez, 29, is co-owner of Distribuidora Deportiva,
a tiny athletic-clothes producer that is fitfully readying
itself for free trade with the U.S. He is sending his
seamstresses to a training center that local industrialists
just built near a cockfighting ring. He himself will enroll
in a new industry-sponsored program on clothing design at the
state university. His partner is in Chicago on a cut-rate air
ticket to check out the competition at an international
clothing expo. The partner (who has found an unattended WATS
line, thus saving the company a few pesos) calls to a pay
phone outside. Afterward, a visitor asks for the word from
the Windy City. "We are in for an enormous struggle," says
Mr. Martinez, slumping back in his chair.
   Mexican industry has suffered and struggled plenty
already, thanks to la apertura, the opening. This policy,
launched in 1986 by Carlos Salinas de Gortari, then budget
minister and now president of Mexico, ended a period of
intense protectionism that had lasted since the end of World
War II.
   Under protectionism, the nation enjoyed three decades of
rapid growth that became known as the Mexican Miracle. But by
the '70s many industries had grown flabby, lazy and
uncompetitive, and the economy stagnated for a decade or
more. To get it moving, Budget Minister Salinas engineered
the reduction of Mexico's maximum tariff to 20% from 100% and
eliminated restrictive import licenses on 80% of the items
entering the country.
   The opening to foreign competition has succeeded in making
Mexican industry more competitive; manufactured exports have
risen to 65% of total exports today from 32% in 1985. But the
price has been extremely high -- the virtual collapse of
several Mexican industries hammered into the ground by
imported goods. Three-quarters of the country's toy factories
have closed, and employment in that industry has fallen by
50%. The shoe industry now operates at 60% of previous
capacity. The leading trade group of Mexican food producers
has lost 20% of its members.
   When he took office in December 1988 with the weakest
mandate of any modern Mexican president, Mr. Salinas was
faced with the very real prospect that his ruling
Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) would lose its
60-year grip on Mexico if he didn't do more to get the
country growing again. Mr. Salinas initially counted on new
money from abroad to lead the recovery; under another
manifestation of la apertura, Mexico changed its once highly
nationalistic foreign-investment laws and waited.
   But not much has happened. Some multinationals don't think
revisions in the law went far enough. In other cases, rising
protectionism in the big U.S. market, the main target, forced
foreign firms to scuttle planned joint ventures with Mexican
ones. And still other capitalists were diverted from Mexico
by perceived new opportunities in the newly liberalized
economies of Eastern Europe.
   President Salinas now believes that a trade pact with the
U.S. would do away with many of the impediments that have
made la apertura less than a complete success. "Up to now,"
he says, "Mexico has paid all of the costs of the opening and
hasn't obtained the benefits that it should."
   A formal trade agreement, he reasons, would change that in
a hurry. It would put an end to the protectionist moves of
U.S. industries that have hamstrung Mexican exporters of
cement, steel, textiles and farm products. And he is certain
that the guaranteed open access to the U.S. market would
provide "an enormous stimulus" to foreign investors who
couldn't count on it before.
   Even though business bankruptcies will almost inevitably
increase with free trade, Mexican businessmen are widely in
favor of it. A poll by the business magazine Expansion found
that 72% of executives wanted an agreement with the U.S.
"It's like everything else," says the head of one clothing
producer in Aguascalientes. "There will probably be more
losers than winners, but nobody thinks that his company will
be among the losers."
   That's assuming the U.S. textile and clothing industry,
which enjoys 20% tariffs and tight import quotas, is forced
to give them up -- something it won't do without a bitter
struggle. "What's at stake in this industry are two million
U.S. jobs at $7 an hour that could go to Mexico for $7 a
day," says an official of the American Textile Manufacturers
Institute.
   If free trade in this sector does come as expected, the
major Mexican producers stand to gain the most. "We see
opportunities to increase exports, maybe by 100%," says Pablo
Lozano Lopez, finance director of a unit of Grupo Textil San
Marcos S.A., whose factories sprawl over more than five acres
of Aguascalientes. When San Marcos got into towels not long
ago, it had the resources to send two dozen line workers to
Europe for training.
   "Not everyone will be in a position to exploit the coming
opportunities," says Carlos Ramirez, San Marcos's director of
sales. But galvanized by the potential opening of the U.S.
market, a lot of companies of all sizes in Aguascalientes are
getting ready to try.
   Creaciones Heidi S.A., a producer of children's clothing
with 100 workers, greatly upgraded quality with la apertura
and began exporting dresses through a trading company formed
by three dozen firms. Now it is organizing line workers into
Japanese-style quality circles, looking for a foreign
partner, and cutting the number of clothing lines produced
from 50 to five.
   "We have to do fewer things and do them better," says Juan
Manuel Lopez, the director general. Though he knows its
risks, he favors free trade, saying: "Anything that makes
Mexicans work harder is healthy."
   But along with the potential new opportunities come new
fears. Mario Montanes, co-owner of Creaciones Jaime y Mario
S.A., a mid-sized producer of jeans, is standing outside his
plant, chain-smoking nervously. The clothing label that was
his factory's biggest customer has just gone bankrupt. Now
Mr. Montanes's factory itself must hustle its product to
dozens of small distributors.
   "In Aguascalientes I've seen five or six businesses go
under in just two months," he says. "I went to Guadalajara
and it was worse: About 15 businesses closed this summer. Now
free trade is coming. God knows what will happen."
   ---
   Mr. Moffett is chief of The Wall Street Journal's Mexico
City bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Student Aid Funds Is Selected
   To Take Over HEAF's Loan Portfolio
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Education Department has selected the
United Student Aid Funds to take over the $9 billion
student-loan portfolio of a financially troubled guarantee
agency.
   Officials said that United Student Aid Funds's plan for
resolving the problems facing the Higher Education Assistance
Foundation would be cheaper than a competing offer from the
Student Loan Marketing Association, known as Sallie Mae.
Officials wouldn't provide details of the competing offers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By taking over HEAF's operations and portfolio, United
Student Aid Funds will become the largest of the nation's 54
loan-guarantee agencies, assuming a position of dominance
that makes some smaller agencies nervous. United Student Aid
Funds, which is based in Indianapolis, currently has a
portfolio of about $12 billion.
   The department's recommendation must be cleared by the
Office of Management and Budget. But administration officials
predict that OMB will support the decision unless Sallie Mae,
the publicly held corporation that the government chartered
to create a secondary market for student loans, makes an
unexpected new proposal. A Sallie Mae official declined to
comment.
   Officials said one obstacle to Sallie Mae's proposal was
the company's insistence that the government pay it a fee for
managing the HEAF portfolio.
   In addition to resolving the problems at HEAF, which got
into trouble because it guaranteed too many loans that went
into default, the administration is advocating a plan to slow
the surging student-loan default rate. Defaults on student
loans will cost the government an estimated $2.3 billion in
the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.
   In the current budget negotiations, the administration has
proposed saving $3.3 billion over five years by giving the
Education Department expedited authority to drop from the
loan program any schools that consistently have default rates
of more than 25%. Proprietary schools, which train students
in such trades as truck driving and hairdressing, tend to
have the highest default rates. It's unclear, however,
whether the Democrats will accept the proposal as part of the
five-year deficit-reduction package that the administration
and Congress are struggling to work out.
   HEAF, which is based in Overland Park, Kan., got into
financial difficulty because it guaranteed a high volume of
loans to proprietary-school students. At one point, the
default rate on these loans was 60%.
   Under the federal loan program, students at certified
schools borrow from banks, and one of the nation's nonprofit
guarantee agencies, of which HEAF and United Student Aid
Funds are the largest, insures the loan. The government then
reinsures the loan.
   Generally, the Education Department pays the guarantee
agency 100% of the balance on defaulted loans. But that rate
can drop as low as 80% if the guarantee agency's payments on
defaulted loans exceed 9% of the agency's insured loans. HEAF
is losing money because it's receiving a government
reimbursement of 80% on defaulted loans on which it's paying
banks and other lenders 100%.
   United Student Aid Funds's plan to take over the HEAF
portfolio will cost the government about $90 million over six
years because the department will have to pay 100% on
defaulted loans, rather than the 80% it would have paid HEAF.
The $90 million will protect United Student Aid Funds against
loss on loans that HEAF guaranteed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Watch --
   Fall Elections:
   Cream Puffs
   At 20 Paces
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   As a loyal party man, George Bush plans to travel more for
GOP candidates this fall than any president in memory. Just
don't expect him to say very much.
   Stumping in California this week, Mr. Bush issued this
call to arms: "We can serve our country by being the best
candidates, the best citizens, and, yes, the best Republicans
and Democrats we can be." He stressed Iraq, crime, a clean
environment, a growing economy -- he was against the first
two, but for the latter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The president's politesse reflects his temperament, but
also the theme of this year's congressional elections: There
is no theme. So far there are barely any issues, especially
for Republicans. Democrats have S&amp;Ls and abortion (in some
places), an uncertain economy, and the historical midterm
reaction against a president's party. About the best thing
Republicans have is Saddam Hussein.
   "We're right back where we've always been -- war and the
economy," says GOP consultant Eddie Mahe, with an audible
sigh of relief. The Iraq crisis helps incumbents and provides
an excuse for recession, he says, and Mr. Bush's revived
popularity will dilute GOP losses. Without Iraq? "Absolute
disaster," he says.
   This non-trend trend is evident in Senate races where the
GOP has potent challengers. Style trumps substance. In Rhode
Island, 43-year-old Rep. Claudine Schneider is running on the
need for "new leadership" against 71-year-old Sen. Claiborne
Pell. Age and sex are their only apparent differences. In
Illinois, able Rep. Lynn Martin has found her anti-tax
message blunted by George Bush's reversal on no-new-taxes. So
she's fallen back on such political standbys as incumbent
Paul Simon's missed Senate votes, desire to run for president
and personal intervention for lobbyists.
   Tom Tauke, a brainy, moderate GOP congressman, seems like
the perfect challenger for Iowa's Tom Harkin, one of the
Senate's loudest liberals. But tax-and-spend was also Mr.
Tauke's best issue. He still sounds off on taxes, but it's
hardly Joshua's trumpet. He also muddles the issue by
charging Mr. Harkin with failing to "bring home the bacon" of
federal spending to Iowa. And how will Mr. Tauke vote if a
budget deal includes higher taxes? "We're keeping our options
open," says his press secretary.
   Mr. Tauke is left to stress "quality of representation"
issues. His slogan is the riveting, "He Puts Iowa First." And
he attacks Mr. Harkin for -- hold onto your outrage -- having
a mere post-office box, rather than a home, in the state.
Polls show voters are underwhelmed.
   The tax issue is now so muddled that it's working for many
Democrats. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is
actually advising its candidates to oppose higher taxes
(except on "the rich") and endorse tax relief for the middle
class. "We've been burned so much on taxes, that's what I
tell all the candidates," says Richard Bates, the DCCC's
executive director.
   Marguerite Chandler, a businesswoman competing for an open
seat in New Jersey, is running ads attacking Democratic Gov.
Jim Florio's recent tax increases. She also attacks her GOP
opponent, a state legislator, for "politics as usual." She
has a good chance to retake this GOP seat. Indiana Democrat
Jill Long is sticking to the no-new-tax pledge that helped
her win Dan Quayle's old seat in 1989 by some 1,700 votes.
She's well ahead in the polls.
   Republicans also once hoped to take advantage of any
anti-incumbent sentiment. This could still help in the
Senate, where Democrats have more seats at risk. But in the
House, the GOP has just as many vulnerable incumbents as
Democrats have. In any event, the "bipartisanship" of the
past year has given voters little reason to think Republicans
aren't also to blame.
   The GOP's most notable anti-Washingtonian, Georgian Newt
Gingrich, is himself under attack for "wheeling and dealing
in Washington." Democrat David Worley is passing out a bumper
sticker, "No Newt Pay Raise," despite a Democratic vow not to
compete on that issue. Another member of the GOP House
leadership, Mickey Edwards, has opposed a 12-year limit on
legislative terms. But the limit passed this week by 2-to-1
in his home state of Oklahoma. He now dodges and weaves: "The
people have a right to put on limitations, but you have to
look at the downside."
   S&amp;Ls might have been a good GOP issue ("Jim Wright"), but
Democrats have been more skillful at framing it
("deregulation," "Neil Bush"). Challengers in both parties
will use it when an incumbent's got blood on his hands, but
Republicans have a harder sell. Their best hope is to depose
Illinois Rep. Frank Annunzio, Freddy St Germain's
comrade-in-(S&amp;L)-alms.
   It's a symptom of GOP congressional complacency that the
talk already is that a mere drubbing (as opposed to a rout)
will be a victory. A loss of 10 House seats or a draw in the
Senate will be celebrated. Nineteen straight losing House
(and three Senate) campaigns in a row, Republicans will say,
but it could have been worse] Yet a loss of even six seats in
the House would put them below 170 -- where they've been only
six times since 1950.
   As the majority, Democrats flourish in a stand-pat
election. Republicans need to give voters a reason to oust
incumbents. So far they haven't. This could change at a
stroke if the budget talks collapse and George Bush takes his
spending and capital-gains-cut case to the voters. Marc
Nuttle, the valiant executive director of the GOP
Congressional Committee, says with calculated understatement,
"I would not be distraught to run on that platform."
   But the betting in Washington is that this is as likely as
the Chicago Cubs winning the World Series.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Rankings
   ---
   The Global Giants:
   Annual Survey Shows U.S.
   Firms Have Gained Ground
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R27
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INSURANCE (INS)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FALLING STOCK PRICES in Tokyo, combined with a strong
dollar, enabled the U.S. to regain ground from Japan in the
rankings of the world's largest companies and financial
institutions.
   Ranked by stock-market value, 42 of the world's 100
largest companies are Japanese this year, down from 50 a year
earlier. Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone remains the top-ranked
company, while Industrial Bank of Japan falls to No. 5 from
No. 2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By comparison, 39 of the 100 largest companies this year
are U.S. concerns, compared with 35 the year before.
International Business Machines Corp. ranks No. 2, up from
No. 3 last year. And General Electric Co. jumps to No. 4 from
No. 13.
   Among banks, all of the top seven are Japanese. Credit
Agricole and Banque Nationale de Paris, both French, come in
at No. 8 and No. 9, while Citicorp rounds out the top 10.
Overall, 28 of the world's 100 largest banks are Japanese; 13
are American. France and West German each have 10 banks on
the list.
   These are some of the findings that emerge in The Wall
Street Journal's fifth annual global ranking of companies and
financial institutions. The world's 100 largest public
companies were monitored by Morgan Stanley Capital
International Perspective, based in New York and Geneva.
Rankings of the 100 largest banks, 50 largest insurers and 25
largest securities firms were compiled from the Worldscope
database, a product of Wright Investors Service, Bridgeport,
Conn.
   The lists generally don't include state-owned entities or
some closely held institutions for which data aren't
available.
   {See related stories: "World Business (A Special Report):
Rankings" -- WSJ Sept. 21, 1990}
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Interpublic Plans to Buy the 64.6%
   Of Lowe Group It Doesn't Own
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   IPG TYSNA SAA RAL WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Interpublic Group of Cos., which currently holds 35.4% of
Lowe Group PLC, said yesterday it plans to acquire the
remaining 64.6% of the British agency group in a transaction
valued at approximately $160 million.
   The transaction would give Interpublic full ownership of a
third international ad network. Lowe, a fast-growing firm
with offices in more than 10 countries including the Lowe &amp;
Partners agency in New York, would join Interpublic's two
major advertising networks, McCann-Erickson and Lintas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As part of the deal, Lowe shareholders will be offered a
choice of cash or Interpublic stock. New York-based
Interpublic said it will offer #4.25 ($8) in cash for each
Lowe share or, alternatively, seven Interpublic shares for
every 25 Lowe shares. That ratio works out to 0.28
Interpublic share for each Lowe share. There are 19.5 million
Lowe shares affected by the offer.
   The stock offer values the Lowe shares slightly higher
than the cash offer, and Interpublic officials are clearly
hoping that the majority of holders will opt for the stock
swap. Interpublic shares fell 50 cents yesterday to close at
$30.125 a share in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange.
   Analysts said Interpublic is snagging Lowe at a bargain
price. Lowe's stock, amid a dismal U.K. advertising
environment, has taken a beating on the London stock exchange
recently. Industry executives said Interpublic wouldn't have
been able to afford the company just six weeks ago, when Lowe
stock was trading at around 430 pence a share. Yesterday,
shares of Lowe soared 55% to trade at 410 pence, up 145 pence
from Wednesday's late price of 265 pence.
   Interpublic said it decided to buy the rest of Lowe Group
to further strengthen its position in Europe and to offer a
third independent ad network to prospective clients. While
the McCann and Lintas agencies are known for solid, if
unexciting, ads for clients like Coca-Cola and Unilever, Lowe
Group, which is headed by Frank Lowe, has gained notice for
its offbeat, spunky, creative work.
   "Each of the Interpublic agencies have different
philosophical approaches to the business," said Philip H.
Geier Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of
Interpublic. "Looking at the competitive situation in the
marketplace, this provides prospects with three different
options." In turn, Interpublic will be able to increase its
market share, he said.
   Analysts cheered the move, saying Interpublic is picking
up a profitable agency that will help boost its own
prospects. "I think it's a very good deal," said Jim
Dougherty, an analyst at County NatWest Securities USA.
"Lowe's net income is growing a lot faster than Interpublic's
is. This is certainly going to be a plus to Interpublic's
growth rate."
   Said Karen Ficker, an analyst at Labe Simpson in New York,
"It adds some flair to the agency network. They've picked up
an additional piece of the agency puzzle with no conflicts at
a relatively low price."
   The analysts also noted that the transaction would give a
handsome boost to billings at Interpublic, which hasn't been
immune to the downturn in the U.S. ad business. Advertisers,
wary of the shaky economy, have in many cases drastically cut
their advertising budgets, and the ad-spending outlook is
uncertain. Major ad concerns like Interpublic have reported
decreasing revenue from U.S. operations. Lowe's billings at
the end of 1989 were #858 million.
   Interpublic has for several years had various financial
relationships with Lowe agencies. Last year, it exchanged its
stake in the Lowe Marschalk agency, now known as Lowe &amp;
Partners, for a larger stake in Lowe Group.
   Interpublic said it believes around 30% to 40% of Lowe's
shareholders will opt for Interpublic stock, with the
remaining shareholders taking cash. It said Lowe employees,
officers and directors -- who together control about 10% of
the stock outstanding -- all plan to take the Interpublic
stock option. The acquisition, which is subject to certain
regulatory conditions, is expected to be completed by year
end.
   Mr. Lowe, a charismatic British adman, will be invited to
join the Interpublic board, the company said.
   Eugene P. Beard, executive vice president of finance and
operations at Interpublic, said, "We're paying 10 times
projected earnings on estimated 1990 {Lowe Group} earnings.
For an agency like Lowe and the talent of Frank and his
people, I think it's a very fair deal for everybody."
   ---
   Saatchi Wins Holly Farms
                                                                                                       

   Tyson Foods pulled its $15 million Holly Farms chicken
account from Long, Haymes &amp; Carr, Winston-Salem, N.C., and
awarded it to Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Advertising, New York.
   Tyson acquired Holly Farms last year following a long
takeover fight. Saatchi, a unit of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Co.,
creates ads for Tyson's other fresh and processed chicken
lines, an account that also bills about $15 million. The
agency created Tyson's "Feeding You Like Family" campaign.
   Jack Dunn, vice president of retail marketing at Tyson,
said the company moved the business to consolidate its
chicken advertising at one agency.
   "Basically, it boils down to getting as few cooks in the
kitchen as we possibly can," Mr. Dunn said. "Saatchi had the
inside track and was doing good work for us." He said the
account was moved without a review.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   GRIFFIN BACAL: Ralston Purina, St. Louis, named Griffin
Bacal, New York, to handle future ad assignments for new
children's food products. It also awarded the shop
agency-of-record status for those products, which may include
breakfast cereals and snacks. Billings haven't been
determined. Griffin Bacal currently handles some ad
assignments for Continental Baking, a Ralston unit.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: At Lintas:USA, four senior vice presidents
were promoted to executive vice president in the shop's media
department. Marc Goldstein was elected executive vice
president, director of national broadcast media and
programming; Carolyn Libby was named executive vice
president, executive media director of Lintas:New York; and
Paul Hunt and Bob Gervason will assume similar positions at
Lintas:Campbell-Ewald in Detroit.
                                                                                                       

   HIP ACCOUNT: Health Insurance Plan (HIP) of Greater New
York, a large East Coast health maintenance organization,
awarded its ad account to TBWA Advertising, New York.
Billings weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Glaxo Holdings PLC:
   Pretax Profit Climbs 13%
   At British Drug Company
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   GLX
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Glaxo Holdings PLC, a major British pharmaceuticals
concern, reported a 13% rise in pretax profit for the year to
June 30, with strong sales throughout the company, including
its key Zantac anti-ulcer drug.
   Glaxo's pretax profit of #1.14 billion ($2.15 million), up
from #1.01 billion a year earlier, was ahead of market
expectations which ranged between #1.08 billion and #1.13
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit after tax, less minorities, or profit attributable
to shareholders, increased 15% to #793 million from #688
million a year earlier. Per-share earnings were up 15% to
53.1 pence from 46.2 pence.
   Sales rose 11% to #2.85 billion from #2.57 billion, even
after exchange rate movements cut sales by #145 million,
Glaxo said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Beer Output in 1989
   Rose 2%, Kirin Reports
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- World beer production rose 2% in 1989 to a record
110.7 million kiloliters, Kirin Brewery Co., Japan's largest
brewery, said.
   A kiloliter equals 264.18 gallons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The previous record was 108.5 million kiloliters in 1988,
Kirin officials said.
   In 1989, Japan surpassed Britain to become the world's
fourth-largest beer brewer, Kirin said.
   The largest producer by far was the U.S., with an
estimated production of 23.4 million kiloliters, up 0.6% from
1988. U.S. brewers accounted for 21.1% of total global
production, the officials said.
   They said West Germany was second with 9.3 million
kiloliters, up 0.4%, followed by China with 6.2 million
kiloliters, down 3%.
   Japan was next at 6.1 million kiloliters, up 5.1%,
followed by Britain with six million kiloliters, down 0.4%.
   The figures are based on data obtained from beer
associations around the world, Kirin said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   God Bless America
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Drunks and tort lawyers are surely toasting this week's
award of $9 million to a visibly plastered Mexican dishwasher
who stumbled in front of a New York subway train and woke up
missing one arm. In awarding this jackpot, a Bronx jury
heaved all blame on the Transit Authority for failing to
"take charge" of the man.
   Other recent awards against the TA include $4.3 million
for a thug who was shot in the back by policemen and crippled
after mugging a 71-year-old man; $1.2 million for an
unsuccessful suicide who jumped in front of a train and lost
his legs; and $8.2 million for a homeless man who stumbled
over garbage left by other homeless people, fell onto the
subway tracks and was badly burned by the third rail, plus $5
million for a brother chasing him trying to take him home. If
the cases are typical, a third of the loot stands to go to
brazen and imaginative tort lawyers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "God Bless America" exclaimed the dishwasher hearing the
jury's award. God save us is more like it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trappist Breweries
   See Business Intrude
   On Monastic Life
   ---
   Rising Demand for Their Beer
   Collides With a Shortage
   Of Monks Able to Brew It
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8C
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCHEFORT, Belgium -- Brother Pierre is extolling the
virtues of his monastic life: fulfilling work in the abbey's
small brewery, along with plenty of time for study,
reflection and prayer.
   His hair shaven to a black stubble, the young Trappist
monk peers earnestly at a visitor in a cold stone antechamber
of the Rochefort monastery. "What we seek," he explains, "is
calm." Suddenly, the calm is disturbed by the beeping of an
electronic pager hidden somewhere beneath Brother Pierre's
cassock. "Excuse me a moment," he says, then pads down the
corridor on sandaled feet to confer with a colleague.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For Belgium's Trappist monks, the pressures of the outside
world are never completely absent. The beer they brew to pay
for monastery expenses and charity has become so popular in
recent years that they often can't keep up with demand.
   "Our customers are on their knees before us," says Brother
Pierre, who quickly adds that this is "just a manner of
speaking." Like the four other Trappist monasteries that
produce beer in Belgium, Rochefort's abbey sometimes has to
ration its supply among its most loyal customers.
   The beer is scarce partly because there is a shortage of
monks to brew it. As in other wealthy Western countries,
Trappists here find that fewer and fewer young men want to
adopt the austere monastic life. The average age of Trappist
monks in Belgium is well over 60; the Rochefort abbey hasn't
had a new recruit since 1982.
   Thus, only a few monks are available for brewing at most
of the abbeys. At the Orval monastery, for instance, only one
of the 35 monks, Father Bruno, works in the brewery. Wearing
a blue lab coat, he supervises 26 outside workers in a
business with annual sales equivalent to about $4 million.
   "To work eight hours a day is difficult for a monk,"
Father Bruno says softly. "They have other things to do."
Some bake bread; others make cheese. A few are too old to do
much work of any kind. Even so, Father Bruno reasons that the
monastery can continue to claim its beer is "brewed by
Trappist monks" as long as they control the finances, quality
and promotion.
   Apart from a few crucifixes here and there, Orval doesn't
look much different from any other small brewery. Nor does
the sight of Father Bruno tapping away on his personal
computer exactly evoke the medieval imagery associated with
Trappist beer. The brewery's switchboard plays "Home on the
Range" for callers put on hold.
   Nonetheless, partly because the product is viewed as
authentic and traditional, the Trappist brewers' sales last
year grew to about 290,000 hectoliters, up about 14% from
1985. Their share of the Belgian beer market grew to 2.2% of
total volume from 1.8% five years ago -- despite competition
from secular imitators. By value, the Trappists' share is
much bigger, since their beer is among the most expensive.
   The Trappist beers are strong -- up to 12% alcohol -- and
full-bodied. Some are slightly sweet. All are "refermented"
in the bottle and based on traditional recipes. None
resembles a standard Pilsener beer.
   Though most of the Trappist beer is drunk in Belgium, a
growing share is exported, mainly to France and the
Netherlands but also to the U.S. and other faraway markets.
   The biggest exporter among the Trappists is Chimay, whose
business has outgrown the monastery. The beer is still made
within the stone walls, but the bottling plant and a cheese
factory have moved to a nearby industrial zone. With cash to
spare, the monastery has even invested some of its profits in
the local dairy and packaging industries.
   Monks as venture capitalists? "You can forget your
capitalistic comparisons," snaps Philippe Macq, a brisk,
secular businessman who runs Chimay's commercial side,
shuttling between the abbey and the industrial zone in a car
equipped with a mobile telephone. "Money doesn't interest
them," he says. "They are rich, but they live like the poor."
   Even so, the monks of Chimay invested in expanded brewing
capacity last year, and Mr. Macq hopes they will agree to
another modest increase this year.
   The other monasteries seem less ambitious about expansion.
Brother Pierre of Rochefort says his abbey has "practiced
auto-limitation" since the 1950s. The monks don't want their
monastery overshadowed by a huge industrial plant.
   At the Westmalle monastery's brewery, almost hidden amid
cow pastures near Antwerp, Brother Thomas says he figures
production would have to double to meet demand. "On
principle," he adds, "we say no."
   The smallest Trappist brewery, St. Sixtus, finally retired
its wooden casks this year and installed $1.5 million of
gleaming, automated equipment. For the moment, however, St.
Sixtus is limited to selling only a trickle of its dark,
sweet beer because of an agreement made just after World War
II by "a brother who wasn't very clever," as one Belgian
brewing executive puts it. The agreement gives a neighboring
brewery, Sint Bernardus, a near monopoly on use of the St.
Sixtus brand name, in exchange for royalties totaling about
$150 a year.
   If the monks find this a pittance, they are not letting
on. However, Brother Paul of St. Sixtus notes that the monks
will be free to sell all the beer they want once the
agreement expires in 1992. He is coy about whether they will
take advantage of it.
   "We brew to live," Brother Paul says serenely. "We don't
live to brew."
   At all of the abbeys, monks recoil at any suggestion that
they are sophisticated businessmen. Still, whether by design
or accident, their strategy seems to be working.
   For one thing, they have avoided flooding the market, thus
preserving rarity value. For another, their distinctive brews
are in tune with today's beer drinkers, who tend to drink
less but demand more novelty. "People are getting sick and
tired of all these beers that taste the same," says Michel
Tassin, a Belgian who imports Chimay into the U.S., where a
750-milliliter bottle, sealed with a champagne-style cork,
sells in stores for as much as $9.50.
   The monks also think long term. Westmalle's Brother Thomas
offers a visitor a glass of relatively light beer brewed only
for consumption within the monastery. Should a severe
economic slump ever deter people from paying the equivalent
of $2 or $3 a glass for Westmalle's stronger brands, he
confides, the brewery could quickly roll out the cheaper,
light version.
   As usual, success has aroused the competition. Belgium's
two big secular brewers, Interbrew S.A. and Alken-Maes S.A.,
both sell what they call "abbey beers" -- brews produced in
modern plants but using old monastery formulas. The Trappists
take a dim view of such competition. "The consumer is being
fooled a little," says Mr. Macq of Chimay.
   Although there is nothing the Trappists can do to stop
abbey beers, they are determined to defend their Trappist
trade name, which is protected under Belgian law. Brother
Thomas of Westmalle, usually mild-mannered, turns gruff when
he recalls a recent British television program that
erroneously identified a secular beer as Trappist. "If this
continues," he huffs, "we'll have to take legal action."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cabot Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CBT WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CABOT Corp. (Waltham, Mass.) -- Damaris Ames, executive
vice president-publisher of Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, was
named a director of this specialty chemicals and materials
and energy concern, expanding board membership to 16 plus one
director emeritus.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Old Ideologies
   Rabidly Defended
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Susan Lee is entitled to her opinion that anyone who
questions the performance of an unbridled free market is
"weird" and "benighted." But her review of my book
"Prosperity Lost" (Leisure &amp; Arts, Aug. 27) went off the deep
end in labeling me an advocate of a "police state."
   Redistribution of income and limits on the accumulation of
wealth have been the official policy of the U.S. ever since
the creation of the income tax, inheritance taxes and the New
Deal social programs. The problem is that these measures have
traditionally been applied only half-heartedly, and during
the Reagan years they were decimated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I thought conservatives had outgrown the practice of
mindlessly condemning critics of laissez faire as
totalitarian. Far from embracing Stalinism, my book was
inspired by the struggles of East Europeans against
repressive government power.
   Yet, as many Poles, for example, are beginning to realize,
allowing the market completely free rein is not the most
effective way of restoring prosperity for all. Faced with
deregulatory disasters such as the savings-and-loan mess,
many Americans are coming to the same conclusion. The
solution to the economic problems of East and West will come
from innovative thinking, not rabid defense of old
ideologies.
   Philip Mattera
   Brooklyn, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Banks Reassess Presence in Taiwan
   ---
   Pressures World-Wide
   Force a Retrenchment
   ----
   By Jeremy Mark
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   CHL FREST CMB CCI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI, Taiwan -- The main entrance of Chemical Bank's
office here is locked. Seen through a window, the
wood-paneled reception area looks empty and forlorn. A
hand-written sign directs visitors to a back entrance down
the hallway.
   After 16 years and hundreds of millions of dollars of
business in Taiwan, the unit of Chemical Banking Corp., New
York, is closing its branch office this month and leaving
town.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ax also is poised to fall down the street at Chase
Manhattan Bank, a division of Chase Manhattan Corp., New
York. Chase has put its credit-card business up for sale, and
if the price is right, the bank intends to close its
consumer-banking operation altogether.
   At a time when the Taiwan government is opening its
consumer-banking industry wider to foreign banks, many U.S.
banks are more concerned with retrenchment than expansion.
They are reassessing their place in Taiwan because of tough
bottomline pressures world-wide, and because of the
increasingly limited returns they can earn in a highly
competitive market.
   While Chemical and Chase are the only foreign banks to
announce cutbacks so far, Taiwan's foreign banking community
is buzzing with rumors of other branches on the block, jobs
in jeopardy and credit lines under review. Bankers expect
further belt-tightening in the coming months, especially if
Taiwan's economy sinks into a prolonged period of slowing
growth.
   "Most of the banks in town realize we're entering a
difficult period," says a Chase Manhattan official.
"Traditional commercial banking in Taiwan has become less
attractive."
   "Is this going to catch up with other banks, or are they
going to be able to tough it out?" asks Steven R. Champion,
president of International Investment Trust Co., a
fund-management company. "There are signs they may all be
coming under pressure."
   Bankers note that one ramification of moves to pull back
could be a slowing of the pace of innovation in the market.
Foreign banks have been a force for change in Taiwan banking,
particularly in pushing the central bank to allow new
services.
   On the surface, Taiwan would appear to be a prime market
for foreign banks. It boasts more than $100 billion a year in
trade, more than $60 billion in foreign reserves -- with a
rising amount of that flowing out of the country every year
-- and an increasingly wealthy populace that has been offered
only limited consumer-banking services by local institutions.
   The Finance Ministry says that 37 foreign banks have
Taiwan branches, while an additional 18 operate
representative offices. Still, their share of the market is
small, commanding only 1% of New Taiwan dollar deposits and
less than 5% of the domestic loan market.
   Most foreign banks concentrate on corporate banking,
including short-term lending, trade-related services,
foreign-exchange trading and merchant banking. A smaller
group, led by the Citibank subsidiary of Citicorp of New
York, is pushing into consumer banking, taking deposits and
making loans.
   Several foreign banks are now preparing to increase their
consumer-banking presence to take advantage of a government
commitment to allow banks to expand the number of branches
each may operate on the island to three from two.
   But for other banks, this is not the time for expanding in
Taiwan -- or other Asian markets. Many banks are particularly
hard-pressed by the Bank for International Settlements'
requirement that by 1992 they have an 8% capital-to-asset
ratio. At a time when capital is difficult to raise, banks
are being forced to reduce existing loan portfolios and cut
new lending in some markets. Some American banks also are
severely squeezed by the double-whammy of a flat U.S. economy
and a banking system badly shaken by the savings-and-loan
crisis.
   "The enthusiasm to open branches in Asia and around the
world is diminishing," says a European banker based in Asia.
   Like Taiwan, other countries in Asia offer what would
appear to be great opportunities for foreign banks because of
their rapidly growing economies, but there is little or no
access to consumer banking, and outside of Citibank and the
American Express Bank unit of American Express Co. of New
York, few have been willing to spend the money to establish
the branch networks necessary to tap that business.
   "American banks' retreating or retrenching or disappearing
has very little to do with Taiwan, but has everything to do
with American banks," says a senior U.S. banker. "What we see
here is the result of some of the actions that all of the
moneycenter banks have been forced to take."
   It is this pressure that is forcing Chemical Bank to close
its Taipei branch, bankers say. Formerly a major presence in
Asian commercial banking, Chemical has been cutting back in
the region since the mid-1980s.
   Ultimately, bankers say, Chemical is shutting down because
its headquarters in New York decided to shift its focus
toward banking in the Northeast and Texas. Internationally,
the bank is consolidating in such major money centers as
Tokyo, Hong Kong, London and Frankfurt.
   Chemical intends to use its Hong Kong office to continue
providing fee-based services to clients from Taiwan, but
bankers say that may prove difficult without a permanent
local operation. Leaving Taiwan means "you lose the human
capital," an American banker says. "With that you lose your
knowledge of the market."
   Chase denies that its move to drop out of consumer banking
after two years in the business has anything to do with
shifting global priorities. Rather, bankers say Chase's
decision was based on problems with Taiwan's system for
handling credit-card accounts billed in New Taiwan dollars.
The accounts for such cards must be processed by a single
institution, a requirement that bankers say is too
restrictive.
   "Chase is very much staying in the market as a major
player," the Chase official says. "This is sort of a modest
streamlining."
   In coming months, the question of costs is likely to grow
increasingly important in banks' assessments of their future
in Taiwan. Taipei is an expensive city in which to set up
shop. Rents in the financial district are high, and wages for
local personnel are rising.
   Moreover, bankers say they are facing stiffer competition
and slimmer margins. Taiwanese companies have reduced their
U.S. dollar borrowing because the American currency has been
strengthening against the local unit in the past year.
   Lending to Taiwanese companies in the local currency isn't
particularly profitable either these days, a U.S. banker
says, because that means "competing with local banks for New
Taiwan dollar business, and that's difficult to do."
   "For the kind of business that's done here, this is
probably an overbanked market," says Edward J. Moriarty,
chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce's banking
committee and general manager of Bank of New York's Taiwan
branch.
   Now, bankers are facing an added concern: The combination
of slow exports, the Taipei stock market's recent sharp
decline and a slumping property market are undermining the
economy. The Directorate General for Budget Accounting and
Statistics last month reduced its projection for 1990
economic growth to 5.2% from 7.2%, the lowest level since
1982.
   Borrowing is down, bankers say, and delinquent loans are
on the rise. Baring Securities (Taiwan) Ltd. reports that 1%
of all loans outstanding in Taiwan are overdue, or about NT$3
billion (US$109.9 million) in loans.
   The worst may be yet to come. Many bankers expect the full
ramifications of the slump to hit home only later this year,
and few doubt there will be some large loan defaults.
   Any significant losses could prove the catalyst in pushing
some headquarters to quit Taiwan. "You might go five straight
years of making $5 million" a year, says Mr. Champion of
International Investment Trust. "But if in the sixth year you
lose $50 million," the home office may decide the market
isn't worth it.
   ---
   Cynthia Owens in Hong Kong contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Work Takes the Wind
   Out of a Weekend Sailor
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Regarding your Aug. 31 Enterprise story "Fiberglass's Long
Life Is Sinking Sailboat Producers," I don't agree with the
contention that the sailboat industry is suffering from
"design constipation" and that all it needs is an infusion of
innovative design to free it from diminishing sales figures.
   My experience from retailing more than 4,000 fiberglass
boats and having represented more than 50 national
manufacturers the past 20 years that have gone belly up,
leads me to somewhat other conclusions. One concerns the
significant lifestyle change of the 25-to-40-year-olds. With
a majority of the families having both partners working full
time, there is not the time to sail on weekends. The careful
planning necessary to juggle a weekend family junket aboard a
sailboat, such as food preparation, fueling, trip planning,
marina reservations, weather, balancing children's lessons
and other family commitments, requires hours of time not
available anymore to the nonexistent "stay-at-home" member of
the family. Making boats go faster or simpler to operate will
not bring back the market. Only a return to a former familial
life style will, and this is not likely in the near future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arthur Rieders
   Havencraft of New England Inc.
   Sudbury, Mass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Texas Instruments
   Sues Dell, Alleging
   Violation of Patent
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TXN DELL
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED TECHNOLOGY (DTC)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Adding to an already long list of companies it
is suing for patent infringement, computer-chip giant Texas
Instruments Inc. filed suit last Thursday against mail-order
computer firm Dell Computer Corp.
   TI asked the U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of Texas to assess a dollar amount for damages, claiming that
Dell, of Austin, Texas, violated several key patents in
building its personal computers. "People who make PC clones
generally violate our patents," a TI spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   TI and Dell had been discussing patent issues since April.
"We were very surprised when they filed," said a Dell
spokesman.
   Dell says the suit is without merit -- merely another
example of TI's overactive legal department. Within the past
year, TI has sued its own customers and competing U.S. chip
firms on patent-related matters. Among those companies are
Zenith Data Systems Corp., Analog Devices Inc. and LSI Logic
Corp.
   Dell is the second Texas computer maker this month to spar
in court over patents with TI. Tandy Corp. on Sept. 6 alleged
that TI broke federal antitrust laws by falsely claiming
ownership of certain microprocessor technologies. Tandy also
alleged that TI demanded unreasonably high royalty payments.
   Japanese chip firms have also accused TI of demanding
exorbitant royalty rates. A Japanese press report said TI
demanded 10% of the wholesale value of products using chips
based on a TI patent. TI would not confirm the report.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Gorbachev's Stall
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   President Gorbachev seemed unambiguous enough last week
when he threw his support behind the more radical of two
approaches for attacking the Soviet Union's economic crisis,
but now he's temporizing.
   On Monday the president decided that a national referendum
would be necessary on a crucial element of the program: land
ownership. In other words, Soviet citizens must be asked if
they think that they should be allowed to own land.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A referendum would take months, postponing the program put
together by Professor Stanislav Shatalin -- a 500-day
timetable for curbing state spending, eliminating subsidies
to state-owned industrial and agricultural enterprises and
putting land into private hands. And delay could doom the
effort entirely. The Soviet Union is slipping into anarchy.
It may soon be too late for organized reform.
   This is not the first time that Mr. Gorbachev has avoided
the most direct route between two points. Perestroika has
thus far been a bust because Mr. Gorbachev refuses to follow
the logic of reform to its necessary conclusions. The whole
world sees that the Soviet Union must move toward free
markets.
   But advocates of the go-slow approach, led up by Premier
Nikolai Ryzhkov, still managed to convince Mr. Gorbachev that
the union is endangered by the Shatalin plan. Mr. Ryzhkov
even told a reporter that if his own program is rejected, "I
will not carry out any other." He's worried that the program,
which would start October 1, would stack the cards in favor
of secessionist republics. Last week the prime minister said,
on Soviet television monitored by the BBC, that the proposal
to pay taxes exclusively at the local and republic level
"means the elimination of the U.S.S.R. as a single state. The
government will not accept this path."
   Boris Yeltsin, the head of the Russian Republic, is fully
aware of this. He knows that the disintegration of the Soviet
Union would leave him in control of a superpower, arguably
more manageable and more potent than the current U.S.S.R. The
Russian Federation has already adopted the Shatalin plan, and
Mr. Yeltsin's supporters are evidently ready to turn Moscow
upside down on behalf of a radical overhaul.
   But don't underestimate Mikhail Gorbachev; he too knows
how to read political tea leaves. By siding with orthodoxy
after all, he is saying in effect that he has little faith in
the radicals' solution. One could say that his two kopeck's
worth of support last week for the program was grossly
overvalued. The president as obliquely as ever is now casting
his ever-variable vote with those who would preserve the
empire and their own positions of power in it.
   These sudden turns in events at the highest levels of the
Soviet government help one understand the depth of feeling
Alekandr Solzhenitsyn expressed in his article published in
the Soviet Union this week: "Nothing useful will ever be
reached unless the Communist-Leninist party yields not just
one point of its constitutional power but is completely
separated from any influence on economic and state life,
completely gives up control over us or any aspect of our
lives."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   State Street Boston Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STBK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   STATE STREET BOSTON Corp. (Boston) -- I. MacAllister
Booth, president and chief executive officer of Polaroid
Corp., was named a director of this holding company,
expanding membership to 18.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Seeks Curb on Option, Futures Volatility
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange is proposing a
rule change aimed at curbing stock market volatility each
month when stock-index futures and options expire.
   The rule could curtail certain forms of program trading.
The Big Board wants to give its specialists new powers to
only partially fill expiration orders for stock if the market
maker is unable to find sufficient supply or demand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rule change is likely to spark outrage from some
program traders whose strategies sometimes depend on having
orders filled precisely at the closing prices on the third
Friday of each month. (Today is one of those days, the
quarterly and monthly expiration of stock-index futures and
options and options on individual stocks.)
   The proposal "is not an attractive rule for stock-index
arbitragers," said a principal at one firm. "Telling somebody
that you can't get out is about the worst thing you can do"
to turn investors away from a market, "except for closing the
market altogether."
   In stock-index arbitrage, dealers trade among stocks,
stock-index futures and options to capture profits from
fleeting price differences.
   Other exchanges could also be affected. The rule change
could induce enough uncertainty to curb some program-trading
strategies altogether, which would cut into volume on the
Chicago Board Options Exchange, the American Stock Exchange
and the Chicago Board of Trade.
   But such controversy is likely to put more heat on the two
Chicago exchanges and on the Amex, which so far have refused
to switch to morning expirations. Currently, S&amp;P 500-stock
index futures and options expire quarterly in the morning,
meaning the settlement value of the futures and options is
based on the opening price of all 500 stocks. This procedure
allows specialists in the underlying stocks more time to
match buyers and sellers.
   What the Big Board's proposal "should do is induce the
Amex and the CBOE to take a serious look at the problem" of
afternoon expirations, said Richard Grasso, Big Board
president. He added he preferred morning expirations to the
new rule.
   The Friday afternoon expirations have been a longstanding
concern at the Big Board and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, because they occasionally result in abrupt swings
in stock prices.
   "Our thinking has been that the {morning} expirations help
address volatility concerns, and provide better procedures
for marshalling interest in underlying stocks," said Brandon
Becker, associate director at the SEC's division of market
regulation. He said afternoon expirations are a source of
"continuing concern."
   The Big Board and the SEC are particularly concerned about
what would happen if an afternoon expiration occurred
simultaneously with a market panic, such as October 13, 1989,
when stocks fell 190 points in the final hour of trading.
   Mr. Grasso insists that the exchange is not trying to
curtail trading strategies or give specialists undue powers.
"It is purely and simply a question of fairness -- how you
fairly price a large amount of stock," he said. A morning
expiration, he said, would give the exchange more time to
broadcast the supply and demand for stock to customers,
making the market more efficient.
   "I understand the problem New York is concerned about,"
said Alger B. Chapman, chairman of the CBOE. "But the problem
is being created by a relatively small number of
professionals." Mr. Chapman said the Big Board's rule change
"may well be better than turning the apple cart upside down
for the individual investor" with a change in expiration
times.
   The Big Board's concern extends to the CBOE's big Standard
&amp; Poor's 100 stock index options contract, an active market
used by program traders. The CBOE also has an S&amp;P 500 options
contract that settles monthly on Friday afternoons. The Amex
trades the active Major Market Index options contract.
   Following a specific request from the SEC in July to study
the matter anew, the CBOE and the Amex funded a study by two
academics on expiration volatility.
   One conclusion reached by Hans R. Stoll of Vanderbilt
University and Robert Whaley of Duke University: "Volatility
on the monthly {non-quarterly} expirations has not increased
in a way that necessitates a change in expiration
procedures."
   Citing the study, an Amex spokeswoman said: "We see no
reason to change at this point. The study said there was no
impact." A Board of Trade spokesman said the exchange is
reviewing the matter.
   Aside from the study, CBOE President Charles Henry noted
that it would confuse customers if the expiration was
changed. "We talked to all of the firms that were
representing customers. They asked us to keep it {the
expiration} on the close," Mr. Henry said.
   Additionally, CBOE officials argue that important economic
news is often disclosed Fridays. An afternoon expiration is
less risky for investors, the officials say, because the
market has had time to digest that news.
   The CBOE, the world's largest options exchange, is having
a booming year in some products. The exchange's options on
the S&amp;P 500 stock index has seen record-setting trading
interest this month.
   Recently, the CBOE asked the SEC to allow member firms to
increase the size of positions they can take in the contract.
For now, the SEC has denied the request and restated its
concern about afternoon expirations.
   Regarding the Big Board's proposal, once the SEC gets a
rule change request it publishes the document and seeks
public comment. The SEC typically takes action 30 days after
publication, but that period can be extended. The Big Board
submitted its proposal to the SEC on Sept. 7.
   In a separate action, Big Board and CBOE officials said
they are investigating a series of expiration days for signs
of manipulation. This study includes past July 20, 1990, when
the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell sharply as traders
changed buy orders to sell orders late in the session.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ashland Oil Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   ASHLAND OIL Inc. (Ashland, Ky.) -- Edmund B. Fitzgerald,
who recently retired as chairman and chief executive officer
of Northern Telecom Ltd., was elected a director. With Mr.
Fitzgerald, the board expands to 17 members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Capital Gains and `Fairness'
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   The budget summit debate over capital gains, some would
have us believe, is the only thing standing in the way of a
budget deal, a balanced budget, a plunge in interest rates,
renewed economic growth, everlasting prosperity and the
redemption of sins. The Republicans want to cut the tax, and
the Democrats refuse to do so without some symbolic increase
in the top marginal rate.
   We come to propose a compromise: Leave the capital-gains
rate where it is, but tidy up two corners of the tax law.
First, index the base of the capital gains for inflation.
Second, allow the full deduction of capital losses against
ordinary income.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In other words, treat all income the same; what could be
fairer? The Bush proposal looks a lot more reasonable, and
the talk of "fairness" looks even sillier, if you stop to
notice that the current system does not tax capital gains the
same as other income. It taxes them punitively.
   First, capital gains are measured in nominal dollars. That
is, the "gain" is the difference between the purchase price
and the selling price, even if the dollar has eroded faster
than the property appreciated. You can be taxed on illusory
gains, while a tax of 75% on real gains is relatively easy to
demonstrate, as David Goldman recently showed on these pages.
If the purpose of a budget deal is to cut the deficit, boost
savings and help capital formation, this kind of taxation on
capital gains is boneheaded.
   We agree with some liberal tax reformers that the effect
of inflation on capital gains is no different from the effect
on savings accounts or other capital pools (which were
already taxed once when the capital was saved from income).
If you index the base of capital gains, you ought also to
provide for deducting the inflation rate from interest or
other returns on capital before they are taxed.
   That aside, the indexing point is widely understood. Even
the editors of the New York Times, while ranting against the
capital-gains cut, concede that indexing is only fair. But
moralizers like the Times have either never heard about the
non-deductibility of losses, or display a studied ignorance
of this even more glaring inequity.
   If you have capital losses, the tax code lets you deduct
them against capital gains, but limits deductions against
other income to $3,000 a year. If your stock goes up, you
have income. But if it goes down more than $3,000, you don't
lose income, the tax man says. This is called "taxing all
income the same." If a lower tax rate for capital gains is
"unfair," the summiteers can still redress this
heads-we-wins, tails-you-lose provision.
   Now, we suspect the summiteers won't much like our
compromise, because the capital-loss provision is the tax
code's dirty little secret. If you allowed full deduction of
losses, the capital-gains tax probably wouldn't raise any
revenue and might as well be abolished. And with full
deductibility, you'd see people with large losses, from junk
bonds for example, paying no tax despite high cash flows from
other earnings. This would make losses, like those at S&amp;Ls,
more useful for tax purposes and easier to handle, but
"reformers" would scream.
   Which is why the deduction for losses was limited in the
first place, back during the Great Depression. And the
limitation on deductions was the reason why capital gains
were historically taxed at a lower rate -- in an attempt at
rough justice or, dare we say, "fairness." This solution to
the dilemma worked well enough for many years, until tax
writers decided that lowering the top marginal rate required
a pound of flesh from capital gains, and took away one side
of the historical bargain.
   The summit argument over capital gains is a bit silly to
begin with, of course, since despite official but artificial
numbers to the contrary, everyone understands that a simple
cut in the capital-gains tax rate would actually increase
revenues in the next budget. And if capital gains are paid by
"the rich," higher revenues mean the rich are paying higher
taxes. Our indexing-plus-deductibility compromise fits well
with the spirit of unreality that permeates the summit's
glass cocoon: The bean-counters could say no revenues would
be lost because "the rich" never have losses. The fairness
mavens could say everything is treated the same. Democrats
could say they held the line on the rate, and the Republicans
could say they've secretly abolished the tax.
   It would be a lot simpler, though, to recognize that there
are reasons why capital gains have historically carried a
lower tax rate than ordinary income. One reason is to promote
growth, especially through start-up companies. But another
reason, rooted in equity, is to level the table on treatment
of investors' gains and losses. That is, there is nothing
intrinsically unfair in the Bush proposal for a lower
capital-gains rate, and therefore nothing that needs to be
"offset" by raising taxes elsewhere.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Output
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel production totaled 159,248 metric
tons in the week ended Saturday, up 0.4% from 158,653 tons in
the preceding week but down 46% from 286,816 tons a year
earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   The drop from the 1989 pace is partly attributable to an
ongoing strike at Stelco Inc., a steel concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cumulative total in 1990 was 9,421,764 tons, down 16%
from 11,143,714 tons a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Jet Aviation Management AG
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   JET AVIATION MANAGEMENT AG (Zurich) -- C.W. Hough was
named an executive vice president at Jet Aviation Business
Jets Inc., a Teterboro, N.J.-based subsidiary of this general
aviation services company. Mr. Hough, 54 years old, was
previously with Cobey Corp., an aircraft management company,
based in Weston, Mass.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   UNP
</CO>
<IN>
RAILROADS (RAI)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   UNION PACIFIC Corp. (Bethlehem, Pa.) -- Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp. affirmed its single-A rating on debt securities of this
railroad, transportation, hazardous waste and real estate
company. The ratings concern said the company's operating
units show "continued favorable earnings prospects" while the
proposed sale of its real estate business should help reduce
debt leverage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Armco Modifies Notes Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   AS
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARSIPPANY, N.J. -- Armco Inc. said it has modified its
consent solicitation and offer to purchase its 13 1/2% senior
notes due 1994 from consenting noteholders.
   The modification increases the consent fee to $17.50 from
$10 for each $1,000 principal amount and extends the offer to
5:01 p.m., EST, Friday, Sept. 28.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Armco wants noteholders to approve an amendment that
allows the company to continue paying common stock dividends.
The steelmaker needs 50.1% of the outstanding $164 million in
notes to approve the change and had about $53.5 million as of
Sept. 17.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Lonrho Demands Return
   Of Stake in Harrod's Parent
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   U.LRH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Lonrho PLC, the U.K. trading conglomerate,
served a high-court writ on the three Al-Fayed brothers in a
long-running dispute over their takeover of Harrods
department store.
   Lonrho is claiming back the 29.9% stake in the House of
Fraser that it sold to the Al-Fayeds in 1984 as well as the
tranfer to Lonrho of all the rest of the shares in House of
Fraser, a stores group that owns the prestigious London
department store Harrods.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1985 the Al-Fayeds bought House of Fraser for 615
million pounds ($1.2 billion).
   Lonrho has fought a prolonged battle to undo the Al-Fayed
takeover after its own efforts to buy House of Fraser were
blocked by the Monopolies and Mergers Commission in 1981.
   Under the latest court action, Lonrho is demanding that
the Al-Fayeds clear House of Fraser of debt before handing
the stores group over to the company.
   In a statement, House of Fraser called the writ "the last
gasp of the longest whinge in British commercial history."
The statement went on to say that the Al-Fayeds "acquired
House of Fraser fairly and squarely" and that the company
"will strenuously defend any proceedings which Lonrho sees
fit to bring. House of Fraser extends its sympathy to the
Lonrho shareholders who are being forced willy nilly to
finance this obsession."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Image Bank Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TIBI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   IMAGE BANK Inc. (New York) -- Sheldon F. Peckar was named
chief financial officer and treasurer at this communications
company. Mr. Peckar, 46 years old, was previously executive
vice president, finance. He succeeds Paul Eichler, 56, who
will remain an executive vice president and a member of the
board in addition to serving as investor relations officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Drug Emporium Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   DEMP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Drug Emporium Inc. said it acquired its
Charleston, S.C., franchise and agreed to acquire two others
for a total of about $8.8 million in cash and common stock.
   The discount drugstore chain expects to complete the
purchase of franchises in St. Louis and San Diego within 60
days. With the acquisitions, the chain would own and operate
96 stores and franchise another 103 nationwide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford and GM Say
   Sluggish Sales Cause
   Four Plant Closings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   F GM C HMC NSANY TOYOY J.MZD J.MOT J.IZM J.FJH
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp. said
sluggish sales will force them to temporarily close a total
of four U.S. car plants, idling 11,400 workers.
   GM said it will idle 4,300 workers at the Willow Run,
Mich., assembly plant that builds the large Chevrolet Caprice
model for two weeks beginning Monday. When the plant resumes
production Oct. 8, it will operate only one shift for at
least four weeks, also as a result of slow consumer demand
for the cars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Caprice is one of the biggest cars GM sells, and was
relaunched this spring with a radically new, aerodynamic
exterior. However, sales have slumped in recent weeks and now
GM dealers have a 96-day supply of the cars. A 60-to-65 days
supply is considered ideal. A Chevrolet spokesman said it's
not clear whether concerns about gas prices are affecting
sales of the car.
   Ford, meanwhile, said it will temporarily idle three of
its U.S. assembly plants next week, laying off about 7,100
workers. The plants build the Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable,
the Ford Thunderbird and Mercury Cougar, and medium and
heavy-duty trucks.
   Additionally, Ford said the Lorain, Ohio, truck assembly
plant will operate only one shift next week, putting 1,500
workers on temporary layoff. The plant builds the Econoline
and Club Wagon vans.
   Ford said the strike by Canadian Auto Workers at its
Canadian operations hasn't forced any plant shutdowns in the
U.S. However, if the six-day walkout continues into next
week, parts shortages could force down time at certain Ford's
operations in the U.S. The facilities most likely to be idled
are the Wixom, Mich., luxury car factory, and two plants that
build the Taurus and Sable midsized models.
   Meanwhile, the 10 domestic auto makers planned to build
148,711 cars this week, down 2.3% from 152,135 made a year
ago.
   ---
           This    Last   Yr. Ago    -Yr. to Date-      %
           Week-e  Week-r   Week    1990       1989    Chg.

 GM        67,646  64,896  70,902 1,941,057 2,311,395 -  16
 Ford      35,353  25,706  36,395 1,047,721 1,263,182 -  17
 Chrysler  18,700  19,492  20,826   510,288   683,079 -  25
 Honda      8,110   8,614   6,954   320,354   273,130 +  17
 Nissan     2,050   1,913   2,614    60,113    86,771 -  31
 Nummi-f    4,000   2,634   3,446   145,071   145,677 -   0
 Mazda      4,104   4,627   4,575   132,857   162,913 -  18
 Diam.Star  3,540   3,634   2,926   105,352    51,688 + 104
 Toyota     4,348   4,432   3,497   161,492    92,888 +  74
 Sub-Izu      860     825       0    18,129         0     d
 TOTAL    148,711 136,773 152,135 4,442,434 5,070,723 -  12
                                                                                                       

 d-Percentage change is greater than 999%. e-Estimated.
f-Includes Chevrolet Prizm and Toyota Corolla. r-Revised.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   EC Panel Is Set
   To Study Paper
   On Airlines
   ---
   Document Is Said to Contain
   Series of Compromises
   Over Competition Rules
   ----
   By Susan Carey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.AFR F.AIT B.SAB BAB KLM G.LHA F.UTA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- The European Community Commission, trying to
reconcile mergers and acquisitions in the EC's airline
industry with its own aims to deregulate the sector after
1993, next week will consider a policy paper outlining how EC
competition rules should be applied to the fast-changing
industry.
   The nonbinding paper, which is scheduled to go to the 17
commissioners Sept. 26, was drawn up jointly by the
commission's transport and competition directorates. The two
departments often are at odds on air-transport questions, as
are their bosses, Transport Commissioner Karel Van Miert and
Sir Leon Brittan, the competition commissioner. Thus, EC
insiders familiar with the paper say, the document is a
series of compromises.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The issues themselves are complex and beg a philosophical
point: Should the EC allow its airlines to gobble one another
up in the hopes that the survivors can better compete with
U.S. and Asian "megacarriers"? Or should it insist that
deregulation be enacted in such a way that there is lively
airline competition within the EC, possibly to the detriment
of big, high-cost carriers?
   A draft of the paper doesn't supply any easy answers. Nor
does it shed much light on how the commission might rule on
various airline acquisitions and partnerships already being
investigated by antitrust officials.
   Among the more important cases are: Air France's purchase
of controlling stakes in two other French carriers, Union de
Transports Aeriens and Air Inter; the acquisition of 40% of
Sabena World Airlines by British Airways and KLM Royal Dutch
Airlines; a wide-ranging cooperation agreement between Air
France and Lufthansa; and British Airway's complaint over
Lufthansa's plans to acquire 26% of East German carrier
Interflug.
   In the run-up to the more free-wheeling skies of 1993, EC
airlines have been busy forging cross-border alliances.
Against this backdrop, the paper says, the EC should accept
that more partnerships, acquisitions and even mergers will
occur in the industry. But the EC doesn't want a
concentrated, inefficient, high-cost airline oligopoly to
develop. Nor does it want a fragmented airline industry
lacking competitiveness on a world-wide scale.
   In the search for middle ground, the paper offers
something for everyone. "The basic task is to reconcile the
benefits of a sufficient degree of internal (EC) competition
in relation to fares and quality of services with the
necessity (for airlines) to develop toward globally
competitive sizes," it says.
   It says, for example, that state aid could be given to
smaller, weaker EC airlines so they could restructure
themselves and avoid being bought by a larger competitor. It
suggests that money-losing "public service" air routes could
receive subsidies in an EC-wide tender system. The paper
ventures that small or struggling carriers are most likely to
benefit from associating with other airlines, and that such
partnerships could be pro-competition.
   For liberals who want full-blown EC airline deregulation,
the paper offers some hope. "Experience in the U.S. shows
that an active merger policy is absolutely required" to
safeguard consumer choice, low fares and good service. "The
commission's application of competition law must aim at
maintaining competition," the document says. "This will
require thorough scrutiny of airline reorganizations leading
to airport dominance, creating undue market power in
substantial sales areas or limiting consumer choice on
significant routes."
   Special concern may be warranted when one airline combine
controls more than 25% of a relevant market, sales area or
route network, the paper says. In some cases, dominant
airlines could be forced to relinquish certain route licenses
or landing slots to other airlines to ensure that there is
competition.
   Interestingly, the paper disputes airlines' assertions
that they must be big to be competitive. "A well-integrated,
small (route) network may yield much higher (aircraft)
utilization rates and consequently lower seat-mile costs than
a larger, uncoordinated network," says the paper. "These
economies . . . relate only very loosely to the size of the
company and . . . are not relevant to the assessments of the
benefits of being a megacarrier."
   Moreover, the room for economies of scale sought by
airlines in buying or teaming up with their competitors
exists only in limited ways compared with total costs. And
many of the benefits can be achieved in specific
collaborations rather than from buying the competition, the
paper says. Often when airlines grow larger, they incur more
inefficiencies and higher overheads, negating the desired
effects.
   Finally, the economies of scope that airlines talk about
finding when they combine activities previously done by
separate companies mainly result in increasing airline
revenue, not in holding down costs. The market strength
inherent in dominating an airport, controlling a computer
reservations system, exercising price leadership or
introducing frequent-flier programs can, in fact, diminish
competition and increase costs and fares, the paper says.
   "There is evidence that competition is only really
effective once a route is operated by three or four air
carriers," it says. "The opening of access to the market is
particularly important."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   J&amp;L Specialty Products
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   X.JNL
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- J&amp;L Specialty Products Corp. said it will
redeem $200 million of its 14% senior subordinated notes in
early November 1990.
   The redemption price will be 112.444% of the principal
amount of the bonds plus accrued interest to the date of
redemption. The stainless steelmaker was acquired in June by
French stainless steelmaker, Ugine ACG.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Portuguese Bank's Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LISBON -- The government announced Thursday it was
revising the legal status of Portugal's largest commercial
bank in preparation for its privatization.
   Banco Portugues do Atlantico will be transformed from a
purely state company into a public limited company in which
the state will remain the only shareholder. The eventual
privatization of BPA is scheduled to be held in three stages.
The first sale of 33% of shares expected before the end of
this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Wang Laboratories
   Sold Its Intecom Unit
   For Just $26 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WANB F.MAT F.CFP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOWELL, Mass. -- Wang Laboratories Inc. disclosed in its
annual report that it sold its Intecom subsidiary to the
Matra Communications unit of Matra S.A. of Paris for just $26
million.
   Wang had previously announced the sale, but hadn't
divulged the price. It had acquired Intecom, a Richardson,
Texas, maker of telephone switchboards, for some $89 million
in cash and Wang stock then valued at $140 million. The
acquisition, which took place in stages beginning in 1984,
was completed in 1986. One former executive who asked not to
be identified said that Wang had spent a total of $240
million buying the unit and attempting to make it profitable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As previously reported, Wang had a net loss of $715.9
million, or $4.35 a share, in fiscal 1990, widened from a net
loss of $424.3 million, or $2.59 a share, in fiscal 1989. The
loss for fiscal 1990 included a loss on discontinued
operations, including Intecom, of $87.3 million. The 1990
loss was over and above a $100.l million loss on discontinued
operations in 1989 that included an earlier projection for
losses on the sale of Intecom.
   Wang sold off Intecom, two financing subsidiaries and some
smaller units over the past 12 months to raise cash and pay
off bank debt. Richard Miller, who was hired as president in
August 1989 to turn around the struggling computer maker said
that bank debt now has been cut to $12 million from $575
million in August 1989.
   Wang said that total current liabilities have shrunk 10%
to $872.1 million and long-term debt was reduced 11% as of
June 30. It said that shareholders equity fell 63% to $414.9
million from $1.13 billion.
   Wang has been slashing costs and said that operating costs
have been cut by about $500 million a year. Employment has
been reduced to about 19,500 today from 31,500 in December
1988.
   Intecom's buyer, Matra Communications, is 70%-owned by the
parent, 20% by Cie. Financiere De Paribas, and 10% publicly
held.
   Although Wang didn't break out Intecom separately, in the
annual report it disclosed that Intecom and Wang Financial
Information Services Inc., a much smaller operation that was
sold for $16 million, had a combined loss from operations of
$18.6 million on revenue of $103.5 million in fiscal 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Department Announces Winners
   Of Its Work-Force Quality Competition
   ----
   By Cathy Trost
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8C
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR IBM RD SC
</CO>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- While many companies are bemoaning the
flagging quality of the work force, others are winning Labor
Department awards for their solutions to the problem.
   On Wednesday, the agency offered up the winners of its
first work-force quality awards. Not surprisingly, one of the
common threads is training.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The awards -- called LIFT America (an acronym of Labor
Investing for Tomorrow) -- are given to employers, unions,
educational organizations and communities to recognize
"creative solutions" for upgrading the quality of the work
force. Sixteen winners were chosen from 500 nominees; they
run the gamut from local vocational programs to industrial
giants.
   Vermont Heating &amp; Ventilating Co. was cited for its
embrace of programs to enhance skills and motivate workers.
John Stearns, head of personnel training, says the
250-employee company in Colchester, Vt., spends 10% of gross
revenue on training and education programs. Elaine Druke, who
rose from a journeyman sheetmetal worker to vice president,
administration, credits much of her success to the company's
motivational efforts. "Without the educational help," she
says, "it wouldn't have happened."
   International Business Machines Corp. was honored for its
employee "work/life" programs. The IBM programs, addressing
family-related needs, include assisting employees with child
care and elder care, spouse relocation, schedule flexibility
and leaves of absence, and a broad array of seminars,
educational and career assistance for retirees. The company
also has committed $25 million to increase the supply and
quality of child-care and elder-care services in areas where
employees work and live.
   Though the IBM programs involve both women and men, they
partly reflect IBM projections that over the 35-year period
ending in 2000 its male employee population will have dropped
by 25% while the number of its women employees will have
tripled.
   Several other award winners also stress efforts to improve
opportunities for women and minorities. Building Futures in
Industry and Trades, a program run by Portland Community
College in Oregon, is a "fast track" six-month training
course designed to put women on paths for such nontraditional
skilled careers as electricians, plumbers, carpenters and
sheet-metal workers in jobs that pay $15 to $25 an hour.
   Previously, women weren't striving toward such jobs,
program officials say. Many of the women students, whose
average age is 36, were working in low-paid jobs -- such as
in fast-food restaurants -- when they entered the program.
About 35% were unemployed and on welfare; 70% were single
heads of household.
   The program fills women's "skill gaps" through immersion
courses in everything from learning how to wire electrical
projects to a physical-fitness program to career planning.
The women build a house from the foundation up, do upper-body
training, and even hear from sex-discrimination attorneys on
how to file a complaint if a problem arises. Since the summer
of 1989, when the program started, 106 women have completed
training -- an 87% graduation rate. Of the graduates, 90%
went on to apprenticeship or on-the-job training positions.
   Katharine Settle says she entered the program because "my
husband had just recently left after 34 years of marriage,
and I found myself thinking about what I was going to do for
a living." Though she hadn't had a job in 26 years, she
thought the training program would help her acquire skills to
be a residential-construction contractor and thus make use of
experience already gained while helping to build and renovate
houses with her former husband. She's now pursuing an
associate degree in building-construction technology and says
the training program was "invaluable" in helping her reach
her goals.
   The Labor Department also selected a program created by
the National Urban Coalition and funded by Shell Oil Co.,
part of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, to better equip minority
and women students with math, science and technology skills.
The program, begun in 1987 at nine elementary schools in
Houston and Washington, D.C., has expanded to 30 schools
around the country. Specially trained teachers use new
techniques to teach skills, and students are also required to
spend Saturday mornings at school or on field trips with a
parent or family member for family learning sessions. The
teachers link science skills to the children's own heritage,
and use special role models to motivate students, including
minority astronauts, entertainers and athletes. Follow-ups
show the program made positive differences in test scores,
attendance and motivation levels of participating children.
   "Most companies are beginning to realize the changing
demographics of the work force and the fact that the schools
are in a crisis," says Paula Saizan, Shell's coordinator for
the program, which is called "Say YES to a Youngster's
Future."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Halliburton Increases Budget
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   HAL
</CO>
<IN>
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Halliburton Co. said it would increase its 1990
capital budget for property, plant and equipment by 11%, to
$395 million from $355 million. The increase marks the second
time this year that the company has raised its 1990 spending
budget.
   The oil services concern said that more than 80% of the
current budget of $395 million is allocated to its oil field
services group. The group's capital needs have increased in
response to growing demand for a variety of its services,
Halliburton said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Judge Won't Hear
   Group's Case to Halt
   Hallwood Proposal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8A
</SO>
<CO>
   HWG EFG
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Hallwood Group Inc. said Judge Thelton E.
Henderson of the U.S. District Court of Northern California
has informed the company that he has no jurisdiction to hear
a motion by a third party that filed suit to block a proposed
limited partnership consolidation plan offered by a Hallwood
affiliate.
   The motion involves a proposal by Hallwood Realty Partners
to consolidate 11 limited partnerships sponsored by Equitec
Financial Group into a single partnership. The proposal calls
for an exchange of the interests in the 11 partnerships for
newly issued interests in a single partnership. The motion
was sought as part of a class action suit filed by Robert
Greathouse, who alleged fraud and various securities laws
violations, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As previously announced, Hallwood Realty Partners has
received consents representing about 82% of the total
exchange values of the 11 Equitec partnerships, thus meeting
minimum participation conditions for the proposed
consolidation. Equitec and its affiliate, Equitex Properties
Co., have filed a joint motion in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court
for the Northern District of California seeking authorization
to complete the consolidation. A hearing is scheduled for
Oct. 19.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ashland Oil Unit's Agreement
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ASHLAND, Ky. -- Ashland Oil Inc., a diversified energy
concern, said its APAC Construction Group signed a letter of
intent to acquire a North Carolina highway and utilities
contractor.
   Terms of sale weren't disclosed. The Kitty Hawk, N.C.,
family-owned contractor, Outer Banks Contractors Inc., is
expected to have revenue of more than $40 million this year,
Ashland said. Outer Banks' senior managers have agreed to
continue in their current positions after the acquisition,
Ashland said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   APAC, a major highway contractor, is based in Atlanta.
Outer Banks "provides a geographical strategic fit to our
existing operations in North Carolina," APAC said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amway Translates With Ease Into Japanese
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COSMETICS, PERSONAL CARE, OVER-THE-COUNTER REMEDIES (COS)
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNT MITAKE, Japan -- The secluded mountain inn
reverberates with dedicated Japanese salespeople in a heated
all-night corporate meeting.
   Leaders pepper their talk with inspirational quotations
from Japanese business heroes. Eager colleagues scribble down
notes. Aspiring workers stand up and pledge to reach higher
sales goals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Welcome to Amway -- literally the American Way -- Japanese
style. The 50 Japanese spending a recent weekend together are
marketers of the detergents, vitamins and cosmetics of Amway
Corp., the Michigan-based direct-marketing empire.
   Amway's ability to graft Japanese traditions onto its
quintessentially American corporate culture has brought it
tremendous success in a market where many another American
company has stumbled. And the magnetism of Amway for hundreds
of thousands of Japanese Amway distributors speaks volumes
about the ways in which Japanese society is changing -- and
the ways that it's not.
   Many of the distributors are refugees from the
stultifying, hierarchical world of Japanese big business.
They want to work for themselves, and be paid according to
their performance, not according to their seniority. The
growing numbers of people who feel the way they do mark a big
change in Japanese society.
   The opportunity to escape from Japan's rigid seniority
system, still prevalent in much of corporate Japan, lures
younger distributors in their 20s and early 30s to join
Amway. In contrast, their American counterparts are often
retirees.
   "People are starting to wonder what they could do as a
single gear in a company," says 33-year-old Junichi Ebine, a
Tokyo distributor and part-time jewelry wholesaler. "They
want to have fun, they want to do something. But they have
nothing. When they join Amway, there's something that
clicks."
   Once they start to make sales calls, the very Americanness
of the business -- from the bold English labels on the bulky
cleanser containers, to handshakes at meetings and American
concepts -- is a plus in a country that still retains its
fascination with things Western.
   But the real secret of the distributors' success lies in
the way Amway's cultish corporate culture plays to Japan's
unchanged emphasis on close personal relationships and group
mentality. Japan's Amway distributors take these values to an
extreme.
   Amway encourages those who buy its products to sell to
others. When they're getting started (and some never get
beyond that stage), they can do the work in their spare time,
so they don't have to risk quitting a well-established
lifetime job in a Japanese company until they're sure they
can succeed in their new role.
   As in the U.S., Amway's Japanese distributors gain 30%
commission on products they sell, as well as handsome bonuses
for new members they bring in.
   Despite Amway distributors' leaning toward an American
life style, their business tactics are often typically
Japanese. In a society where building one's "jinmyaku", or
network of human contacts, is everything, selling a product
through acquaintances works particularly well.
   Nobuyuki Kakuwa, 33 years old, who quit his machinery
business three years ago to push Amway products with his
wife, says his work involves a "sticky personal
relationship," ubiquitous in the Japanese society. When
acquaintances start getting annoyed with his recruiting phone
calls, "I take them out to dinner and listen to them grumble"
about life, he says. "Then, if that's the way you feel, I
say, you should start doing Amway." The effort has rewarded
him an "American-style" apartment, complete with a barbecue
set, he states proudly.
   Amway's culture encourages group meetings and pep rallies.
In Japan, just as salarymen go drinking with colleagues after
work, Amway distributors get together for "after-Amway"
dinners. They voluntarily sacrifice as many as two weekends a
month to absorb the secrets of success, and show their
dedication by vowing to reach the next rung in the Amway
ladder.
   Eager distributors are spreading the word to Japanese
friends in California, and even company executives in New
York. The businesslike attitudes of American distributors
shock them. "People in America separate their work from the
days they take off," says an Amway member, who just came back
from a tour of the U.S. "But in Japan, you'd never refuse
someone who needs a hand on a particular day."
   The results in Japan are impressive indeed. For the year
ended August, only Amway's 11th in Japan, the company expects
to report that sales jumped 20% from the previous year's 76.5
billion yen ($555.9 million), more than a quarter of the
company's world-wide total and nearly equaling Amway's sales
in the U.S., where it has operated for 31 years. William
Hemmer, president of the Japanese unit, even says that
Amway's Japanese sales may eventually surpass its American
sales.
   Amway's direct-distribution system -- which lets it
end-run Japan's complex and import-resistant layers of
middlemen -- also has helped it to succeed. Amway ships 75%
of its 200 products from its rural Ada, Mich., headquarters;
the rest are made locally. Then it sells its goods directly
through its 700,000 distributors, who are also among its
customers.
   Some question how long Amway will retain its American
connection. Local newspapers have been speculating recently
that the company is looking for Japanese buyers for the Japan
unit. Other American direct marketers in Japan such as
Shaklee Corp. have sold out to Japanese. Even Avon Products
Inc., while successful, has become a takeover target. Amway
officials flatly deny such speculation.
   To be sure, not all Japanese consumers have a rosy image
of the company. Since direct marketing first landed in Japan
more than 20 years ago, shady salesmen selling everything
from futon mattresses to English-language cassettes have
duped crowds of gullible consumers.
   Amway itself was criticized for aggressive recruiting
tactics when its sales suddenly started soaring five years
ago. Distributors complain that although few of their friends
doubt the quality of Amway products, some ask if the business
is a shaky pyramidal scheme, or mock them for selling their
souls to the devil.
   The strong bonds among distributors is a bit much for
some. "It's like they're hypnotized," says Yoshio Terada,
president of Step K.K., a discount-store chain near Tokyo.
"They don't feel it if you kick them." Unhappy that Amway
limits its product channel to its distributors, one retailer
secretly buys the products himself and displays them in one
of his stores.
   Amway's continued expansion is causing Japanese copycats
to sprout. Daiei Inc., Japan's biggest retail chain, two
years ago set up its own direct marketing business called
X-One, promoting similar products like cleansers and shampoo.
   Now, Amway is moving to step up its image in Japan. Last
year, it started advertising on television and in magazines.
It's sponsoring classical concerts. It's tying up with
Japanese and foreign companies to promote drinking glasses,
kitchen knives and electric cooking rings in Japan.
   For Amway's Japanese distributor/customers, with their
strong sense of enthusiasm and group loyalty, nothing that
says Amway can be bad. If polo shirts with an Amway logo were
to go on sale, says Kyoko Ebine, Mr. Ebine's wife, "we'd line
up to buy them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN MDEST FREST EUROP TAXES LATAM AFRIC F.SPI F.SCN
F.CEA F.BOU FIA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
RAILROADS (RAI)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   GLOOM AT THE IMF MEETING
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the countries already struggling with wrenching
reforms and economic contraction, the next several years
promise further hardship.
   This bleak prognosis stems from official forecasts and
comments from financial leaders on the eve of the annual
meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington. For
Eastern Europe and developing nations that rely on imported
oil, times will get worse before there is even a fragile hope
for improvement, IMF officials predicted.
   Western diplomats predicted increased pressures from
developed countries for special assistance. A pressing
question at the meeting will be possible aid programs for
Egypt, Turkey and Jordan, all of which are badly hit by the
trade embargo imposed on Iraq.
   Michel Camdessus, the IMF's managing director, said East
bloc nations and developing countries should "redouble
efforts" to tame inflation and adopt market disciplines, even
at the risk of increasing social dislocation.
                                                                                                       

   U.S.-PHILIPPINE TALKS
                                                                                                       

   As talks continued on the future of U.S. military bases in
the Philippines, Philippine negotiators said they want full
sovereignty and operational control over Clark Air Base, the
largest U.S. airfield in the country, "as soon as possible,"
the spokesman for the Philippine panel said. For its part,
the U.S. offered to reduce its troop strength in the
Philippines but expressed hope that it could maintain a
military presence "which both countries would judge
appropriate."
                                                                                                       

   GOING PLASTIC IN ALBANIA
                                                                                                       

   Shoppers in Albania can now pay with Eurocard and
MasterCard. Eurocard International said the cards are to be
accepted first at the airport and two hotels in the Albanian
capital of Tirana and at one hotel in Durres, the Balkan
nation's largest port. Card holders can draw cash against
their cards at 26 outlets of Albania's national bank.
                                                                                                       

   U.K. OPPOSES CASSETTE TAX
                                                                                                       

   A European Community idea, not yet a formal proposal, to
impose a tax on blank audio-cassette tapes was roundly
dismissed by the United Kingdom. The tax, already imposed in
several EC countries, would help recording artists who lose
revenues due to illegal copying of their recordings. But the
U.K.'s junior trade minister, John Redwood, said it would
punish people who buy tapes for legitimate purposes. He added
that most of the money would have to be sent to the U.S.,
where the majority of recording artists live.
                                                                                                       

   SAVING FUEL IN CUBA
                                                                                                       

   Cuba's state railway said it would combine four
long-distance passenger trains linking Havana with eastern
Cuba as part of nationwide measures to reduce fuel
consumption. Ferrocarriles de Cuba said two trains would
result from the change, one traveling to the country's second
largest city, Santiago de Cuba, 600 miles southeast of
Havana, and the other to Holguin and Guantanamo, also on the
eastern part of the island.
                                                                                                       

   DAMS AND TUNNELS FOR LESOTHO
                                                                                                       

   Lesotho's water-project authority has awarded a contract
worth about 3 billion French francs ($570 million) to a group
of three French companies and one Italian concern for the
construction of a network of tunnels and dams. The project
will allow the mountainous country to export water to
neighboring South Africa. Spie Batignolles S.A., a unit of
Schneider S.A., said it and Campenon Bernard S.A., owned by
Cie. Generale des Eaux, would undertake the tunneling work.
They will be assisted by Bouygues S.A. and Italy's Impregilio
S.p.A, a Fiat unit, on dam construction. The project is to be
funded by international-development banks.
                                                                                                       

   THE EC AND JAPANESE CARS
                                                                                                       

   The European Community's fragile consensus on
progressively opening the EC market to Japanese car makers
after 1992 seems to be unraveling because of renewed
opposition led by France.
   During talks over dinner in Rome this week, EC trade
ministers got into a heated argument about how strictly to
limit Japanese car sales in the community after 1992. The
French, Italian and Spanish ministers, who are trying to
prevent any massive influx of Japanese cars into their
protected markets after 1992, were alarmed when they heard EC
Commissioner Frans Andriessen telling them that he was close
to producing an accord.
   That accord would allow Japanese car makers to increase
market share progressively over time, but at a much slower
rate than if the market were simply opened as scheduled after
1992. The French, Italians and Spanish now maintain that the
Iraqi crisis and the threat of economic recession make it
even harder for them to open their markets.
   The latest squabble "might make it tougher" for Mr.
Andriessen to reach an agreement, as he had hoped, before the
conclusion of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
negotiations in December, said one European industry
official.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Two Belgians have launched "1992," a board game testing
players' ability to devise a European Community business
strategy as well as their knowledge of European culture and
history. . . . The Oriental in Bangkok was voted "The World's
Best Hotel" for the 10th year in a row in a poll of senior
bankers by the publication Institutional Investor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Research Teams Use Gene to `Fix' Cells
   Removed From Cystic Fibrosis Patients
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   A year after scientists found the gene that causes cystic
fibrosis, two research teams have used the gene to repair
cells taken from CF patients.
   Researchers at the University of Michigan and the
University of Iowa "fixed" the cells in test-tube experiments
by replacing defective disease-causing genes with their
healthy versions. The experiments are being hailed as a
watershed in a nearly decade-long effort to conquer the
most-common lethal inherited disease in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reports of the experiments, released today, come just a
week after government scientists undertook the first
gene-therapy test in a human, transferring a gene into a
four-year-old girl who had a rare genetic defect that made
her vulnerable to dangerous infections. While scientists said
they are several years away from duplicating the feat in
children with cystic fibrosis, the two new reports suggest
for the first time that gene therapy for CF is possible.
   Moreover, the reports add to a growing list of recent
studies hinting that gene-replacement therapies may some day
treat more-common diseases as well as the very rare ailments
it was once assumed they would target. In any case, the
experiments suggest several strategies for treating CF,
including the development of the first drugs to reverse the
disease's assault on its victims.
   "This was the first hurdle that had to be overcome in
developing gene therapy for CF patients," says Robert Beall,
executive vice president, medical affairs, for the Cystic
Fibrosis Foundation. "There is now scientific proof that you
can treat CF cells with a normal gene and make {the cells}
healthy."
   About 30,000 Americans, mostly children and young adults,
have cystic fibrosis. The disease occurs when a child
inherits two copies of the defective gene, one from each
parent. The defective genes cause severe, and potentially
deadly, respiratory and digestive problems.
   Until recently, scientists had no way of determining how
the defective genes caused so much physical havoc. Then, in
August 1989, scientists in Toronto and at the University of
Michigan, culminating six years of searching, discovered the
gene that, when mutated, causes the disease. Almost
immediately, several teams of researchers launched
independent and collaborative efforts to show that cells in
the lungs and pancreas, two of several organs in which the
defective gene resides, could be corrected by giving them
healthy versions of the gene.
   But the scientists hit several unexpected roadblocks, says
James Wilson, an assistant professor of internal medicine at
the University of Michigan Medical School in Ann Arbor. "We
felt bogged down for a long time," Dr. Wilson says.
   The gene involved in CF is unusually large, and
researchers had trouble fitting it together. When they
finally did construct the gene, they were unable to produce
enough of it to conduct experiments. The scientists finally
realized the gene was toxic to bacteria they were using to
reproduce, or clone, the gene.
   Once they had enough gene material, the scientists
inserted the normal gene into deactivated viruses. The
scientists then "infected" cells extracted from CF patients
with the viruses. The viruses, while no longer able to cause
illness, still were able to insert the normal gene into the
diseased cells. Viruses are useful for gene-therapy
experiments because they naturally work by inserting their
own genetic material into target cells, much as a postman
drops off mail from house to house.
   In recent years, scientists had found that cells taken
from the lining of lungs, pancreases and intestines of CF
patients were unable to move chloride, a type of salt, back
and forth across cell membranes. The free flow of chloride
molecules is important for the cells' proper water balance.
The upsetting of the balance seemed to be what caused the
cells that line lung airways to clog with mucous.
   In addition, scientists found that in cells unaffected by
CF, the chloride molecules moved back and forth as if being
pumped through a kind of window in the membrane that
regularly opened and closed. The scientists speculate that
the normal gene is involved in opening this window and that
in CF cells this window is jammed shut.
   Thus, the scientists at Michigan and Iowa figured that by
inserting the normal gene into defective cells they could get
the passageway to work properly, and chloride trapped inside
the cells could escape. In their reports, the scientists said
cells infected by the viruses indeed did begin pumping out
chloride in amounts similar to that normally expelled by
healthy cells.
   "It is a very satisfying set of results because we now
have measurable scientific proof that the CF defect does
indeed involve the chloride channel and that we have within
our means a way to repair it," says Michael Welsh, a
researcher at Iowa who led one of the two scientific teams.
   A report by Dr. Welsh's research team is to appear in the
British journal Nature next week. But it was released in an
unusual move to coincide with todays's publication in the
journal Cell of a similar experiment carried out by
researchers led by Dr. Wilson of Michigan. Dr. Welsh and Dr.
Wilson are also investigators for the Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, which helped fund both of the experiments.
   Cystic fibrosis researchers say much needs to be done
before the viruses can be used to replace defective CF genes
in humans. The affected cells don't quickly reproduce, thus
the gene-replacement therapy would have to be performed
often. Scientists also must figure out exactly how to
administer the viruses.
   Toward this end, several other teams of researchers are
racing to develop an animal model of cystic fibrosis so that
the gene transfers could be first tested on animals.
Scientists are trying to create the model by inserting the
defective CF gene into mouse embryos that would then develop
into mature mice capable of passing on the defect to their
offspring. But scientists have yet to pull off this feat.
   Elsewhere, researchers are using the latest test-tube
results to measure the effectiveness of drugs in opening and
closing the chloride channels. "We now know the channel can
be opened," says the CF Foundation's Dr. Beall. "A drug that
can mimic the gene would be a truly useful medicine."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Douglas
   Gets Air Force Contract
   Totaling $836.4 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   MD GM GMH IBM HON LIT
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- McDonnell Douglas Corp. received an $836.4
million Air Force contract for F-15E aircraft.
   The F-15E, the company's most sophisticated jet fighter,
has the ability to attack targets on the ground from long
range. Work on the contract is to be completed in May 1992.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In other awards yesterday, Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of
General Motors Corp., received a $17.4 million Navy contract
for aircraft electronics.
                                                                                                       

   International Business Machines Corp. got a $14.9 million
Navy contract for aircraft electronics.
                                                                                                       

   Honeywell Inc. was given a $13 million Air Force contract
for aircraft navigation equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Litton Systems Inc., a unit of Litton Industries Inc., won
a $12.3 million Air Force contract for aircraft navigation
equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Fuel Gas's Project
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NFG CANDA X.TGS
</CO>
<IN>
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUFFALO, N.Y. -- National Fuel Gas Supply Corp., the
pipeline subsidiary of National Fuel Gas Co., said it will
invest $30.1 million to complete a project to import gas from
Canada.
   To finish the project, National Fuel will construct an
8,600-horsepower compressor in Concord, N.Y., while its
partner, Tennessee Gas Transmission Corp., will extend its
Niagara Spur pipeline by almost 50 miles. Total cost of the
jointly owned facilities is estimated at $65.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has approved the
final phase of the project, which will allow National Fuel to
transport an additional 161.5 million cubic feet of gas from
Canada per day. Construction begins this fall and is
scheduled for completion next summer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Global Tactics
   ---
   Chemical Reaction:
   Arco Chemical Finds That a World-Wide
   Strategy Has Both Risks and Rewards
   ----
   By Bernard Wysocki Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R4
</SO>
<CO>
   RCM ARC FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEWTOWN SQUARE, Pa. -- At first glance, Arco Chemical Co.
seems far removed from the hurly-burly of geopolitical
change. Its headquarters is a 300-acre campus in the horse
country west of Philadelphia.
   Yet the lush, country-club atmosphere is deceiving, for
any significant event anywhere in the world reverberates
through company corridors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A massacre in Beijing? Arco's shipments into China are
stopped. Communism falls in Eastern Europe? Arco faces tough
decisions about joint ventures, as well as the threat of
stronger competitors from Germany.
   Moreover, events don't have to be earthshaking to send
tremors through headquarters. You name the world economic
trend and somehow it affects Arco -- from stronger Japanese
competition, to rising or falling interest rates, to Korean
government policy on financing joint ventures, to concern
over the environment.
   Although Arco risks being buffeted by world political and
economic events, the coin has a flip side. The company has
shed its less successful product lines, and around the world
it can now take advantage of its technological edge within
its narrow niche. That's what defines Arco's strategy. And
it's a strategy being followed by many companies that were
broad-based in the 1960s and 1970s and then fell on hard
times.
   It's also a strategy that has paid off: Arco Chemical
rakes in more than one-third of its $2.7 billion in sales
from abroad, and makes about half of its new investment
outside of the U.S.
   For a long time, Arco Chemical was the victim of trying to
be all things to all people. It had overexpanded two decades
ago and when sales failed to grow, it suffered heavy losses.
"Overcapacity was the story of this company in the 1970s,"
says Harold Sorgenti, president and chief executive.
   In the 1980s, the company stripped itself down to its most
competitive lines of business. That meant mostly intermediate
chemicals used in making such things as cushions and bedding.
It also included chemicals used in automotive resins and fuel
additives. At one point, revenue shrank from $3.5 billion
annually to $1.5 billion. But now it claims half the global
market for the products it makes. In 1987, Atlantic Richfield
Co. sold part of Arco Chemical in a public offering, but the
giant energy company still owns more than 80% of the chemical
maker's stock. Lodwrick M. Cook, Atlantic Richfield's
chairman and chief executive, is also Arco Chemical's
chairman.
   Arco Chemical went global partly because it was forced to.
The company's engineering resins, under the Dylark trademark,
are sold to the auto industry. In the past, that meant
selling exclusively to Detroit's Big Three in the U.S.
market. No longer.
   "Today we deal with Nissan, Toyota, Honda, Renault,
Peugeot and Volkswagen," says Jack E. Oppasser, vice
president for world-wide business management. "We're dealing
with Nissan and Toyota in Japan and in the U.S. We're dealing
with Ford and General Motors in the U.S. and in Europe." Arco
has to be able to deliver a product anywhere in the world,
Mr. Oppasser says, or else lose the business.
   Global operations have also meant, however, that Arco
faces increasingly stiff competition from abroad, in addition
to its traditional U.S. competitors such as Dow Chemical.
   European companies have been expanding operations in
America. Among them are German concerns such as Bayer and
BASF, French companies such as Rhone Poulenc, and British
giant ICI, which has made numerous U.S. acquisitions in
recent years.
   Japanese competitors are also beginning to attack Arco's
business lines -- in propylene glycol and polyols,
intermediate chemicals used to make foam for seat cushions
and many other products. For example, Asahi Glass has begun a
fierce price-cutting campaign in both Asia and Europe on
products in which Arco is strong. In return, Arco has
counterattacked by trying to steal one of Asahi's biggest
customers in Japan.
   Arco executives say the battle against Asahi Glass is
greatly aided by having a joint-venture partner, in this case
Sumitomo Chemical. Sumitomo has been a source of competitive
intelligence, and its knowledge of the Japanese market has
been instrumental in launching the counterattack.
   "The Japanese can sometimes be difficult and sometimes
very, very cooperative," says Mr. Oppasser. "Our partner in
Japan, Sumitomo Chemical, has been a very good partner."
   Joint ventures are an inescapable -- if not always welcome
-- part of the global business landscape these days. Most
large companies would prefer to go it alone overseas, but
that isn't practical for many of them. Alliances or joint
ventures offer the fastest, cheapest and least risky way to
go world-wide quickly.
   Arco's joint ventures have provided the company entree
into difficult overseas markets, especially in Asia. The
price has been a certain lack of control over the plant's
production, among other things.
   But for Arco a more formidable challenge comes from
political events. They are often unforeseen, yet they can
quickly change the business landscape for an entire region,
making this month's sales targets obsolete. More ominously,
they can make this year's capital-spending plans uneconomical
overnight.
   Consider the huge question mark posed by China. Last
year's political upheaval and crackdown, climaxed by the
Beijing government's massacre of demonstrators in Tiananmen
Square, had immediate repercussions for the company.
   The crisis in China interrupted shipments of styrene, one
of the company's major products. Styrene is used in a variety
of consumer products, including insulated cups, food
containers and building insulation. The inability of Western
companies to get supplies into China caused a glut in the
market and a world-wide drop in prices. Partly as a result,
Arco's 1989 earnings fell from year-earlier levels, to $405
million from $494 million. Revenue declined slightly, to
$2.66 billion from $2.7 billion.
   The styrene market has since rebounded, but China's future
as a market for Arco products is still a puzzle. Political
stability is only one concern. At least as important is
China's primitive transportation network, which makes it
difficult for Arco to distribute its products.
   "It's the world's largest market. The standard of living
is increasing. You have to be interested" in China, says Mr.
Sorgenti, the Arco president. "The question is the timing of
our investments and size of investments."
   In Eastern Europe, the challenge facing Arco is to seize
an opportunity, although one that may develop only slowly. "I
don't think things are going to happen quite as fast as
people believe," says Mr. Sorgenti. "Nonetheless, we feel
strongly that we ought to be positioning ourselves for what
is going to be a market equal in size to the U.S. We have
over 350 million people who have been thrust on the market.
I'm including Eastern Europe and Russia."
   Says Marvin Schlanger, chief financial officer: "In
Western Europe, we're comfortable talking about a single
market. In Eastern Europe, each country is a unique
situation." In an effort to develop business, Arco has begun
talking with several possible partners about joint ventures,
most notably in Hungary but also in Czechoslovakia. For the
time being, Arco is using its Western European outpost as a
springboard for exports into Eastern Europe. Arco hopes that
today's trickle of sales will increase substantially by the
end of 1990.
   The biggest decision concerns the location of Arco's next
plant. It is scheduled to be a propylene oxide facility that
would cost perhaps $500 million and would produce
commodity-type chemicals that could be sold in large
quantities, prior to being refined into end products. "The
choice is between Europe and Southeast Asia. It's a tossup,"
says Mr. Oppasser, the Arco vice president. "We'll make that
decision within a year." The uncertain growth potential of
Eastern Europe is the biggest wild card here.
   Many U.S. companies in a number of industries are facing
the same types of tough investment decisions these days.
Among the factors are these: the potential growth in each
market, the political stability of the country, the
availability and cost of energy, the cost of raw materials,
the cost of construction, the supply of technical personnel,
and the tax benefits offered by the host country.
   Faddishness may also play a part, and it is something
executives try to factor out of their thinking. "The current
`in' mode of thinking is Eastern Europe over Southeast Asia,"
says Mr. Oppasser. "One or two years ago it was Southeast
Asia. Southeast Asia is still growing and very desirable."
   Before any decision is made, Arco executives in the
respective regions -- Arco Chemical Europe and Arco Chemical
Asia-Pacific -- will each submit reports arguing why their
region should get the next plant. This will be supplemented
by analysis at headquarters, including reports by outside
consultants.
   The tensions and the competition between regions are
considered natural. Mr. Oppasser heads a group of 11 people,
formed two years ago, to augment the regional viewpoints with
a global view from headquarters.
   The company, for instance, had planned to ship propylene
glycol for the Asia Pacific region out of a plant in
Rotterdam but last year decided it would be cheaper to
produce the chemicals in the U.S. instead.
   "It affected profitability of the European operation by a
little over $1 million, but the overall impact on Arco
Chemical was a positive $3.3 million," Mr. Oppasser says.
"Europe wasn't necessarily happy. But it was the right
decision."
   Arco executives also see the opportunity to make money
from the growing concern over the environment, especially in
the U.S.
   The company is a leading producer of a high-octane
gasoline additive whose growth is being driven by increasing
demand for unleaded fuels. As the Clean Air Act is put into
effect, Arco expects surging demand for the product, called
methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE.
   Arco plans to divert some of its European production of
MTBE to the East Coast. That will ease pressure on a large
plant in Houston, which will focus on producing largely for
the Western part of the U.S. market. Eventually, Arco
Chemical executives say, demand should increase in Europe,
too. But as in the past, the U.S. tends to lead Europe (and
Asia) by several years in adopting stricter environmental
controls.
   The larger question, though, is whether a medium-sized
niche player such as Arco Chemical can compete in a field
dominated by giants. It is a question that will be faced by
many companies all over the globe, as restructuring of
industry takes place in the next few years.
   "Can the medium-sized {company} survive? If you don't have
something special to contribute, the answer is no," says Mr.
Sorgenti, Arco's president. "We have 50% of the world market
in the products where we compete. That says we're going to be
competitive."
   But Mr. Sorgenti quickly adds, "It doesn't say we won't
have competition. The danger is, when you're competing
narrowly against a giant, if he wants to, he can trample us."
   ---
   Mr. Wysocki, a Wall Street Journal news editor, served as
contributing editor of this Wall Street Journal Report.
   ---
                   International Expansion
                                                                                                       

   Arco Chemical's percentage of employees and sales by
region
                                                                                                       

                         Employees*
                       Total -- 3,361
                                                                                                       

   Americas ...................................... 69.7%
   Europe ........................................ 22.8%
   Asia Pacific ..................................  7.4%
                                                                                                       

                            Sales
                   Total -- $2.66 billion
                                                                                                       

   Americas ...................................... 66.8%
   Europe ........................................ 29.2%
   Asia Pacific ..................................  4.0%
                                                                                                       

   *As of June 1990; does not include about 500 joint-venture
employees in Japan, Korea and Indonesia
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Plunges on Economy Anxieties
   And Mideast Tensions; Nordstrom Falls
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Over-the-counter stocks swooned as anxieties
about the economy and Persian Gulf tensions continued to
unnerve investors.
   Smaller shares also tracked late-afternoon selling among
exchange-listed stocks related to today's expiration of
September stock-index futures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nasdaq Composite Index plunged 7.25 to 364.43, a 1.95%
drop. Down 2.11 in the first hour of trading, the index's
fall accelerated late in the day. A wave of selling related
to the expiration of stock-index futures pushed the Dow Jones
Industrial Average down more than 50 points before it
recovered to close down 39.11, at 2518.32.
   Nasdaq volume fell to 107.9 million shares from 120.9
million Wednesday as a number of investors and traders were
away for Rosh Hashana, the beginning of the Jewish New Year.
Declining stocks swamped advancers, 1,312 to 498; 217 stocks
fell to new lows as only 12 reached new highs.
   A skittish British market helped fell the American
Depositary Receipts of Reuters Holdings, which tumbled 3 to
40 1/2 on more than two million shares. A variety of rumors
also dogged Reuters issues, but many were denied by the
information services and news concern.
   Robert A. Crooke, spokesman for Reuters America, said in
an interview there's "nothing new" in rumors that the London
futures exchange is reluctant to join Globex, Reuters'
automated after-hours trading system for futures and options.
Mr. Crooke said Reuters hasn't been counting on getting a
contract with the London futures group in making its
projections of future revenue.
   Reuters did announce a reorganization of several product
and information services groups designed to consolidate
operations into fewer groups. Mr. Crooke also denied a rumor
that Reuters managing director Glen Renfrew was ill.
Wednesday, the company announced that Nigel Judah resigned as
finance director because of ill health, but remains company
secretary.
   Centocor fell 1 1/4 to 40 1/2, although a company
spokesman confirmed Centocor is in negotiations to sell the
U.S. Army 200 doses of Centoxin at $2,500 a dose for use in
the Middle East. The Malvern, Pa., biotechnology company is
developing Centoxin to treat septic shock. Centocor had risen
sharply Wednesday on speculation about an Army order.
   Investors bailed out of stocks that are vulnerable to
economic weakness and higher oil prices. Among retailers,
Nordstrom fell 1 to 20 1/2; Liz Claiborne eased 1 to 25 1/4;
and Nike stumbled 2 3/8 to 67 1/2. Among transportation
stocks, Yellow Freight skidded 1 3/8 to 19 7/8; Roadway
Services slipped 3/4 to 29; and Alexander &amp; Baldwin fell 1
1/2 to 22 3/4.
   Nordstrom was among the day's most-active stocks as more
than 1.3 million shares changed hands. Montgomery Securities
analyst Edward A. Weller lowered his estimate for the
retailer's fiscal 1991 third quarter ending in October to
project flat or lower earnings compared with the year-earlier
earnings of 27 cents a share. Nordstrom's chief financial
officer, John Goesling, said other analysts also have lowered
their expectations for the Seattle company amid softening
retail demand.
   Michael Foods slipped 1 to 16 7/8 after North Star
Universal said it lowered its stake in the Minneapolis food
processor and distributor to 51% from 53.8%. North Star,
which eased 1/8 to 5 5/8, also said it plans to sell two of
its own units.
   Dell Computer lost 5/8 to 10 1/4 after Texas Instruments
filed a lawsuit against the Austin, Texas, company for
alleged patent infringement.
   Other stocks fell as companies grappled with bleak
financial and consumer markets.
   C-Cor Electronics plummeted 2 1/2 to 5. The State College,
Pa., maker of cable television equipment said it expects to
report a loss for the first quarter ending this month. C-Cor
attributed a slowdown in orders to regulatory and financial
uncertainties in the cable television industry.
   Diversco sank 1/4 to 3 after the Spartanburg, S.C.,
provider of contract personnel services said it decided not
to seek a merger because of market conditions.
   Concord Camera plunged 5/8 to 2 1/2. The Avanel, N.J.,
photographic equipment company said that it failed to meet a
number of financial covenants in its bank loan agreement, but
said it hopes to get a waiver on the defaults.
   Concord Camera also reported a loss for the fourth quarter
ended in June of 57 cents a share, compared with year-earlier
net income of seven cents a share. Chairman and Chief
Financial Officer Jack C. Benun attributed the loss partly to
"wrongful actions" by certain former officers and directors
of a Hong Kong subsidiary, which resulted in disrupted
manufacturing operations and re-evaluation of certain
inventories. The subsidiary has since been reorganized.
   Cedar Group eased 1/8 to 2 7/8. The Philadelphia company
said late Wednesday that it is renegotiating terms of its
plan to acquire Gardenbolt International because of the
recent decline in its own stock.
   ClothesTime swooned 1/4 to 1 7/8. Wednesday, the Anaheim,
Calif., maker of women's apparel estimated that earnings for
the fiscal year ending in January will range from one cent to
five cents a share, compared with the prior year's three
cents.
   First Florida Banks slipped 1 1/2 to 14 1/4.
   Mid-State Federal Savings said Wednesday that it plans a
special shareholder meeting Oct. 18 to consider its proposed
acquisition of First Florida.
   Among the day's few gainers, Braintree Savings Bank jumped
1 to 5 after the Braintree, Mass., financial institution
declared its regular quarterly dividend of nine cents a
share.
   Ithaca Bancorp added 1 to 6 3/4. Tuesday, the Ithaca,
N.Y., financial institution, said that its formation as the
holding company for Citizens Savings Bank had been completed
and that it will begin to buy back as much as 10% of its
stock.
   Fidelity Federal Savings Bank of Marion, Ind., jumped 2 to
16. The financial institution said late Monday that its
acquisition by First Financial Bancorp. of Monroe, Ohio,
could occur as early as today.
   ---
   Jean Erickson contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thursday's Markets:
   Stocks Fall
   39.11 as Price
   Of Oil Soars
   ---
   Triple Witching Adds
   To the Dow's Slump;
   Dollar Edges Higher
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The program trading "witch" and surging oil
prices conspired to send stock prices tumbling.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 39.11 points in
moderate trading to 2518.32. October crude-oil futures
contracts jumped $1.53 a barrel to $34.71, which also helped
push bonds lower. The dollar edged up, with little news to
guide traders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Another decline in the Tokyo stock market and routs in
European markets set the tone for the U.S. stock market.
Tokyo's Nikkei Index fell only 0.52%, but yesterday was the
second consecutive day that the index hit a low for the year.
Stocks in London and West Germany both dropped under previous
post-Kuwait invasion lows, set Aug. 23.
   The Dow Jones industrials started sharply lower in the
first hour of trading as index players bought futures and
sold stocks ahead of today's triple expirations of options on
individual stocks, and futures and options on Standard &amp;
Poor's 500-stock index, the New York Stock Exchange composite
and the Major Market Index. This quarterly event is known as
the "triple witching hour."
   But some analysts think the program traders got the
selling out of their system yesterday. "Usually the
volatility occurs a day or so early" when the indexes are
trading at a discount to the underlying stocks as the
expiration date nears, said A.C. Moore, research director at
Argus Research.
   On top of that, "there's growing concern about the banking
problem, and there's a lack of any good news," said Susan Del
Signore, stock trader at Travelers Investment Management. She
said that yesterday she was getting "the most negative calls
I've gotten since I've been in this business. People are
losing heart."
   In addition to banks' health, said Thomas Walsh, head of
equity trading at Nikko Securities International, investors
are being turned off by "the potential of 6% inflation and of
a fairly major recession."
   Some of the oil-price rise came from technical trading
related to yesterday's expiration of the October oil futures
contract. Adding to the surge was a World Bank statement that
a Mideast war could nearly double oil prices to $65 a barrel.
   Those comments, and reports that some congressional
leaders might try to delay automatic spending cuts pending a
negotiated budget plan, sent bonds lower.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices sank. Volume was 145.1 million shares on the
New York Stock Exchange. Declining issues swamped advancers,
1,258 to 300.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell 3/8 of a point, or $3.75 for each $1,000
of face amount. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bond rose to 9.03%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was higher. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.5773 marks, up from 1.5715
Wednesday. Against the yen, the dollar rose slightly to
137.65 from 137.52.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PPG to Close Flat-Glass Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   PPG LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- PPG Industries Inc. said it will shut down
its Crystal City, Mo., flat-glass manufacturing plant by the
end of the year because of excess capacity in that industry
and high costs to modernize the plant.
   PPG will meet with officials of the Aluminum, Brick &amp;
Glass Workers International Union, which represents the
plant's 231 production, maintenance and clerical employees,
to negotiate benefits and other conditions of termination.
The paints, chemical and glass manufacturer said the closing
wouldn't result in a charge.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   RTC Accuses 10
   In Scheme to Cheat
   Lincoln Savings
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC F.BOU
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The federal Resolution Trust Corp. filed a
lawsuit accusing Saudi European Bank and nine other
defendants of a racketeering scheme that allegedly cheated
Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan Association out of $18 million.
   In the civil suit, filed in federal court in Manhattan,
the agency also asserted that the alleged scheme was carried
out with the secret approval of Charles Keating, the failed
thrift's former owner. The lawsuit alleges that the
defendants won Mr. Keating's cooperation by arranging for
American Continental Corp., Lincoln Savings' parent company,
to receive favorable treatment from Saudi European Bank, a
small merchant bank that was based in Paris and acquired last
year by Maison Bouygues, a unit of Bouygues S.A. of France.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lawsuit seeks compensatory and special damages of at
least $18 million, which could be tripled to $54 million
under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations, or
RICO, law. The suit seeks additional damages totaling $90
million for fraud and breach of fiduciary duty.
   The lawsuit says each of the defendants can be held liable
for the entire amount of damages sought, because they were
alleged co-conspirators in the scheme.
   Mr. Keating wasn't named as a defendant in the suit. The
RTC, which was created to sell and merge insolvent thrifts,
already has a $1.1 billion civil racketeering suit pending
against Mr. Keating, who also was indicted on criminal
charges earlier this week.
   Regulators have estimated that the collapse of Irvine,
Calif.-based Lincoln Savings could cost taxpayers more than
$2.5 billion. Officials charge that Lincoln Savings was
engaging in many such transactions that benefited American
Continental at the expense of the thrift, which held more
than $4 billion in government-insured deposits. American
Continental filed for bankruptcy-law protection in April
1989.
   The lawsuit filed yesterday centers on an $18 million
investment Lincoln Savings made in Saudi European Investment
Corp., a Saudi European Bank affiliate, in 1984.
   The lawsuit alleges that Lincoln Savings and other
investors were defrauded in a securities offering that was
supposed to raise $60 million to create a publicly traded
U.S. energy company. Instead, the lawsuit claims, the stock
offering was secretly oversubscribed, diluting the value of
the investments, and the financing diverted to benefit
certain shareholders.
   The lawsuit alleges that the defendants diverted at least
$40 million from the oversubscribed stock offering. For
example, the lawsuit says, in November 1984 -- immediately
after the offering was supposed to close -- the defendants
fraudulently used some of the funds to buy the U.S. trading
division of Gulf Oil Corp., a unit of Chevron Corp.
   "Defendants' transactions for their personal benefit
impaired the financial condition of {Saudi European
Investment Corp.}, thereby lessening the value of the shares
held by the plaintiffs and damaging them," the lawsuit said.
   The RTC said in its suit that Mr. Keating's company,
American Continental, first raised questions with Saudi
European Investment Corp. about the diluted investments. To
conceal the alleged scheme, the lawsuit states, Saudi
European Bank arranged a business venture with American
Continental that enabled the company to post a profit for
1987.
   Along with Saudi European Bank and its investment
affiliate, the other defendants named in the suit include
Richard A. Fenn of Pawling, N.Y., a Saudi European Bank
official; Jamal Radwan, a Saudi European Investment official
whose address couldn't be determined; Ronald F. Reilly of
Weston, Conn., who allegedly acted as an agent for Messrs.
Fenn and Radwan; ALEF Bank, a management-service company
owned by Saudi European Investment and based in the
Netherlands Antilles; and ALEF Investment Corp. of Paris.
   Also named as defendants and charged with assisting in the
scheme are two New York law firms, Gadsby &amp; Hannah and
Townley &amp; Updike, and a Townley Updike attorney, Mario
Diaz-Cruz III of New York.
   Mr. Diaz-Cruz and Mr. Reilly each said separately last
night that they were unaware the suit had been filed. None of
the other defendants could be reached for comment last night.
   The lawsuit noted that Saudi European Bank was sold to
Maison Bouygues last December and renamed Societe de Banque
Privee S.A. In the lawsuit, the RTC charges that Maison
Bouygues knew of the alleged fraud when it bought the bank
and could be held liable for the allegations against Saudi
European Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Americans Support Bush's Tough Stance on Iraq,
   Backing Military Action Despite Hostages...
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Is President Bush willing to impose a death
sentence on Americans held hostage by Saddam Hussein?
   Mr. Bush insists the Iraqi dictator's threats to use U.S.
citizens as shields against an American attack, or even to
starve them, won't weaken his demand that Iraq withdraw from
Kuwait. He feels that a preoccupation with hostages' safety
wrecked Jimmy Carter's presidency and nearly derailed Ronald
Reagan's. "Our hearts go out to the hostages and their
families. But our policy cannot change. And it will not
change," the president told Congress last week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So far, the president's tough stance against Saddam
Hussein wins public support. A Wall Street Journal/NBC News
poll taken earlier this week found that 53% of the registered
voters responding would favor the U.S. taking military action
against Iraq while there are still American hostages in Iraq
and Kuwait, while 34% would oppose such action. "At this
stage, the public is saying, `We're playing for keeps,'" say
pollsters Robert Teeter and Peter Hart, who conducted the
survey. "The idea that the hostages may get harmed is
accepted."
   But if the Persian Gulf crisis drags on, public pressure
against jeopardizing hostages' lives could mount, posing a
tough test of Mr. Bush's determination to break a 10-year
pattern of manipulation of the U.S. by hostage-takers.
   "There's a big distinction between the short-term, when
people are rallying around the president and the flag, and
what happens month after month when either there's a deadlock
or a very bad turn in the military situation," warns James
McGregor Burns, a Williams College political scientist and an
authority on the presidency.
   Indeed, as Mr. Bush spoke last week, there were some faint
sounds of discontent. "The president's statement came across
like a death sentence," says Michael Saba, an Illinois
businessman who founded Coming Home, a group that is
organizing hostage-family members to push for the release of
Americans trapped by Iraq's invasion, now estimated at 1,350
citizens. "Our people are saying that there just have to be
other ways to meet the president's objectives."
   Mr. Saba, who was in Baghdad when Iraq invaded Kuwait but
escaped seven days later, says the 500 family members he has
contacted are upset that Mr. Bush lists freeing the hostages
last after his other goals of forcing Iraq to withdraw,
restoring Kuwait's government and ensuring regional security.
"Does the fourth goal have a lower value than the other
three?" he asks. The group plans to focus its attention on
Congress, he says.
   For now, most lawmakers strongly support Mr. Bush's
policy. The hostages "are in our prayers but they cannot
dominate our planning," said Sen. Sam Nunn (D., Ga.),
chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, as he led a
congressional delegation on a visit to Saudi Arabia recently.
"You can't run a foreign policy on hostages," agreed GOP Sen.
Jake Garn of Utah.
   Senior Bush administration officials say that from the
beginning of the Gulf crisis there was little debate over how
to handle the hostage issue. While everything possible would
be done to safeguard the hostages, says a senior official, it
was understood that if they got caught in harm's way, that
would be a necessary consequence of dealing with the
situation created by Saddam Hussein.
   Mr. Bush's views on dealing with hostage situations were
formed when he was vice president and chaired a task force on
combatting terrorism, says Marlin Fitzwater, the White House
spokesman. "The hostage position is so well known and
strongly felt" following the experiences in Iran and Lebanon,
says Mr. Fitzwater, that "it's just not a matter that's been
open to negotiations" during the current crisis.
   The 1986 task force report stressed that the U.S.
shouldn't make concessions to terrorists -- a mistake that
was being made by the Reagan administration, which was
trading arms to Iran for hostages, even as the report was
being written. According to a member of the task force, the
classified version of the report referred more specifically
to hostage-holding. It concluded that "there are so many
Americans wandering around the world, that if you make
concessions to win someone's release, the terrorists can
easily take another," the task force member said.
   From the beginning of the Gulf crisis, the administration
played down the hostage aspect, referring to the Americans
trapped in Iraq and Kuwait as "detainees." When asked about
the status of these U.S. citizens on Aug. 14, Mr. Bush said:
"The status is inconvenienced people who want to get out." He
waited until Aug. 20, during a speech to the Veterans of
Foreign Wars, to use the word "hostage."
   Despite his tough stance, however, President Bush at times
violates his own rules about maintaining a low public profile
on the hostage issue. Long before the Persian Gulf troubles,
when the focus was on Lebanon, a decision had been made to
not greet freed hostages at the White House, according to an
administration official. But last April, when hostage-takers
in Lebanon released Robert Polhill, Mr. Bush invited him for
a visit.
   And Vice President Dan Quayle said in an interview earlier
this week that "not a day goes by without an inquiry about
the hostages. They're very much on {Mr. Bush's} mind. We're
in constant contact with the families."
   Mr. Fitzwater insists that 10 years of agonizing over
hostages has taught officials and the public valuable lessons
about dealing with the problem. He said Mr. Bush isn't
getting the kind of pressure from hostage families that he
did when, as vice president, he was the Reagan
administration's liaison to the families of U.S. hostages
held in Lebanon. "People understand the policy," Mr.
Fitzwater asserts, adding that some hostage families now
realize that negotiations for some hostages only prolongs
captivity for everybody else.
   But Noel Koch, who headed the Pentagon's counter-terrorism
effort from 1981 to 1986, warns that this could be the calm
before a storm. "It's still early in the game. Until this
thing becomes protracted and the suffering sets in or people
start getting killed, there will be a tendency on the part of
the families to keep quiet. But that could change abruptly."
   (See related story: "...But Relatives of Captives in
Kuwait and Iraq Despair Over U.S. Belligerence" -- WSJ Sept.
21, 1990)
   ---
   "Would you favor or oppose the U.S. taking military action
against Iraq while there are still U.S. hostages in Iraq and
Kuwait?"
                                                                                                       

   FAVOR                              53%
   OPPOSE                             34%
   NOT SURE                           13%
                                                                                                       

   The Wall Street Journal/NBC News Poll
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fabrique Nationale
   Wins Munitions Order
   Totaling $74.3 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   B.FAB MDEST B.SGL
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LIEGE, Belgium -- Fabrique Nationale Herstal S.A. obtained
a munitions order from a Middle East country totaling 2.4
billion Belgian francs ($74.3 million), an industry executive
said.
   The order, whose size could be doubled later, might
improve the survival chances of FN, which has been teetering
on the edge of bankruptcy proceedings for months. FN, whose
products include various small arms and Browning sport
rifles, is 76%-owned by Societe Generale de Belgique S.A., a
Brussels holding company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   FN wouldn't comment on the order, but the industry
executive confirmed a report in a Brussels newspaper that the
sale had been concluded. The executive, who declined to be
identified, wouldn't disclose which Middle East country
awarded the contract.
   The executive also confirmed earlier reports that Giat
Industries, a French state-owned arms maker, is in talks that
could lead to an offer to buy all or part of FN. A Giat
spokesman couldn't be reached.
   But the industry executive said Giat isn't the only
company interested in acquiring FN. He declined to name
others.
   FN, whose losses over the past four years have totaled
about 12 billion Belgian francs, has scheduled an
extraordinary shareholders meeting for a week from today.
Holders are expected to decide whether the company should
continue operations. FN's management might report on
prospects for selling the company at the meeting, the
executive said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Martin Marietta Sells Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ML
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   BETHESDA, Md. -- Martin Marietta Corp. said it completed
the first sale of holdings of its Orlando Central Park Inc.
unit in Orlando, Fla., under a divestiture program announced
last year.
   The $42.5 million sale includes 150 acres for hotel and
retail development and the Mercado Shopping Village in the
Plaza international project in Orlando, the company said. The
properties were sold to three groups of investors, who
weren't identified.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company had announced in August 1989 that it planned
to shed its Orlando Central Park holdings, and said yesterday
that efforts to complete the program are continuing. The
company's 50% interest in Orlando Peabody Hotel isn't
included in the program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Acme Steel Purchases Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   ACME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   RIVERDALE, Ill. -- Acme Steel Co., in an effort to expand
its steel processing business, said it bought certain assets
from Donovan Steel Inc. of Toledo, Ohio, for undisclosed
terms.
   The steel maker said it bought slitters and other
equipment from Donovan and will lease the former Donovan
facility, which will do business as Alta Slitting Corp., a
newly formed Acme subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Eastern Europe
   ---
   Creeping Toward Capitalism:
   A Czechoslovak Town Shows the Strains on the
   Road From State Control to Free Enterprise
   ----
   By Craig Forman
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   KARLOVY VARY, Czechoslovakia -- Robert Zbiral, an engineer
at the Great Sokolov Chemical Works near here, greets a
visitor to the five-story plant that is the heart of this
sprawling industrial complex.
   "You've come to see the museum?" he says sarcastically,
pointing to the soot-covered building, which looks abandoned
with its broken windows and peeling cement walls.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Inside, a nightmarish scene unfolds. Dark pipes run into a
billboard-sized furnace built in the 1930s. Trudging workers
leave footprints in the thick, black dust. There is a roar
high overhead as coal is dumped from hoppers dangling from a
funicular, an obsolete arrangement dating from the plant's
opening in 1917. "All this was fine in its day, but that day
is long past," says Mr. Zbiral, surrounded by pipes whose
ancient insulation has been replaced with aluminum foil kept
in place by chicken wire.
   Miroslav Krejci, the factory's director, says he "would
love to change" to natural-gas fuel for the factory, which
makes low-tech products like formic acid, as well as
acrylics. Such a switch could cut costs by one-third,
eliminate three-quarters of the staff in some departments and
sharply reduce the highly sulfuric dust emissions that have
killed a quarter of the spruce forests in nearby parts of
Bohemia. "But we haven't got the money," he says, adding that
modernizing the plant would cost $125 million at current
exchange rates.
   Then he adds a more telling caveat: "Such a big decision,
affecting many people, would have to be taken by the state."
   Nearly a year after this nation's peaceful overthrow of
Communist rule, Mr. Krejci's deference to the government's
will in running his factory seems startling. After all, isn't
such management freedom part of the reason for last winter's
momentous movement toward liberty across Eastern Europe?
Freed from the oppressive constraints of central planning,
individuals and companies were supposed to flood economies
here with new ideas for small businesses, higher efficiency
and better production. The revolution was supposed to lead to
an entrepreneurial renaissance.
   But it hasn't happened yet.
   What's slowing Eastern Europe's rush to Western-style
capitalism? One thing is lack of money. Billions of dollars
will be needed to overcome years of neglect, and large
injections of foreign capital will be necessary to bring the
Eastern European economies back to life. Second, those
economies haven't yet fully shaken off the shackles of
centralization, which creates economic bottlenecks and
subsidizes inefficiencies. And -- perhaps most important --
40 years of communism has hardened the attitudinal arteries
of the people, stifling initiative.
   Here in Czechoslovakia, there is greater civil and
economic liberty since last November's so-called Velvet
Revolution, yet important elements of daily life persist much
as before. The reformist government of President Vaclav Havel
is trying to get rid of central planning and other
restrictions, but that effort is far from complete. Too many
rules and regulations remain on the books. Too many decisions
are still made by government bureaucracies, which remain
large and obstructive. And local bureaucrats -- who approve
big spending plans -- still have great power.
   Mr. Krejci's chemical factory is plagued by all of these
problems. It hasn't the money for a total overhaul. In
addition, it employs fewer workers than the coal mines
nearby, so local officials won't allow an investment that
could drastically reduce demand for local coal. And even as
the government moves to ease such bureaucratic restrictions,
the tendency of factory managers is to follow the old rules
and defer to higher, centralized authority.
   The last is the most daunting stumbling block. "Our
biggest challenge still is to convince the man in the street
of the necessity to adapt," says Jan Tauber, adviser to
Finance Minister Vaclav Klaus. "The idea that the free-market
economy is a great opportunity for us hasn't been accepted by
the majority of people."
   The lack of acceptance is readily apparent in such towns
as Karlovy Vary, the county seat of a 120,000-population
district in Western Bohemia, near the German border. The town
used to be called Carlsbad, once famous as a spa that was
favored by Beethoven, Goethe and European royalty. But the
hotels and baths of the spa now are run-down and need
hundreds of millions of dollars in investment -- probably
foreign. And for the moment, foreign investors are moving
cautiously because of Czechoslovakia's uncertain economic
climate.
   High-quality glass and porcelain crafted here sell in such
pricey U.S. stores as Saks Fifth Avenue. But most people are
employed in industry, and the district is surrounded by strip
mines, power stations and factories that make it one of the
worst-polluted areas of Czechoslovakia. "Before the war, the
Czech living standard was as high as America's. Our cities
were beautiful. We made the fastest planes in the world,"
says Stan Kment, a Czechoslovak who left after World War II
and now lives in Canada. "Now, there's nothing. People are
poor. They got salaries for doing nothing, and they don't
know how to work. They don't know where to begin a capitalist
system."
   Right now the people of Karlovy Vary are caught in a kind
of limbo, in a transitional period between strict state
control of the economy and Western-style freedom, leaving
them with a feeling of uncertainty about the future. They
worry about unemployment; it was almost nonexistent under the
Communists, but there are fears it could skyrocket to 15% or
more once state subsidies are ended. Some even worry about
homelessness, which was unheard of under the old system. And
even before a free market takes effect, the people are
angered by prices, recently they have soared 50% for some
meat and vegetables.
   In the local grocery store, in downtown Karlovy Vary,
shoppers grumble in the poorly lit aisles. No fresh fruits or
vegetables are on display, and the best-selling item appears
to be still-inexpensive Chinese rice. Other products, such as
a can of Soviet mackerel whose price recently rose 65%, "were
probably unsellable even at the old price. Now it's
impossible," says Milos Vanecek, the store's manager. There
are thousands of these grocery stores across Czechoslovakia,
and they still belong to a state agency that supervises food
distribution. The higher prices aren't due to a free market.
The Havel government is stripping away certain subsidies that
supported food prices, and the authorities who fix prices
have been permitted to raise them somewhat to offset lost
subsidies. To help defray the higher costs, the government
gave everyone a one-time handout of 140 korunas -- about $6
at the official rate.
   Some people, like Blanka Boura, a junior-high-school
teacher, are getting increasingly restive. They don't see the
rationale for Czechoslovakia's economic upheaval, for the
uncertainty and lack of improvement in their own lives.
"People are fed up with the way things are," she says.
"Prices are going up, too high if you ask me. People didn't
expect it would take this long to get results. Most people
don't understand the point of all this."
   As they see the slow pace of progress, people here are
revising their expectations of how long it will take
Czechoslovakia to rejoin the Free World economic system.
Vaclav Tomandl, Karlovy  Vary's leading banker, says: "We are
still at the first mile of a 1,000-mile trip. Czechoslovakia
may make it, but it will take years, not months. Generations,
not years."
   Mr. Tomandl is director of the Komercni Banka, a new
commercial-banking venture established earlier this year to
help finance economic reform in Czechoslovak regions. "The
problem was and still is there is no dynamism in the
economy," he says.
   Mr. Tomandl and his wife, Dana, who works in a
government-owned construction firm, say that perhaps one
person out of 10 in Karlovy Vary is imbued with the new
entrepreneurial spirit. (Local figures show 2,500 registered
small-business people.)
   Over strong coffee in his office on Engles Boulevard, Mr.
Tomandl and his deputy, Pavel Woydich, complain about the
lack of reality among their customers. The bank, which was
spun off from Czechoslovakia's central bank under the
country's new laws, is the biggest source of investment
finance in town; it has lent eight million korunas ($333,000)
to 66 different entrepreneurs in the past six months. These
small-business people range from plumbers to electricians to
taxi drivers.
   But most people, such as the students who wanted a loan to
stage a rock opera, think the bank is a government agency to
distribute money, just as the government distributes salaries
and benefits. Says Mr. Woydich: "They come in here every
Monday, after a weekend of thinking, and they say, `Give us
some money.' They are surprised when we want to see how they
calculate their potential income. When we say `How do you
intend to pay us back?' they look at us as if we're crazy. No
one here knows about any of these things."
   The bankers concede that even they have sometimes been
flying blind when it comes to judging borrowers'
credit-worthiness and prospects for success. "It is hard to
value assets here, beause there is no market for many
things," says Mr. Tomandl. Accounting standards vary widely.
"As the euphoria vanishes and the reality sets in, what we
need most is experience," he adds. Though the bankers won't
say it, they don't quibble with estimates that up to half of
the new entrepreneurs may fail.
   Mr. Tomandl and his wife are the closest thing
Czechoslovakia has to yuppies these days. They drive a shiny
Lada, a coveted Soviet car, and are finishing a house on the
outskirts of Karlovy Vary, a Swiss-chalet-style home that
could house two families -- themselves and an
income-producing tenant.
   The story of their house, which has taken more than a year
to build, shows how hard it remains to get things done in
Czechoslovakia. Though the construction business is one of
the prime areas where entrepreneurs are starting, many
building materials are still centrally produced and
distributed. That means they are difficult to obtain.
Meantime, the customer, not the contractor, is responsible
for ensuring that bricks, mortar and even scaffolding are on
site as needed.
   In Mr. Tomandl's case, that has meant months of bickering,
negotiating and arm-twisting to get his job accomplished.
Others, though not Mr. Tomandl, cut corners through bribery.
"Don't talk to me about the house. It's been a nightmare,"
says Mr. Tomandl.
   The situation isn't much easier for the entrepreneurs
themselves. Though the government is trying to cut the
bureaucracy, starting your own business in Czechoslovakia
remains an odyssey requiring dozens of official stamps and
monthlong waits for permits.
   "It's incredibly difficult," says Stanislav Slama, who is
Karlovy Vary's first entrepreneur -- a three-year veteran of
private enterprise. Mr. Slama repairs cars, specializing in
the Trabant, the East German car that arguably got revolution
in the East Bloc rolling by carrying East Germans across
Warsaw Pact borders last year.
   Before he could start his business, Mr. Slama had to get
written permission from the state-run car-repair shops in
town -- with which he was about to compete. Even now, he gets
verbal abuse from some former colleagues at the state repair
shop where he worked for 25 years, and some people park their
cars to block customers from his workshop.
   "I never could do this {go into private business} if I
hadn't been working for a state company for 25 years. My
contacts are the only reason I can find spare parts," he
says. Even so, he doesn't always succeed.
   For instance, after waiting a year to buy a car jack from
the single factory in Czechoslovakia that makes the item, Mr.
Slama is abandoning hope. He now plans to go across the
border into West Germany, where, he says, every auto-parts
store stocks the item and probably sells it at lower cost.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Slama's venture has been a success; his
repair shop is crowded with half a dozen cars to repair, and
he works weekends to keep up with the business. This year he
is earning three times his previous salary, but even so he
isn't sure how much he will keep. That's because of
uncertainty about taxes. Although the government is trying to
encourage entrepreneurs, its tax policy remains confusing and
changeable, so these business people can't be sure that
working longer hours will increase their income.
   Above all, entrepreneurs fear that lingering public
attitudes from the Communist era may continue to make life
difficult for them, even in an era of sweeping change. At the
six-month-old Association of Entrepreneurs, whose office is
in the former Communist Party headquarters deputy director
Ivan Zikes says: "We are fighting a deformation of the human
mind. During 40 years of the totalitarian regime, people have
formed the opinion that all private businessmen are thieves
trying to get money without doing any work."
   In Karlovy Vary's baroque town hall, Mayor Jiri Kovarik
says such attitudes and regulations "are hampering our
entrepreneurs from developing their activities fully." What
the town needs most, Mr. Kovarik says, is "money, management
and to change the thinking of people." The last item will
take the most time.
   "You come into a restaurant," Mr. Kovarik says. "The
person attending you isn't trying to make it agreeable. He
never smiles, he gives no advice. He just wants the customers
to leave as soon as possible. Maybe 95% of the people are
still thinking this way. It will require a generation to
change this attitude."
   In the meantime, the mayor adds, "we will have problems of
disintegration. If a dog tied to a leash for a long time is
suddenly released, the first thing it does is run around with
no logic. Only after this phase of freedom is gotten used to,
does it begin acting logically."
   "Our problem," says the mayor, "is more in the head than
in the wallet."
   ---
   Mr. Forman, a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's
London bureau, reports on Eastern European business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   N.V. Philips to Sell Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG T TEF I.SFT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   EINDHOVEN, the Netherlands -- As expected, N.V. Philips,
the Dutch electronics giant, said that it would sell its 15%
stake in AT&amp;T Network Systems International BV back to
American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.
   A spokesman for Philips declined to provide financial
information on how the transfer of the stake, which is
effective immediately, will be done. The transfer of
Philips's 15% stake in AT&amp;T-NSI back to AT&amp;T will boost
AT&amp;T's holdings in the joint venture to 74% from 59%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Spain's Telefonica de Espana S.A. and Italy's Stet Group
hold 6% and 20% stakes, respectively, in the joint venture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   How Poll Was Conducted
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ GE
</CO>
<LP>
   The Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll was based on
nationwide telephone interviews of 1,508 registered voters
conducted Saturday through Tuesday by the polling
organizations of Peter Hart and Robert Teeter.
   The sample was drawn from 315 randomly selected geographic
points in the continental U.S. Each region of the country was
represented in proportion to its population. Households were
selected by a method that gave all telephone numbers, listed
and unlisted, an equal chance of being included. One
registered voter, 18 years or older, was selected from each
household by a procedure to provide the correct number of
male and female respondents. The results of the survey were
minimally weighted by age, race and religion to assure that
the poll accurately reflects registered voters nationwide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chances are 19 of 20 that if all registered voters in the
U.S. had been surveyed using the same questionnaire, the
findings would differ from these poll results by no more than
2.6 percentage points in either direction. The margin of
error for subgroups would be larger.
   (See related story: "Americans Take Pessimistic View But
Don't Panic --- Poll on Economic Outlook Finds Lack of
Confidence in Bank System, Stocks" -- WSJ Sep. 21, 1990).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   New York Life Insurance Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE Co. (New York) -- Michael J.
Nocera, 44 years old, previously senior vice president, new
product development, at the PaineWebber Properties Inc. unit
of PaineWebber Group Inc., was named vice president and head
of the partnership investments department at this insurer,
succeeding Kurt A. Cerulli, who resigned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dah Sing Financial
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SLI J.MTT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Dah Sing Financial Holdings Ltd. said that
Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. completed its purchase of a 9%
stake in the financial services group for 113 million Hong
Kong dollars (US$14.6 million).
   The Hong Kong group, which entered into a preliminary
agreement with the Japanese insurance concern in August, said
it will use the proceeds of the sale for working capital.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dah Sing, already 18% owned by Mitsui Trust &amp; Banking Co.,
said the Sumitomo link will help it build up its recently
established life insurance unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thursday, September 20, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 1/16% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8% 30 to 44 days; 7.95% 45 to 59 days;
7.85% 60 to 89 days; 7.80% 90 to 119 days; 7.75% 120 to 149
days; 7.70% 150 to 179 days; 7.60% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.10%
30 days; 8.05% 60 days; 7.98% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.61% one month; 7.63% two
months; 7.66% three months; 7.63% six months; 7.85% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.15% one month; 8.10% three months;
8.10% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.05% 30 days; 7.93% 60 days; 7.88%
90 days; 7.82% 120 days; 7.78% 150 days; 7.73% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% one month; 8 1/4%
- 8 1/8% two months; 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% three months; 8 1/4% - 8
1/8% four months; 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% five months; 8 1/4% - 8
1/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/4% one month;
8 1/4% three months; 8 1/4% six months; 8 5/ 16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 13.75%-14.25%; Germany 10.50%;
Japan 7.38%; Switzerland 9.50%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, September 17, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.39% 13 weeks; 7.30% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.11%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.07%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.45%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.57%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Short Interest
   Climbs to High
   On 2 Exchanges
   ---
   Big Board Total Rose 5.6%,
   Amex Figure by 2.9%
   In Month Ended Sept. 14
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<IN>
SHORT SALES AND SHORT INTEREST (SHO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Short interest again set a volume record on
the New York Stock Exchange, rising 5.6% for the month ended
Sept. 14, and reached a record on the American Stock Exchange
after dropping slightly a month earlier.
   Eli Lilly &amp; Co. and Varity Corp. were the short interest
leaders on the Big Board, with about 13.7 million and 12.7
million shares, respectively. However, there was relatively
little change in their total short positions. They have been
among the volume leaders for several months. Alcan Aluminium
Ltd. of Montreal, the previous month's leader with more than
16 million shares, saw short interest practically eliminated;
analysts had said the high level in August probably was
attributable to dividend-capture trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New York exchange short interest rose at the Sept. 14
settlement date to 706,315,268 shares from 668,964,125 at
mid-August, which was the previous record. On the Amex, short
interest rose 2.9% to 79,572,107 shares from an adjusted
77,349,948. The month included the 21 trading days through
Sept. 7.
   At mid-September 1989, short volume was 547,377,585 shares
on the Big Board, indicating a 29% advance, and 51,911,566
shares on the Amex, indicating a 53.2% rise.
   Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it, betting
that the stock's price will decline and that they can buy the
shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender.
   Short interest is the number of shares that haven't yet
been purchased for return to lenders. Although a substantial
short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's
price will decline, some investors consider an increase in
short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually
must be bought back.
   Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks also may
be caused partly by arbitraging. The figures occasionally
include incomplete transactions in restricted stock.
   The level of negative sentiment measured by the Big Board
short interest ratio rose to 5.16 from mid-August's 3.62. The
ratio is the number of trading days at the exchange's average
daily trading volume that would be required to convert the
total short interest position. Average daily New York
exchange volume for the 21 trading days was 147,279,540
shares. Some analysts suggest, however, that the ratio has
weakened in value as an indicator because options and other
products can be used to hedge short positions.
   Among bellwether issues, Exxon Corp. saw its short
interest volume rise about 23% to 5,893,835 shares; GTE Corp.
rose 42% to 6,049,421 shares and Philip Morris Cos. more than
tripled to 4,762,377 shares after having dropped 47% the
month before.
   Prime Motor Inns remained among the Big Board short
interest leaders, at 6,138,512 shares, or almost 20% of its
shares outstanding. Earlier this week, the hotel company
filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors, and the
shares, steadily declining in recent weeks, fell to 50 cents.
They were still trading below $1 as of yesterday. A year
earlier, they were as high as $38.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chevron's Spanish Properties
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8A
</SO>
<CO>
   CHV EUROP REP
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Chevron Corp. put its oil and gas
properties in Spain back on the market after withdrawing them
last year for lack of any "appropriate bids."
   The properties include an 18.92% interest in the
Casablanca offshore oil field, 25% interests in a smaller
onshore oil field and in an onshore gas complex, and various
exploration permits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The oil company said net proved reserves of its interests
in the three fields are estimated at the equivalent of about
six million barrels, of which about 80% is crude oil and the
rest is natural gas. Repsol, the Spanish government oil
company, operates the fields.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sherritt Gordon Picks
   Delaney as Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS T.SE
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Sherritt Gordon Ltd. said Ian Delaney was
appointed chairman and chief executive officer of the
chemical and metals manufacturer. Mr. Delaney, 47 years old,
replaces Edward Donegan as chairman.
   The company said Bruce Walter was named president. Mr.
Walter, 32, replaces Charles Heindrich, 49, formerly
president and chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Wednesday, a group including Messrs. Delaney and Walter
succeeded in replacing the former Sherritt board with their
own nominees at a special meeting of shareholders.
   Mr. Delaney said previously there would be an executive
position available for Mr. Heindrich if he decides to stay
with Sherritt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Four Canadian Banks Cut
   Their Prime Lending Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA T.RY T.BNS T.TD T.CM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Four Canadian banks cut their prime, or minimum
lending, rate yesterday following a reduction in the Bank of
Canada's bank rate.
   The Royal Bank of Canada, Bank of Nova Scotia, Toronto
Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce all cut
their prime lending rates to 13.75% from 14.25%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Bank of Montreal, cut its prime rate to 13.75% last
week.
   The bank rate, the levy charged by the Bank of Canada on
loans to financial institutions, is set weekly at 25 basis
points above the average yield of three-month treasury bills.
Following yesterday's treasury bill sale, the bank rate
dropped to 12.61% from 12.70%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Bay Street Group Bids
   For Computer Factory Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CFA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- An investment firm here said that it made
a $34.4 million bid to acquire Computer Factory Inc., a
nationwide computer retailer based in Elmsford, N.Y.
   Computer Factory is one of a number of computer retail
chains hit hard by price competition and overexpansion. Last
year, the chain opened stores in major cities around the
country, trumpeting low prices, but this year it has suffered
losses and curtailed expansion plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bay Street Group, a two-year-old merchant banking firm,
made a $4 a share offer in a Sept. 7 letter to Computer
Factory's board. It has received no response from the
retailer's management, Philip J. Gioia, Bay Street Group's
managing director, said.
   Mr. Gioia characterized the bid as "very friendly." In
trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, Computer
Factory closed at $3.125, up $1.
   Computer Factory executives weren't available for comment
yesterday because of the religious holiday. The company sells
and services personal computers through its retail stores,
and earned $3.1 million, or 35 cents a share, on revenue of
$369 million in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pinnacle West Sells Malapai Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW F.EDF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Pinnacle West Capital Corp. said it
completed the sale of its uranium mining subsidiary, Malapai
Resources Co., to a U.S. affiliate of Electricite de France
for $38 million in cash.
   Pinnacle West, a utility holding company, agreed to sell
the unit to the French electric utility in April. Proceeds
from the sale will be used to reduce debt, Pinnacle West
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   AN ARTICLE on computer hackers on Aug. 22 mentioned
computer bulletin boards, including one called Black Ice. The
one referred to, which federal law enforcement officials say
had been operating in Richmond, Va., isn't connected with a
computer bulletin board system in Austin, Texas, that also is
named Black Ice.
   (See: "Open Sesame: In the Arcane Culture of Computer
Hackers, Few Doors Stay Closed --- Frank Darden Easily Broke
Into Bellsouth's Network, Trading Tips With Others ---
Entering the Legion of Doom" -- WSJ Aug. 22, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   BERNARD HORN has been appointed general manager, group
strategy and communications, at National Westminster Bank
PLC. His title was misstated in the Sept. 13 edition.
   (See: "Who's News: National Westminster Bank PLC" -- WSJ
Sept. 13, 1990)
   ---
   THE CENTER for Real Estate and Urban Economics is at the
University of California at Berkeley. The university's name
was misstated in the Sept. 10 edition.
   (See: "Your Money Matters: Thinking the Unthinkable:
Abandoning Your Mortgage" -- WSJ Sept. 10, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HEALTH COSTS
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   RENL
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
LIFE INSURANCE (INL)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Plan to Ease Dialysis Load
   On Medicare Galls Firms
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   THE PROPOSAL by a small company to help trim the U.S.
budget deficit has provoked a corporate outcry over soaring
health costs.
   Ren, a Nashville, Tenn., provider of kidney dialysis
services, wants Congress to require private insurers to pay
more of the $2 billion annual bill for dialysis treatment now
covered by Medicare. Budget negotiators are considering the
idea.
   Currently, employers provide primary coverage for
employees for 12 months -- about $200 million a year.
Medicare picks up the bill thereafter, as well as for the
large majority of the 110,000 dialysis patients who are over
65. Ren says its plan to extend employers' coverage to two
years would double their costs, reducing the federal deficit
by $200 million.
   Business leaders are enraged. High health costs, as well
as the deficit, undermine U.S. competitiveness, says Walter
B. Maher, director of federal relations at Chrysler. "You do
absolutely nothing to reduce costs when one payer decides to
dodge the bullet and shift costs to another payer."
Particularly galling, he asserts, is that Ren expects to
profit from the cost-shifting, because private insurers pay
more for dialysis than Medicare does.
   Thomas Mills, a partner in Dyer, Ellis Joseph &amp; Mills,
Washington, and a lobbyist for Ren, acknowledges that Ren and
others would benefit. But he says that Medicare reimbursement
has declined in real terms in recent years and that
Medicare's dialysis program -- which began in the early 1970s
when treatment was so expensive that insurers balked and
people died -- is now an anomaly. Major heart operations and
other procedures routinely covered by private insurers are
far more expensive than dialysis, which costs about $22,500 a
year.
   But for business, the extra $200 million won't buy a
nickel of additional care and may discourage smaller
companies from buying coverage for workers, says Willis
Goldbeck, president of the Washington Business Group on
Health. "This is totally contrary to the direction that
health insurance needs to go in the U.S."
                                                                                                       

   Insurance Net for Poor
   Frayed Badly in 1980s
                                                                                                       

   MINORITY and low-income people have borne the brunt of a
decade of erosion in private insurance coverage, a U.S. study
says.
   In 1987, just 42% of poor and low-income people under 65
had health coverage, down from 56% 10 years earlier,
according to the report. During the same period, the
proportion of middle and upper-income insured remained level
at about 86%.
   The number of uninsured increased by 11.5 million, or more
than 40% over the decade, the study found, and more than half
of them were black or Hispanic.
   "Poor and low-income people are today twice as likely as
the rest of the population to have no health coverage," says
David Satcher, president of Meharry Medical College,
Nashville, Tenn. Not surprisingly, other research
demonstrates that those without insurance get less care and
may be less healthy as a result.
   The study, by Pamela Short and colleagues at the U.S.
Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, appears in the
inaugural issue of the Journal of Health Care for the Poor
and Underserved, published recently by Meharry, and is based
on federal surveys of 15,000 households. In commentary
accompanying the report, Woodrow Myers, New York City's
health commissioner, says such data "should be considered a
tragedy and a crisis, although it generally is not."
                                                                                                       

   Nurses Get Public's Vote
   As Best Bet to Cut Costs
                                                                                                       

   THE NATION'S nurses may hold one of the keys to lowering
health-care costs.
   Most people think nurses are far more likely to play a
"constructive" role in reducing medical costs than doctors,
hospital administrators or insurers, according to a poll
conducted by Peter D. Hart Research Associates Inc. for the
National League of Nursing.
   Other health research indicates nurses can provide such
routine services as screenings and physicals more
cost-effectively than doctors, says Claire Fagin, dean at the
University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing. And the poll
indicated many people would be willing to see nurses for some
basic services instead of a doctor "if they thought it would
lower health-care costs," says Pamela Maraldo, the nursing
league's chief executive officer. People are particularly
interested in getting nurses to provide more care at home to
avert nursing home admissions for the elderly.
   But even when nurses provide such services, usually
doctors must bill Medicare and many other insurers for them.
"There's no reason why Medicare should pay physicians to give
nursing care when nurses provide the care," argues Ms.
Maraldo. The poll, she says, supports her profession's quest
for status to bill Medicare directly.
   It's an uphill fight. For one thing, policy makers worry
that opening the Medicare spigot to another provider group
could cause an immediate runup in spending. Then there's
another poll that nurses lost decisively. In June, the
American Medical Association voted to oppose moves to give
more clinical and financial autonomy to nurses and other
non-physician providers.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   ONE-PACK-A-DAY retirees who quit smoking today could
reduce next year's health bills by $2,300 each, says a study
of Bank of America retirees by J. Paul Leigh, an economist at
San Jose State University. . . . Metropolitan Life Insurance
paid $111.2 million in AIDS-related medical claims last year,
nearly double the $63.5 million of 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Du Pont, Merck Joint Venture Recruits
   Former Head of R&amp;D at Genentech Inc.
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   DD MRK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   The new joint venture in pharmaceuticals between Du Pont
Co. and Merck &amp; Co. has recruited the former chief of
research and development at Genentech Inc. to lead its own
drug discovery efforts.
   David W. Martin Jr., formerly senior vice president,
research and development, at Genentech, is expected to be
named to the new position this month, if Du Pont and Merck
can iron out final details of their agreement by then.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dr. Martin, 49 years old, confirmed in an interview that
he has been named to head research and development at the
venture, called Du Pont Merck Pharmaceuticals Co. He remarked
that he was "within two days" of taking a position at a West
Coast biotech concern when the Du Pont-Merck offer beckoned.
He has been a consultant to Genentech since resigning from
his executive post at the South San Francisco, Calif.,
company last November.
   Dr. Martin said the Du Pont-Merck venture attracted him
with the breadth of its technology and what he called the
commitment of the venture partners to long-term goals.
"They're careful in picking what they want to do, but they
don't change direction," he said.
   The joint venture, announced in July, is a recent example
of the spate of cooperative ventures and mergers to crop up
among drug companies as they cope with growing research and
development costs and global competition. Du Pont, the
diversified chemicals concern based in Wilmington, Del., is
putting all its drug business into the venture. Merck, of
Rahway, N.J., is contributing rights to market some of its
drugs and an undisclosed amount of cash.
   Merck, often called the premier drug research company in
its industry, is using the venture to tap the new-drug
pipeline at Du Pont. For Du Pont, the venture offers a quick
way to expand its presence abroad, through rights to certain
Merck products in Europe.
   A Du Pont spokesman confirmed Dr. Martin's appointment but
declined to say whether the new company is looking outside to
fill other top positions.
   A final agreement on the joint venture hasn't yet been
reached, but Joseph A. Mollica, currently a Du Pont vice
president, already has been named chief executive officer of
the new company. Dr. Martin will report to Mr. Mollica and
assume some of the research management tasks that Mr.
Mollica, a scientist by training, has had within Du Pont.
   At Genentech, Dr. Martin presided over a research program
that has produced some of the early fruits of biotechnology,
such as genetically engineered human growth hormone, sold
under the trade name Protropin, and the heart drug known as
TPA or Activase. But at the Du Pont-Merck venture, he will be
managing a far larger staff, about 1,500 instead of the 700
at Genentech.
   A spokeswoman for Merck said that officials who would be
familiar with appointments at the new company weren't
available for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Logicon Gets Job Extension
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   LGN
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Logicon Inc. said it received a four-year
contract extension valued at $33.5 million to provide
advanced technology services to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory
in Pasadena, Calif.
   Logicon said its R&amp;D Associates subsidiary has provided
software engineering, systems development and operational
support services to JPL since 1987. The extension brings the
contract's total value to $67.7 million, Logicon said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   U.K. Sets Antitrust Probes
   For 2 Foreign Transactions
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TCSFY U.BA ICI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The British government ordered antitrust probes
of two separate transactions planned by France's Thomson CSF
S.A. and Finland's Kemira Oy.
   The action holds up, at least temporarily, plans by
France-owned Thomson and British Aerospace PLC to merge their
guided-missile businesses. The merger, for which planning
began last year, would create one of the world's largest
missile makers, with annual sales of about #1.4 billion
($2.63 billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government also ordered an investigation into plans
for Kemira, a Finland-owned chemical company, to buy the
British nitrogenous fertilizer business of Imperial Chemical
Industries PLC. The transaction, announced in July and valued
at less than #100 million, would make Kemira the largest
fertilizer supplier in Britain.
   The decision highlights how serious the ruling
Conservative Party is taking its recent vow to scrutinize
mergers involving foreign state-controlled companies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   PMI SLM EUROP CANDA U.BAI
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                          CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Premark International Inc. -- $100 million of 10 1/2%
notes due Sept. 15, 2000, priced at 99.979 to yield 10.502%.
The noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 160 basis
points above the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated Baa-2 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and triple-B by Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters led
by Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   Metropolitan Transportation Authority, N.Y. -- $165.9
million of transit facilities 1987 service contract bonds and
commuter facilities 1987 service contract bonds, Series 4,
due July 1, 1992-2003, 2007, 2016 and 2019, tentatively
priced by a Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.40% in
1992 to 8.13% in 2016. There are $108.4 million of transit
facilities 1987 service contract bonds and $57.5 million of
commuter facilities 1987 contract bonds. Current interest
serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.40% in 1992 to 7.90%
in 2003. In the transit facilities service contract issue,
there are $12.9 million of 8% term bonds priced at 99.63 to
yield 8.03% in 2007, $48.4 million of 7.88% term bonds priced
at 97.3 to yield 8.13% in 2016 and $25 million of 7.50% term
bonds priced at 93.33 to yield 8.10% in 2019. In the commuter
facilities contract issue, there are $6.9 million of 8% term
bonds priced at 99.63 to yield 8.03% in 2007, $25.6 million
of 7.88% term bonds priced at 97.3 to yield 8.13% in 2016 and
$13.2 million of 7.50% term bonds priced at 93.33 to yield
8.10% in 2019. Ratings of single-A/triple-B-Plus are
expected.
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   Student Loan Marketing Association -- $250 million of
8.15% fixed-rate notes due Sept. 18, 1992, priced at par.
When-issued trading will begin today. Settlement will be
Thursday. Interest payments will be made semiannually
beginning March 18, 1991. The notes are sold through a
selling group managed by Sallie Mae and are available in book
entry form.
   Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corp. -- $89
million of 15-year 9.20% fixed-rate optional principal
redemption bonds were priced at par. The bonds may be
redeemed in whole or in part on any interest payment date
beginning 10 years from the date of issue. These Series
B-2005 bonds, the fifth Financial Assistance Corp. issue,
mature Sept. 27, 2005. Interest will be paid semiannually on
March 27 and Sept. 27. The issue will be dated and delivered
Thursday and will be available in book entry form only
through the Federal Reserve System. The offering will be made
by the Financial Assistance Corp. through a limited selling
group of recognized securities dealers and dealer banks.
Members of the Federal Farm Credit Banks consolidated
systemwide bonds selling group are also eligible to
participate through a reallowance.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Province of Saskatchewan (Canada) -- 400 million marks of
floating-rate notes at the six-month London interbank offered
rate plus 0.20 point, priced at par, due October 1997, via
CSFB Effektenbank. First Libor fixing Oct. 18. Fees 0.35.
   Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank (West Germany) -- 200
million marks of domestic bonds due Oct. 10, 2000, priced at
100.30, via Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank. Coupon 10 1/4% for
first three years and 15 3/4% less six-month Libor for final
seven years. Fees 1.70.
   British Airports Finance B.V. (U.K. parent) -- 15 billion
yen of floating-rate notes due Jan. 25, 1996, priced at par
via Daiwa Europe Ltd. Coupon initially at spread of 0.10
point above three-month Libor, then 0.10 point above
six-month Libor. Guaranteed by British Airport Authority PLC.
Once-only call at par on Jan. 25, 1994. Fees 0.25.
   Mutoh Industries Co. (Japan) -- $100 million of Eurobonds
due Oct. 4, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants indicating a
5 1/8% coupon at par, via New Japan Securities Ltd. Each
$5,000 bond carries one warrant, exercisable from Oct. 25,
1990, through Sept. 15, 1994, to buy shares at an expected
premium of 2 1/2% to the closing price when terms are fixed
Wednesday. Fees 2 1/4.
   Interfinance Credit Nationale (France) -- 500 million
French francs of 10 1/4% Eurobonds due May 21, 1993, at issue
price of 100 1/4 (plus 151 days' accrued interest) via Credit
Commercial de France, to trade interchangeably with 1.5
billion franc issue outstanding. Guaranteed by Credit
National. Fees 1 3/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   SCEcorp's Bryson
   Named Chairman,
   Chief Executive
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   SCE WNEWS SDO
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SCEcorp said John E. Bryson was elected chairman and chief
executive officer of the utility holding company and its
operating unit, succeeding Howard Allen, who will retire from
those posts Oct. 1.
   The selection of Mr. Bryson, a one-time environmental
activist and former chairman of California's Public Utility
Commission, ends a two-way race for the top position at the
nation's second-largest investor-owned electric utility in
terms of customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bryson's rival for the top slot, Michael R. Peevey,
was elected president of SCEcorp, a third title held by Mr.
Allen, who has dominated SCEcorp and its Southern California
Edison Co. unit for nearly a decade.
   Mr. Bryson, 47 years old, is currently executive vice
president and chief financial officer of SCEcorp. Mr. Peevey,
52, is also an executive vice president of the Rosemead,
Calif., concern.
   The selection of Mr. Bryson was warmly received by
analysts. "I think it's a big plus for the company," said
Edward J. Tirello Jr., an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris
Upham Inc. Mr. Tirello said increasing competition in the
utility business as well as complicated environmental
pressures call for the broad background that Mr. Bryson will
bring to the position.
   Mr. Bryson and Mr. Peevey have for much of the past five
years appeared an odd couple of prospective successors to Mr.
Allen, who is a forceful personality in political and
business circles in California and nationally in the
utilities business. Mr. Allen will remain chairman of
SCEcorp's executive committee and a director of both the
holding company and its utility unit -- suggesting that he
may continue to wield considerable power at SCEcorp.
   Even as they were being groomed for the top position, Mr.
Bryson and Mr. Peevey shared only a little of the corporate
limelight with Mr. Allen. Both men were elected directors of
SCEcorp and the utility only yesterday. Their pictures
haven't appeared in the company's annual report since 1984.
   Nonetheless, the men were being given a succession of
responsibilities. And speculation was rampant at SCEcorp
about who would get the final nod. Mr. Bryson, a cerebral
lawyer, rarely made formal public appearances outside the
company and has looked after financial and legal matters
inside it. Mr. Peevey, a garrulous economist and former labor
lobbyist, has spearheaded SCEcorp's tough and very public
lobbying for acceptance of its plan to merge with neighboring
San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co. in a $2.8 billion stock swap.
   SCEcorp is still fighting for approval of the merger,
which is being considered by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission and the California Public Utility Commission,
which are expected to rule before the end of the year. The
combined utility would supplant Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co. as
the nation's largest investor-owned utility in terms of
customers.
   If allowed, the consolidation of the operations with San
Diego Gas will be the principal task facing SCEcorp's new
chairman and will take considerable attention.
   But, as part of a wider strategy, the company under Mr.
Bryson is also likely to emphasize its burgeoning
non-regulated businesses, which include construction of
generating facilities that sell power to other utilities. In
an interview, Mr. Bryson noted that this effort has moved
overseas, with a massive project now under consideration to
build a one million-kilowatt generating station in Britain.
   "We believe that our non-utility businesses . . . are a
very significant part of our own future," said Mr. Bryson,
who added that the industry "is dealing with an increasing
rate of change."
   Mr. Bryson has a background at least as diverse as the
company he will head. Shortly after graduation from law
school, he was a founder of the Natural Resources Defense
Council, a national public-interest law group.
   In the mid-1970s, he was chairman of the California State
Water Resources Board. And from 1979 to 1982, he was
president of the California Public Utilities Commission,
where he is credited with revitalizing parts of the staff and
encouraging broader regulatory approaches.
   Mr. Bryson was hired by Southern California Edison after a
two-year stint with a San Francisco law firm and became
senior vice president, law and finance. He was later made an
executive vice president and chief financial officer.
(Michael L. Noel, currently vice president and treasurer,
will assume the added title of chief financial officer Oct.
1.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nonfinancial Debt Grew
   At 6% Rate in 2nd Period
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Borrowing by households, nonfinancial
businesses and federal, state and local governments grew at
an annual rate of 6% in the second quarter, trailing the 7.6%
rate of the first period, the Federal Reserve Board said.
   The Fed said borrowing by the federal government grew at
an annual rate of 9.2% in the second quarter, while private,
state and local nonfinancial borrowing grew at a 5% rate. The
figures are adjusted for seasonal changes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Second-quarter nonfinancial borrowing totaled $598.1
billion, of which $216.7 billion was by the federal
government.
   Total credit market debt owed by the nonfinancial sector
at the end of the second quarter was $10.127 trillion, up
from $9.973 trillion at the end of the first quarter and
$9.439 trillion a year earlier.
   Borrowing by nonfinancial businesses increased at an
annual rate of 4.9%, compared with 5.9% the previous quarter.
Household borrowing increased at a 5.5% rate, compared with
8.4% in the previous quarter.
   State and local government borrowing increased at an
annual rate of 2.3% in the second quarter, compared with 1.4%
in the previous quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal Investigators
   Seize Firm Suspected
   Of Dealing With Iraq
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY &amp; PRODUCTION, QUALITY CONTROL (ITC)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   An Ohio machine tool concern was seized Monday by federal
agents who are investigating its suspected ties to the Iraqi
government and its possible supply of machinery for Iraqi
armaments.
   The company, Matrix-Churchill Corp., is a unit of
Matrix-Churchill Ltd., of Britain. In turn, the British
concern is owned by Technology &amp; Development Group Ltd., a
subsidiary of Al-Arabj Trading, an Iraqi holding company,
according to Stephen Hartkop, assistant agent in charge of
the U.S. Customs office in Cleveland that conducted the raid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 12-employee company, based in Solon, Ohio, near
Cleveland, was padlocked and its assets seized under the
presidential order that Iraqi firms' assets be frozen, said
Mr. Hartkop. The firm had about $2 million in its bank
accounts, he said.
   Mr. Hartkop said the Ohio arm of Matrix-Churchill for
years had been a machine tool concern and that several
machines were on display in its offices. However, he said
Matrix-Churchill also had been purchasing other types of
manufacturing companies and apparently was shipping
manufacturing equipment to Iraq.
   The Customs agent said the investigation would focus on
whether the Solon company illegally exported munitions or
controlled commodities or violated laws concerning trading
with Iraq. He declined to say whether assets of other Ohio
companies also had been seized.
   Yesterday, the Cleveland Plain Dealer reported that a
secretary at Matrix-Churchill denied involvement with the
Iraqi government. A lawyer at a Cleveland firm that has
represented Matrix-Churchill couldn't immediately be reached.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Market Fund
   Assets Posted Increase
   During Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Assets of the nation's 524 money market
funds rose $1.72 billion to $408.76 billion in the week ended
Wednesday, according to the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade association.
   Assets of 256 general-purpose funds rose $1.05 billion to
$144.85 billion, and assets of 105 broker-dealer funds rose
$40.9 million to $165.61 billion. Assets of 163 institutional
funds rose $629.5 million to $98.30 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite light trading with narrowly fluctuating money
market fund yields and short-term interest rates, "assets of
money market funds rose nonetheless by a substantial amount,
reflecting investors' basic predilection for safety in times
of economic uncertainty," said Jacob Dreyer, chief economist
at the Institute.
   Fund assets were revised for the week ended Sept. 12, to
$407.04 billion. The increase reported for that week was
revised to $497.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Massachusetts Forms
   Fund for Tax Receipts
   Pledged to Pay Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON --- Massachusetts, hoping to get a good reception
from nervous investors for an approaching bond issue, will
set up a special fund for tax receipts that will be
specifically pledged to pay off the bonds.
   Massachusetts' finances have investors worried in part
because of a tax rollback petition on the November ballot
that would reduce taxes by more than $1 billion in the
current fiscal year; the state's budget is around $13
billion. The anti-tax measure, if approved, would eliminate a
tax-increase package adopted recently by the legislature to
narrow a huge budget deficit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Establishing a dedicated trust fund is uncommon, although
it has been used in the past by other borrowers having
financial problems as a way to bolster investor interest.
   The state is setting up an "irrevocable trust fund" for
the new Series A bonds into which sufficient personal income
tax receipts will be paid monthly, according to Moody's
Investors Services Inc. Massachusetts is expected to issue
about $385 million of the Series A dedicated income tax bonds
next week.
   Moody's gave the new issue a rating of Baa-1, slightly
better than the worst-in-the-nation rating of Baa that it has
given Massachusetts' general obligation bonds. "We feel there
is some degree of enhancement provided" by the trust fund,
said George Leung, managing director for state ratings at
Moody's. Massachusetts also plans to issue another $225
million other bonds that are expected to be secured by a
letter of credit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dayton Hudson Approves
   Planned Parenthood Grant
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   DH
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- A Dayton Hudson Corp. foundation, reversing
an earlier decision blasted by abortion-rights advocates,
approved an $18,000 grant to Planned Parenthood.
   Still, Dayton Hudson is being careful not to anger
anti-abortion groups. The big retailer said its money is
going into a "restricted public-education fund" that Planned
Parenthood's Minnesota chapter will add as a "separate line
item subcategory" in its audit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dayton Hudson said, "Our contributions have never been nor
will they be used to finance abortion services. We are
satisfied that we can make this grant without taking a
position on this issue."
   Last month, the Dayton Hudson Foundation decided to sever
longtime financial ties to Planned Parenthood in an attempt,
it said, to distance itself from the battle over abortion.
For 22 years, the foundation had given the group money for
education programs designed to prevent teen-age pregnancy.
   It isn't known if the reversal will appease women's groups
that announced plans to boycott Dayton Hudson stores during
the Christmas season if the foundation didn't restore
funding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   OCLB SPC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Office Club Inc., offering of 1.3 million shares, via
Salomon Brothers Inc. and William Blair &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Oncotech Inc., initial offering of 1.3 million shares, via
Dain Bosworth Inc. and Cruttenden &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Security Pacific Corp., shelf offering of $2.5 billion of
debt securities and warrants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Litton Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LIT
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LITTON INDUSTRIES Inc. began an offering of $1 billion
face value of zero-coupon bonds, called liquid yield option
notes, due Sept. 26, 2010. The Beverly Hills, Calif., defense
and marine systems company will make the offering via Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets. The offering is expected to raise
about $258 million in net proceeds which the diversified
technology concern will use to pay debt. The bonds, which
have an annual yield to maturity of 6.75%, are convertible at
a rate of 3.063 shares of common stock per note, representing
an initial conversion price of $86.54.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   First Seismic Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FSEI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   FIRST SEISMIC Corp., a Denver-based marketer of seismic
data, said it is offering one million common shares in its
initial public offering at $9 each. All of the shares are
being offered by the company. Selling stockholders have
granted the underwriters an option to purchase as many as an
additional 150,000 shares to cover over-allotments. Net
proceeds from the offering will be used to repay debt,
finance new seismic surveys and purchase seismic data, and
for working capital and general corporate purposes. Rotan
Mosle Inc. is the managing underwriter of the offering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fed Allows J.P. Morgan to Underwrite Stocks
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr. and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JPM BT CCI CMB T.RY T.CM FNB J.FUJ
</CO>
<IN>
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve Board drove a historic
crack in the wall separating investment banking and
commercial banking by authorizing J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. to
underwrite stocks. It is the first time a bank has had that
power since the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act outlawed it because
of abuses during the Great Depression.
   The move comes at an unusual moment, with concern about
the health of the banking industry growing because of
widespread problems with real estate and other loans and with
the economy grinding along at a slow pace.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the Fed signaled in January 1989, when it gave banks
the power for the first time to underwrite corporate debt,
that it also intended to give banks the power to underwrite
equity securities. The central bank said in that decision it
wanted to wait and see how banks handled the debt powers, and
in letting J.P. Morgan lead the charge into stocks, the Fed
chose one of the strongest of the big banks.
   "It will be interesting to see what the political reaction
will be, with the problems of the banks gaining such
prominence," said Bert Ely, an Alexandria, Va., financial
institutions consultant. "But Morgan is so strong that the
Fed can't really be criticized from the standpoint that this
could affect the safety and soundness of the banking
industry."
   There was no immediate groundswell of opposition -- or
support -- on Capitol Hill after the Fed announced the
approval late yesterday. But many members were in their home
districts, observing the Jewish holiday or campaigning.
Still, it was ironic that only a few days ago the General
Accounting Office, an investigative and research arm of
Congress, recommended to the House Banking Committee that the
government insurance fund for banks be shored up and bank
capital increased before banks be given broad new powers.
   The Securities Industry Association, which has been
fighting a losing battle for years against bank inroads into
the securities business, raised the specter of the
savings-and-loan crisis in a statement calling the Fed ruling
"astonishing."
   "The banking and thrift industries are in a period of
turmoil not seen for decades," the group said in a statement
by its chairman, Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. partner Robert Downey,
and the group's president, Edward O'Brien. A Fed spokesman
wouldn't comment when asked about the Fed's action amid the
concern about the banking system.
   However, the powers granted to J.P. Morgan to underwrite
securities through its J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. subsidiary
are hardly sweeping or an immediate threat to the venerable
Wall Street houses. The securities unit can't derive more
than 10% of its revenue from underwriting corporate equities,
together with corporate debt, commercial paper, securities
backed by mortgages and consumer debt, and municipal bonds
linked to revenue from specific projects. At least 90% of the
subsidiary's revenue must come from the much less-risky
underwriting of federal debt.
   Moreover, the timing of the Fed's decision isn't
particularly opportune for J.P. Morgan. Although the Dow
Jones Industrial Average remains at a relatively high level,
above the 2500 mark, the pace of equity underwriting hasn't
been robust, nor has it produced big profits for Wall Street
securities firms. Last year's pace of equity offerings was
the slowest since 1984, and it hasn't picked up appreciably
this year.
   Nevertheless, the Fed's action is a big triumph for the
portion of the banking industry -- mostly larger banks --
that has been frustrated in its attempts to wrest broader
powers from Congress. Congress has been reluctant to grant
new powers partly because it was caught in a traffic jam
between the wealthy banking and securities lobbies, and
partly because fears of the kind of abuses that led to the
creation of the Glass-Steagall barrier haven't abated.
   Those abuses included several instances of banks trying to
push their bad loans off on unwitting investors by packaging
them as securities. Those favoring giving banks securities
powers have argued that the far more extensive disclosure of
investment information required today will protect the
public. They also argue that the biggest American banks have
been safely underwriting stocks overseas, and that U.S. banks
need the powers to keep up in competition with increasingly
powerful foreign banks that underwrite stocks.
   Samuel Hayes, finance professor at Harvard Business
School, said "I think essentially the Glass-Steagall Act is
dead."
   Mr. Hayes called the SIA's objections a "smokescreen," and
noted that banks use separate securities subsidiaries without
access to insured deposits for their underwriting. Mr. Hayes
doubts other major banks "have the stomach for a full-fledged
foray into equity underwriting" because of lack of capital
and bad loans. But he believes the entry of J.P. Morgan and
other banks into the lucrative underwriting area eventually
will cut into Wall Street's profits. Equity underwriting
margins are 4% to 6%, he said, compared with only 0.5% for
debt.
   He predicted Morgan will threaten underwriters that sell
stocks to institutional investors, such as Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co., First Boston, a unit of CS First Boston Group, and
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. more than those such as PaineWebber Inc.
that sell stocks mainly to individuals.
   John M. Hennessy, chief executive of CS First Boston Inc.,
offered "congratulations" to J.P. Morgan Chairman Dennis
Weatherstone. "It's a tough market," Mr. Hennessy said. "But
it always helps to have an extra dealer in the market with
money."
   At the same time, many of the largest U.S. banks have been
severely weakened by a succession of problems that have
crimped their ability to move aggressively into new markets,
or take new risks with their balance sheets.
   Stocks of many major commerical banks have declined 30% to
50% this year as a result of rising levels of problem loans
and falling values for assets backing up those loans --
particularly in real estate. J.P. Morgan is one of the few
big banks to have avoided the worst of these problems.
   Several banks have had permission to underwrite debt
securities for some time. Some of them rank among the top 20
but aren't yet crowding out investment bankers. So far this
year, J.P. Morgan ranks 11th among underwriters of all debt
securities, according to IDD Information Services. Among
other banks, Citicorp ranks 14th, Chemical Banking Corp.
17th, Bankers Trust New York Corp. 19th, and First Chicago
Corp. 20th.
   As well, several banks including Morgan, Bankers Trust,
and Citicorp, have attempted to establish a beachhead in the
market for high-risk, high-yield junk bonds -- just as that
market has all but closed for new issues.
   Five other requests for stock-underwriting powers are
pending at the Fed, from Bankers Trust, Citicorp, Chase
Manhattan, the Royal Bank of Canada, and Canadian Imperial.
   Separately, Fuji Bank Ltd. said it has applied for Fed
approval to undertake full brokerage services through its
U.S. brokerage unit, making it the first Japanese bank to do
so.
   The application was filed by Fuji Securities Inc., a
subsidiary based in Chicago, to expand the scope of its
securities business. Fuji Securities currently isn't allowed
to underwrite all types of equities, arrange privately placed
bonds or carry out other brokerage services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Some People Who
   Can Blink and Nod
   Just Cannot Wink
   ---
   Which Is a Problem if You
   Are a Flirt or if You Care
   To Look Into a Telescope
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   Sometimes, when really relaxed, Katy MacDonald can shut
one eye and keep the other eye open.
   That's right, she winks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But only on a good day. Usually, this 35-year-old
psychotherapist in Berkeley, Calif., barely manages to make
what she calls "my fake wink" -- a facial contortion in which
she crunches her forehead and shuts both eyes at once.
   Ms. MacDonald is part of a little known, poorly
researched, suffering-in-silence minority: nonwinkers. The
inability to wink may seem like one of life's smaller
tribulations. But those who have the affliction -- including
this reporter -- feel both put upon and shut out by those who
don't.
   The case of Wendy Lustbader, a Seattle, Wash., social
worker, is typical. She says she's "felt mocked by winks
since childhood."
   "I hate being winked at," says Ms. Lustbader, who delivers
a real wink about once in every 10 tries. "I'm very aware of
the others in the room, and the winker makes me a
co-conspirator. You don't know the wink is coming, and you're
entwined in it. You can't defend against a wink. It happens
so fast."
   What's her problem?
   Many biologists and physicians believe that winking is
genetically determined. They say that the brains of people
like Ms. Lustbader, Katy MacDonald and Ms. MacDonald's
father, who also can't wink, are somehow "wired" differently,
making it difficult for them to control the major muscle
around the eye. "There might be a subtle abnormality in the
brain stem, or your hardwiring somewhere makes it
impossible," says Craig Karson, a professor of psychiatry at
the University of Arkansas.
   A similar kind of abnormality may exist in people who
can't wiggle their ears. Yet unlike ear wiggling, a kind of
party gag, winking has charismatic power, "especially in a
one-to-one situation," says Robert Whiteside, who writes
widely on body language. As a gesture, the wink is well
understood as an invitation to intimacy, and when not overtly
sexual, it signifies collusion or solidarity.
   "The message of the wink," writes anthropologist Desmond
Morris, is "you and I are momentarily involved in a shared
act which secretly excludes all others."
   Moreover, adds Nancy Henley, a professor of psychology at
UCLA, "A wink is something you can do when your arms are full
with grocery bags."
   For those born with the proper wiring, winking is easily
learned, usually in childhood, sometimes on the first try.
But experts estimate that millions of Americans have trouble
getting the hang of it. According to "Adler's Physiology of
the Eye," a standard medical text, "Many persons cannot wink
until they are taught, and some never learn to close one eye
at all." Antonio Sanchez, a yoga instructor in San Francisco,
says he had a girlfriend who couldn't wink. At non-Nirvanic
moments, "I would wink at her, and she couldn't wink back,"
he recalls. "It really bugged her. So I developed an exercise
for her. After a lot of effort, she learned to wink."
   Mr. Sanchez and that girlfriend have since parted ways,
but his dedication to helping nonwinkers wink remains intact.
He's devised a simple exercise for them: Stand in front of a
mirror and rub both hands together until the palms are warm.
Place a palm on each eye. Uncover one eye. Hold the other eye
shut with the helping hand while tightening the muscle around
that eye. Then withdraw the hand and keep the muscle tight.
   Don't expect to master the wink in one try, Mr. Sanchez
warns. "It could take you days, weeks, even months," he says.
"Concentration is everything."
   Horses, it seems, have an easier time of it. Roy
Markegard, a horse trainer in Half Moon Bay, Calif., says
he's taught 80 of his equine friends to wink simply by
winking at them until they wink back. "Dogs can wink, too,"
he adds.
   Strangely the scientific establishment has paid scant
attention to the plight of nonwinkers, devoting little
research to the problem. When pressed, experts will say
something like this: "It may be that the person who can't
wink lacks some general inhibitory capacity, that he may be
excessively aroused," says Joseph Tecce, a psychologist at
Boston College. But then the physical benefits of winking are
hardly romantic. "Winking helps the circulation of tears,
both by increasing drainage and by causing constriction of
the lacrimal gland," says the "Encyclopedia of the Eye."
   It's worrisome, of course, when a person suddenly loses
the ability to wink. "It ought to require examination,"
opines Barret Katz, a neuro-ophthalmologist in San Francisco.
This rare disorder, called Revilloid's sign, is a puzzle to
physicians. In general, though, the inability to wink "isn't
a hot issue," Dr. Katz adds.
   None of this is very helpful to nonwinkers, particularly
someone like Lindsay Peters, a 12-year-old from Ofrage, Pa.,
who's weighing a career as an astronomer but has trouble
looking through a telescope. "I try to squint, or I might
cover my eye with my hand," she says. Eye patches can be
used, but they're awkward and look stylish only on the
Hathaway man.
   Bill Hayes, a former policeman from Albuquerque, N.M.,
says he learned to wink only because he had to. "I could
close one eye on the firing range," where he needed to
display expert marksmanship, but no where else, he says. Now
retired, Mr. Hayes has lost his ability to wink and reports
trouble using cameras.
   An inability to wink can be an occupational hazard even on
the other side of the camera. John C. Fletcher, an acting
teacher at American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco,
asks every student in his beginning classes to wink, as part
of a series of dramatic exercises.
   "Invariably someone in the class can't wink," he says.
"This is an ongoing issue."
   Mr. Fletcher thinks "an actor should be able to move his
body any way he pleases." He convinces skeptical students of
the value of winking in this way: "I bring up the image of
the filming of their first big role: Steven Spielberg comes
in for a closeup and asks for a wink. What do you do? Tell
him you can't wink?"
   Afterwards, few students ignore winking, he says.
   It may well be, however, that winking is on the wane. "It
was much more popular 30 to 40 years ago," says Paul Ekman, a
psychologist and expert in facial behavior at the University
of California at San Francisco. Mr. Ekman explains that such
"facial emblems" as winking contain clear meanings and are
"the physical equivalent of words, but they go in and out of
style." Some non-Western cultures, such as the South Fore
people in New Guinea, ascribe no meaning to a wink, and even
in the West, Mr. Ekman notes, today "winking is almost
passe."
   And there's more good news for nonwinkers: In certain
situations, winking is highly improper, says etiquette maven
Charlotte Ford. "If a man is winking at a women for sexual
reasons, that is vulgar," she says.
   But Marianna Nunes, who gives seminars on flirting in the
San Francisco area and knows all about the language of
romance, thinks even a messy wink by a nonwinker may be
better than its modern equivalent. "Personally, I'd like to
see more {winking}," she says. "Now, there's more showing off
your body."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Morgan Stanley Launches
   Third World Debt Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   MS EUROP LATAM FREST WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Morgan Stanley Group Inc., facing a slump in
its core business, is seeking profit from a source farther
afield: the debt of developing nations.
   The big securities firm said it launched a unit for
developing-country debt and hired several veteran Wall Street
executives to run it. It said the unit will focus on trading
and securitization of the debt as well as public and private
financing in developing countries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The market for developing-country debt, while volatile and
risky, also has profit potential. Lehman Brothers' Developing
Country Debt Index, which tracks the value of the commercial
bank debt outstanding of 11 nations with a face amount of
nearly $250 billion, rose 7.8% in this year's first half.
   To help run the new unit, Morgan Stanley brought in a
group of executives led by Jay H. Newman who established a
similar unit at Dillon, Read &amp; Co., in 1989. Mr. Newman and
Keith Fogarty will join Morgan Stanley as managing directors;
others in the group include Pierre Biraben, John Foley, Peter
Grossman and Gordon Wood. The unit will become part of Morgan
Stanley's fixed-income division.
   Morgan Stanley is active in privatization of state-owned
companies in Europe, Latin America and Asia, and its asset
management division runs several developing-country stock
funds. In July, the company posted a 48% drop in
second-quarter earnings, reflecting significant drops in its
core investment-banking and merchant-banking operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   American Express to Unveil Magazine
   For Cardholders in College This Fall
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP NSANY AAPL IBM CI X.UPS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Express Co.'s publishing unit will
distribute a new magazine this fall on college campuses,
testing a market where several others have flunked out.
   The company this week is mailing the first issue of a new
quarterly called Connections to 600,000 students on 600
campuses who are holders of its American Express card. Like
other so-called custom magazines, the magazine is free and
offers its advertisers, Nissan Motor Co. and Apple Computer
Inc., exclusive sponsorship arrangements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Connections is the second project spawned by the Custom
Media Group of American Express Publishing, a unit of
American Express Co. The Custom Media Group is also
publishing Your Company, a magazine sent out for the first
time this week to one million American Express corporate-card
holders who run small businesses. Your Company's major
sponsors are International Business Machines Corp., Cigna
Corp. and United Parcel Service Inc.
   College campuses have been a graveyard for major magazine
publishers in recent years. Washington Post Co.'s Newsweek,
Time Warner Inc. and Whittle Communications L.P. have all
folded their college magazines, largely because of a lack of
advertising support. Only Whittle returned to campuses with a
new magazine for women called In View, which is distributed
on 926 campuses; it is published five times during the school
year and sponsored by Maybelline Co.
   But American Express officials say the use of their
cardholder lists for distribution is an advantage, and that
such custom magazines represent a stable publishing
arrangement. Nissan and Apple pay in advance to sponsor
Connections, covering all costs and providing a "locked-in
profit level," said Thomas O. Ryder, president of American
Express Publishing. There is, however, a history of sponsors
suddenly withdrawing support, resulting in the swift
disappearance of such magazines.
   Both Connections and Your Company use two of the latest
magazine publishing innovations: "demographic" binding of ads
and ink-jet printing. In the case of Connections, certain ads
from Nissan and Apple can be bound in issues sent, for
example, to students at "classier" schools or those who
travel a lot, while different ads go elsewhere, said Paul D.
Wolff, publisher of Connections and vice president of Custom
Media. Ink-jet printing allows a sponsor's local dealer to
print personal messages on the magazine.
   Mary Simons, editor in chief of Connections, said the
magazine will primarily carry service articles that tell
students how to do such things as land a job or ski on a snow
board. "We stay away from sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll," she
said.
   Mr. Ryder said the new custom magazines represent a new
source of revenue for the company, which is scaling back its
plans to acquire city and regional magazines. "We aren't
leaving behind city magazines, we just aren't on the street
buying {magazines}," he said.
   Magazine Publishers of America, a trade group, said the
three best-selling magazines in college bookstores in 1989
were Hearst Corp.'s Cosmopolitan, Conde Nast Publications'
Glamour and Time Warner Inc.'s People.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Seafirst Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
WESTERN U.S. BANKS (BAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEAFIRST Corp. (Seattle) -- Luke S. Helms, 46 years old,
was named chairman and chief executive officer, succeeding
Richard P. Cooley, who will retire at the end of the year.
Mr. Helms, currently president at the Seafirst Bank unit,
will also take over as chairman and chief executive officer
of Seafirst Bank; Mr. Cooley, 66, will step down from those
posts Oct. 15. Mr. Helms joined Seafirst Bank in 1974.
   The company named Kevin B. Ferrell, 43, a senior vice
president at BankAmerica Corp., to take over as president of
Seafirst Bank. Seafirst Corp. is a unit of BankAmerica.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IRS Is Suspending Audits
   For Persian Gulf Hostages
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- As long as Saddam Hussein holds Americans
hostage in the Middle East they're safe from the IRS.
   The Internal Revenue Service said it will suspend audits
of any Americans detained in Iraq and Kuwait as well as any
efforts to collect unpaid taxes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To obtain such relief, the agency asks families of
hostages to call 1-800-829-4351 during business hours and
give the names and Social Security numbers of those detained
-- and impart any information "concerning ongoing actions
with the IRS."
   The agency also indicated it will consider postponing
examinations or tax bills of U.S. troops or military
reservists assigned to Operation Desert Shield in the Persian
Gulf. They should call the regular federal tax-assistance
number, 1-800-424-1040, "in response to correspondence
received regarding an examination or past due taxes so that
alternatives may be considered, such as postponing an
examination or a payment," the IRS said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marriott Signs Domino's
   To Bring Pizza to Schools
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   MHS
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BETHESDA, Md. -- Marriott Corp. signed an agreement with
Domino's Pizza Inc. to bring pizza to more than 200 school
districts and 450 college campuses.
   Under the agreement, Domino's, a pizza delivery concern
based in Ann Arbor, Mich., will deliver pizzas to the schools
and colleges where Marriott provides dining services. In
schools, the pizzas will be served in the cafeteria. At
universities, the price of dorm-delivered pizzas will be
deducted from students' meal accounts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Marriott, a lodging and food-service concern, said the
agreement offers a popular fast-food product to its student
customers and allows Domino's to enter a new marketplace.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- 3Com Corp.:
   Company Says Net Income
   Quadrupled for 1st Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)
</SO>
<CO>
   COMS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   3Com Corp. reported that net income for the first quarter
ended Aug. 31 quadrupled, to $5 million, or 17 cents a share,
from $1.2 million, or 4 cents a share, in the year-ago
period.
   Sales rose 19% to $106.2 million from $89.1 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Santa Clara, Calif., manufacturer of computer network
systems said that new products, such as its transmissions and
adapter devices, contributed to a third of sales, up from 10%
a year earlier. 3Com said the new-product sales helped to
offset weakening interest in the company's older workgroup
systems products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   City in Crisis:
   Philadelphia's Mayor
   Has Failed to Deliver
   On High Expectations
   ---
   Goode Has Finance Expertise,
   But His Political Miscues
   Contribute to Fiscal Chaos
   ---
   Brawling Council Is No Help
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- The inauguration of W. Wilson Goode in
January 1984 as this city's first black mayor brought joy
that the color barrier had finally been breached. It also
brought relief to many that the city had been narrowly spared
the return of Frank Rizzo, the tough ex-cop and former mayor
who had been such an embarrassment in the 1970s.
   "Never before did a mayor come into office with more
genuine support from all communities, from the business
community, from the neighborhoods," says G. Fred DiBona Jr.,
president of Independence Blue Cross, an early adviser to Mr.
Goode.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The honeymoon was sweet but short. Mr. Goode's two-term
tenure as mayor has become a tale of eroding power and
influence, especially with the city council and the state
legislature. It is a story of failures: failures to build
effective coalitions, resolve grudges, gain vital state
support and keep the city prospering.
   Today, Philadelphia is on the verge of financial collapse
and political paralysis. The crisis has many sources, and
some are clearly beyond the mayor's control. But many of them
are traced to his troubled tenure, with its long string of
blunders, miscalculations and ruptured relationships.
   The 52-year-old mayor says he deserves "as much blame as
any other elected official, but I'm not out there by myself."
While few would disagree, Harold A. Sorgenti, president of
Philadelphia's Arco Chemical Co., says that Mr. Goode "is not
the kind of person who could work the political system to his
advantage."
   Mr. Goode had seemed the ideal man to unite the city.
Unlike mayors in Washington, Atlanta, Detroit and other big
cities, he didn't rise to power through black activism or
bloc politics. Instead, he was a manager, the embodiment of
the black professional as urban civil servant. For three
years, he had done a solid job as the city's managing
director, shepherding its resources and cutting waste with
cool efficiency.
   His background, experience and credentials appealed to the
city's white establishment. Henry Wendt, then chief executive
of SmithKline Beckman Corp., and Roger Hillas, then president
of Provident National Bank, were close advisers. Top officers
of Arco Chemical, ARA Services Inc. and Hunt Manufacturing
Co. steered his finance committee.
   Mr. Goode had a master's degree in government
administration from the University of Pennsylvania's
prestigious Wharton School and a preference for starched
collars and Brooks Brothers suits. But as the son of a
sharecropper and a deacon in his Baptist church, he also had
the support from the black community, where he carried 99% of
the vote.
   On taking office Mr. Goode told Philadelphians: "We have
begun the process of healing the divisions of the past." He
pledged to make Philadelphia once again "a great place to
live, a great place to do business." People believed in him,
using words like renaissance and revitalization to describe
their hopes for Philadelphia. They even talked of Mr. Goode
as a Democratic contender for vice president.
   Yet almost from the outset, he had difficulty controlling
Philadelphia's fractious and often clownish 17-member city
council. His distaste for closed-door political dealings
frustrated his reform initiatives. "I don't understand the
concept of government that says the mayor has to take other
elected officials in the back room, make deals with them,
twist their arms, threaten them in order to get done what
they ought to do," Mr. Goode himself acknowledges. "I'm not
from that school."
   The mayor, now a lame duck, has stuck to his principles
and poured his heart into the job for seven grueling years.
Despite budget pressures, Mr. Goode has tried to maintain
essential services while providing for the city's needy. But
during that period, federal money for Philadelphia's social
services has almost disappeared, and state officials haven't
come to the rescue. The city budget has grown ever more
bloated, and the council has repeatedly declined to raise
taxes enough to balance it. Now the city is on the fiscal
rocks.
   Faced with a cumulative deficit of $206.4 million in its
$2.2 billion budget for the current fiscal year, the fourth
deficit in a row, Philadelphia could run out of cash before
Christmas, perhaps before Thanksgiving. Last week, Mr. Goode
was forced to withdraw the city's plan to raise $375 million
by selling short-term notes after Swiss Bank Corp. yanked its
guarantees. Moody's Investors Service Inc. responded by
declaring the city's bonds, already at "junk" levels and the
lowest-rated city bonds in the nation, to be even riskier.
Then Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. weighed in, slamming the city
even harder.
   Further inaction could be disastrous. A default on the
city's bond debt, for which the city promises to pay interest
only until June 1991, probably would ruin Philadelphia's
credit for 10 to 12 years. Deep slashes in all kinds of city
services would become unavoidable. Insolvency also could
bring panic, accelerating the exodus of jobs that has cost
the city about 400,000 residents since 1970. Of those who
remain, one in every four lives below the federal poverty
line.
   Philadelphia is the nation's fifth-largest city, with an
estimated population of 1,543,000. Nearly half the city's
residents are blacks, with Asians, Hispanics and other racial
minorities accounting for less than 15% of the population.
Strong ethnic neighborhoods -- Jewish, Italian, Irish and
Polish -- hold together large sections of the city's South
and Northeast sides. The city, founded as a Quaker colony by
William Penn and made famous by such early leaders as
Benjamin Franklin, still clings to some vestiges of the
Quaker tenet of political consensus.
   Nobody would have found the mayor's job easy. Despite
Philadelphia's handsome skyline, tony historic district,
world-class orchestra, museums and medical research teams, it
suffers from a lack of civic spirit. Apathetic residents in
ethnic and blue-collar neighborhoods tolerate corrupt judges,
police and politicians. As is true with many decaying cities,
litter and potholes are everywhere. People sleep on the
sidewalks. The stench of urine and human feces often
permeates downtown streets, subway tunnels, and even City
Hall. Voters pay little attention to important issues and
problems, but nurture grudges for years if elected
representatives fail to attend a family funeral or
neighborhood picnic.
   "The vast majority couldn't care less," says councilman
Thacher Longstreth. "That's the kind of citizenry we're
dealing with here."
   Mr. Goode had hoped to overcome the apathy. Soon after he
took office, the city published a 12-page promotional
tabloid. "We're moving again, and the best is yet ahead]" Mr.
Goode wrote in an open letter. The cover showed happy,
cheering Philadelphians waving their index fingers: "We're
Number 1."
   The cheering stopped and the high hopes crumbled on May
13, 1985, when Philadelphia police assaulted the fortified
rowhouse headquarters of a radical group called MOVE. They
shot 10,000 rounds into the house and dropped a bomb on the
roof. The resulting fire killed 11 people inside the house,
including five children, and reduced the entire neighborhood
-- two city blocks containing 61 homes -- to rubble.
   A grand jury considered bringing criminal charges against
the mayor and his top aides, but dropped the idea.
Nevertheless, the grand jury concluded: "Goode delegated too
much, deferred too often, knew too little and asked too few
questions."
   Mr. Goode's reputation has never fully recovered. Key
supporters in the business community, shocked by the mayor's
lack of control, began to distance themselves. SmithKline's
Mr. Wendt, once one of Mr. Goode's chief supporters and
advisers, disengaged. Mr. Wendt says through a spokesman that
he has been "out of touch" with city issues for so long that
he doesn't "feel comfortable" talking about the mayor. Says a
prominent banker: "We left Wilson Goode to swing in the
wind."
   Mr. Goode's relationship with the city council also began
to sour.
   He proposed building a trash-to-steam incinerator in South
Philadelphia. The need was urgent: The city had used up a
landfill in an adjacent county and was trucking garbage to
dumps as far away as North Carolina and Texas. But the
proposal immediately ran into neighborhood opposition, led by
one city council member. Mr. Goode couldn't marshal enough
support to counter it. Now the city must pay Waste Management
Inc. $54 million a year to haul its trash to a landfill just
outside of town.
   To get the incinerator the city needed, the mayor wouldn't
politick. "He never went over to Lucien Blackwell's chambers.
He never went over to John Street's chambers," says former
city solicitor Seymour Kurland, referring to two of the city
council's most influential members. Instead, Mr. Kurland
says, the mayor called both men into his office, made a short
speech and then dismissed them by saying, "Thank you very
much." Other big projects, including a huge criminal courts
complex, also have been bungled to the detriment of
taxpayers.
   But it has always been difficult for Philadelphia's mayors
to achieve rapport with the easily distracted city council.
   Last year, the council engaged in a long and furious
debate over whether to declare June as Lesbian and Gay Pride
Month. "What is there to be proud of?" scoffed Councilman
Francis W. Rafferty. "They're sick people, no doubt about
it." Mr. Longstreth referred to homosexuals as "fairies." Mr.
Blackwell supported the resolution, which narrowly passed,
but he lamented the lack of a "magic potion" to "cure"
homosexuality.
   By the time Mr. Goode narrowly won re-election in 1987 in
a rematch against Mr. Rizzo, the federal government had
already largely ended revenue-sharing with big cities. (In
1985 alone, $46.5 million disappeared from the budget.) Then
Philadelphia's budget wars began. Mr. Goode had assured the
voters that the budget was balanced and no new taxes were
needed. But the city ended that fiscal year with a $32.1
million deficit, its first under Mr. Goode.
   The city council balked at a $126 million tax increase he
proposed. Instead, led by Mr. Street (the council's budget
expert, who filed for personal bankruptcy in 1987), the
council raised only $82.5 million in new taxes. The city
ended the next fiscal year with a deficit of $75.2 million.
   The council's refusal to accept Mr. Goode's tax increases
has allowed rampant spending and revenue shortages. The
city's bloated, patronage-riddled court system, which is
controlled by elected judges and is supposed to be the
financial responsibility of the state, costs Philadelphia
about $144 million a year to operate. City prison employees
racked up $15 million of overtime pay last year. City garbage
collectors are paid about $13 an hour.
   In fiscal 1990, about 9% of Philadelphia's total payroll
represented overtime and premium pay -- about double the rate
for New York City. The Pennsylvania Economy League says
Philadelphia's employee benefits are also among the most
generous anywhere, largely due to contracts negotiated before
Mr. Goode took office.
   Even little things cost a lot here. The streets
department, which dispatches five-member crews just to fix
potholes, also spends over $1 million a year replacing bulbs
and paying the electricity tab for more than 22,000 street
lights in private alleys. Every summer for 10 years, the city
has paid to empty and refill a 70,000-gallon swimming pool
every day at the McVeigh Recreation Center in Northeast
Philadelphia, all because nobody would repair a broken pump
and filter.
   Serious inefficiencies are built into the city charter and
civil-service rules. When the former water commissioner,
William J. Marrazzo, tried to buy a $300 lawnmower for his
department, he says he found the procurement process required
$200 worth of paper work and a long wait. As for managerial
discretion, civil-service rules permitted him to hire only
three people in his entire department: his secretary and two
deputy commissioners.
   As the city's budget pressures grew, Mr. Goode failed to
build strong bridges to the state capital, where upstate and
rural legislators have always looked askance at the city.
While Pittsburgh has successfully lobbied for hundreds of
millions of dollars in recent years, Philadelphia never made
a persuasive case for its needs. State legislators say they
can't justify to their upstate constituents the funneling of
more money to Philadelphia until the city government develops
a coherent fiscal plan.
   F. Joseph Loeper, a Delaware County Republican who is the
state's senate majority leader, says, "Philadelphia is a
place where state dollars pour into and disappear." Mr.
Goode's fellow Democrat, Gov. Robert P. Casey, also has kept
his distance from Philadelphia's mess while he runs for
re-election.
   No one can say who the city will rally behind when Mr.
Goode leaves office in l992. No single figure has emerged
among the Democrats, who hold a voter-registration advantage
of about four to one over Republicans. Mr. Blackwell and
George Burrell Jr., both black, probably would seek to match
Mr. Goode's big election margins. But many other possible
candidates could emerge, including a former city prosecutor,
a former city controller and a former chancellor of the
Philadelphia Bar Association. On the Republican side, Mr.
Rizzo threatens yet another bid.
   The current crisis shows how badly the city's political
system has broken down. Last week, Mr. Goode called for an
end to the brawling that has brought Philadelphia to the
brink. Instead, council members, just back from summer
recess, devoted their first session to such weighty matters
as approving parades and a physical-fitness walkathon with
local celebrities.
   While the Bible-quoting Mr. Blackwell delivered a
55-minute tirade against new taxes, his colleague Angel L.
Ortiz vacantly tossed an apple in the air. The bored budget
expert, Mr. Street, walked out.
   Can Philadelphia extricate itself from the financial
morass? No analogies in other big cities are perfect, but
others have managed to come back from the brink. In the
1970s, New York had to grant powers to an independent
administrative board and wrangle state guarantees before it
could restore much of its fiscal health. More recently,
Cleveland dug itself out of a financial hole, and Detroit
averted a fiscal crisis when the Michigan Legislature granted
the city an emergency extension of its electricity-taxing
authority.
   In Philadelphia's case, state law would preclude the
imposition of a New York-style authority. But new initiatives
were under way this week to seek loans or guarantees from
foreign banks, and there was talk of imposing on local banks
a requirement to contribute to a bailout.
   Potential solutions abound -- but no one can agree on
which to pursue. Mr. Goode wants tax increases, more state
aid and the sale of the city's sports stadium and parking
garages. Mr. Blackwell wants city unions to defer negotiated
wage increases and proposes selling the airport. Mr. Burrell
demands the resignation of the city finance director.
Councilwoman Joan Krajewski wants $150 million in private
donations. Councilman James Tayoun advocates an independent
board to oversee the city's finances because "nobody in the
world trusts us anymore."
   Business leaders have yet to offer substantive help in the
crisis. Large local banks wouldn't give even token guarantees
of $15 million each for the short-term notes the city tried
unsuccessfully to float last week. The chamber of commerce
called an emergency "summit" meeting Wednesday, but no
elected officials except the mayor and the city controller
bothered to show up.
   As anxieties mount, Mr. Goode says he is open to new ideas
and looking for common ground. But his attitude suggests that
the gap may be hard to close. "We'll get it done," he says.
"My way."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Perkin-Elmer's Chief,
   McDonnell, Will Retire;
   Kelley Named to Post
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PKN
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED TECHNOLOGY (DTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORWALK, Conn. -- Perkin-Elmer Corp. said its chairman and
chief executive officer, Horace G. McDonell, will retire in
early November at age 62.
   Mr. McDonell, who led the company through its most recent
restructuring, will be succeeded by Gaynor N. Kelley, 59,
president and chief operating officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move comes near the end of the company's most
extensive restructuring program, which saw the divestiture of
businesses that generated more than $500 million in revenue,
most prominently its semiconductor business. That left the
maker of analytical instruments more narrowly focused and
slightly more profitable.
   Mr. Kelley, in an interview, said he doesn't expect to
deviate from the course set by Mr. McDonell. "I'm not
interested in a diversification strategy," Mr. Kelley said.
He noted that his challenge would be to increase sales and
profit from the analytical instruments business, which
currently generates more than $800 million in annual sales.
   But he said he has thought about an "aggressive position
on acquisitions" in which he would seek similar businesses.
   Some analysts said Mr. Kelley will take a more hands-on
approach to management than Mr. McDonell. He will also face
tremendous pressure to increase profit for the company, which
has had several years of sluggish growth.
   Perkin-Elmer said Mr. McDonell, who was elected chairman
in 1985, will continue to serve as director after retirement.
The company also said it was eliminating the position of
chief operating officer, as Mr. Kelley will serve as
chairman, president and chief executive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Fraudulent
   Franchisers
   Are Growing
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Fraud in franchising and the sale of business
opportunities is on the rise, fueled in part by a faltering
economy, say prosecutors and federal regulators.
   In convention centers and exhibition halls across the
country, weekend franchise and business-opportunity shows woo
crowds of would-be entrepreneurs with everything from
frozen-yogurt stands to T-shirt print shops. And although
most of them are legitimate, a growing number are scams.
"We're seeing more and more of these cases," says Kent
Alexander, an assistant U.S. attorney in Atlanta.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Franchise fraud leaves in its wake broken dreams of
financial independence and -- as the spate of recent cases
shows -- threatens the loss of homes and life savings of the
unwary investor.
   Rose Gregg found out first-hand. The 35-year-old single
mother from Cincinnati invested all of her modest savings two
years ago with American Legal Distributors, an Atlanta
concern that billed itself as a provider of prepaid legal
services. She saw the business -- marketing the company's
services in local shopping malls -- as work that would let
her spend more time with her son, who has cerebral palsy.
   "They had the biggest booth at the show, surrounded by
legitimate franchises I recognized," she says. "I spent a
week in a training seminar. I talked to other people who said
they'd been successful. They even sent a bouquet of flowers
after I invested."
   That was all she got. Ms. Gregg was one of 375 people
bilked out of more than $3 million by American Legal, with
individual losses ranging from Ms. Gregg's $5,500 nest egg to
more than $25,000, according to court documents. The scam's
organizer, Harold H. Pasley, was sentenced last month to 15
years in prison, while four "singers," people who were paid
to pose as successful franchisees, also received stiff
sentences. James C. Strayhorn, Mr. Pasley's attorney, says
his client disputes the charges and intends to pursue an
appeal of his sentence.
   A franchise gone bad is an especially cruel way to lose
money, says Jerome Steiner of the Federal Trade Commission.
"People don't just lose the cash they put in," he says.
"They've also invested lots of hard work, their pride and
dreams into trying to build their own business."
   Regulators say the number of potential victims of such
scams tends to rise as the economy sours. That's because
people who have been laid off or pushed into early retirement
often dream of owning their own business -- and have big
severance or benefit checks to invest, says R. Norman Cramer,
of the FTC's Denver office. As a result, "franchise fraud has
become a booming business for us over the last couple of
years," Mr. Cramer says.
   The scams span a broad spectrum. In a 1989 San Francisco
case, a company calling itself T.B.A. Inc. sold
distributorships for in-home AIDS tests, promising an
enormous market and a potential return of $3,000 a week, all
for an initial investment of less than $200. "Protect
yourself and your loved ones by testing in the privacy of
your own home," newspaper advertisements said. And the
company assured its distributors that they would "never
actually touch a test kit, completely removing any
possibility of contamination."
   That was one of the few truthful statements the company
made. The AIDS test was nothing more than a mail-order
questionnaire about life style. The firm was shut down and
ordered to repay investors. People named in the suit couldn't
be reached for comment.
   Scams such as the AIDS-test business are called bust-outs.
"These people come into town, rent nice offices, take out ads
in the local paper, persuade people to invest in whatever
they're selling, and then they evaporate," says attorney
Sheldon Horowitz of the New York attorney general's office.
Many victims of franchise fraud never see their money again.
   An exception was the pistol-packing investor who got his
$7,500 franchise fee back from American Safe Marketing, a
firm that fraudulently offered franchises for the sale of
fire extinguishers, the government charged in U.S. District
Court in Georgia last year. As FTC attorneys tell it, a
Colorado man who was convinced he had been conned flew to the
firm's Marietta, Ga., offices and walked a company officer to
the bank at gunpoint. "It was restitution, Western-style,"
says the FTC's Claude Wild. "We don't recommend it."
   Nicholas Lotito, lawyer for Safe Marketing's two owners,
says his clients inherited problems from previous owners.
"They bought an ongoing business with a number of problems
they weren't aware of," he says, and they didn't profit by
it.
   Fraud is less common among traditional franchisers who
convey a trademark to the franchisee, regulators say. Charges
of fraud against such established firms generally arise from
disputes over poor planning, markets that didn't materialize
or other adverse business conditions. The angry franchisee
"these days is a lot more likely to sue the minute there's a
problem," says Patrick Boroian, president of FranCorp, an
Olympia Fields, Ill., consultant.
   McKleans Inc. was one such case. The Bethel, Conn.,
dry-cleaning franchiser didn't set out to defraud anyone, an
FTC investigator says. It "just couldn't deliver on its
promises." After a tangled battle with franchisees and
regulators, the company filed for bankruptcy protection. The
founders of McKleans couldn't be reached for comment.
   Pat Burdo, who operates three McKleans stores in Monroe,
Conn., says the suits and the company's failure reflect the
difficulties of operating a franchise outlet. "This is a
hands-on business. I'm in here every morning at 7:30," Mr.
Burdo says. "Most of the people who got hurt were the
executive types who thought their franchise would run by
itself." He says some franchisees lost $50,000.
   Despite the apparent increase in fraud cases, people in
the franchising industry maintain that the problem is far
less prevalent today than in the 1960s and early 1970s, "when
there were lots of classic suede-shoe, fly-by-night
operators," says John Reynolds, a spokesman for the
International Franchise Association of Washington.
   Franchising has since entered the mainstream of American
business, with an estimated 2,500 to 3,000 franchisers doing
business through some 500,000 outlets, accounting for
one-third of all retail sales, the franchise association
says. And the numbers are growing.
   "With the downsizing of corporate America, and the shift
to a service economy, thousands of former middle managers are
looking to get into business for themselves," Mr. Reynolds
says. "It's the great American dream. But if you're thinking
about buying a franchise, carefully investigate every claim
and get a lawyer before signing a contract."
   Under federal rules, franchisers must provide detailed
financial data to back up sales claims, fully outline any
services to be provided by the franchiser, and disclose any
past legal entanglements, among other regulations.
   Despite all the rules, Mr. Reynolds says, "you can't
legislate honesty." In franchising, as in any other business,
"there will always be those who are just out there trying to
rip people off."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REC, Others Settle
   SEC Fraud Charges
   On Stock Purchases
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission
accused REC Investors Inc. of buying about $150 million of
securities without having enough money to pay for them.
   The complaint also named the firm's sole shareholder,
Robert E. Connors, and National State Bank of Summit, N.J.
The bank was accused of lending the firm money to buy the
stock with insufficient collateral.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to the commission, REC, based in Far Hills,
N.J., purchased about $150 million of securities without
sufficient funds to pay for the trades in 1987 and 1988. It
earned $2.6 million in profit on the trades.
   At the same time the suit was filed, the defendants
settled, without admitting any violations. Under the consent
agreement, REC will disgorge $47,803, representing the costs
that the firm would have incurred, plus interest, had it
borrowed the funds in compliance with margin rules, which
allow investors to buy stock without putting up the full
cost.
   Mr. Connors and the bank agreed to refrain from the
alleged violations in the future.
   In a separate settlement of administrative proceedings
against REC and Mr. Connors, REC agreed to a censure from the
agency and Mr. Connors agreed to a 15-day suspension of
trading.
   Mr. Connors couldn't be reached for comment yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Smit Internationale N.V.:
   Dutch Salvaging Firm Posts
   Narrower Loss for 1st Half
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   N.SMI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Smit Internationale N.V. reported a loss for the first
half of 1990 of 7.2 million guilders ($4.1 million), a slight
narrowing from the 8.6 million loss posted in the
year-earlier period.
   However, the Dutch salvaging company projected that
earnings for the year would at least equal its 1989 net
profit of 4 million guilders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Smit said operating profit improved to 18 million guilders
from 1.0 million guilders, but earnings were affected by
losses incurred by associated companies in which Smit has
holdings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Deflation of Airship Industries U.K.
   Takes More Wind Out of Blimp Industry
   ----
   By Barbara Toman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   AIRSY WX A.BON
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Buoyed until recently by an updraft, the blimp
industry has fallen to earth with a thud.
   The collapse of Airship Industries (U.K.) Ltd. has
deflated hopes for the dirigibles market. The company, which
with Westinghouse Electric Corp. is building a blimp for the
U.S. Navy, wasn't able to sell enough of its lighter-than-air
craft to keep up with steep research-and-development costs.
And with its parent company's major investor, Bond Corp.
Holdings Ltd., facing its own financial crisis, Airship
Industries U.K. couldn't find any cash.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If they had gone on for another two years, there might
have been quite good profit" from the Navy contract, says Ian
Bond, a partner at Cork Gully, the accountants called in to
salvage the British company's operations. But in the
meantime, he adds, "they haven't sold enough airships. It's
unlikely the company has made any money on a true accounting
basis for years and years."
   Cork Gully has had half a dozen approaches from parties
interested in buying the business. Work is continuing on the
Navy contract at Airship Industries U.K.'s factory in
Bedfordshire, north of London. But if no firm offer arises in
the next few weeks, Mr. Bond says he will wind up the
company's operations, casting a cloud over completion of the
$168.9 million Navy contract and the overall blimp business.
   Best known as cigar-shaped ads floating over sports
stadiums, blimps have been touted for wider use in recent
years. Airship Industries U.K., whose parent Airship
Industries Ltd. is 47.2%-owned by Bond Corp. of Australia,
has been the blimp's windiest backer, peddling it as a
tourist attraction and as a sturdy, stealthy surveillance
vehicle.
   A blimp is simply a bulbous bag of helium with a crew
compartment slung under it. On its tail are propeller-driven
engines to push it, and fins to steer it. Blimps can hover
longer and more quietly than helicopters. Today's blimps use
inert helium instead of the highly flammable hydrogen that
destroyed the famous Hindenburg dirigible in New Jersey in
1937.
   Airship Industries Ltd. has about a dozen blimps aloft
around the world. Among its customers are the Tokyo police,
which bought one last year to use in disasters such as
earthquakes and floods.
   But the company's most prestigious -- and potentially
lucrative -- effort was its Navy project. The Navy awarded
the contract for a prototype surveillance blimp in June 1987
to Westinghouse-Airship Industries Inc., a joint venture
equally owned by Westinghouse and Airship Industries Ltd.
Airship Industries U.K. has acted as subcontractor.
   The contract involves building a 400-foot blimp, equipped
with a large radar that can see supersonic, sea-skimming
anti-ship missiles from a long way off. The Navy originally
considered ordering a fleet of the airships estimated to cost
$5 billion. Subsequent budget pressures made that unlikely,
but the contract still was Airship Industries U.K.'s biggest
potential moneyspinner, propelling it beyond the advertising
and tourism markets.
   But with overall blimp sales slow and development costs
high, Airship Industries U.K. now is about #50 million ($94.2
million) in debt, including #35 million owed to Bond Corp.
Meanwhile, Bond Corp., which rescued Airship Industries Ltd.
during earlier troubles in 1984, is undergoing its own
reorganization because of debt. "That checkbook has been
closed now," says Cork Gully's Mr. Bond, who isn't related to
Bond Corp.'s Alan Bond.
   Acknowledging that Airship Industries U.K. couldn't pay
its debts, the parent company last week summoned Cork Gully.
In Britain, companies that can't pay their debts usually hand
the business over to accountants, who then try to find a
buyer.
   Cork Gully now is doing just that, with help from
Westinghouse. Mr. Bond is cautious about the prospects. "We
hope things work out well, but one never knows," he says. If
no buyer emerges in two weeks, Cork Gully will auction the
company's assets; Westinghouse will have to decide whether to
carry on without Airship Industries U.K., Mr. Bond says. "It
leaves them with a little bit of a problem."
   A Westinghouse spokesman says only that the joint venture
is "making arrangements" to perform the Navy contract
"through alternate means."
   Despite the collapse of Airship Industries U.K., the blimp
enthusiasts remain.
   Advanced Airship Corp. insists "airships are alive and
well." The company, based on the Isle of Man off the west
coast of England, says it has nearly finished a prototype
blimp that flies faster and carries more passengers than
rival models. Advanced Airship boasts "a ready market" for
early production models.
   John Hooper, a company director, doesn't want to name
prospective buyers. But he cites as potential customers
advertisers and tourism groups, military forces and
government bodies such as drug-enforcement agencies. "Any
organization that needs an eye in the sky," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Goldwyn Concern,
   Heritage Propose
   Stock-Swap Merger
   ----
   By Kathleen A. Hughes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HHH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Samuel Goldwyn Co., one of the few
remaining independent movie companies, offered to merge in a
stock swap with Heritage Entertainment Inc., a troubled owner
of theaters.
   The move, which is subject to execution of a definitive
agreement and approval by holders and boards of each company,
would allow the Goldwyn concern to become a public company.
Closely held, the company is controlled by Samuel Goldwyn
Jr., son of the late Samuel Goldwyn, one of Hollywood's early
moguls.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the proposed transaction, Heritage said it would
issue at least 90.8 million shares to Goldwyn's holders for
all of the Goldwyn company's stock.
   Currently, Heritage has about 7.6 million common shares
outstanding. The transaction would leave Heritage
shareholders with an 8.5% stake in the combined company that
would keep the Samuel Goldwyn Co. name.
   Yesterday, in composite trading on the American Stock
Exchange, Heritage shares closed at $1.375, up 12.5 cents.
   Heritage shareholders also would receive Class A warrants,
giving them the right to purchase a total of 3.4 million
shares in the combined company at $2.20 each. The warrants
would be redeemable for 30 cents each. Heritage holders also
would receive Class B warrants, allowing them to buy 6.2
million shares at a 10% discount to the average trading price
over a 30-day period.
   Samuel Goldwyn Co. has produced "Mystic Pizza" and has
distributed "Henry V," "Wild at Heart," and "Longtime
Companion." Recently, the company announced that it plans to
boost movie production to about five movies a year.
   Heritage owns about 88 movie theaters in 10 states,
including California, Washington and Oregon, and a film
library. It also sells movies for television syndication and
produced the "Flipper" TV series that Goldwyn distributes.
   Heritage posted a net loss of $4 million for fiscal 1990,
ended March 31, and the company has been seeking investors to
raise capital.
   "The most popular way to go public is to buy some
languishing entity," said Jeffrey Logsdon, an analyst at
Seidler Amdec Securities. "Goldwyn is a nice little company
with art-type films." However, he added: "No company has been
particularly successful at enhancing its movie division by
owning theaters."
   Meyer Gottlieb, president and chief operating officer of
Goldwyn, said the transaction is part of a continuing plan to
"expand and diversify."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Credit Optical Inc.:
   Firm to Buy Some Assets
   Of Allied Marketing Group
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACOI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Credit Optical Inc. said it signed a definitive
agreement to purchase $20 million of the operating assets of
Dallas-based Allied Marketing Group Inc. The assets are
related primarily to closely held Allied's direct mail
marketing division.
   American Credit Optical, a Fort Worth, Texas, financial
concern, said the purchase is subject to financing, which
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. has been engaged to arrange. The
company said it expects to complete the transaction within
the next several weeks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Jersey Will Reward
   Pollution Whistle-Blowers
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   New Jersey began a bounty program to reward state
residents who blow the whistle on polluters.
   Under the program, started Wednesday, anyone with a tip
that results in a civil or criminal fine for illegally dumped
waste, including garbage, medical waste, toxic chemicals and
low-level radioactive waste, will receive either 10% or $250
of the fine collected, whichever is greater. For information
resulting in the arrest and conviction of anyone illegally
storing or dumping hazardous or low-level radioactive waste,
the reward is 50% of the penalty collected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We want to enlist every citizen in New Jersey in the
fight to protect our clean air and water," Gov. Jim Florio
said in a statement. "We need seven million pairs of eyes
looking out for polluters."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Expectations
   Hit 7-Year Low in Poll
   By Dun &amp; Bradstreet
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DNB
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Business expectations for sales and profits
have hit a seven-year low, the latest quarterly survey by Dun
&amp; Bradstreet Corp. indicates.
   However, Joseph W. Duncan, economist and chief
statistician at the business information marketing concern,
cautioned that the results "may have been exaggerated by the
high levels of anxiety" immediately after the Aug. 2 invasion
of Kuwait by Iraq. The survey was conducted from Aug. 12 to
Aug. 30. "Until further data become available, the outlook
for a recession remains uncertain," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The survey found manufacturers to be the most pessimistic
group, with the sales optimism index for the fourth quarter
falling to 47 from 66 in the third quarter. Overall, the
index fell to 50 from 60, the lowest level since the 1983
first quarter.
   The profits optimism index for all companies fell 10
points to 43, with manufacturers' expectations falling 14
points to 44 from 58. The survey found expectations for
higher selling prices rising three points to 33.
   Dun &amp; Bradstreet's survey interviewed 1,500 executives in
manufacturing, retailing and wholesaling. The quarterly
survey asks whether executives expect an increase, decrease
or no change in measures such as sales, profits, prices and
employment. The index reported in each category represents
the difference between those expecting an increase and those
expecting a decrease.
   The employment optimism index fell six points to 11, its
lowest level in nearly eight years, while the new orders
index among manufacturers fell 16 points to 46.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corroon Stands Firm
   On Planned Merger,
   Refuses Aon's Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   CBL AOC U.WIL
</CO>
<IN>
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
INSURANCE (INS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Corroon &amp; Black Corp. refused Aon Corp.'s request for a
meeting to discuss its $40-a-share, or $840 million, bid.
   In a letter to Patrick G. Ryan, Aon's chairman and chief
executive officer, Corroon's Chairman and Chief Executive
Richard Miller said "the board has unanimously rejected Aon's
demands for a meeting to discuss its proposal and for an
opportunity to conduct a due diligence examination of New
York-based insurer Corroon &amp; Black.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After Aon's offer was rebuffed by Corroon's board late
Tuesday, the Chicago insurer said it would leave its all-cash
bid on the table. But Wednesday, Aon's Mr. Ryan reiterated
that he wouldn't pursue the offer if Corroon's board
continues to oppose it.
   Mr. Miller also reiterated that Corroon's board believes
its previously announced merger with international insurance
broker Willis Faber PLC of London "is in the best interests
of Corroon &amp; Black shareholders . . ."
   The Willis Faber merger is currently valued at
$31.38-a-share, or $643.3 million, based on yesterday's
closing price. In London trading yesterday, Willis Faber
shares closed at 214 pence, up 4 pence.
   When Willis Faber made its merger proposal to Corroon on
June 4, the offer was valued at $34.72 a share, or $712.3
million.
   Corroon shareholders are set to vote on the Willis Faber
merger next Friday.
   Corroon shares fell $1.125 to $30.875 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday.
   In Chicago, Aon officials weren't immediately available
for comment late yesterday afternoon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Initial State Jobless Claims
   Were Unchanged in Week
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Initial claims for regular state
unemployment benefits totaled a seasonally adjusted 382,000
in the week ended Sept. 8, unchanged from the previous week's
level, the Labor Department said.
   The number of people receiving regular state benefits in
the week ended Sept. 1 was a seasonally adjusted 2,471,000,
or 2.4% of those covered by unemployment insurance, down from
2,546,000 the previous week, when the insured unemployment
rate was also 2.4%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Counting all state and federal benefit programs, the
number of people receiving unemployment benefits in the week
ended Sept. 1 fell to 2,138,500 from 2,319,800 a week
earlier. These figures aren't seasonally adjusted.
   Most state and federal government offices were closed
Sept. 3 for the Labor Day holiday, which may have affected
the level of initial claims during the week ended Sept. 8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Asarco Inc.:
   Mine Expansion Suspended
   Pending Waste-Site Talks
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   AR
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Asarco Inc., a New York-based nonferrous metals, specialty
chemicals and environmental services company, said it
temporarily suspended mill construction at its Ray copper
mine expansion project in Arizona, pending discussions with
state and federal environmental agencies.
   The company said the issue involves the optimum location
of a mine waste-disposal site, part of a $194 million
expansion at the 4,500-acre Ray mine in Hayden, Ariz.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Asarco said the mill construction is ahead of schedule.
The expansion, which is to be completed in early 1992, will
increase production capacity to 182,000 tons of copper a year
from 115,000 tons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pension Fund Gets
   Women, Minority
   Money Managers
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   The California Public Employees Retirement System, the
nation's largest public pension fund, completed a
problem-prone search to hire its first outside
money-management firms owned by minorities and women.
   Trustees of the $56 billion California system, known as
Calpers, selected 12 "small and emerging" stock investment
firms, including five Hispanic-owned firms, two each owned by
women, blacks and Asians, and one owned by a manager with
multiple sclerosis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some of the firms named had owners in two categories. Two
managers were chosen on grounds that they were small, even
though they weren't owned by minorities or women. Candidate
firms were limited to having assets under management of
between $20 million and $500 million, compared with Calpers'
normal minimum of $500 million in assets for its outside
managers.
   How much money Calpers, based in Sacramento, Calif., will
allot to each winning firm to manage will be decided next
month. But the amount is expected to total several hundred
million dollars, making the search the largest ever to hire
women and minority money managers. Last July, Calpers' sister
fund, the California State Teachers Retirement System,
awarded $150 million to three minority-owned money managers.
   The Calpers search sparked an uproar in June as the
original 29 finalists for the business didn't include any
black-owned firms. Because of a scoring system later
scrapped, all four of the black-owned money-management firms
in the field of 85 candidates had been eliminated as
finalists by the Calpers staff and two minority and
women-owned consulting firms helping in the search.
   Critics argued that the absence of black finalists
defeated a major reason for the search. In addition, several
black-owned firms have been hired by big pension funds,
indicating that there were black candidates qualified to
reach the Calpers finals.
   Rather than scrap the search, Calpers trustees took the
highly unusual step of interviewing all 85 candidates during
the summer. Of the 12 winning managers, five weren't among
the original 29 finalists, meaning they won the Calpers
business after the new round of interviews with Calpers
trustees.
   Firms selected by the Calpers trustees are:
   Amerindo U.S. Advisors, Larkspur, Calif.; Brown Capital
Management, Baltimore; CIC Asset Management Inc., Beverly
Hills, Calif.; First Capital Advisors, New York; Oak
Associates, Akron, Ohio; Spare, Tengler, Kaplan &amp; Bischel
Inc., San Francisco; Systematic Financial Management, Fort
Lee, N.J.; Taplin, Canida &amp; Habacht Inc., Tiffany Capital
Advisors, San Ramon, Calif.; Valenzuela Capital Management,
New York; Denis Wong &amp; Associates, Honolulu; and Valuequest
Ltd., Marblehead, Mass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Plans to Name
   Terzic to Energy Panel
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush said he will nominate Branko
Terzic, vice president of a Milwaukee consulting firm, to
fill a vacant seat on the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission.
   Mr. Terzic, if confirmed by the Senate, would serve until
Oct. 20, 1991, filling out the remainder of the term of
former chairwoman Martha Hesse, who left late last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition to being group vice president of AUS
Consultants in Milwaukee, Mr. Terzic, a Republican, is
chairman of the Wisconsin Racing Board. He also has served a
six-year term on the Wisconsin Public Service Commission.
   An aide to the Senate Energy Committee said lawmakers hope
to act on the nomination before Congress adjourns next month.
In that case, Mr. Terzic could be on board for the
commission's vote, scheduled for Nov. 28, on the
controversial Iroquois natural gas pipeline project. The
proposed 369 mile, $582.6 million pipeline is designed to
bring Canadian gas to the Northeastern U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Resistance Grows
   To Plan to Boost
   FHA Loan Costs
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<GV>
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Consumer and industry groups alike are
fighting a Bush administration plan that would boost up-front
costs for borrowers of loans backed by the Federal Housing
Administration.
   The plan is designed to protect the solvency of the FHA's
mutual mortgage insurance fund, which insures low
down-payment mortgages on single-family homes. Officials of
the Department of Housing and Urban Development, citing a
study by Price Waterhouse, say the fund isn't operating on a
sound basis, in part because of poor management and lax
monitoring during the Reagan administration. The officials
predict that the fund will be insolvent by the middle of the
decade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The administration, among other things, wants to add a
0.5% premium to high-risk loans and require home buyers to
pay two-thirds of the closing costs in cash at settlement.
The HUD plan would eliminate as many as 100,000 borrowers
annually, according to the National Association of Realtors.
   The Senate housing bill has incorporated the
administration's plan. But a different proposal, which is
backed by several trade and consumer groups, is contained in
legislation passed by the House. The two versions must be
resolved by a conference committee.
   The House version, known as the Vento-Ridge alternative,
would reduce the current up-front premium to 1.35% from 3.8%,
but add a 0.6% annual insurance premium. The up-front cash
needed by home buyers would remain about the same as under
current FHA requirements.
   Currently, the buyer of a house selling for $100,000 would
have to pay $6,600 at settlement. That figure would rise to
$7,866 under the HUD proposal, according to figures released
by the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban
Affairs.
   Both the HUD plan and the Vento-Ridge alternative would
keep the FHA fund financially stable, according to Price
Waterhouse. Administration officials have said they would
recommend a veto of the House housing legislation, in part
because of its FHA measure.
   HUD Secretary Jack Kemp and his aides have met with
industry groups in an attempt to resolve the differences.
"We've been talking with all elements of the industry," said
Mary Brunette, a department spokeswoman. "We're working to
resolve some of the differences so the conference can go
forward."
   Warren Lasko, executive vice president of the Mortgage
Bankers Association, said his organization doesn't believe
the financial troubles of the FHA are as bad as the
administration contends.
   The HUD proposal has made some strange bedfellows of its
opponents. Consumer advocates, such as the Consumer's Union
and National People's Action, usually find themselves on the
opposite side of issues from trade associations such as the
National Association of Realtors.
   "It's one of those issues where their profit interest in
putting people in houses parallels our interest in putting
people in houses," said Michelle Meier of the Consumer's
Union.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Fall for Sixth Session in a Row,
   As Interest Rate-Sensitive Sectors Lead Decline
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices fell for the sixth consecutive trading
day Thursday to the year's low, with the pace of declines set
by interest rate-sensitive sectors.
   In London, shares closed lower after tumbling from an
opening high and breaking through two main support levels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues was down 123.19 points,
or 0.52%, at 23602.98.
   In Tokyo Friday, the Nikkei index fell another 310.18
points to close the morning session at 23292.80.
   On Thursday, stock prices rebounded from morning lows
during the afternoon session with help from small-volume
index-linked buying by investment trust funds and securities
companies, traders said.
   But institutional buying thinned further, amid continuing
uncertainty about the direction of domestic interest rates
and the Mideast situation. Some investors also raised cash
positions ahead of Japan's long weekend, traders said. Tokyo
markets will be closed Monday for a national holiday.
   Volume on the first section was estimated at 400 million
shares, in line with 390 million shares Wednesday. Losers
outnumbered gainers 754 to 191, while 156 issues were
unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section fell 31.75 points, or 1.76%, to 1767.97.
   The second section index dropped 55.20 points, or 1.60%,
to 3394.54. Volume in the section was estimated at 6.7
million shares, compared with almost seven million shares
Wednesday.
   "We want to support the market by active buying if
possible," said an official at Nikko Securities.
   But with the fiscal midyear book closing at the end of
September, trading activity of brokerage houses will be
restricted much like that of other major players including
financial institutions, he said.
   With little buying support, stocks remained vulnerable
even to only a small amount of general selling as well as
arbitrage selling, traders said.
   As many companies evaluate the value of holdings based on
stock prices on the last day of September, participants said,
some window dressing operations by brokerage houses and
institutions are expected to push up stock prices Sept. 28,
the last trading day of the month.
   "Many expect the Nikkei to move up around 25000 or 26000
points {on Sept. 28}," a trader at Daiwa Securities said.
   But in the longer term, volume is likely to remain poor,
making it difficult for stocks to rebound strongly.
   "Being cautious is the best thing to do," said Hironobu
Hagio, manager of the equity division at Nippon Life
Insurance.
   Unless domestic interest rates peak out or the Persian
Gulf problem is solved, institutions are unable to commit
themselves to the stock market, he said.
   "It is true that we are waiting for a buying opportunity.
But as long as there is a possibility that stock prices may
fall further, we can't buy," Mr. Hagio said.
   The most heavily traded issue Thursday was Kobe Steel,
with a total of 18 million of its shares changing hands. Kobe
Steel gained 4 yen to 539 yen ($3.92).
   While financial issues are likely to come under further
pressure, shares that have been oversold, such as steels,
shipbuildings and paper-pulps, are expected to show technical
rebounds soon, said Hisamichi Sawa, vice president at
Prudential-Bache Securities (Japan).
   Real estate shares were sold Thursday as a government
report on the latest nationwide land price data showed the
sharpest yearly growth on record, of an average 13.7%, in the
year ended July 1.
   The report prompted speculation that the government will
continue to pressure the real estate industry to keep land
prices from rising, traders said.
   Mitsubishi Estate was down 70 yen at 1140 yen, while
Sumitomo Realty dropped 30 yen to 1060 yen.
   Blue-chip electrics with strong earnings predictions also
failed to get support because of the lack of buy orders,
traders said.
   Sony fell 110 yen to 6550 yen. Sharp dropped 40 yen to
1280 yen, while Matsushita Electric Industrial declined 50
yen to 1610 yen.
   In London, the market fell through support levels for the
Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-Share Index at 2050 and
2030 points.
   The suspension of trading in Polly Peck following a
variety of rumors and a free fall in the company's share
price brought the fragile London market down, and was the
main talking point among traders.
   "There is just no investor confidence. No one wants to
invest," one trader said. He added that there was no point in
traders buying when there was no support in the market, and
the prospect was for prices to fall even lower.
   Wall Street slumped during the London afternoon session,
generating additional selling pressure in London.
   The FT-SE 100-Share Index fell 48.9 points to 2016.9,
unable to match an opening high of 2069.2. The Financial
Times 30-Share Index closed down 45.1 points at 1531.0.
Volume was 517.7 million shares, well above Wednesday's 386.8
million.
   Polly Peck shares were suspended at 108 pence ($2.04)
after a 135-pence fall from the Wednesday close. Rumors were
rampant, and the company wasn't commenting on the reasons for
the suspension except to say that it wanted to stop the
stock's free fall.
   Meanwhile, Beazer fell 15 pence to 93 pence. The
construction company said it wasn't aware of any reason for
the fall, adding that interim results next week should be in
line with market expectations.
   Cookson, a metals, chemicals and plastics maker, fell 36
pence to 54 pence. Cookson was hurt by rumors that it might
not be able to pay an interim dividend.
   Among company results, brewing concern Guinness posted a
31% rise in pretax profit to #322 million. Initial market
enthusiasm was damped, and the shares ended 11 pence lower at
669 pence after a spurt upward at the opening of trading.
   Glaxo also reported strong results. Half-year pretax
profit rose 13% to #1.14 billion, exceeding market forecasts.
But again, the initial enthusiasm faded, and the shares ended
5 pence lower at 716 pence.
   Meanwhile, shares closed lower in all major European
markets. South African gold stocks closed narrowly mixed.
   And stocks closed lower in Sydney, Singapore, Seoul and
Taipei, mixed in Hong Kong, higher in Manila, and little
changed in Wellington.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                    % This
                                    Sep 19  Sep 18    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ...........................  292.5   294.4  - 10.0
   Britain ........................  607.0   607.0  - 15.8
   Canada .........................  365.2   364.1  - 15.5
   Japan ..........................  998.3  1010.9  - 39.7
   France .........................  439.1   442.4  - 22.5
   Germany ........................  237.5   242.4  - 16.7
   Hong Kong ...................... 2162.2  2176.5  +  3.1
   Switzerland ....................  180.4   180.9  - 18.3
   Australia ......................  298.8   303.7  -  9.8
   World index ....................  454.0   460.0  - 20.0
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arbitrage Activity in Week
   Is Dominated by 2 Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   MS MER GE BSC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bear Stearns Cos. and Morgan Stanley Group
Inc. accounted for about half of all stock-index arbitrage
activity on the New York Stock Exchange for the week ended
Sept. 7.
   In its regular weekly report on computer-aided program
trading, the Big Board said program trading accounted for
9.8% of average daily volume, or 11.4 million shares a day.
That was down from 12.7% the previous week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Index arbitrage -- rapid-fire purchases and sales of
baskets of stocks with offsetting trades in futures and
options -- accounted for 53.9% of total program trading by
all firms. Bear Stearns used arbitrage in nearly all its
program trading; Morgan Stanley used it in slightly more than
half.
   Overall, the busiest program traders were Morgan Stanley
(10 million shares), Bear Stearns (6.8 million), Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co. (5.7 million), General Electric Co.'s Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co. (4.3 million) and CS First Boston Inc.'s First
Boston Corp. (4.2 million). Bear Stearns and Kidder did most
of their trading for their own accounts; the other firms for
customers' accounts.
   "Buy" programs accounted for an average 3.8 million shares
and "sell" programs for 7.6 million, during a week in which
the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.2%.
   Program trading is the purchase or sale of a basket of at
least 15, and often hundreds, of stocks with a value of at
least $1 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Two German Parliaments
   Ratify Unification Treaty
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- The two German parliaments
independently ratified the treaty that will officially unify
their nations Oct. 3.
   But the long day of debate in the West German Bundestag
was marked by fierce skirmishes over the costs of
unification, particularly on whether new taxes are needed.
The question of whether German troops should be allowed to
deploy outside the boundaries of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization also generated heated words, as politicians
looked beyond Oct. 3 and began to stake out campaign stands
for the first all-German elections, on Dec. 2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 1,000-page unification treaty details how all
functions of the East German state will be united with those
of West Germany under one government and parliament. For East
Germany's parliament, the Volkskammer, the vote was its last
important business before its dissolution in two weeks.
   The Bundestag approved the treaty by 442-47; the
Volkskammer, by 299-80.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- C-Cor Electronics Inc.:
   Loss, Decline in Revenue
   Is Expected in First Period
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   CCBL
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   C-Cor Electronics Inc. said it expects to report a loss
and a decline in revenue for the first quarter ending Sept.
28.
   The State College, Pa., electronics equipment maker
attributed the slowdown to a lack of orders caused by the
uncertainty in the cable television industry, which Congress
is considering reregulating. The company said it also was
hurt by the lending practices of financial institutions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   C-Cor said it expects fiber-optic product shipments from
its C-Cor/Comlux Inc. unit to be at a record high in the
first quarter.
   In the year-ago first quarter, the company had net income
of $1.1 million, or 26 cents a share, on revenue of $13.2
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Building Blocs
   ---
   The Quiet Colossus:
   Canada Finds Its Trade Pact With the U.S.
   Isn't a Panacea, but Mexico Wants a Similar Accord
   ---
   Canada
   ----
   By John Urquhart and Gary Lamphier
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R32
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   IS BUSINESS OVERLOOKING the obvious?
   When new trade and investment opportunities are mentioned,
Europe is the world on everybody's lips, the talisman for
financiers and investors in the U.S. and elsewhere. And with
reason. The economic integration of the European Community
nations in 1992 and the opening of potentially rich new
markets in the East Bloc countries promise big profits for
those who position themselves early and well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But while businessmen and money men alike rivet their
attention on the Old World, a new economic colossus is slowly
and quietly taking shape in the new one. Call it Canamerico.
   With only modest attention being paid, Canada, the U.S.
and Mexico are gradually moving toward creation of a single
huge trade entity. Canada and the U.S. have already signed a
trade agreement that will wipe out tariff barriers and other
impediments; Mexico, which has cast aside its former
protectionism, now wants a similar pact. It will probably get
it.
   If Canamerico indeed comes into being, it would be a
powerhouse by almost any measure, exceedingly rich in natural
resources (particularly coal and natural gas), technology,
agricultural production, capital, and available labor. But
Canamerico is not reality yet, and the road to trade
unification is proving a hard one, full of potholes -- as
both Canada and Mexico are finding out.
                                                                                                       

   MOST CANADIAN business executives were enthusiastic when
their country signed a free-trade pact with the U.S., but few
were more delighted than Guy Champagne. He says he thought it
was good for the country and especially good for Exeltor
Inc., of which he is president and controlling shareholder.
   Exeltor makes industrial knitting needles at a plant near
Montreal. Nobody in the U.S. makes the same kind of needles.
Under the free-trade pact, a 12% U.S. tariff on Exeltor's
products was lifted as soon as the agreement took effect on
Jan. 1, 1989.
   That should have left Exeltor with a big edge over its
Japanese and German competitors, who still face the tariff.
Mr. Champagne says he expected U.S. sales to balloon 50%
within three years. But that hasn't happened. Instead,
Exeltor's U.S. sales have shown little growth.
   What has happened is that the Canadian dollar has risen
sharply, meaning that Americans have to pay more U.S. dollars
to buy Canadian goods. "The Canadian dollar's gain has so far
wiped out the benefit of the tariff cut" for Exeltor, Mr.
Champagne says. Since the free-trade pact was signed, the
Canadian dollar has risen 12% against the U.S. dollar,
offsetting the end of the 12% tariff.
   It's far too early, however, to say which country benefits
more from the Canada-U.S. agreement; the pact won't even be
fully effective until 1998. In Canada, the early returns are
mixed: Some companies have gained business, others have lost
it. But at least one thing is clear: Currency and
interest-rate movements can overwhelm any tinkering with
tariffs.
   And the Canadian currency has moved rapidly. The Canadian
dollar is valued at about 86.5 U.S. cents, up from about 84
cents when the pact took effect and 77 cents when it was
signed at the beginning of 1988. The dollar's rise wasn't
caused by free trade. It was driven by soaring Canadian
interest rates, which are needed to lure foreign financing
for the government's huge budget deficit. Canada's central
bank also keeps rates high to dampen inflation. Thus, along
with the high dollar, Canadian businesses face crushing
financial costs. Canadian short-term interest rates are more
than four percentage points higher than when the pact was
signed. They currently are about five percentage points above
U.S. rates.
   "One can hardly imagine a less propitious economic
climate" for seizing new trade opportunities, says Gordon
Ritchie, who was a key government negotiator of the trade
pact.
   Across the Canadian economy, early results of the
free-trade pact appear disappointing. Last year Canada's
trade surplus with the U.S. was the smallest since 1982.
   The failure of free trade to pay off immediately has
soured the public's attitude toward the agreement. Only 32%
of Canadians now favor it, according to a recent Gallup Poll.
Opponents of closer ties with the U.S. keep meticulous tabs
on Canadian plant closings and blame all of them on the
agreement. Free trade has caused "job carnage in Canadian
industry," says Shirley Carr, president of Canada's main
labor federation, the Canadian Labour Congress.
   But most business executives still think that free trade
is a good idea and that they would be worse off without the
agreement. "I don't back away at all from the premise that it
was right thing to do," says G. Firman Bentley, senior vice
president of Nova Corp. of Alberta, which hoped for big gains
on its petrochemical exports. Nova says a cut to 7.5% from
12.5% in U.S. duties on polyethylene has meant 16 million
Canadian dollars (US$13.9 million) annually in additional
operating income for the company. The gains haven't increased
profit because each one-cent rise in the value of the
Canadian dollar knocks C$7.5 million off Nova's bottom line.
   Some of the disappointment with free trade reflects hopes
that were overblown in the first place. About 75% of
U.S.-Canadian trade already was free of duty before the pact
was signed. Most tariff cuts are being phased in gradually,
over as many as 10 years. Thus, average U.S. tariffs on
dutiable Canadian goods fell only to 3% last year from 4%
before the agreement took effect. Average Canadian tariffs
were down to 9.4% from 9.7%.
   Nevertheless, there have been gains because of the trade
agreement. Exporters like it so much that, at their urging,
the U.S. and Canadian governments in April speeded up planned
tariff cuts on more than 400 products ranging from ball-point
pens to diesel locomotives. And some benefits have nothing to
do with tariffs.
   Helmut Eppich, chairman, part owner and chief executive
officer of closely held Ebco Industries Ltd., says the
agreement "makes us much more competitive" because of a
little-known provision that eases cross-border movement of
certain workers. The Vancouver, British Columbia, metal
fabricator recently sent 35 employees to California to
install a complicated gantry crane at an aircraft plant.
Under the old rules, it would have had to hire and train a
local crew for the temporary job.
   Roger Phillips, president and chief executive officer of
Ipsco Inc., a steelmaker, says the U.S. probably would have
extended its steel-import quotas to include Canada if the
free-trade agreement hadn't been signed. That's important to
Ipsco, because 15% of its sales are in the U.S.
   Ms. Carr, of the union group, ticks off 25 cases in which
makers of everything from carpets to X-ray equipment have
closed Canadian plants or moved some production to the U.S.
because of the free-trade agreement. Some production,
however, has moved in the other direction, and there is no
clear proof that one country has benefited over another.
   Whirlpool Corp.'s Canadian subsidiary is an example from
Ms. Carr's list. It stopped making washing machines after the
pact was signed and moved that operation to Ohio. Since then,
however, Whirlpool has shifted to Canada production of
household trash compactors, kitchen ranges and compact
dryers.
   "Free trade was one factor, it wasn't the primary factor,"
says Maurice Dutrisac, a vice president at Whirlpool's
Canadian unit, Inglis Ltd. Even without the free-trade
agreement, Whirlpool would have consolidated production of
certain appliances in an effort to make its plants more
competitive, he says. For example, the Toronto
washing-machine factory was shut down and production moved to
the U.S. because the Canadian plant was obsolete.
   But the certainty that duties will decline over time did
help Whirlpool decide to manufacture in Canada some types of
kitchen ranges and all its compact dryers and residential
trash compactors for the North American market, Mr. Dutrisac
adds.
   Statistics don't prove much, either. The total of Canadian
jobs has risen by 194,000 since the agreement took effect,
but the number of manufacturing jobs has fallen by 158,000.
Expected benefits from free trade were at least partly
responsible for a 14.9% surge last year in Canadian
plant-and-equipment investment. Soaring interest rates,
however, have helped cut this year's estimated increase to
6.1%.
   One clear victim of the free-trade pact seems to be
Canada's C$5.2 billion-a-year furniture industry. Its mostly
small-scale producers were protected by a 15% tariff that is
being cut year by year until it is eliminated in 1993. Robert
Diguer, an industry lobbyist, says 4,750 out of 62,000
furniture-making jobs have been lost since January 1989.
"Free trade has dramatically hurt the industry in Canada,"
says Bill Nathanson, president of Sealy Furniture Canada
Ltd., a licensee of Sealy Inc., Cleveland. His company has
laid off half the workers at its Toronto plant and opened a
new one in Virginia.
   Yet some businesses suffer from free trade because it
isn't free enough. Mr. Diguer says one reason for furniture
makers' woes is that tariffs won't be fully scrapped until
1998 on imported fabric, and fabric accounts for up to half
the cost of upholstered furniture. Food-processing companies
say they're hurt because tariffs are dropping on what they
produce while Canada retains price-propping import quotas on
raw materials such as eggs, milk and chicken.
   ---
   Mr. Urquhart is a staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's Ottawa bureau. Mr. Lamphier is a staff reporter in
the Vancouver bureau.
   {See related story: "World Business (A Special Report):
Building Blocs --- The Quiet Colossus: Canada Finds Its Trade
Pact With the U.S. Isn't a Panacea, but Mexico Wants a
Similar Accord" -- WSJ Sept. 21, 1990}
   ---
                         Trade Ties
                                                                                                       

   Canada is the No. 1 trading partner of the United States.
Mexico ranks third, after Japan. Here's a trade breakdown, in
billions of dollars.
                                                                                                       

                           Canada
                                                                                                       

   U.S. Imports from Canada (Total: $85.6)
                                                                                                       

   Motor vehicles, parts and accessories ........... $26.2
   Crude oil and coal .............................. $ 8.7
   Machinery, engines and boilers .................. $ 7.3
                                                                                                       

   Pct. of U.S. imports that come from Canada ......   16%
   Pct. of Canada's exports that go to U.S. ........   73%
                                                                                                       

   U.S. exports to Canada (Total: $74.3)
                                                                                                       

   Motor vehicles, parts and accessories ........... $18.9
   Machinery, engines and boilers .................. $15.3
   Electrical equipment ............................ $ 7.3
                                                                                                       

   Pct. of U.S. exports that go to Canada ..........   24%
   Pct. of Canada's imports that come from U.S. ....   65%
                                                                                                       

                           Mexico
                                                                                                       

   U.S. imports from Mexico (Total: $27.2)
                                                                                                       

   Crude petroleum .................................  $4.0
   Equipment for distributing electricity ..........  $1.5
   Autos ...........................................  $1.2
                                                                                                       

   Pct. of U.S. imports that come from Mexico ......    8%
   Pct. of Mexico's exports that go to U.S. ........   72%
                                                                                                       

   U.S. exports to Mexico (Total: $25.0)
                                                                                                       

   Motor-vehicle parts .............................  $2.0
   Telecommunications equipment and parts ..........  $1.0
   Electrical switchgear apparatus .................  $0.9
                                                                                                       

   Pct. of U.S. exports that go to Mexico ..........    7%
   Pct. of Mexico's imports that come from U.S. ....   71%
                                                                                                       

   Sources: U.S. Commerce Dept.; Statistics Canada; Banco de
Mexico
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   White House
   Renews Debate
   On Oil Reserve
   ---
   U.S. Officials Voice Doubts
   About New Arab Effort
   To End Gulf Standoff
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration renewed its debate
over whether to draw down some oil from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve, while U.S. officials voiced deep
skepticism about the newest Arab diplomatic effort to end the
crisis with Iraq.
   President Bush's national security advisers met to discuss
the strategic reserve, which President Bush has been
reluctant to use in the current crisis, administration aides
said. A senior official said Mr. Bush hasn't made any new
decisions, but indicated that the administration intends to
monitor the current escalation in oil prices carefully as it
weighs its policy toward the reserve.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "While there have been ups and downs and spikes, the price
has been increasing, and we'll have to watch that very
carefully," the official said. Crude oil futures reached a
record high yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
   A key meeting of the International Energy Agency, an
organization that monitors oil supplies to industrial
nations, is scheduled for next week. The session could help
determine whether there is a consensus among the U.S. and
other countries about drawing down emergency oil stockpiles.
   Meanwhile, American officials disparaged a new effort by
Jordan's King Hussein to end the international confrontation
with Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein. King Hussein plans to visit
Iraq soon, along with the foreign ministers of Algeria and
Morocco, to take to Saddam Hussein ideas for ending Iraq's
occupation of Kuwait, Algerian radio announced.
   King Hussein just finished a meeting with the leaders of
Algeria and Morocco in an attempt to find an Arab plan
acceptable to both Iraq and the international community that
has condemned the invasion.
   But administration officials said they believed King
Hussein's latest proposals include concessions to Iraq that
won't be acceptable to the U.S.
   "Like all the other plans that involve rewarding Saddam
Hussein, they can't be accepted," a senior administration
aide said. He added that the Bush administration is asserting
in its talks with Arab leaders that any steps that appear to
reward Saddam Hussein for his invasion of Kuwait will
increase the danger for other Arab nations by encouraging
similar aggression later.
   Reports from Jordan indicate that the latest ideas carried
by King Hussein would link an Iraqi pullout from Kuwait with
a withdrawal of U.S. and other foreign forces from the
Persian Gulf region, and also would call for a plebiscite in
Kuwait six months after the Iraqi withdrawal, to determine
that country's future. It isn't clear what the other elements
might be.
   As the Arab diplomatic maneuvering continued, the United
Nations Security Council moved closer to imposing an air
blockade on Iraq. That would expand trade sanctions the U.N.
already has imposed. The Security Council has prepared a
draft of a resolution that is being reviewed by governments
of its member nations and could be voted on today or
tomorrow, U.S. officials said.
   Such a resolution also might include provisions imposing
penalties on countries that circumvent the U.N.-mandated
embargo on trade with Iraq.
   U.S. officials continue to insist that Iran, potentially a
big embargo-buster, isn't showing any signs of helping Iraq
in a significant way.
   If Iran would agree to take Iraqi crude oil and ship it
onto the world market, either by building a spur connecting
the two countries' oil pipeline systems or by carrying oil
from Iraq to Iran on barges, it might be able to move out
200,000 barrels of Iraqi oil a day, one senior U.S. official
said. Saudi Arabian officials have expressed concern that
Iran might agree to do that.
   But the U.S. official said that there isn't any indication
Tehran has agreed to help Iraq, and he asserted that Iran's
interests wouldn't be served by helping Iraq consolidate its
hold on Kuwait. He also noted that oil exports of the
magnitude Iran could facilitate wouldn't be enough to
alleviate Iraq's economic problems.
   Separately, the propaganda war between the U.S. and Iraq
continued yesterday. Iraq said it wants to send the U.S. a
taped address by Saddam Hussein for use on American
television, answering the address by President Bush shown on
Iraqi television this week. Iraq's ambassador went to the
State Department to discuss sending such a tape.
   The White House and State Department indicated that the
U.S. government would be willing to pass it on to American
television networks, but they noted the networks would decide
whether to broadcast it.
   White House officials also indicated that there is a
chance President Bush will visit the Middle East in November.
Mr. Bush is likely to travel to Europe in mid-November to
sign a new East-West treaty cutting conventional arms.
   Officials said he would like to go to Saudi Arabia to
visit American troops and to Egypt, which has supported the
U.S. in the Gulf crisis, on his way home. But such a trip
won't be firmly set until it is clearer what the Gulf
situation will be in November, the officials said.
   The question whether to draw down oil from America's
strategic reserve has split Bush administration officials.
Some officials in the Energy, State and Defense departments
have pushed for at least token use of some of the oil to damp
market speculation about tight oil supplies, which is helping
push up oil prices. But officials in the Treasury Department,
and some in the White House, oppose using the reserve simply
to affect prices, and Mr. Bush himself seemed to suggest this
week that it should be tapped only to alleviate genuine
shortages, rather than to cool market speculation.
   "I think that when you have a real shortage of a product
or you see an external event that is going to guarantee that
there be a shortage, then would be the time when you most
certainly should use the SPRO," Mr. Bush told a group of
reporters at the White House Monday. "It is my judgment that
there isn't such a shortage at this time."
   But Mr. Bush also acknowledged that some people are
pushing him to authorize a symbolic tapping of some reserve
oil, or to allow a demonstration drawdown for psychological
purposes, and he said he is listening to those arguments.
   A senior official said that the Bush administration isn't
convinced that a symbolic use of reserve oil would have much
impact, but he suggested that price as well as supply will be
a consideration as the U.S. sets its policy. The White House
intends "to keep a finger on the pulse" of the oil situation
and continue considering use of SPRO oil, he said.
   Meanwhile, in Saudi Arabia, U.S. and Saudi military
officers said there is new intelligence that Iraq's expanded
forces in Kuwait have dug into defense positions. Many Iraqi
aircraft and missile units, according to these officers,
recently have increased night training and switched radar and
communication frequencies -- moves apparently designed to
confuse the U.S. and prepare for defending against air
strikes at night.
   In addition, U.S. officers said that many top-of-the-line
Iraqi fighters have been moved further away from the Saudi
border, apparently to protect them from U.S. bombardment and
give them more flexibility to respond if fighting erupts.
   The comments by commanders on the ground, which follow the
Pentagon's announcement that Iraq now has some 360,000 troops
and 2,800 tanks in and near Kuwait, are among the most
pessimistic so far about the chances the crisis will be
resolved quickly.
   ---
   Andy Pasztor in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chase to Raise
   Loan Reserves,
   Slash Its Staff
   ----
   By Fred R. Bleakley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CMB EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chase Manhattan Corp. will announce today a major increase
in its reserves for problem loans and staff reductions of
more than 3,000 employees, according to banking executives.
   The announcement is aimed at clearing the air of
uncertainty about the extent of problem loans, especially in
real estate, and the ramifications of a previously announced
goal to save $300 million a year in expenses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Details of the plan were still being worked out yesterday
afternoon after being approved by Chase's board Wednesday.
   A Chase spokesman declined to comment, other than to say,
"We are currently finalizing plans to reduce expenses and
enhance profitability."
   James McDermott, head of research at Keefe, Bruyette &amp;
Woods, said he had been told by Chase to "be on alert" for an
announcement. "They've got to come out with something that is
hard and comprehensive here," he said. He said he is
expecting a reserve for problem loans of at least $325
million to be announced, an increase from the $250 million
added to reserves in each of the first two quarters.
   Chase's stock has been hammered all week by persistent
rumors of larger than expected problems at the bank.
Yesterday it was off 12.5 cents to $13.75 a share in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, hitting a new 52-week low
from its high of $44 last October. The rumors began after
Chase was forced to pay a rate of more than 13% to reprice
some existing bonds last week.
   A restructuring of Chase's European operations is also
expected as part of the announcement. A former executive of
the bank said it would involve "a substantial downsizing of
operations" that would result in sharp cutbacks in Chase's
retail operations there and sale of its West German banking
operation.
   An AP-Dow Jones wire report yesterday said that Chase's
Spanish bank said it would begin laying off employees as part
of a world-wide move to cut costs. Chase Manhattan Espana
employs 400 people in Spain in 14 offices and has been
showing losses.
   In London, a Chase spokesman confirmed that the company's
European retail operations are one of a number of units under
review for cost-cutting.
   In Chase's U.S. operations, analysts expect staff
reductions in the investment banking and corporate lending
sectors, which expanded in the late 1980s to participate in
corporate takeovers. "With deal flow off sharply, I expect
there will be cutbacks in those areas," said Mr. McDermott.
   It was uncertain whether Chase's announcement would
address the continuance of Chase's stock dividend at its
present level. The shares are now yielding more than 17%. A
50% cut in the dividend would save the bank more than $100
million a year but would be a blow to investors. Analysts are
divided on whether Chase would make such a drastic move.
   Analysts had been urging management to provide details of
the expected restructuring but an announcement wasn't planned
until after Oct. 1, when Thomas G. Labrecque succeeds Willard
C. Butcher as chief executive officer and a new management
team will be in place.
   When Mr. Labrecque was named to succeed Mr. Butcher in
June, he said there would be a restructuring that analysts
estimated would result in the loss of 3,000 jobs through
voluntary retirement and layoffs. An executive at the bank
says the figure will be higher than that. More than 1,500
employees have recently opted to be part of a voluntary
retirement program, exceeding the bank's goal of 1,200, the
executive said. Chase has 41,000 employees world-wide.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Amdura Corp.:
   Court Approves Settlement
   For Unpaid Medical Claims
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   ADU LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LIFE INSURANCE (INL)
INSURANCE (INS)
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Amdura Corp. said the U.S. Bankruptcy Court had approved a
settlement agreement providing for the payment of unpaid
retiree medical claims incurred prior to July 31, 1990, and
for the establishment of an ongoing medical and life
insurance plan for retirees and their dependents. The
settlement covers about 2,000 former employees of the
independent hardware distributor and its subsidiaries, the
company said.
   Funding for the plan will come from retiree premium
payments and a retiree benefit fund in excess of $1 million
to be established by Amdura and its subsidiaries, the company
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On April 2, Amdura and distribution subsidiaries filed for
protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code. Amdura is a manufacturer of lifting and
construction equipment based in Denver.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph:
   Telmex Fiber-Optic Contract
   For $130 Million Is Won
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   T LATAM TFONY ERIYD F.CIU
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. made its first major
entry into the Mexican market by winning a $130 million
contract from Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V., Mexico's
national telephone company.
   AT&amp;T, based in New York, will build a major part of a
fiber optic network that will link 54 locations throughout
the country, significantly enhancing Mexico's international
long-distance infrastructure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The contract is a coup for AT&amp;T, whose other major
contract with Telmex was a $13 million project involving
digital access and cross connecting equipment.
   AT&amp;T outbid two of Mexico's largest traditional suppliers,
L.M. Ericsson of Sweden and Alcatel of France, to win the
right to build 60% of the network. Alcatel has been awarded a
contract to build 25% of the network and Ericsson 15%.
   The Mexican project begins this month and will be
completed by 1993. It involves 8,000 miles of fiber-optic
cable and related equipment. AT&amp;T and its Spanish subsidiary
will provide the cable, components, and transmission
equipment. AT&amp;T will also be working with a Mexican
engineering and construction firm to provide Telmex with a
turnkey system.
   The project will create one of the most modern telephone
networks in the world, offering high-quality transmission,
faster connection speeds and a larger call handling capacity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dole Outlines
   Capital-Gains
   Tax Initiative
   ---
   Conservative Republicans
   And White House Resist
   The Two-Track Strategy
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INSURANCE (INS)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Senate Republican Leader Robert Dole
suggested that a capital-gains tax cut be separated from any
deficit-reduction plan and combined into a package with
Democratic spending initiatives.
   The Kansan, who outlined his two-track legislative
strategy yesterday, also met with seven other top-level
congressional and White House negotiators for a third day in
the Capitol to try to break the months-long budget impasse.
Although Sen. Dole's proposal was resisted by the White House
and some conservative Republicans, it could presage some type
of solution that removes the most contentious issues from the
deficit-reduction package. At the very least, it illustrated
the personal frustration of Sen. Dole, who has traditionally
given deficit reduction a higher priority than tax cuts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though an official Democratic response wasn't immediately
available, top staffers reacted coolly. Sen. Dole's plan
would pair some of Democrats' top priorities, including a
child-care initiative, with the capital-gains tax rate cut
that they oppose as a boon to the rich. Any increased
spending or lost revenue in the package would have to be
offset with new taxes or budget cuts, under what he called a
"pay-as-you-go" proposal.
   Sen. Dole said this legislation would be considered
separately from a $50 billion deficit-reduction plan that
negotiators are trying to assemble, but that passage of one
is contingent on passage of the other.
   The negotiators, who are to meet again today, are
struggling to reach an agreement before the new fiscal year
begins Oct. 1. Their goal is to reduce the federal budget
deficit, estimated at more than $250 billion in fiscal 1991,
by $50 billion in the coming fiscal year and $500 billion
over five years.
   In the meantime, however, both parties are maneuvering to
confront the consequences of failure. Republicans express
growing confidence that they can kill any effort to delay
billions of dollars in automatic spending cuts that would
take effect after Oct. 1 unless a budget accord is reached.
They are encouraging President Bush to veto a postponement of
the cuts, as a way of keeping pressure on budget negotiators.
   Democratic House leaders have discussed including a delay
provision as part of a short-term spending bill that will
probably be needed to finance the government for the first
weeks of the new fiscal year. Some Democrats suggest a veto
strategy could backfire, saddling Republicans with the blame
for the automatic cuts just weeks before the election.
   Among the Democrats' latest proposals is a provision that
would raise $12 billion over five years from the nation's
banks by increasing the premium charged for deposit
insurance. The premium would rise to 27 cents per $100 of
deposits in 1992. Federal regulators already have proposed
raising the premium to 19.5 cents per $100 of deposits next
year.
   Some, however, question the appropriateness of raising
premiums at a time when bank profits are narrowing. According
to a Congressional Budget Office analysis, the higher premium
would further tighten profits, pushing a few shaky
institutions over the edge. Furthermore, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., which insures bank deposits, can raise
premiums only to protect its insurance fund against existing
or projected future losses.
   The proposal was added to the latest Democratic budget
offer on Monday, just hours after the House approved a bill
that would do away with the limit on what the FDIC can charge
for insurance.
   A similar bill is pending in the Senate, and the Bush
administration yesterday introduced its own bill designed to
allow the FDIC to raise bank insurance premiums. The
administration plan differs slightly from the House version,
removing mandatory rebates for banks if the insurance fund
reaches a certain level. It also would allow the FDIC to
borrow from the Federal Financing Bank, which provides money
for such agencies as the Postal Service.
   ---
   Greg Hitt contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bonneville Pacific Corp:
   Portland General Agrees
   To Buy Up to 49% Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   PGN BPCO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Portland General Corp. has signed a definitive agreement
to acquire as much as 49% of the common stock of Bonneville
Pacific Corp., an independent energy, food processing and
waste management concern, for about $34 million.
   Portland General, an energy holding company in Portland,
Ore., will buy a $10 million debenture convertible into 1.3
million Bonneville common shares at $7.50 a share; 3.3
million new common shares at $6 each; and warrants
outstanding at $1 each to buy four million additional common
shares at $6 each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also, Portland General has the option to acquire
additional common stock to raise its stake to the 49% total.
Richard G. Reiten, Portland General's president, said the
agreement is part of the company's efforts to build up its
independent power business. The transaction is expected to
close in mid-October.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rumors Fly on Successor to VW's Hahn
   As Some Bet He'll Stay On as Chairman
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   G.VOW JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   WOLFSBURG, West Germany -- When Volkswagen AG decided to
build cars and engines in East Germany, it was a bittersweet
homecoming for company Chairman Carl H. Hahn.
   Six decades ago, he was a boy growing up just minutes from
the engine plant in Chemnitz, East Germany, that Volkswagen
now is running in a joint venture with an East German
company. His father was instrumental in turning the cars then
produced at the nearby Zwickau plant into a successful brand
that later became part of Audi.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Upon returning recently, however, Mr. Hahn found crumbling
homes and antiquated factories with leaking roofs. Conditions
were "below human dignity," he says. Rebuilding his old home
town and its main industry now, after the fall of the Berlin
Wall, "is very emotional," he says.
   This kind of personal involvement has characterized Mr.
Hahn's leadership since he took over Volkswagen eight years
ago. Although the company is a fringe player in the U.S. with
less than 2% of the car market, in Europe Volkswagen is the
No. 1 car maker in the world's largest car market.
   Now, Mr. Hahn, 64 years old, is leading the company on an
aggressive international expansion drive with a newly united
Germany as the base. But as it rolls the dice on ventures in
Eastern Europe, Mexico and China, Volkswagen is struggling
with a big question: What to do about Mr. Hahn, who is
scheduled to retire next year?
   Speculation is rampant in European business circles over
which of five candidates will succeed Mr. Hahn. And the race
is attracting considerable attention in Germany.
   Last month, the German publication Industriemagazin boldly
declared that Daniel Goeudevert, the 48-year-old former head
of Ford Motor Co.'s German operations and now VW's purchasing
chief, was destined to "ascend to Caesar's throne."
   But there is also the possibility that the company's
supervisory board will do the unprecedented, and ask Mr. Hahn
to remain as chairman after he turns 65 and his current
contract runs out. That scenario, which would require the
board to give Mr. Hahn a special exemption under VW's bylaws,
is gaining credibility with many company insiders.
   Mr. Hahn, so far, insists he doesn't intend to stay on
past his retirement. "I am very optimistic the world doesn't
depend on me, and I am confident Volkswagen will be as
successful, if not more successful, when I am gone," Mr. Hahn
said earlier this week in a meeting with reporters and
auto-industry analysts. However, he doesn't rule out
extending his tenure if the supervisory board asks him to
stay.
   Should Mr. Hahn leave, there's a crowd waiting in the
wings to succeed him. There's Mr. Goeudevert, a Frenchman who
could become the first foreign-born head of VW. Then there's
Martin Posth, 46, VW's personnel head; Dieter Ullsperger, 44,
VW's top financial officer; and Ferdinand Piech, 53, head of
VW's Audi division. An outside candidate is Helmut Werner,
53, a top executive at Daimler-Benz AG.
   But those who think Mr. Hahn may stay point to the
relative youth of these executives, and the fact that none of
them has the kind of political clout or international
experience that Mr. Hahn has. Earlier this month, for
example, German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, French President
Francois Mitterrand and top Soviet and East European
officials gathered at Mr. Hahn's invitation in Wolfsburg to
discuss Eastern Europe.
   Moreover, Volkswagen is heading into uncertain times.
Although the company is strong in Europe, that base is far
from secure. The same Japanese auto makers that battered the
company in the U.S. over the past decade are gearing up for
an assault on the European market.
   Volkswagen fought the Japanese in the U.S. and lost. Once
bigger in the U.S. than all other import brands combined,
VW's U.S. market share has dwindled to just 1.4%. Now,
analysts say VW could face the same threat in Europe, and at
least one recently advised clients to sell VW stock.
   One of Volkswagen's big problems is the high cost of West
German labor. That's why Mr. Hahn is looking elsewhere to
expand VW's operations. In Spain, where labor costs are
substantially less, VW saved the foundering SEAT S.A.
operations and now plans to boost output of SEAT cars to more
than 700,000 from 500,000 annually.
   In China, VW is shrugging off the risk of political
instability and plans to increase output from its Shanghai
plant to about 150,000 cars a year from the current 16,000.
Meanwhile, Mr. Hahn is trying to persuade more of VW's
suppliers to locate operations in Mexico to cut costs in
Volkswagen's Mexican assembly operations.
   But with so much at risk, many analysts think Mr. Hahn
ultimately will decide he should stay on. "Emotion will
override everything else," says Lehman Brothers analyst
Joseph Phillippi. "I can't imagine he'll leave before making
sure everything gets off okay."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Reserve Assets
   Increased in August
   To $78.91 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. official reserve assets rose $1 billion
in August to $78.91 billion, the Treasury Department said.
   Last month's gain compared with a $608 million rise in
reserve assets in July to $77.91 billion, the department
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. reserve assets consist of foreign currencies, gold,
special drawing rights at the International Monetary Fund and
the U.S. reserve position -- its ability to draw foreign
currencies -- at the IMF.
   The nation's holdings of foreign currencies increased $717
million in August to $48.17 billion, while its gold reserves
rose $1 million to $11.07 billion.
   U.S. holdings of IMF special drawing rights last month
rose $81 million to $10.78 billion, and its reserve position
at the IMF increased $204 million to $8.89 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ogden Corp.:
   Concern Will Retain 85%
   In Waste-to-Energy Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   OG OPI
</CO>
<IN>
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ogden Corp. ended speculation that it might split into two
public companies, and said it intends to retain its 85%
holding in Ogden Projects Inc., its waste-to-energy unit.
   Odgen, based in New York, also announced a major
reshuffling of the Ogden Projects board, replacing five of
its eight members and adding three others.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier this year, Ogden had been discussing the possible
creation of Ogden Projects as a separate entity.
   Ogden Projects, which went public in 1989, has been
growing rapidly as it brings on line large waste-to-energy
plants operating long-term contracts; at the end of 1989, it
had 13 plants in operation, 7 under construction, and 6
awaiting license.
   Ogden's other major activity is a broad array of service
business which generated $1 billion of revenue in 1989,
ranging from asbestos abatement, managing arenas and
convention centers, and operating commercial aviation
facilities to managing industrial and building locations and
providing building maintenance services.
   For the six months, Ogden Projects had net income of $15.9
million, or 45 cents a share, on revenue of $189 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cockerill Sambre S.A.:
   First-Half Profit Rose 22%
   Due to Some Special Gains
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.COS
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cockerill Sambre S.A. said unconsolidated profit for the
first six months of fiscal 1990 rose 22%, to 8.9 billion
Belgian francs ($275.6 million) from 7.3 billion Belgian
francs in the year-earlier period.
   Sales declined 6% to 50.1 billion Belgian francs from 53.3
billion Belgian francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Belgian steel foundry said the increase in profit was
due to extraordinary gains. Without the gains, profit would
have been about half the level of year-ago earnings, the
company said.
   Cockerill predicted noticeably weaker second-half results
because of lower prices and volume for steel products.
Moreover, it said it didn't expect to realize the same level
of one-time gains as during the first half.
   "The profit for 1990 should nonetheless remain
satisfactory, without attaining the exceptional level seen in
1989,' the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Guinness PLC:
   British Brewer's Pretax Net
   Jumped 31% in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GUI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Guinness PLC, the British brewing and drinks group, said
pretax profit jumped 31% in the first half of the year,
beating both analysts' and the company's expectations for the
period.
   Guinness's rise in pretax profit to #322 million ($606.8
million) from #246 million a year earlier outperformed the
market's expectations of between #306 million and #310
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit after taxes, minority interests and preference
dividends rose 31% to #201 million from #154 million a year
earlier. Earnings per share rose 30% to 21.9 pence from 16.9
pence.
   Net profit attributable to shareholders nearly trebled to
#201 million from #69 million. There were no extraordinary
items in the latest period, but a year-earlier extraordinary
loss of #85 million helped flatter the comparison. The loss
related to a payment to shareholders stemming from the
illegal share-support mechanism used during the company's bid
for United Distillers in 1986.
   Guinness increased the interim dividend by 23% to 5.4
pence from 4.4 pence a year earlier.
   Sales rose 20% to #1.52 billion from #1.26 billion the
previous year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Gains Against Most Currencies,
   Partly Because of New Mideast Jitters
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar gained slightly against most major
currencies, reflecting technical buying, fears about the
heightening of Middle East tensions, and hopes that the
Federal Reserve will postpone cutting U.S. interest rates.
   With the start of Rosh Hashana, or the Jewish New Year, a
national holiday Monday in Japan and a meeting of the Group
of Seven industrialized nations Saturday, the market traded
as if yesterday were the end of the week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This has been a rather tricky market to keep up to speed
on," said Keith Cheveralls, New York foreign-exchange manager
for Nippon Credit Bank. Ahead is a "big weekend," he said,
both in duration because of the holidays and in importance
because of the G-7 conference in Washington.
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at
1.5773 marks and 1.3205 Swiss francs, up from 1.5715 marks
and 1.3094 francs late Wednesday in New York. The U.S.
currency was also changing hands at 137.65 yen, rising from
137.52 yen.
   In early trading in Tokyo Friday, the dollar was quoted at
137.75 yen, up from 137.05 yen at the close there Thursday.
   Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.5773
marks, up from Thursday's Tokyo close of 1.5733 marks.
   On Thursday, the dollar rose as high as 1.5835 marks and
1.3270 francs and fell as low as 136.40 yen. Its movements
reflected, in part, cross trading between the yen and
European currencies.
   Asian dealers began a trend that lasted almost to the
close of the North American session, of buying yen and
selling European currencies to cover short, or oversold, yen
positions. As a result of its role as a medium in such cross
trades, the dollar was much higher against the European
currencies but lower against the yen for most of the global
trading day.
   Those differences narrowed when the yen's rise reversed in
a burst of activity about two hours before the close of New
York trading.
   Dealers couldn't pin down a fundamental reason for the
sudden turnaround in the cross market. But they said a rally
in oil prices at about that time may have served as an excuse
to unload yen. Japan imports almost all of its crude and is
considered vulnerable to rising oil prices.
   Meanwhile, independent dollar buying was encouraged by a
green light from technical charts, a jeep accident in Saudi
Arabia and continued optimism about the postponement of U.S.
rate cuts after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's
congressional testimony Wednesday.
   Ian Foakes, PaineWebber's foreign-exchange manager, said a
technical indicator signaled a dollar-buying opportunity
early yesterday, in response to the greenback's recent gains.
The indicator gauges how well a currency sticks to highs it
sets, and the U.S. currency looked good yesterday after its
advances Wednesday.
   "The dollar is fairly well underpinned," Mr. Foakes said.
"It looks better than the last time it was up here" last
week.
   After drifting lower in early European trading, the dollar
bounced higher on news that a U.S. soldier was killed and two
others injured in a jeep accident in Saudi Arabia. The
incident created a belief that tension might escalate in the
Mideast, and that the dollar might serve as a "haven"
currency for investors in case of war.
   "Of course, this {incident} won't trigger a war, but the
market was already short" dollars and primed to move higher,
said Rainer Marian, analyst at Hessische Landesbank in
Frankfurt.
   The dollar ended European dealings mostly higher, helped
against sterling, the mark and the Swiss franc by cross
movements into the yen and expectations that U.S. interest
rates aren't about to ease just yet. In Mr. Greenspan's
congressional testimony Wednesday, the Fed chairman had
expressed concern about the dollar's recent losses. The
dollar climbed as traders interpreted those comments as a
sign that the Fed won't cut interest rates soon. In general,
higher interest rates make a currency more attractive to
investors.
   The dollar finished Asian trading mixed Thursday. It
dropped against the yen, closing in Tokyo at 137.05 yen, a
full yen below its 138.05 yen Wednesday close.
   Tokyo traders attributed some of the yen's gains to
unwinding of short yen positions before Japan's holiday
weekend.
   Meanwhile, sterling was trading late in New York at
$1.8740, down from $1.8845 late Wednesday. However, the pace
of the pound's retreat slowed after a sharp fall Wednesday,
when Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl cast a cloud over
sterling's prospects for full membership in the European
Monetary System.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $389.10 an ounce, up $3.10. Estimated
volume was a light 2.1 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Friday, gold was quoted at
$389.90 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- MGM/UA Communications Co.:
   Pathe Communications Adds
   Payment Toward Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MGM PCC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MGM/UA Communications Co. said it received checks totaling
$50 million from Pathe Communications Corp., bringing to $353
million the amount Pathe has paid in cash toward its proposed
$1.3 billion acquisition of MGM/UA.
   The payment is the last in a series of good-faith interim
payments required under the companies' merger agreement.
Pathe, based in Beverly Hills, Calif., has also given MGM/UA
a $75 million security interest in three films slated by
Pathe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The merger pact calls for MGM/UA shareholders to receive a
total of $21.50 a share, including a $4-a-share payment
distributed on July 20. Payment of the remaining $17.50 a
share and closing of the merger is set to occur by Oct. 23.
   MGM/UA holders will meet to vote on the merger Oct. 2. The
polling is a formality because Kirk Kerkorian, who controls
about 80% of MGM/UA's shares, already agreed to vote in favor
of the merger.
   MGM/UA rose 25 cents to $14 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- NEC Corp.:
   Japanese Firm to Set Up
   Related Ventures in China
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST NIPNY J.SUT
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEC Corp., a leading Japanese high-technology concern,
said it has agreed to set up related joint ventures in China
to produce integrated circuits and digital telephone
switching systems.
   The deal, the first between a Japanese electronics firm
and China, was initiated in 1988 but suspended after the
Chinese government's crackdown on demonstrators in June 1989.
The project was reopened after Japan's government lifted its
freeze on loans to China in July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement, signed by NEC and the Chinese Ministry of
Machinery and Electronics Industry, will become effective
when formal approval is obtained from the Chinese and
Japanese governments.
   Under the deal, a joint venture in Beijing would produce
large-scale integrated circuits jointly with Shoudu Iron and
Steel Co. of China, NEC said. It will be capitalized at the
equivalent of $62 million and 60% of it will be owned by
Shoudu and the rest by NEC, the officials said.
   NEC also will set up a joint venture to produce telephone
switching systems in Tianjin with Tianjin Zhonghuan Computer
Co., Tianjin Post and Telecommunications Administration, both
of China, and Sumitomo Corp., a Japanese trading firm.
   They said the projected venture would be worth $29
million, with the Chinese computer company owning 45%, the
postal authority 15%, NEC 35% and Sumitomo 5%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Scottish &amp; Newcastle Breweries:
   British Company May Buy
   Rest of Center Parcs Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.SCT N.CEN
</CO>
<IN>
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Scottish &amp; Newcastle Breweries PLC and Center Parcs N.V.
said they are in talks that could lead to the British concern
buying the Center Parcs shares it doesn't already own.
   Scottish &amp; Newcastle, a brewing and leisure concern,
purchased a 60.3% interest in Center Parcs a year ago for
#218 million ($410.8 million). It said it may purchase the
remaining 39.7% for about #180 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The original purchase agreement prohibited Scottish &amp;
Newcastle from bidding for the rest of Center Parcs for three
years so that the Dutch leisure group could keep its
identity. The agreement said Center Parcs would maintain a
listing on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
   Center Parcs, which currently operates 12 holiday villages
in the Netherlands, Belgium, France and the U.K., said it now
considers its identity "securely established" and believes
its business could be more successfully expanded as a wholly
owned subsidiary.
   Separately, Center Parcs said pretax profit for the first
half of 1990 rose 35% to 34.8 million Dutch guilders ($19.7
million), while sales gained 24% to 376.3 million guilders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- HealthVest:
   Regent Health Gets Lease
   To Operate Medical Center
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   HVT HII
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   HealthVest,an ailing real estate investment trust, said it
had completed the previously announced transfer of the
operating lease on Eastwood Medical Center in Memphis, Tenn.,
to Regent Health Group Inc., a closely held
hospital-management company. HealthVest said the new 10-year
lease provides for minimum annual rental payments to the
trust of about $4.8 million and for additional rent on a
formula basis. The agreement also provides for deferral of
the first three months' rental, the company said.
   Healthvest, based in Austin, Texas, said Healthcare
International Inc., the hospital management concern that
leases many of its properties, will remain obligated to
HealthVest for the difference between the annual base rent
owned on Eastwood Medical Center through the termination of
its original lease in February 1992 and the rent paid by
Regent under the new lease. HealthVest estimated that amount
at about $2.8 million a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the six months, HealthVest reported a net loss of $6.8
million, or 64 cents a share, on revenue of $16 million, down
from net income of $10.9 million, or 96 cents a share, on
revenue of $29.4 million in the year-earlier period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Air France:
   Airline's Board Intensifies
   Concern's Cost-Cutting Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AFR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Air France's board decided to intensify the French-owned
airline's cost-cutting program in response to an estimated
loss of 170 million French francs ($32.3 million) in the
first half and oil-related difficulties anticipated in the
second half.
   The board also delayed until 1991 any non-aircraft
investments planned for the rest of this year, while
nonessential work on buildings or information systems has
effectively been canceled.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Air France also adopted a hiring freeze, with the
exception of navigation personnel, while the airline's
program of chartering planes from other companies will be
phased out following the charter in January of a Boeing 747.
   The measures follow Air France Chairman Bernard Attali's
announcement in June that the company is cutting back flights
on some less-traveled routes in the face of sluggish traffic
growth.
   Air France had consolidated net profit after payments to
minority interests of 841 million francs in 1989 on revenue
of 39.6 billion francs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Fall 39.11 on Index Trading
   Ahead of `Triple Witching Hour'
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices tumbled in moderate trading, with
selling related to the expiration of September stock-index
futures and options doing much of the damage.
   Continuing worries about the economy and the Middle East
situation weighed on the market as well, traders said.
"Nobody wants to have an unpleasant surprise," said Edward E.
Collins III, executive vice president of institutional
trading at Daiwa Securities America.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 39.11 to 2518.32,
and declining issues routed advancers by a margin of 1,258 to
300.
   Among broader indexes, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index
fell 5.12 to 311.48, the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Index dropped 2.69 to 171.22 and the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index went down 4.73 to 288.57.
   While many market players were absent in observance of
Rosh Hashana, the beginning of the Jewish New Year, trading
activity remained at the moderate pace of the prior two
sessions. Big Board volume totaled 145,100,000 shares,
compared with 147,530,000 shares Wednesday and 141,130,000
shares Tuesday.
   The Dow Jones industrials fell about 46 points in the
first hour of trading amid waves of program selling linked to
stock-index arbitrage, involving the purchase of index
futures and the sale of baskets of stocks to profit from
price differences between them.
   The index arbitrage took effect after index-futures
selling in advance of today's quarterly expiration -- also
known as the "triple witching hour" -- drove down the value
of the futures in comparison with the underlying indexes.
   A late wave of arbitrage selling helped push the
industrial average to a loss of more than 50 points,
prompting the Big Board to implement its "uptick" rule on
index arbitrage-related selling. From 3:36 p.m. EDT to the
close of trading, stock sales tied to index arbitrage
couldn't be completed if the issues involved were dropping in
price.
   The prospect of further volatility as the September
contracts expire today kept many investors on the sidelines,
traders said.
   The market's slide toward its late-August lows led to some
selling by institutional investors. "The institutions have
been waiting for rallies, and they're tired of waiting. At
the slightest hint of anything wrong they're just laying into
{stocks}," said Ralph J. Acampora, director of technical
research at Prudential-Bache Securities.
   Advancers were almost nonexistent on the list of the Big
Board's most active issues. General Electric, which fell 1/2
to 55 1/8, topped the list with composite volume of 3.3
million shares. PepsiCo, which slipped 5/8 to 22 3/4,
finished second with 2.6 million shares; and Philip Morris,
third among the most actives, lost 1 to 45 on 2.1 million
shares.
   Gillette tumbled 3 1/2 to 51 1/8. Salomon Brothers lowered
the stock's investment rating, citing an "increasing
conviction" in earnings estimates for 1990 and 1991 that fall
short of other firms' forecasts.
   Digital Equipment fell 1 7/8 to 53 3/4 and traded as low
as 53, setting another five-year low. Alex. Brown &amp; Sons
slashed its earnings estimate for the fiscal year ending next
June by $3.25 a share, to $1.50; at least 17 analysts have
cut back forecasts on Digital in the past two weeks.
   Investors continued to dump shares of MBIA, which dropped
3 to 25 1/2; over the past three sessions, the municipal-bond
insurer's stock has lost nearly 10 points.
   Yesterday, The Wall Street Journal's "Heard on the Street"
column said traders are nervous about the possibility of
defaults by issuers of tax-exempt bonds, such as the
financially strapped city of Philadelphia. If such a default
were to occur, the companies that insure municipal bonds
would take a hit, the Journal said. Aetna Life &amp; Casualty
dipped 3/4 to 40 7/8, Fund American fell 1 3/8 to 43 1/2 and
Cigna went down 5/8 to 41 3/8; all three insurance firms hold
large stakes in MBIA.
   American General, which plunged 6 3/8 Wednesday after
saying it may sell only its home-service life insurance
operations instead of the entire company, dropped an
additional 3/4 to 32 7/8 on 1.7 million shares. Among other
insurance issues, American International Group dropped 1 7/8
to 63 5/8, General Re fell 1 1/4 to 72 3/4, USF&amp;G dropped 1
1/4 to 19 5/8 and Torchmark lost 1 1/8 to 43 5/8.
   Among 82 industry groups tracked by Dow Jones, only two --
precious metals and water utilities -- closed higher. Battle
Mountain Gold rose 1/8 to 10 1/4 and Hecla Mining went up 1/8
to 10 1/8. Among water utilities, Hydraulic rose 1/4 to 20
3/4, American Water Works ended unchanged at 14 3/8 and
United Water Resources closed unchanged at 11 5/8.
   Apple Bancorp jumped 5 1/2 to 36 3/8. Its board removed an
obstacle to the $38-a-share takeover offer from Stanley
Stahl, a New York real estate investor, by agreeing to
terminate two trusts created to block the proposal.
   UAL rose 2 1/4 to 102 1/4. A group of unions at the
company's United Airlines unit asked 26 banks to decide by
Oct. 3 whether they will help finance a new $175-a-share
buy-out bid.
   International Multifoods went up 1/2 to 29 1/8 after
Archer-Daniels-Midland disclosed that it had raised its stake
in the company to 9.43%. Archer-Daniels closed unchanged at
24.
   Martin Marietta, which completed a $42.5 million sale of
property in Orlando, Fla., rose 1/2 to 38 1/2. The company
sold the real estate to three groups of investors, which it
didn't identify.
   Computer Factory jumped 1 to 3 1/8. Bay Street Group, a
San Francisco-based merchant banker, offered $4 a share for
the company.
   MGI Properties skidded 1 3/4 to 8 1/8 after cutting its
quarterly dividend by eight cents a share, to 20 cents, and
reporting that earnings for the fiscal quarter ended in
August dropped 22% from a year ago.
   BMC Industries, which said it expects a third-quarter loss
of about 25 cents a share, fell 3/4 to 6. The company also
forecast that earnings for the year would be down about 15%
from the 1989 level.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 1.79
to 317.18. Volume totaled 12,390,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Southern National Corp.:
   Banking Concern to Merge
   With NBSC in Stock Swap
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   SNAT NSCB
</CO>
<IN>
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Southern National Corp. and NBSC Corp. said they agreed to
merge through an exchange of common stock valued at $53
million.
   The two banking companies said a formal merger agreement
will be negotiated in the next several weeks. The companies
said the number of shares of Southern National stock to be
exchanged will vary from 4.8 million to 5.3 million,
depending on the price of Southern National stock at the time
the exchange ratio is set.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The merger is subject to negotiation of a definitive
agreement and approval by federal regulators and shareholders
of both corporations.
   The principal subsidiary of NBSC is the National Bank of
South Carolina. That bank will become part of Southern
National Bank of South Carolina, a subsidiary of Southern
National.
   The transaction, which is expected to be completed in the
second quarter of 1991, will make Southern National of
Lumberton, N.C., the fifth-largest bank-holding company in
North Carolina with $4 billion in assets, while doubling its
market share in South Carolina.
   NBSC is based in Sumter, S.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Comptroller Expects
   Further Real Estate Slump
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Comptroller of the Currency Robert Clarke
said he expected New England real-estate markets to continue
to deteriorate and that it "will affect the banks."
   Mr. Clarke, speaking to reporters, didn't say how much
further he expected the New England real-estate markets to
erode or how much it would cost the banks. But he said it was
"clear these markets are not going to bounce back fast and
high."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In general, the comptroller said, "1990 will not be a good
year for bank profitability and asset quality" because of
real-estate loans and other problem loans related to the
slowing economy. He added that the outlook for next year
remained unclear.
   Mr. Clarke said his agency remained concerned about
real-estate loan practices. Though he has been urging bankers
to be cautious in their lending, Mr. Clarke said that federal
regulators in special audits have continued to find faulty
appraisals, inadequate management supervision of loans, and
loans with little or no borrower equity.
   Separately, Mr. Clarke said the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. is looking over data on how the proposed increase of
insurance premiums paid by banks would affect the banking
industry. He said there is at least a possibility that
premiums could be increased above the proposed 19.5 cents per
$100 of deposits per year if the FDIC is given the authority
by legislation.
   The House has passed such legislation, and the Senate is
expected to take up the matter soon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE FED AUTHORIZED J.P. Morgan to underwrite stocks, the
first time a bank has had that power since it was outlawed in
1933 because of abuses during the Depression. The move comes
at a time of growing concern over the banking industry's
health due to widespread loan problems and sluggish growth.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices tumbled, amid surging oil prices and the
effects of program trading. The Dow Jones industrials fell
39.11 points to 2518.32. October crude-oil futures hit a
record $35 a barrel, before closing at $34.71, up $1.53 on
the day. Bond prices fell.
   ---
   A global shortage of capital is likely to dominate a
meeting of the world's finance ministers next week. For the
U.S., a sharp slowdown in foreign investment, coupled with
surging investments by Americans in overseas markets,
threatens to keep economic growth at a sluggish pace.
                                                                                                       

   Americans are worried the economy will get worse in the
next year, a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll found, while
52% said they were uncomfortable about buying stocks.
   ---
   Chase Manhattan is expected to announce today a big
increase in reserves for problem loans and staff cuts of more
than 3,000 employees.
   ---
   The Big Board is proposing a rule change aimed at curbing
market volatility when stock-index futures and options
expire. The change could curtail some forms of program
trading.
   ---
   Dole suggested that a capital-gains tax cut be separated
from any plan to cut the budget deficit and combined with a
package of Democratic spending initiatives.
   ---
   United Student Aid Funds was selected to take over the $9
billion portfolio of the financially troubled Higher
Education Assistance Foundation, a loan guarantee agency.
   ---
   Polly Peck International stock fell 55% amid rumors about
the British conglomerate, and the firm's plans for a special
board meeting today.
   ---
   Visa and MasterCard are considering restrictions on who
can issue their cards following banks' complaints about
AT&amp;T's successful entry into the credit-card business.
   ---
   Short interest rose to record levels on both the Big Board
and the Amex in the month ended Sept. 14.
   ---
   Japan's economic growth slowed to a 3.6% annual rate in
the quarter ended June 30 from an 11.9% pace in the preceding
three-month period.
   ---
   A pharmaceuticals venture involving Du Pont and Merck
recruited Genentech's former R&amp;D chief to lead its own
drug-discovery efforts.
   ---
   Consumer groups are fighting an administration plan to
raise up-front costs for borrowers of FHA-backed loans. The
plan is designed to protect the solvency of a fund that
insures low down-payment mortgages.
   ---
   SCEcorp elected John E. Bryson, a one-time environmental
activist, as chairman and chief executive officer of the
nation's second-largest investor-owned electric utility.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 145,100,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2518.32, off 39.11; transportation 879.99, off 8.32;
utilities 200.33, off 1.19.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3339.43,
off 6.02.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 131.48, off 0.18;
spot index 129.09, up 0.19.
   Dollar: 137.65 yen, up 0.13; 1.5773 marks, up 0.0058.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Sink on Reports That Some Leaders
   In Congress May Try to Delay Spending-Cuts Date
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   X.GFC CAW AZTR PMI FRE FNM MER EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Reports that some congressional leaders may
seek to postpone automatic spending cuts, which are called
for under the Gramm-Rudman deficit reduction law, sent
jitters through the bond market yesterday.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell 3/8 point, a
loss of about $3.75 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
Yesterday's decline nearly wiped out Wednesday's rally and
pushed the yield on the benchmark bond back up to 9.03%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bond prices were little changed during early trading but
sank suddenly on news that members of Congress have been
discussing the possibility of delaying across-the-board
spending cuts to give congressional negotiators more time to
work out details of a deficit reduction plan. Unless Congress
comes up with a plan, $85 billion in automatic,
across-the-board spending cuts are scheduled to go into
effect Oct. 1. By Oct. 15, an additional $20 billion could be
cut.
   Lawrence Leuzzi, a managing director at S.G. Warburg &amp;
Co., said the reports were a big disappointment to bond
investors, who have been counting on a quick solution to the
nation's big budget deficit problem. Among other benefits, a
smaller deficit would reduce the size of future government
borrowings, which, in turn, could lead to lower interest
rates.
   "This could be the first chink in the Gramm-Rudman armor
that could potentially lead to the unraveling of the
legislation," Mr. Leuzzi said. "If they delay Gramm-Rudman a
few weeks for the budget negotiations, then next they may
want to delay it until the Persian Gulf crisis is resolved.
And that would be very negative for the markets."
   Relentless increases in oil prices, and reports that
additional price rises could be in store, also hurt bond
prices.
   On the New York Mercantile Exchange, prices of the October
crude oil futures contract settled at $34.71 a barrel, up
$1.53.
   If that wasn't bad enough, the World Bank said yesterday
that world oil prices could skyrocket as high as $65 a barrel
if the Persian Gulf crisis turns into a shooting war.
   Sentiment in the bond market is apparently so bearish that
not even plunging stock prices encouraged investors to buy
bonds. This was surprising, considering that the bond market
often benefits from sharp declines in stock prices, as
investors sell stocks and invest the proceeds in Treasury
securities, which are considered ultrasafe.
   Brian Fabbri, chief economist at Midland Montagu, said the
bond market had been anticipating some "bond for stocks"
trading, "but that never really materialized." At one point,
the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 50 points, but
ended 39.11 points lower at 2518.32.
   Mr. Fabbri said the thin trading conditions may have
overstated yesterday's bond market decline. "If more people
were in the market," he said, "it would have been more
balanced in matching bids with offers." Mr. Fabbri said he
expects trading volume to be light again today, with few
fresh economic developments on which to focus.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury securities ended moderately lower to little
changed in light trading.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of
96 30/32, down from 97 9/32 on Wednesday. The issue's yield,
which moves in the opposite direction of its price, rose to
9.03% from 9%.
   Short-term securities were little changed. The price of
two-year notes ended at 100 3/32, to yield 8.05%, unchanged
from Wednesday. Rates on Treasury bills were slightly higher.
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills ended at
7.39%, for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.61%, and the rate on
six-month bills was 7.32%, for a bond-equivalent yield of
7.69%.
   The Treasury sold $10.5 billion of one-year bills
yesterday at an average yield of 7.25%. That was down from
7.4% at the previous one-year bill auction Aug. 23 and was
the lowest yield since 7.21% at the Jan. 11 auction.
   Here are details of yesterday's 52-week bill auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                          52-Week Bills
                                                                                                       

 Applications ......................... $32,524,150,000

 Accepted at low price ................             54%
 Accepted noncompetitively ............    $576,095,000
 Average price (Rate) .................  92.669 (7.25%)
 High price (Rate) ....................  92.690 (7.23%)
 Low price (Rate) .....................   92.669(7.25%)
 Coupon equivalent ....................           7.78%
                                                                                                       

   The bills are dated Sept. 27, 1990 and mature Sept. 26,
1991.
                                                                                                       

   Junk and Corporate Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Falling stock prices weighed on the junk-bond market,
driving prices moderately lower.
   But while prices of most high-yield,
below-investment-grade bonds were 1/2 point lower, the junk
bonds issued by casino operators posted larger declines. The
casino-bond rout was led by Goldriver Finance Corp., which
plunged more than 30 points on news that the company won't
meet interest due Nov. 1 on its 13.875% first mortgage bonds.
The company also said it may not be able to make other
bondholder payments, as well.
   That news cast a pall over the entire casino sector, where
issues such as Caesars World and Aztar Mortgage Funding Inc.
registered losses of as much as one point.
   Though markets for Goldriver bonds were wide, high-yield
traders quoted the securities at bid prices ranging from 35
to 39, down at least 33 points from Wednesday's closing
levels.
   Meanwhile, Caesars World 13.5% subordinated notes, due in
1997, slipped 1/2 point to 98 and Aztar Mortgage Funding's
13.5% first mortgage bonds, maturing in 1996, fell one point
to 81.
   In the high-grade market, bond prices finished unchanged
to 1/8 point lower.
   Among new issues, Premark International Inc. offered $100
million of notes, which were priced to yield 10.502%. The
noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 1.6 percentage
points above the Treasury's 10-year note, through
underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   An unexpected oil price flare-up sent municipals lower
late in the session, with tax-exempt bonds unchanged to off
1/4 point in light dealings.
   A World Bank report, which estimates that the price of oil
could rise to $65 a barrel if a shooting war breaks out in
the Persian Gulf, was generally viewed as the impetus for
oil's latest rise. After the report, a municipal trader said,
"The market's down on oil trading."
   Trading remained light, as marketwary investors are
continuing to sit on the sidelines, given the lingering
uncertainty about the Middle East. "They're very careful,"
the trader said of investors. "They're involved only if they
have to be."
   The New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.2% issue due 2018
was 1/8 point lower at 97 to 97 3/8, to yield 7.42%.
   In new-issue dealings, a Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. group set
the preliminary pricing for the Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, New York's $165.9 million transit and commuter
facilities service contract bonds, to yield from 6.4% in 1992
to 8.13% in 2016. Ratings of single-A/triple-B-plus are
expected.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed securities experienced a session of
lackluster trading, as many market players were absent
because of a religious holiday.
   Even though active mortgage issues traded in a tight range
for most of the day, mortgage securities lost ground in
mid-afternoon, prompted by the sharp rise in oil prices.
   Mortgage issues gave up nearly 1/4 point when oil prices
shot up. Government National Mortgage Association, or Ginnie
Mae, 9 1/2% issues for October delivery were off 5/32 at 98
8/32, down 7/32 from the high of 98 15/32. Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp., or Freddie Mac, Gold 9 1/2% issues and
Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, 9 1/2%
issues were slightly stronger, down 4/32, at 98 25/32 and 98
18/32, respectively.
   In the real estate mortgage investment conduit, or remic,
market, Merrill Lynch Capital Markets announced the details
of Merrill Lynch Trust 47. The $300 million remic is backed
by Ginnie Mae 9% issues and consists of nine classes.
   The first two classes are sequential pay classes. A
sequential pay is a series of classes whereby cash flows are
used to retire each class in order of maturity. Of the
remaining seven classes, five are planned amortization
classes, or PACs. A remic is a type of security underwritten
by Wall Street firms that provides a method of dividing up
the income flows from many mortgages into new securities with
various interest rates and maturities, to attract banks,
insurers and other big investors to the home-mortgage market.
   Mortgage-Treasury yield spreads were slightly narrower.
Ginnie Mae 9 1/2% issues were yielding 9.91%, assuming a
constant annual prepayment rate of 5.5. The yield
differential was 100 basis points over the 10-year Treasury
note, one basis point narrower than Wednesday. A basis point
is equal to 1/100th of one percentage point.
   Freddie Mac Gold 9 1/2% issues were yielding 9.82%, based
on a constant annual prepayment rate of 6.9, and were at 90
basis points over the 10-year Treasury note, three basis
points tighter than Wednesday.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   British government bonds surged in a flight-to-quality
rally that was triggered by falling stock prices.
   The price of Britain's benchmark 11 3/4% government bond,
or gilt, was quoted at 100 10/32, up 22/32 from late
Wednesday, to yield 11.69%.
   "We started to take off the moment the Footsie started to
plummet, with one or two people looking for a refuge," a
trader said. Footsie is the sobriquet for the Financial
Times-Stock Index of 100 issues. "It's just gone up and up
and up," the trader said. "For every 1/2 point down in the
Footsie, we're putting on a tick or two."
   The bond rally began late in the day and provided some
excitement to an otherwise torpid market.
   Gilt prices were slightly lower at the opening, because of
continued worries about delays in sterling's entry into the
European Exchange Rate Mechanism, following Wednesday's
comments by the West German Bundesbank, or central bank,
president, Karl Otto Poehl.
   In Japan, bankers and dealers warned investors to expect
another increase in Japan's long-term prime rate next week.
Many analysts said the rate could rise to as high as 9%.
   But bankers expressed worry that the jump to the
psychologically significant 9% level, while justified by the
costs of funds of banks, would chill demand for their loans.
An official at one of Japan's three long-term credit banks,
which reset the prime rate late each month, said his bank may
try to limit the rise in the long-term prime to below 9%.
   The long-term prime rate is a benchmark for pricing many
corporate loans, including subordinated loans being taken by
Japanese banks to raise capital, as well as housing and
personal loans. At 9%, the prime rate would be at its highest
level in eight years.
   ---
   Rose Marie Burke contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- A.G. Edwards Inc.:
   Second-Period Net Fell 11%
   Despite 9.2% Revenue Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   AGE
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   A.G. Edwards Inc., citing increased amortization
associated with a recent move to new quarters, said net
income slipped 11% in the second quarter, despite a 9.2% rise
in revenue.
   In the quarter ended Aug. 31, the St. Louis
retail-brokerage holding company had net of $15.3 million, or
67 cents a share, down from the year-earlier period's $17.3
million, or an adjusted 75 cents a share. Revenue rose to
$172.5 million -- a record for the quarter -- from $158
million. The year-earlier per-share figure was adjusted to
reflect a 10% stock dividend in October 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The "principal difference is the depreciation on our new
building," said a spokesman. Such an increased write-off
tends to erode bottom-line results, he said. "In spite of all
this, our after-tax profit margins are just slightly under
9%, and compared to rest of industry, that still looks pretty
good," he added.
   In the six months, net income eased 6.6% to $29.7 million,
or $1.29 a share, from $31.8 million, or an adjusted $1.39 a
share. Revenue rose 11% to $338.9 million from $306.5
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Is GE's Lending Arm Its Achilles' Heel?
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman and Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- General Electric stock has dropped 9% in a
week in heavy trading as investors fretted that the
Fairfield, Conn., giant might stub its toe in financial
services.
   The stock's decline to 55 1/8, off 1/2 yesterday, was
sparked by worry about the company's FGIC municipal bond
insurance unit. The financial woes of Philadelphia reminded
investors that municipal bond insurance isn't a theoretical
game -- the insurers might actually have to pay significant
claims in the next year or two.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But insuring bonds is a tiny sideline for GE. A more
serious question is the outlook for General Electric Capital
Corp., GE's huge lending arm.
   Two critics, David Tice and James Grant, have recently
predicted that GE's profit growth will slow because GE
Capital isn't immune to problems besetting other big lenders.
   Mr. Tice, a green-eyeshade type stock analyst in Dallas,
struck first with a negative article in his newsletter,
Behind the Numbers. GE Capital "is essentially a large money
center bank," Mr. Tice says. "The only difference is that {GE
Capital} has no foreign loan exposure and does not take
deposits." As a lender, it is "larger than such well-known
banks as Bankers Trust, Bank of New York, J.P. Morgan and
First Chicago."
   Just like big banks, Mr. Tice says, GE Capital "has a
large exposure to commercial real estate loans, LBO
{leveraged buy-out} loans, credit-card loans and equipment
leasing."
   But the average big-bank stock trades at a puny 5 to 8
times per-share earnings. GE trades at nearly 12 times the
past year's per-share earnings, thereby matching the median
multiple on the New York Stock Exchange as calculated by
FactSet Data Systems.
   Of course, GE has plenty of other operations: power
generation equipment, aircraft engines, locomotives and
appliances, to name a few. But Mr. Tice believes the lending
operation is vital to GE's profit growth. As he figures it,
financial services (mainly GE Capital) accounted for about
24% of earnings -- and 31% of earnings growth -- in the past
five years.
   Meanwhile, in a recent newsletter, Mr. Grant warned of a
"likelihood of large future loan losses at GE." He said some
of GE's financial ratios have worsened since 1982.
Consolidated debt including the finance operation has risen
to 77% of equity from 30% then. Return on assets is 3.1%,
down from 8.4% then. And GE Capital contributes 21% of
earnings, compared with 11.3%. GE says Mr. Grant's ratios are
technically correct, but misleading because they combine
results for sharply different businesses. GE points out that
excluding the financial service businesses, the company has a
21% return on total capital and a 9.2% return on assets.
   The two major bond rating services both give GE Capital a
top triple-A rating, citing its ability to call on the parent
company for financial support if needed. But Mr. Grant thinks
this reasoning is a bit circular, noting that GE Capital
"itself has contributed an ever larger share to the parent's
net income" and hence "is an important source of the very
strength that it may one day seek to lean against."
   Lawrence Bossidy, vice chairman of GE, says, "We are
confused why these people seem to be concerned." Taking a
break from a quarterly meeting with GE managers, he says in
an interview that the updates presented at the Wednesday
meeting confirmed previous projections that GE's financial
services business will post "double digit" growth for 1990.
   GE Capital earnings grew 20% in the first half, he said,
and should increase 15% to 20% in the second half: "We are on
target to meet our 1990 goals." GE as a whole also should
report a double-digit increase in earnings, he said.
   "Obviously {GE Capital is} in a turbulent industry," the
executive says, referring to real estate and LBO lending.
"But we are not in the same business as the banks." He said
GE Capital is a major factor in equipment rental, and its
portfolio is different and has "higher returns" than
traditional bank lending.
   Turmoil in the commercial real-estate market won't affect
GE as badly as it does the banks, he adds. GE doesn't lend on
the basis of asset value, "we lend on the value of income
from properties." All of GE's commercial real-estate loans
are to income-producing properties, he says, and 80% of these
loans are for office buildings and apartments. "We don't have
any land-development loans, construction loans or condominium
loans."
   Mr. Bossidy said he expects "some increases" in real
estate losses this year, but adds: "No way will they impact
GE Capital's overall operations." Commercial real estate
accounts for 14% of GE Capital's roughly $64 billion
portfolio.
   Leveraged buy-out loans account for another 14% of GE
Capital's portfolio. Mr. Bossidy says GE Capital had equity
positions in 75 companies at the end of last year. He
acknowledges that the value of the equity warrants GE holds
has decreased recently, but declines to give an estimate.
Such warrants are valued on GE's books at between $750
million and $1 billion.
   Could the financial unit hobble the parent's earnings
outlook in the near future? Mr. Bossidy says, "As best as I
can tell, that's not going to happen."
   Certainly, analysts at Wall Street brokerage houses don't
seem worried. According to Zacks Investment Research, 15 of
17 analysts with opinions on GE rate it a buy. The other two
call it a hold.
   David Gardner at Nomura Research in June downgraded his
opinion to "near-term hold and long-term attractive" from
"short- and long-term buy," in part because the stock was "at
a premium." Mr. Gardner also trimmed his per-share earnings
estimate for the year by 10 cents, to $4.90. But he says GE's
loans are "well diversified" by business and region, adding
that because GE operates in so many diverse businesses "they
have a leg up over banks in terms of analyzing credit risks."
   Mark Altman, a PaineWebber analyst, rates GE stock
"attractive" and thinks concerns about GE Capital are
overblown. He points to strong order backlogs in such
businesses as GE's power generation equipment, medical
diagnostic equipment and aircraft engines. He says rising
productivity is driving profit margins higher and estimates
1990 share earnings at $4.90, up from $4.36 last year.
   Money managers seem to fret a bit more, but not too much.
According to CDA Investment Technologies, more than 700 large
money managers own some 447 million shares of GE stock, but
they sold, on balance, four million shares in the second
quarter.
   The stock, after hitting a high of 75 1/2 in July, has
sunk 27%. By comparison, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is
down about 16% from its July peak.
   NWQ Investment Management in Los Angeles sold 203,000 GE
shares in the second quarter, keeping 519,000, according to
government filings. James Owen, a managing director with NWQ,
says GE is a "high quality core holding" for individual
investors, but may face some problems near term from GE
Capital, the Kidder Peabody brokerage subsidiary and the NBC
television network.
   Money managers, he says, are subject to "quarterly
paranoia" as pension clients judge their performance every
three months, so they have to be concerned about the short
term. "The individual investor is free of that," he says, and
can afford to focus on GE's long-term virtues, such as
diversification, emphasis on exports and "wonderful
management."
   Arnold Investment Counsel in Milwaukee sold all of its
238,000 GE shares in May and June. David R. Aushwitz,
president, says his firm bought the shares in 1988, paying
about 45 apiece, and sold at about 65 as the firm trimmed its
overall stockholdings for fear of an "unkind" market. Mr.
Aushwitz said concern about the status of loans made by GE
Capital was "a small factor, but nonetheless a factor."
   ---
   General Electric Co.
   (NYSE; Symbol: GE)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Financial services, broadcasting, manufacturing
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Revenue: $54.57 billion
   Net income: $3.94 billion; or $4.36 a share
                                                                                                       

   Second quarter, June 30, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: $1.22 vs. $1.08
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 1,617,751 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 890 million
   ---
                  GE Capital vs. the Banks
                                                                                                       

   As of end of 1989
                                                                                                       

                                 GE         AVERAGE FOR
                               CAPITAL     24 LARGE BANKS
                                                                                                       

 Assets                      $64 billion    $55.4 billion
                                                                                                       

 Net charge-offs
   as % of loans                   1.05%            1.12%
                                                                                                       

 Nonperforming assets
   as % of loans*                   0.8%            3.21%
                                                                                                       

 Loss reserves as % of
   nonperforming loans              250%             113%
                                                                                                       

 *Also includes real estate repossessed and not yet sold
                                                                                                       

 Sources: Keefe Bruyette & Woods; General Electric
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- National Semiconductor Corp.:
   For Its First Quarter, Firm
   Reports $165.5 Million Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   NSM
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   As expected, National Semiconductor Corp. reported a net
loss of $165.5 million, or $1.63 a share, for the first
quarter ending Aug. 26, compared with a net loss of $21.9
million, or 24 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter.
   The company's bigger losses largely reflect a previously
reported pretax charge of $143.6 million, which it took to
cover a host of reorganizing costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last month, the Santa Clara, Calif., chip maker announced
that it was eliminating several product groups, closing two
assembly lines, and laying off 6.2% of its work force, or
2,000 employees.
   National Semiconductor's sales for the first period rose
to $442.7 million, from $397.6 million a year ago.
   This is the sixth net loss the company has posted in the
past eight quarters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   IRAQ WANTS U.S. television to broadcast a message from
Saddam Hussein.
   While Washington officials indicated they would be willing
to pass along a videotaped speech by the Iraqi leader in
response to Bush's address on Baghdad television, they noted
that network executives would decide whether to broadcast it.
Meanwhile, U.S. aides disparaged a new effort by Jordan's
King Hussein to end the Persian Gulf crisis, and Bush's
advisers met to discuss whether to draw down oil from the
strategic reserve. The U.N. Security Council was moving
closer to imposing an air blockade on Iraq that would expand
trade sanctions already imposed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Agriculture Department analysts, breaking with the Bush
administration's high expectations of choking off trade with
Iraq, are projecting considerable leakage in the food
embargo.
   ---
   A poll found that 53% of the registered voters responding
would favor the U.S. taking military action against Saddam
Hussein while there are still American hostages in Iraq and
Kuwait, while 34% would oppose such action. The Wall Street
Journal/NBC News poll was conducted earlier this week.
   ---
   The African National Congress said for the first time that
it would meet with the leader of the rival Inkatha movement,
Buthelezi, to try to end black factional violence. Earlier,
ANC leader Mandela denounced the latest government measures
to halt the township fighting that has killed about 800
people since August.
   ---
   The two Germanys' lawmakers ratified a treaty that will
end more than four decades of division and unite their
nations on Oct. 3. The treaty was the last one needing
approval of the parliaments before unification. For the East
German chamber, slated for dissolution in two weeks, the vote
was its last important action.
   ---
   Two research teams repaired cells taken from cystic
fibrosis patients using the gene that causes the lethal
inherited disease. The cells were "fixed" in test-tube
experiments by replacing defective disease-causing genes with
their healthy versions. The reports suggest that gene therapy
for cystic fibrosis is possible.
   ---
   Commonwealth finance ministers backed a British debt
relief plan for the world's poorest nations that calls for
writing off up to $18 billion owed to Western governments.
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Major said he will promote
the proposal next week at an IMF meeting in Washington.
   ---
   Washington welcomed an announcement by Namibia that relief
supplies can be sent from its territory to neighboring
Angola, where hundreds of thousands of people are threatened
with famine. Angolan officials said they were eager to begin
a food relief operation as soon as possible.
   ---
   A U.S. envoy urged West African leaders who have
peacekeeping troops in Liberia to seek a negotiated end to
the country's civil war. Herman Cohen, assistant secretary of
state for African affairs, who visited Monrovia Tuesday, said
rebel leaders Charles Taylor and Prince Johnson both told him
they wanted to see an end to the fighting.
   ---
   Nicaragua's Chamorro urged harsh economic measures to curb
inflation as proSandinista workers staged protests in Managua
against what they said were plans to fire thousands of state
workers. The president addressed a panel of labor, government
and corporate officials who will examine ways to trim the
nation's spending.
   ---
   Bulgaria's parliament confirmed Premier Andrei Lukanov,
allowing him to continue leading the government despite his
failure to form a coalition with opposition parties. The vote
followed a televised address by Lukanov in which he vowed to
seek passage of laws to encourage private farming and end
state control of the economy.
   ---
   The EC executive commission said it had agreed with the
U.S. to cooperate in controlling environmentally damaging
chemicals and organisms. Among measures covered in the accord
are tests of existing chemicals and efforts to improve
warning labels. The sides also are planning to set up a
permanent panel on biotechnology.
   ---
   NASA announced that the space shuttle Columbia will remain
grounded until late this year or early next year while the
agency hunts for fuel leaks and launches its two other
shuttles, Discovery and Atlantis.
   ---
   The U.S. easily surpassed its 1990 goal for preventing
childhood tooth decay, but failed to achieve its target for
fluoridation of the nation's drinking water, the Centers for
Disease Control reported.
   ---
   Died: Robert Rodale, 60, chairman and chief executive
officer of Rodale Press, in a car accident in Moscow . . .
Hermes Pan, 79, Oscar-winning choreographer, Wednesday, in
Beverly Hills, Calif. . . . M.A. "Cancy" Cancelliere, 79,
former chairman of Equimark Corp., Tuesday, in Burlington,
Mass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Wall Street Journal / NBC News Poll
   ---
   Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Rich Jaroslovsky
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST JAPAN EUROP TAXES LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   BUSH'S BOOM in popularity fails to translate into
political clout.
   Fueled by continuing support for his Persian Gulf
policies, the president's job-approval rating soars to 75% in
a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll. "The solid approval
of Bush on the Middle East is pulling his numbers up across
the board," say pollsters Peter Hart and Robert Teeter, who
conducted the survey.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three-quarters of the voters surveyed endorse Bush's
handling of foreign affairs. And he even gains slightly in
his handling of the economy: Voters approve of his
performance by 52%-36%, up from 48%-41% in July. But while
supporting him in the Gulf, lawmakers aren't afraid to defy
him on other issues, such as the defense bill.
   Influential GOP Rep. Broomfield even opposes Bush's plan
to forgive Egypt's military debts.
                                                                                                       

   IRAQ DISTRACTS voters' attention from other issues, aiding
frontrunners.
   Despite the Massachusetts primary vote against
officeholders, few incumbents are trailing elsewhere.
Democratic pollster Harrison Hickman says the Mideast crisis
puts elections into suspended animation, helping candidates
who were already ahead. The Journal/NBC poll finds 37%
planning to vote for a Democrat for Congress and 32% for a
Republican, little change since July.
   One new issue from the crisis: politicians taking
oil-company contributions. And while generally backing their
own lawmakers, voters vent their anger by supporting limits
on the terms served by legislators, as Oklahoma just voted to
do; California and Colorado are expected to do the same come
November. Other issues wane. While voters would raise taxes
to pay for the drug war by 54%-39%, the ratio a year ago was
more than two to one.
                                                                                                       

   FAIR SHARES? The administration praises allies, but voters
disagree.
   U.S. officials privately express relief at the level of
allied cooperation. Extra troops pledged by Egypt and Syria
mean that Moslem ground forces may soon match the Americans
in numbers. After tripling its meager initial cash
contribution, Japan also mulls sending unarmed troops; Kohl
pledges to try to change Germany's constitution early in 1991
so he can send troops.
   But by two-to-one, voters believe other countries haven't
done their part. Japan is viewed especially harshly: Only 22%
say the Japanese have helped enough. By contrast, 44% say
Britain is doing enough, and 51% say that about Saudi Arabia.
By 56%-31%, voters support the use of military force to oust
the Iraqis from Kuwait if economic sanctions don't work
within three months.
   "There's a strong desire and demand for burden sharing,"
pollsters Hart and Teeter note. "That means the stakes for
the Japanese are high."
                                                                                                       

   QUAYLE QUALMS are exacerbated by the Iraqi crisis, the new
Journal/NBC poll suggests. In the survey, 69% of voters say
they would be uncomfortable with him as president should
something happen to Bush; only 22% would be comfortable. Even
Republicans, by 58%-33%, are uncomfortable with the thought
of a President Quayle.
                                                                                                       

   IN HARM'S WAY: A surprisingly high 73% of voters say it is
acceptable to send women on military missions where they
might get into combat. Despite a ban on direct-combat roles,
officials concede women are at risk in the Gulf in
combat-support jobs such as fixing planes.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY EXPECTATIONS: Voters in the poll are closely
divided on the likelihood of a U.S. energy shortage in the
next six months: 44% believe it likely, 48% don't. If a
shortage does occur, three out of four would try to conserve
by using less fuel for heating and cooling -- but fewer than
half are willing to resort to car pools.
                                                                                                       

   SLOW PACE: The Justice Department so far brings only three
cases under an August 1989 S&amp;L cleanup law empowering it to
seek forfeiture of certain thrift institution assets. "The
program is in its infancy," says the agency's George
Terwilliger. In the poll, 36% blame Republicans for the S&amp;L
mess; 21% fault Democrats; 17% cite both.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTER SAILS toward the Supreme Court -- and some tough
early cases.
   The Senate vote on his nomination is expected a few days
after the court convenes on Oct. 1. Though approval is all
but certain, that timetable could foul up court
deliberations. Two cases on which the justices may be closely
divided -- pertaining to school desegregation and to limiting
punitive damages -- probably would be argued before he is
sworn in.
   Another, involving the barring of women of childbearing
age from certain jobs, is to be argued the following week,
and Souter still might not be ready. If the cases end in tie
votes, they would have to be reargued later so he could break
deadlocks.
   Voters in the Journal/NBC poll endorse Souter's
confirmation by 32%-5% -- but a big majority, 58%, feels the
need to know more about him.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: Blacks and whites hold almost exactly
opposite views of Bush's economic performance. Whites approve
by 54%-33%; blacks disapprove by 55%-37%. . . . Voters favor
new stars on the flag. They back admitting Puerto Rico as a
state by 49%-29% and support D.C. statehood by 50%-35%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Surge in Heating Oil Lifts Energy-Contract Prices;
   Crude Oil Futures Touch a Record $35 a Barrel
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Helped by a strong market for heating oil, crude oil
futures reached a record high on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.
   Crude for October delivery rose to $35 a barrel in
afternoon trading, the highest since trading in crude oil
futures was started in 1983, before settling at $34.71, up
$1.53 for the day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It was the last day of trading for the October contract, a
situation that usually brings an increase in volatility. The
November crude contract rose 45 cents a barrel to settle at
$33.42 after hitting a high of $33.60 for the day.
   Several bullish news items hit oil markets late yesterday
to contribute to the price surge. Among them were published
reports that Saudi Arabia had suspended shipments of oil to
Jordan because of nonpayment and that the World Bank had said
oil prices could reach $65 a barrel if the Middle East crisis
triggers a war. There were also belligerent statements from
Iraqi officials concerning the Persian Gulf standoff and
reports of pending interruptions at several petroleum
refineries for maintenance or repairs.
   As a result, gasoline and most other fuels also posted
sizzling gains in spot and futures prices. The gasoline
market had been weakening because of growing evidence that
demand is slackening. But yesterday, the futures price for
unleaded gasoline for October delivery rose 1.64 cents to
settle at 91.54 cents a gallon, and most other gasoline
contracts were up their limit of two cents a gallon.
   Still, the star of the markets was heating oil, which
leaped beyond gasoline in price. In U.S. futures trading,
heating oil for October delivery reached a high of 92.5 cents
a gallon before ending the day at 91.86 cents, up 3.33 cents.
The November contract was up the limit of two cents at 91.66
cents.
   The focus on heating oil, which was also responsible for a
late Wednesday rally in petroleum prices, was helped
yesterday by the National Weather Service. It predicted that
the regions that use the most fuel in the U.S. -- the
Northeast and Great Lakes states -- will have colder weather
than usual for the next few months.
   The strengthening in the U.S. market for heating oil
follows a steady firming in Europe for gasoil, as the fuel is
known there. The weather is already cool enough for heating
purposes in several parts of Europe, and some European users
of fuel oil have been "topping off" their tanks as a hedge
against possible shortages this winter resulting from the
Middle East crisis.
   On London's International Petroleum Exchange, where gasoil
is priced by the ton, the October contract settled at $286 a
ton yesterday, up $11 from Wednesday's close.
   "There is very good demand in gasoil in Europe that is
spilling over into heating oil in the U.S.," said Shahrokh
Nikkhah, senior vice president, futures investments, at
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. In U.S. heating oil prices,
he said, he foresees "another eight cents to 10 cents
potential" for increases.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Prices closed mixed in relatively
light trading. Some private weather services' forecasts of
frost Sunday night across portions of the northern tier of
Midwestern states kept corn and soybean futures prices higher
for much of the session. Because a wet spring delayed
planting in many areas, the soybean and corn crops aren't as
mature at this point as they normally would be. Soybean
futures traders who sold contracts earlier in the week when
forecasters were playing down frost worries bought them back
yesterday, said Daniel Basse, director of marketing for
AgResource Co. in Chicago. But near the close of trading,
so-called local traders on the Chicago Board of Trade floor
appeared to be selling contracts to even up their holdings.
Soybean futures for November delivery closed one-half cent
lower at $6.1725 a bushel after being five cents a bushel
higher at midmorning. December corn futures closed 1.5 cents
a bushel higher at $2.2375 on frost worries and concentrated
buying from one or more big speculators, traders said.
December wheat futures slid 0.75 cent to close at $2.685 a
bushel.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Platinum prices plunged to near a
three-year low in heavy selling, while gold and silver were
slightly higher. October delivery platinum ended with a loss
of $4.50 an ounce at $454.10. But it dropped as low as
$448.50, which was the lowest since $445 in February 1988.
The October contract has been declining steadily. As recently
as Aug. 21, it traded at $514. According to Bernard Savaiko,
metals analyst for Paine Webber, the major factor depressing
prices yesterday was reports of Far Eastern selling of
platinum, mostly from Japan. There was speculation that some
of the selling may have been on behalf of the Soviet Union,
the world's second-largest platinum producer and a country in
need of foreign exchange, Mr. Savaiko said. He also said
higher interest rates in Japan may have prompted dealers to
sell metal because of the rise in carrying costs. The partial
recovery in futures that trimmed the decline was attributed
to a late surge in crude oil, Mr. Savaiko said. December
delivery gold was up $2.80 an ounce at $394.20, ending just
under the day's high of $394.30 in moderate trading. December
silver edged 0.7 cent an ounce higher to $4.86.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices declined. The December contract
ended with a loss of two cents a pound at $1.1775. The
contract traded over a range of more than four cents, as it
rose to $1.2140 shortly after the opening, only to be hit by
renewed selling that dropped it to the day's low of $1.1720.
According to one analyst, the price rose after selling that
had been influenced by weakness in London in the previous two
sessions ran its course. Renewed selling then developed on
technical considerations, he said. Another analyst said
factors weakening prices included concern over an economic
slowdown and a possible consequent decline in copper
consumption, expectations of a rise in London Metal Exchange
warehouse stocks in a report due out today and a belief that
a miners' strike in Peru that began Aug. 17 is close to being
settled.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal Express
   Posts 42% Rise
   In 1st-Period Net
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   FDX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Federal Express Corp. reported a 42% gain in net income
for its first quarter, ended Aug. 31, on a 16% gain in
revenue.
   The Memphis, Tenn., express-delivery company said net was
$43.1 million, or 81 cents a share, compared with $30.4
million, or 58 cents a share. Revenue rose to $1.92 billion
from $1.65 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The per-share earnings exceeded analysts' estimates, but
there were several one-time items that contributed to the
results.
   "It was seemingly a good quarter," said Kevin Murphy, an
analyst with Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "But there were some
materially significant items in there as well."
   For one thing, Federal Express gained some charter
business from the U.S. military's Operation Desert Shield
buildup of troops and equipment in the Middle East. It also
picked up some shipments that would have gone to rival United
Parcel Service of America Inc., as some customers shifted
their business amid fears of a strike at UPS during the
quarter. Earnings also benefited from the sale of
noise-reduction kits for aircraft engines.
   On an operating basis, Federal attributed the earnings
increase to cost-control efforts and productivity
improvements. It also said there was a "modest rebound" in
Asian air freight volume from the depressed levels of April
and May.
   A company spokesman said Federal Express had another loss
on its international business, which has been going through a
costly expansion process, but he wouldn't elaborate.
   Analysts said the U.S. operations' results were more
promising. "The domestic side of the house looks very strong,
even with weak volume, because of the much higher margins
they're getting" as a result of price increases this year,
said Doug Arthur, an analyst at Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
   To cover rising fuel costs caused by the Mideast showdown
with Iraq, Federal said it will raise some prices on most
overseas routes before the end of the year. It said the
increases will vary by route but will be within the company's
usual 3% to 7% range. The spokesman said he expects some
international competitors to follow suit.
   In the U.S., Federal Express said it won't raise prices
further in its small package express business. The company
has increased those prices twice this year, by 4% to 5% in
April and 1% to 2% in July.
   Federal Express said its fuel costs were in line with
expectations during the latest quarter but will be hurt by
higher prices as current fuel contracts expire.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Significant Leakage of Food to Iraq
   Seen by Agriculture Department Aides
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Agriculture Department analysts, in a break
with the Bush administration's high expectations of choking
off trade with Iraq, are projecting considerable leakage in
the food embargo against the embattled nation.
   The department's World Agricultural Outlook Board
estimates that despite the international embargo, Iraq will
be able to import one million metric tons of wheat and wheat
flour between last July 1 and June 30, 1991, about one-fourth
of what it customarily uses annually. The panel also projects
Iraq will import 350,000 metric tons of rice next year,
almost half of its annual consumption. In addition, the panel
expects Iraqi imports of barley and other coarse grains to
total 400,000 metric tons between Oct. 1 and Sept. 30, 1991.
Typically, Iraq uses about 1.4 million metric tons of barley
a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, several grain traders and a senior Treasury
official were skeptical of the panel's projections. But
should the estimates prove correct, it suggests the regime of
Saddam Hussein could hold out longer than has been generally
thought.
   The panel's forecast assumes that much of the food will be
smuggled into Iraq by truck, ship, even camel caravan, and
that some will be provided openly by famine-relief
organizations under United Nations auspices.
   "There are a lot of traders in the Mideast who really
don't have any flag," said Gerald Rector, chairman of the
outlook board's feed grains and wheat committee. "They will
take a commodity wherever they can get the best price."
   The board's surprising forecast represents the first
disquieting government assessment of the prospects for
embargo-busting since Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait and
the swift imposition of U.N. sanctions against Baghdad.
Administration officials have repeatedly extolled the
cooperation of other nations in honoring and enforcing the
sanctions, and they have cited Iraqi bread lines and
shortages of sugar, cooking oil and other commodities as
proof that the embargo is beginning to bite.
   In an interview yesterday, Deputy Treasury Secretary John
Robson described the international sanctions as "an amazingly
tight net," and dismissed the possibility of imports'
slipping through in any appreciable volume.
   "I don't think you're going to have an absolutely
air-tight embargo," he said, "but I'm not going to sit around
and worry about a truckload of tomatoes getting in."
   The outlook board members are analysts with the Foreign
Agricultural Service and Economic Research Service, who tap
the expertise of U.S. officials outside the Agriculture
Department in making projections of world agricultural trade.
   The board expects Iraq to devote part of its diminishing
foreign exchange to rice purchases. In its Sept. 12 report,
the panel projects Iraqi rice imports for 1991 at 350,000
tons, just 100,000 tons less than what was imported this year
before sanctions were imposed.
   "Rice should be the primary commodity they try to bring
in," said Mr. Rector. "Typically, it's traded in bag form.
You can put it on a camel or a boat and bring it in."
   As for the one-million-metric-ton forecast for wheat and
wheat flour, an estimated 300,000 tons were imported before
Iraq was embargoed, he said. The panel assumes that the
current glut of wheat on the world market will help Iraqi
efforts to obtain through middlemen an additional 700,000
tons.
   "If you've got a lot of wheat looking for a home," said
Mr. Rector, "it makes it more likely that you have people
willing to buy it and get it across the {Iraqi} border."
   The board expects nations such as Libya and Yemen to help
Iraq by serving as transshipment points for food purchased
elsewhere, Mr. Rector said. In addition, leakage is expected
across the Jordanian, Turkish and Iranian borders. The
shipments would take roundabout routes, he added. One
possibility foreseen: Persian Gulf traders would ferry grain
by boat into Iran, and Iranian truckers would take it across
the border.
   "Iran and Iraq traded across the border even when they
were fighting" in their eight-year war that ended in 1988, he
said.
   If the Iraqis import as much food as the analysts
forecast, the odds of their holding out until next year's
harvests would be improved considerably. Last month, an
Agriculture Department report estimated that Iraq already had
enough wheat, rice, barley and other coarse grains to last
four to six months.
   Several grain-trade experts expressed doubts about the
willingness of any nation to engage in embargo-busting in the
face of overwhelming world support for the sanctions. "I
can't imagine what country would load {grain}," said Bernard
Steinweg, a Continental Grain Co. executive. "That would be a
ridiculous risk."
   Furthermore, grain traders for multinational agribusiness
companies would detect any big shipments, said a Cargill Inc.
spokesman, who added that the entire market acts as an
"intelligence network."
   Some Agriculture Department officials are also skeptical
about the potential for leakage. "Shiploads of grain are easy
to see," said one official. "Truckloads going across the
border may be happening, but they won't make a big dent {in
the embargo}.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Rankings
   ---
   The World's 100 Largest Public Companies
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R28
</SO>
<LP>
   Ranked by market value as of June 30, 1990, as determined
by Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective
   (In millions of U.S. dollars; financial data at Dec. 31,
1989, exchange rates; percentage change based on home
currency)
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                          FISCAL     CHG    FISCAL    CHG
    RANK        MARKET    1989       FROM    1989     FROM
 1990  1989     VALUE     SALES*     1987   PROFIT    1988
                                                                                                       

   NTT (Japan)
    1    1    $112,164   $40,612      3%**  $1,550    -16%**
                                                                                                       

   IBM (U.S.)
    2    3      67,529    62,700      5      5,260    - 4
                                                                                                       

   Royal Dutch/Shell (Nether., U.K.)
    3    9      66,827    85,412     19      6,539     34
                                                                                                       

   General Electric (U.S.)
    4   13      62,656    54,600      9      3,940     16
                                                                                                       

   Industrial Bank of Japan
    5    2      60,493   247,855     14        582     28
                                                                                                       

   Exxon (U.S.)
    6    8      59,844    95,200      9      2,980    -43
                                                                                                       

   Toyota Motor (Japan)
    7   10      52,019    55,759     11      2,405     11
                                                                                                       

   Fuji Bank (Japan)
    8    6      51,325   337,066     18      1,265     46
                                                                                                       

   Sumitomo Bank (Japan)
    9    4      51,098   348,224     19      1,446     46
                                                                                                       

   Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank (Japan)
   10    5      49,192   358,269     17      1,383     31
                                                                                                       

   Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank (Japan)

                                                                                                       

   Mitsubishi Bank (Japan)
   12    7      44,929   325,228     17      1,203     43
                                                                                                       

   Philip Morris (U.S.)
   13   19      43,177    44,800     41      2,950     43
                                                                                                       

   AT&amp;T (U.S.)
   14   15      41,925    36,100      3      2,700     19
                                                                                                       

   Sanwa Bank (Japan)
   15   12      41,819   322,544     20      1,126     31
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo Electric Power (Japan)
   16   11      37,108    27,376***   0        834*** -13
                                                                                                       

   Wal-Mart Stores (U.S.)
   17   37      35,313    20,649     29        837     33
                                                                                                       

   Merck (U.S.)
   18   26      34,302     6,551     10      1,495     24
                                                                                                       

   Bristol-Myers Squibb (U.S.)
   19   94      33,310     9,189      7        747    -40
                                                                                                       

   British Telecom (U.K.)
   20   33      32,515    17,858      9      2,523     10
                                                                                                       

   Hitachi (Japan)
   21   18      32,358    44,498     12      1,293     36
                                                                                                       

   Coca-Cola (U.S.)
   22   38      29,910     8,966      8      1,193     10
                                                                                                       

   Long-Term Credit Bank (Japan)
   23   21      29,793   169,538     14        368    -11
                                                                                                       

   British Petroleum (U.K.)
   24   30      29,778    47,745     14      2,807     44
                                                                                                       

   Matsushita Electric (Japan)
   25   17      29,408    38,262     14#     1,481     29#
                                                                                                       

   Nomura Securities (Japan)
   26   14      29,079    31,985      9        959    -36##
                                                                                                       

   General Motors (U.S.)
   27   28      28,846   110,000      2      4,220    - 9
                                                                                                       

   Procter &amp; Gamble (U.S.)
   28   52      28,238    21,398     11      1,206     18
                                                                                                       

   Allianz (West Germany)
   29   86      27,608     7,391***   8        N.A.   N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Du Pont (U.S.)

                                                                                                       

   Amoco (U.S.)
   31   35      26,435    26,400     12      1,610    -22
                                                                                                       

   Atlantic Richfield (U.S.)
   32   46      25,881    16,000    -13      1,950     23
                                                                                                       

   Nippon Steel (Japan)
   33   16      25,218    18,318     11        542     95
                                                                                                       

   Mobil (U.S.)
   34   41      25,207    56,200      3      1,810    -11
                                                                                                       

   Chevron (U.S.)
   35   50      25,071    29,400     17        250    -86
                                                                                                       

   BellSouth (U.S.)
   36   31      25,058    14,000      3      1,700      2
                                                                                                       

   Tokai Bank (Japan)
   37   20      24,033   220,389     18        444    - 4
                                                                                                       

   Daimler-Benz (West Germany)
   38   83      23,702    45,170      4      3,802    284
                                                                                                       

   Unilever (Netherlands, U.K.)
   39   56      26,637    34,434      7      1,687      8
                                                                                                       

   Eli Lilly (U.S.)
   40   84      23,219     4,176     16        940     24
                                                                                                       

   Toshiba (Japan)
   41   24      22,875    26,423      6        827     95
                                                                                                       

   Johnson &amp; Johnson (U.S.)
   42   69      22,574     9,757      8      1,082     11
                                                                                                       

   Siemens (West Germany)
   43   87      22,464    36,145      3        871     12
                                                                                                       

   Nestle (Switzerland)
   44   64      22,207    31,149     22      1,564     17
                                                                                                       

   Mitsubishi Heavy (Japan)
   45   25      22,077    13,139      1        431    101
                                                                                                       

   Kansai Electric Power (Japan)
   46   23      21,473    14,042***   0        480*** -42
                                                                                                       

   Ford Motor (U.S.)
   47   32      21,324    82,900      1      3,840    -28
                                                                                                       

   Glaxo Holdings (U.K.)
   48   72      21,282     4,145     25      1,110     20
                                                                                                       

   GTE (U.S.)

                                                                                                       

   PepsiCo (U.S.)
   50    90     20,470    15,242     22        901     18
                                                                                                       

   Boeing (U.S.)
   51    --     20,235    20,276     20        675     10
                                                                                                       

   NEC (Japan)
   52    45     20,177    21,432     14        448    154
                                                                                                       

   Sony (Japan)
   53    81     19,997    14,911     50        504     98
                                                                                                       

   Hanson (U.K.)
   54    98     19,980    11,288    - 5      1,308     21
                                                                                                       

   Japan Air Lines (Japan)
   55    54     19,892     7,591     12        140      4
                                                                                                       

   Deutsche Bank (West Germany)
   56    --     19,829   203,051     13        778      9
                                                                                                       

   Nintendo (Japan)
   57    --     19,590     2,023     43        238     14
                                                                                                       

   Bell Atlantic (U.S.)
   58    59     19,572    11,400      5      1,070    -19
                                                                                                       

   3M (U.S.)
   59    70     19,275    11,990      6      1,244      8
                                                                                                       

   Waste Management (U.S.)
   60    --     19,272     4,459     25        562     24
                                                                                                       

   Bank of Tokyo (Japan)
   61    36     19,078   183,559     30        422     28
                                                                                                       

   Assicurazioni Generali (Italy)
   62    66     19,028     9,451     10        453     12
                                                                                                       

   Pacific Telesis (U.S.)
   63    61     18,570     9,593      1      1,242      5
                                                                                                       

   Nippon Credit Bank (Japan)
   64    57     18,270   109,983***  17        264***  23
                                                                                                       

   Abbott Laboratories (U.S.)
   65    97     18,142     5,380      9        860     14
                                                                                                       

   Nissan Motor (Japan)
   66    27     18,037    33,452     13        799     77
                                                                                                       

   Fiat (Italy)
   67    76     17,582    41,057     14      2,609      9
                                                                                                       

   Fujitsu (Japan)

                                                                                                       

   Walt Disney (U.S.)
   69    --     17,101     4,594     34        703     35
                                                                                                       

   B.A.T Industries (U.K.)
   70    78     17,036    21,755     17      1,890     23
                                                                                                       

   British Gas (U.K.)
   71   100     16,675    12,139      2      1,450     10
                                                                                                       

   American Home Products (U.S.)
   72    93     16,408     6,747      5      1,102     11
                                                                                                       

   Ameritech (U.S.)
   73    79     16,307    10,200      3      1,240      0
                                                                                                       

   Nynex (U.S.)
   74    67     16,207    13,200      4      1,130    -14
                                                                                                       

   Southwestern Bell (U.S.)
   75    77     16,177     8,730      3      1,093      3
                                                                                                       

   Mitsubishi Trust (Japan)
   76    34     16,148   114,008     23##      565     25##
                                                                                                       

   American Int'l Group (U.S.)
   77    95     15,775     8,940      6      1,367     13
                                                                                                       

   Chubu Electric Power (Japan)
   78    39     15,765    11,540***   2        494***   3
                                                                                                       

   Dow Chemical (U.S.)
   79    75     15,417    17,600      6      2,487      4
                                                                                                       

   Mitsubishi Corp. (Japan)
   80    73     15,041   108,724     17        320     48
                                                                                                       

   Texaco (U.S.)
   81    --     15,034    35,700      7      1,220    - 6
                                                                                                       

   All Nippon Airways (Japan)
   82    63     14,954     4,331     10         54     31
                                                                                                       

   Roche (Switzerland)
   83    --     14,780     6,369     13        552     36
                                                                                                       

   Sumitomo Trust (Japan)
   84    42     14,760   107,063     20**      551     26**
                                                                                                       

   Seibu Railway (Japan)
   85    71     14,148     2,753      7         39     66
                                                                                                       

   NKK (Japan)
   86    55     14,129     9,593     21        637    449
                                                                                                       

   Mitsubishi Electric (Japan)

                                                                                                       

   Asahi Glass (Japan)
   88    47     14,063     7,598     11        411     28
                                                                                                       

   Imperial Chemical (U.K.)
   89    96     14,022    21,243     13      1,500      6
                                                                                                       

   Tokio Marine &amp; Fire (Japan)
   90    43     13,753     5,805***  10        307**   23
                                                                                                       

   Schlumberger (U.S.)
   91    --     13,665     4,086    -17        407    - 3
                                                                                                       

   Yasuda Trust (Japan)
   92    --     13,652    73,987     22**      425     44**
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo Gas (Japan)
   93    44     13,623     5,068      3        281      9
                                                                                                       

   Elf Aquitaine (France_
   94    --     13,617    25,956     19      1,246      0
                                                                                                       

   U S West (U.S.)
   95    --     13,432     9,691      5      1,111      7
                                                                                                       

   Daiwa Bank (Japan)
   96    68     13,367   101,981***  18        272***  11
                                                                                                       

   Fuji Photo Film (Japan)
   97    --     13,184     6,458      6        579      2
                                                                                                       

   Eastman Kodak (U.S.)
   98    80     13,145    18,398      8        529    -62
                                                                                                       

   Sharp (Japan)
   99    --     12,962     8,752      3        202     43
                                                                                                       

   BTR (U.K.)
  100    --     12,923    11,331     28      1,007     28
                                                                                                       

   *Assets are used instead of sales for financial companies
and are calculated without contingent liabilities and
treasury stock items
   **1988 data are unconsolidated
   ***Figures are based on unconsolidated operating data
   #Acquired Matsushita Electric Trading in April 1988
   ##Reflects a change in company's fiscal year
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Medical Graphics Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   MGCC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEDICAL GRAPHICS Corp. (St. Paul, Minn.) -- Wayne G. Faris
was named to an additional post on the board. Faris, 48, a
partner in the law firm of Oppenheimer, Wolff &amp; Donnelly, has
acted as Medical Graphics' general counsel and secretary
since 1988. Medical Graphics is a maker of computerized
diagnostic systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Medco Containment Services Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   MCCS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEDCO CONTAINMENT SERVICES Inc. (Fair Lawn, N.J.) --
Robert J. Levenson was named senior executive vice president
and chief operating officer, a new post, at this provider of
prescription drug programs to employers and insurers. Mr.
Levenson was previously group president and a board member at
Automatic Data Processing Inc., a Roseland, N.J.-based
computing services concern. Per G.H. Lofberg, previously
executive vice president, was named senior executive vice
president, strategic planning and marketing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RasterOps Sets French Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   ROPS AAPL
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- RasterOps Corp. said it established RasterOps
France S.A., a joint venture with International Computer
Products S.A.
   The new company will provide expanded sales, marketing and
technical support in France for the company's colorgraphics
products for Apple Computer Inc.'s Macintosh models.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Commercial's Stock Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   FCLR
</CO>
<IN>
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- First Commercial Corp. said its board
adopted a shareholder rights' plan designed to deter hostile
takeovers.
   The multibank holding company said it doesn't know of any
such efforts to acquire the company, but adopted the plan to
prevent an acquirer from gaining control of the corporation
without offering a fair price to all holders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it would issue one preferred stock
purchase right for each common share outstanding to stock of
record as of a week from today. The rights entitle holders to
buy common shares at half price if a hostile suitor acquires
20% of the company's common stock or launches a tender or
exchange offer to do so.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Healthco to Give
   Gemini Partners L.P.
   3 Seats on New Board
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   HLCO
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Healthco International Inc., ending a four-month
battle with dissident shareholder Gemini Partners L.P.,
agreed to give Gemini three seats on a new seven member
Healthco board.
   Gemini, a New York limited partnership with a 9.96% stake
in Healthco, had been soliciting consents from shareholders
to remove Healthco's current board. It said earlier this
month that it had enough consents to do so, though Healthco
disagreed with Gemini's count.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Healthco said it will convene its annual meeting on Sept.
25 and immediately adjourn the meeting to a later date to
allow time to send out revised proxy materials outlining the
terms of the settlement with Gemini.
   Healthco, a dental equipment firm, also said it will form
a special committee of major shareholders to review the
progress of its proposed acquisition by Dallas buyout
specialist Hicks, Muse &amp; Co. As reported, Hicks Muse agreed
earlier this month to acquire Healthco for $19.25 a share, or
$250 million.
   Prior to reaching the settlement with Healthco, Gemini had
criticized the $19.25-a-share price as "ludicrously" low and
said that if its slate was elected it would work to get a
better price for Healthco.
   In a joint statement with Healthco, Gemini executive
general partner Emmanuel R. Pearlman said Gemini "was pleased
to arrive at an amicable resolution with Healthco which we
believe is in the best interests of all Healthco
stockholders." He couldn't be reached for further comment.
   A spokesman for Healthco said various suits filed by
Healthco and Gemini in connection with the consent
solicitation will be withdrawn or settled by the two parties.
   Commenting on the settlement, Healthco Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Marvin M. Cyker said: "We can now put this
behind us and devote ourselves to the real tasks -- running
Healthco's business for the benefit of all of our various
constituencies and completing as soon as possible our $19.25
cash merger with Hicks Muse."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Polly Peck Halts
   Share Trading
   As Price Dives
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   U.POL EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Troubles at Polly Peck International PLC neared
a climax as the company's stock price plunged 55% on a flurry
of rumors and the company announced plans for a special board
meeting today.
   The company didn't offer any explanation for the price
crash, and a spokesman declined to comment on a spate of
unsubstantiated market rumors that ranged from debt-payment
problems to the imminent resignation of Asil Nadir, the
company's chairman and chief executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following a halt in trading of the stock on the London
Stock Exchange yesterday, Polly Peck said it had requested
the suspension "in view of the effect of the numerous current
rumors on the share price." It didn't elaborate. Before the
2:21 p.m. suspension, Polly Peck shares dove by 135 pence, to
108 pence ($2.04). Trading volume was heavy, at 36 million
shares.
   The stock collapse came as Britain's Serious Fraud Office
confirmed that police searched the London offices of South
Audley Management Ltd. on Wednesday. South Audley manages
property and investments for Nadir family members and family
trusts, according to a Polly Peck spokesman. The fraud office
didn't disclose the purpose of the search, but numerous
London newspapers reported that British authorities are
investigating trading by present or former South Audley
associates in Polly Peck shares. The Polly Peck spokesman
said South Audley "has nothing to do with" Polly Peck itself.
   On Aug. 12, Mr. Nadir told a special Polly Peck board
meeting that he was considering taking the company private.
Mr. Nadir changed his mind just five days later, claiming
that some shareholders had protested to him about his plan.
Since then, following repeated news reports of the government
probe, the company's stock has been sinking.
   The London exchange, meanwhile, passed on to the
Department of Trade and Industry a report it had compiled on
the August events. In it, the exchange criticized Mr. Nadir
for inadequately preparing his original bid plans.
   Mr. Nadir, a Turkish Cypriot, through the 1980s built the
former British textiles company into a mini-conglomerate,
with its biggest investments in fruit trading and
electronics. Polly Peck bought the tropical-fruit business of
RJR Nabisco Inc.'s Del Monte unit and acquired control of
Japan's troubled Sansui Electric Co.
   Early in the 1980s, the company's stock price had soared
-- only to collapse as its earnings growth faltered.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Eastern Europe
   ---
   The Idea Man:
   France's Jacques Attali Is the Driving Force Behind
   A New Bank Aimed at Aiding East Bloc Redevelopment
   ----
   By Philip Revzin and Peter Truell
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BANKS (BNK)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Jacques Attali is an idea man.
   For the past decade he has been Francois Mitterrand's
personal idea man, showering the French president with ideas,
on international debt, nuclear arms and the global balance of
power. Overflow ideas went into 15 books, including two
novels, labored over between 4 a.m. and 7 a.m. each morning,
about money, power, love, life and death.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Mitterrand's former special counselor, through
whose office all visitors to the president had to pass,
recently had an idea that is taking him in a new direction.
Western Europe, Mr. Attali thought, urgently needed to help
Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union rebuild their industrial
base. Existing institutions such as the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund could help, but were either too
big or too bureaucratic to solve the problem.
   So Mr. Attali (pronounced with the accent on the last
syllable) thought up the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. He calls the bank the first independent major
new international financial institution since the 1944
Bretton Woods conference set up the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund. (Later institutions, such as
development banks for Asia and Africa, are arms of the World
Bank or the IMF, he reasons.)
   The new institution, with an initial capital of 10 billion
European Currency Units ($13 billion), will channel money to
both private and public projects in the East. With the firm
backing of Mr. Mitterrand, Mr. Attali sold the idea to the
European Community, which will hold a majority stake in the
bank, and to other governments, including the U.S. and Japan.
He wrote the business plan and articles of incorporation for
the bank. And he got himself named its president-designate.
All in less than a year.
   The problem is certainly urgent. With risky free-market
reforms already under way in Poland and Hungary, being
readied in the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia, and a more
distant dream in Bulgaria and Romania, Eastern Europe needs
lots of financial help. Fast. The enormous costs of the West
German bailout of East Germany seem to rise every day, and
estimates of basic infrastructure needs in East Germany alone
are dozens of times what the EBRD will be able to provide for
all of Eastern Europe.
   "Financing the cleanup after communism threatens to be
surprisingly disruptive in the short run," according to a
report by Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd. of London. Credit
Suisse estimates that a Marshall Plan for Eastern Europe and
the Soviet Union on the same relative scale as the postwar
rebuilding of Western Europe would cost $85 billion -- nearly
seven times what Mr. Attali has -- and that money wouldn't be
nearly enough to erase the legacy of 45 years of failed
economic policies.
   Mr. Attali didn't respond to a request for an interview
for this article; aides said he wasn't giving any press
interviews before officially being named president of the
EBRD. But in past interviews, in speeches and in his
writings, he has outlined his basic vision of the EBRD.
Essentially, he views it as a sort of international merchant
bank trying to make a profit for its 42 shareholding nations
by investing in new Eastern European companies in the fields
of telecommunications, railroads, airlines, television,
newspapers and other basic industries that would in turn spur
manufacturing activity.
   An international financial official who recently met Mr.
Attali says the new bank will be "two-thirds Lazard Freres,
one-third World Bank."
   Its charter requires that at least 60% of its loans go to
private-sector projects, a stipulation won by the U.S. during
the bank's formation process. "The bank won't be financing
humanitarian projects," Mr. Attali told the French
Parliament's foreign-affairs committee in June. "As the
biggest merchant bank in the world, it will serve as a
catalyst for an entire development process."
   Mr. Attali's strategy -- and a lot of the controversy he
has generated since being nominated to head the EBRD -- is
based on his firm belief that global power in the future will
depend on a nation's or a region's ability to support strong
manufacturing industries. In a recent book, he sees the
emergence of two major couples in the world: Japan and the
United States, and Europe and the Soviet Union. In both
cases, he argues, it is the first member of the couple, Japan
and Europe, that will be the dynamic manufacturing force
supporting the militarily strong but economically burdened
superpower.
   His main argument is that the U.S. manufacturing industry
has declined perilously in the face of Japanese competition.
"The United States will find itself in a situation of being
symbolically secondary," he writes. "Already it can't sell
anything to Japan but agricultural products. It will become
Japan's granary, like Poland was for 17th-century Flanders."
He adds: "The U.S. will have to get used to the idea of being
no longer master of the world, at the very moment capitalism
is winning everywhere in Eastern Europe."
   To capitalize on the triumph of capitalism in the East, an
increasingly united Western Europe has to provide seed money
and know-how. Hence the EBRD. "It will be the training ground
for the transition from a centralized to a market economy,"
he writes, playing the same role that the European Coal and
Steel Community did as the precursor of the Common Market and
eventually turning the European continent into an industrial
powerhouse.
   He firmly believes that both governments and the private
sector have a role to play: He has enthusiastically
championed such subsidized projects as the European Airbus
and the promotion of high-definition television, as means of
ensuring Europe's manufacturing future. He was the architect
of Mr. Mitterrand's ill-fated nationalization program
starting in 1981, which was later partly reversed and which
now has been frozen.
   Mr. Attali is a man around whom controversy occasionally
swirls. He was born 46 years ago in French Algeria to a poor
but eventually successful family of merchants. The family
moved to Paris when Jacques and his twin brother, Bernard,
now chairman of Air France, were 12. The boys quickly rose on
academic merit through the most elite of France's elite
schools. Jacques went to four of the best schools, including
the "Ecole Nationale d'Administration," the breeding ground
for France's top officials. He became an economics professor,
a member of the Socialist Party, and economic adviser to Mr.
Mitterrand in the years before the Socialists won power in
1981.
   Since then, from his key seat at the Elysee Palace, Mr.
Attali has served as France's sherpa, or advance man, for the
last 10 economic summits, as well as playing a key role in
strategic affairs. During the debate over the stationing and
removal of American medium-range missiles in Europe, Mr.
Attali met frequently with Charles Powell, Margaret
Thatcher's security adviser, and Horst Teltschik, adviser to
Helmut Kohl, trying to work out a common European defense
strategy.
   Mr. Attali also forged a close alliance with the U.S.
Treasury in the first 18 months of the Bush administration,
exerting considerable influence on U.S. international
economic policy, according to senior U.S. officials. Mr.
Attali's closest ally in the Treasury, Undersecretary for
International Affairs David Mulford, was pushing the U.S.
administration to write off more Third World debt, a strategy
favored by Mr. Attali and Mr. Mitterrand.
   When Mr. Attali was vigorously lobbying to set up the
EBRD, the Treasury initially allowed the French a free hand
and agreed that the U.S. would have the same 8.5%
shareholding as France, Italy, West Germany, Britain and
Japan. Under pressure from the National Security Council and
the State Department -- and after an internal wrangle -- the
Treasury became more engaged in the negotiations regarding
the new bank. It pressed for -- and got -- a 10% share in the
new institution, forced through regulations limiting Soviet
borrowing from the bank, and insisted on a private-sector
emphasis in the new institution's lending policies.
   Mr. Attali's appointment to head the new bank created
considerable ill will. The Dutch in particular, who had hoped
to snare the top job at the new institution for their own
former finance minister, H. Onno Ruding, were dismayed at the
secretive negotiations between Britain and France that led to
a London location for the EBRD and to Mr. Attali's
appointment as its head. They are still fuming. "I don't see
how anybody can believe that the man {Mr. Attali} who
masterminded the most sweeping program of nationalizations in
French history is the right man to privatize Eastern Europe,"
says a Dutchman.
   Mr. Attali will have to be more diplomatic if he is to
make a success of his new task. The bank has -- for the time
being -- a relatively limited mandate, with Poland,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, Yugoslavia and Bulgaria as
its main customers. But it has 42 shareholders, including all
the major Western nations, the East Bloc countries and even
Mexico.
   The U.S. administration already is upset by Mr. Attali's
recent attempts to concentrate management power in his own
office at the EBRD. Mr. Attali has tried to cut back the
powers of the planned bank's board of directors, U.S.
officials say, and has tried to ensure that he has no
powerful deputy but instead a group of four equal
subordinates.
   The U.S. and some other bank shareholders are insisting on
a powerful deputy to Mr. Attali and a board of directors with
real clout. These issues won't be settled until next month
when more meetings on the bank's management structure are
scheduled to be held in Europe. The U.S. is even threatening
to pull out of the EBRD if Mr. Attali's proposed management
structure is implemented.
   U.S. and European government officials generally commend
Mr. Attali for his charm and genius, but caution that his
ideas and obsessions can sometimes seem harebrained. Last
year Mr. Attali was sent by Mr. Mitterrand on a special
mission to Bangladesh, which had been recently devastated by
a flood. During preparations for the economic summit in
Paris, Mr. Attali spent months trying to convince other
industrial countries' leaders that it was necessary to spend
billions of dollars to build dams and dikes in Bangladesh to
prevent cataclysmic floods that occur only once in a
generation.
   To counterbalance Mr. Attali, the Bush administration is
said to favor World Bank senior vice president Ernest Stern
as Mr. Attali's deputy. Mr. Stern, an American who has
devoted most of his career to economic development and the
World Bank, is highly respected in international financial
circles and has a formidable reputation for his management
and financial skills. He has headed both the World Bank's
operations and its financial departments.
   Apart from these squabbles, the U.S. seems to have no
problem with Mr. Attali's general approach. "Jacques wants to
have a flexible organization, pay high salaries, and run {the
EBRD} like a merchant bank," says a senior Treasury official.
"To really get at the private-sector business, he's going to
have to have good private-sector people."
   Bush administration officials say that a strong U.S. share
in the EBRD is important because it reinforces American
partnership with Europe at a time when the countries in the
East Bloc are turning toward democratic market-oriented
systems. It also reflects the U.S.'s continuing commitment to
a strong, reunited, free and economically healthy Europe,
they say.
   But some in Washington aren't nearly so enamored of the
EBRD. William Niskanen, chairman of the Cato Institute and a
former member of the president's Council of Economic
Advisers, says: "I think the last thing these Eastern
European countries need is money that will be used to defer
the most important decisions." He says both the U.S. and
Eastern Europe would be better off without the new
institution.
   "There may be foreign-policy reasons for the U.S. joining
the EBRD, but those I think are better served by bilateral
aid," he adds.
   ---
   Mr. Revzin is chief of The Wall Street Journal's Paris
Bureau. Mr. Truell is a staff reporter in the Washington
bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jacobs Engineering Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   LLY JEC
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PASADENA, Calif. -- Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., an
engineering and design company, said it was awarded two
engineering projects by Eli Lilly &amp; Co. at the pharmaceutical
company's Clinton Laboratories in Indiana.
   The projects have a combined value of more than $150
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The first project involves a $90 million,
42,000-square-foot addition of chemical manufacturing
capacity that is scheduled for completion in early 1992. The
second involves removing all of the plant's underground
chemical storage tanks and replacing them with above ground
tanks at a cost of about $60 million.
   Completion is scheduled for the end of 1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Global Tactics
   ---
   Different Worlds:
   Japan Faces Greater Problems in Cracking
   The European Market Than It Did in the U.S.
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN NSANY J.FUT TEF
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   IT'S ALMOST A GIVEN: Japanese companies will penetrate the
European market with the same ease as they came to dominate
so much of American industry.
   Think again.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japanese companies face obstacles in Europe that they
never had to face in the U.S. Some companies are clearly up
to the task. But it's equally clear that many of the skills
that served the Japanese so well in the U.S. will not
automatically work in Europe.
   The accompanying diagram -- prepared by Industrial Bank of
Japan -- illustrates Japan's problem (see accompanying
illustration -- WSJ Sept. 21, 1990). It shows the
globalization cycle in Europe, as companies move from being
strictly exporters to running fully localized operations.
   Each step in the cycle has been a response to European
Community pressure. Early on, the Japanese exported
low-priced products to the EC. But those shipments ran into
import quotas and anti-dumping duties. The Japanese responded
by establishing European plants to assemble imported parts.
But the EC countered with local-content rules and higher
duties on imported components.
   As the Japanese shifted more production to the EC, they
found that they had to abide by even stricter "rules of
origin," which require them to manufacture the core parts of
a product in the EC. Their willingness to transfer technology
and appoint European nationals to top management posts now
has become the final test of their right to be treated as "EC
corporations," with the right to freely trade within the EC's
prospective single market.
   American companies don't face the same adjustment: They
have long operated their European operations as local
companies. But the Japanese have focused their sights largely
on the U.S. and Asia -- where the pressures have so far
stopped short of demands for full technology transfer and
requirements for regional headquarters and local management.
"Europe is the most advanced right now" in inducing foreign
players to localize, says Susumu Taketomi, chief financial
economist of Industrial Bank of Japan, Japan's largest
long-term credit bank.
   One plus for the Japanese: They are acquiring management
strategies that could be applied in the U.S. if this country
ever decides to adopt EC-style rules for market entry.
   Two Japanese multinationals, Nissan Motor Co. and Fujitsu
Ltd., have been successful at meeting most of the EC
standards. Nissan opened a plant in Spain in 1981 and another
in England in 1986, and both are operating on an 80%
local-content basis.
   France has indicated that it will treat Nissan's
English-built cars as British cars for customs purposes.
Nissan has further formalized its European presence with a
regional headquarters, called Nissan Europe N.V., in
Amsterdam. Moreover, Nissan is upgrading the quality of its
EC-based technology; its design center in Sunderland,
England, is designing cars for the British market.
   Fujitsu is also expanding its European presence in stages.
The Japanese computer maker began modestly by supplying
mainframes to be marketed under Siemen A.G.'s brand and
producing smaller computers and printers in Malaga, Spain. In
1981 Fujitsu began assembling semiconductors in Ireland. Last
year it announced plans to build a more sophisticated plant
in England to produce the latest generation of computer
memories as well as semi-customized integrated circuits.
   Fujitsu's biggest step so far is the purchase of 80% of
International Computers Ltd., Britain's leader in this field.
The acquisition overcomes many EC barriers. Fujitsu's joint
venture with Telefonica S.A. of Spain is intended to explore
leading-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence.
   ---
   Mr. Lachica is a staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's Washington bureau
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Norwest Corp. Rating
   On $2.17 Billion Debt
   Is Lowered by S&amp;P
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   NOB UBKS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. lowered its ratings on
about $2.17 billion of debt issued by Norwest Corp. and a
unit, citing "the risks associated with Norwest's current
strategy of acquiring weaker financial institutions" to
expand its banking franchise.
   S&amp;P said the Minneapolis bank holding concern's pending
stock-swap acquisition of lower-rated United Banks of
Colorado "will present exceptional challenges to Norwest's
management given the sluggish economy {in Colorado} and
United Banks' high-risk profile." United Banks' $6.3 billion
in assets will represent nearly 20% of Norwest's total after
the acquisition is concluded.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The "majority of Norwest units continue to perform well,"
S&amp;P said, adding that the company's exposure to such
high-risk assets as loans for commercial real estate,
high-leverage transactions, and loans to lesser developed
countries are "modest relative to {its} peers."
   S&amp;P lowered its ratings on senior debt of Norwest Corp.
and its Norwest Financial Inc. unit to single-A-plus from
double-A-minus; reduced subordinated debt of the parent and
unit to single-A from single-A-plus; trimmed Norwest Corp.'s
preferred stock to single-A-minus from single-A; and lowered
commercial paper for Norwest and Norwest Financial to A-1
from A-1-plus.
   Norwest chief financial officer John T. Thornton called
the downgrading unjustified. "Frankly, we were really
disappointed" with the action, which the company found "a
little bit surprising," he said. Standard &amp; Poor's "has
oriented itself toward the acquisition risk," he said, even
though Norwest had stressed to the rating concern the
"improvement in our capital ratios" over the past couple of
years, and "the extensive due diligence" it carries out prior
to its bank acquisitions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   Thirtysomething Gymnast Tries Again
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Lake Zurich, Ill. -- In 1992, when he is 36 years old,
Kurt Thomas hopes to be in Barcelona, Spain, as a member of a
U.S. Olympic team. That wouldn't raise eyebrows if he were a
yachtsman, shooter or equestrian. But he's a gymnast who last
competed in 1980.
   To the obvious question -- "Why?" -- Thomas flips back a
"Why not?"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I'm doing it because I can, physically, and because I'm a
spotlight kind of guy," chirps the sport's ex-prince. "Think
of it: A comeback in my sport, at my age, would be
phenomenal] I mean, I wish George Foreman {the 42-year-old
heavyweight boxer} all the luck in the world, but what he's
doing is a walk in the park compared with me."
   So Thomas doesn't lack for bravado, which is fortunate
because something has to keep him going through the 7
1/2-hour daily workouts he has subjected himself to here for
the past nine months.
   And when that flags, there is the memory of past
accomplishments, which were substantial. In 1978, as a 22
year old, the springy blond young man captured the floor
exercises segment of the World Championships in Strasbourg,
France, becoming the first American gymnastics gold medalist
at that level in 46 years. A year later, at the next World's
in Fort Worth, Texas, he won two gold medals and three
silvers, including one in the all-around, to establish
himself as a favorite for the 1980 Olympics in Moscow.
   Better yet, Thomas had a gymnastics move named for him, an
honor that has evaded Olympic champions. It's the "Thomas
Flair," a high-swinging maneuver that he devised for the
pommel horse. It's kind of like a botanist putting his name
on a new fern.
   But when President Carter yanked the Yanks out of the
Moscow Games, this "spotlight kind of guy" responded to the
need to earn a living by hitting the road in search of
spotlights. He started a show called "Kurt Thomas Gymnastics
America," a gymnastics version of the Ice Capades. Until this
year, he and his touring troupe offered up wholesome
entertainment at conventions, amusement parks, state fairs
and football and basketball halftimes.
   He also starred in what might have been the first -- and
could be the last -- movie with a gymnastics theme. Called
"Gymkata," it was filmed in Yugoslavia in 1985, and enjoyed a
moderately successful run in both the U.S. and Europe. "It
wasn't all gymnastics -- there was some karate in it, too,"
Thomas notes, without elaboration. Of his own performance, he
says, "I was pretty good considering I'd never had an acting
lesson."
   But a life upon the boards did not prove wholly
fulfilling, and when Thomas visited the 1988 Olympics in
Seoul, Korea, as a TV commentator, the idea of a comeback
occurred. It gained force the next summer at the U.S.
Gymnastics Championships. "Without putting anybody down, I
thought I could do better than what I saw," he says of the
latter event.
   He continues: "I suppose the natural time for me to have
come back was for the 1984 Games, but I was too busy with the
show then. It was rough for me to watch the U.S. men
--younger guys I'd seen come up -- win the team gold medal. I
was sorry I wasn't there with them, but then I thought that,
in a way, I was, because I'd helped put U.S. gymnastics on
the map.
   "I figured I was too old to try it for '88 until I got
there, and by that time it was too late. It's funny: I was
too old for '88, but just right for '92."
   Thomas checked out his status last fall with the U.S.
Gymnastics Federation, the national governing body for the
sport, and learned, with some bemusement, that he wasn't
considered a professional under the much-relaxed Olympic
standards now in force. ("If I'm not a pro, who is?" he
wonders aloud.) Then he checked in for training at the U.S.
Gymnastics Training Center, a private facility in this suburb
of Chicago that's co-owned by Lee Battaglia, his teammate and
roommate at Indiana State University. Despite his show-biz
tumbling, the 5-foot-7 Thomas weighed 168 pounds, some 40
over his competitive weight.
   The pounds came off and strength returned, but not without
cost: The renewal of strenuous workouts after the long layoff
awakened a dormant shoulder injury. Thomas had planned to
compete in the 1990 Nationals last June, but arthroscopic
surgery on the joint in May intervened. He asserts that the
shoulder, and the rest of him, are fine now. "I've got a
young body," he smiles. "I'm just starting to get hair on my
chest."
   His new schedule has him making his competitive debut Nov.
16 and 17 in a regional meet in Madison, Wis. If his scores
are among the top 24 in a number of such regionals scheduled
for those days, he'll qualify for the Winter Nationals two
weeks later. A top-12 finish there would give him a spot on
the U.S. national team and eligibility for international
events.
   His initial goals, he says, are modest. "I'd settle for a
24th at Madison and a 12th in the Winter Nationals. I'm
shooting for a medal in '92, not '90."
   One person who thinks Thomas will get what he's come for
is coach Battaglia, whose other pupils have included Chris
Waller, the all-around runner-up in the 1990 Nationals. "No
one has ever done what Kurt is trying, but there's no one
like Kurt," Battaglia declares. "He's the most disciplined
athlete I've ever been around, and the hardest worker. When
he makes up his mind to do something, he succeeds."
   Others feel differently, but their views only serve as
grist for Thomas's motivational mill. Without being asked, he
pulls out his key ring, to which he has attached a
plastic-encased newspaper clipping in which former rival
Nikolai Andrianov of the U.S.S.R., a 1980 Olympic medalist,
is quoted as calling Thomas's comeback attempt "ridiculous."
   Says Thomas: "I hope Nikolai is in Barcelona to watch me.
If he's not, maybe I'll give him a call after I've won."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Rankings
   ---
   How Countries Compare
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R30
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INSURANCE (INS)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   One-year growth rates for the 100 largest banks, 50
insurers and 25 securities firms
   (Percentage change based on home currency)
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                   Asset  Capital  Income  Revenue  Capital/
   Banks           Growth  Growth  Growth   Growth  Assets*
                                                                                                       

   France           11.5%    11.8%   27.6%   21.1%     0.3%
   West Germany     12.4      6.7    21.4    22.1    - 5.7
   Japan            15.0     38.0    24.1    27.6     23.0
   United Kingdom   24.0      5.9      **    39.9    -18.1
   United States    13.7      5.3      **    22.1    - 8.4
   TOP 100 AVERAGE  13.8%    19.2%     **    23.9%     5.4%
                                                                                                       

                                    Net            Growth of
                   Asset  Capital  Income  Revenue  Capital/
   Insurers        Growth  Growth  Growth   Growth  Assets*
                                                                                                       

   Japan            20.3%    13.2%   11.6%   13.8%   - 7.1%
   Switzerland      19.2     13.5     8.4    16.7    - 5.6
   United Kingdom   25.4     27.5     4.3    30.2      2.1
   United States    11.5     14.9    34.3     9.3      3.4
   TOP 50 AVERAGE   16.9%    16.2%   21.3%   14.9%    -0.7%
                                                                                                       

                                    Net            Growth of
   Securities      Asset  Capital  Income  Revenue  Capital/
   Firms           Growth  Growth  Growth   Growth  Assets*
                                                                                                       

   Japan             9.6%     9.3%   N.A.    N.A.    - 0.3%
   United Kingdom    5.5      7.5   198.8%   84.0%     2.0
   United States    30.2     11.8    11.6     5.9    -18.4
   TOP 25 AVERAGE   18.7%    10.5%   N.A.    N.A.    - 8.2%
                                                                                                       

   *Growth of capital minus growth of assets
   **Not meaningful due to extraordinary provision for loan
losses in 1989
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CalFed Set to Sell
   Unit to Conseco Inc.
   For $140.2 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   CAL CNC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LIFE INSURANCE (INL)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- CalFed Inc. said it will sell its annuity
and life insurance subsidiary to Conseco Inc., a Carmel,
Ind., insurance firm, for about $140.2 million.
   As a result of the sale, Calfed said it has established a
provision for a loss of about $40 million in the third
quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, CalFed will sell Beneficial Standard
Life Incurance Company to Conseco in exchange for cash.
CalFed will purchase about $25 million of real estate and
other assets owned by Beneficial Standard. In addition, in
the three months after the sale, CalFed may choose to buy an
additional $35 million of other real estate assets that its
insurance unit acquired through foreclosure, as well as some
nonperforming and other mortgage loans.
   About $12 million of the $40 million loss expected
involved tax liabilities incurred in the sale, a CalFed
spokesman said. The rest of the loss is the result of the
company's repurchase of some of Beneficial Standard's assets.
   "There will definitely be an impact on earnings," the
spokesman said. CalFed will report its third-quarter earnings
in mid-October.
   The sale is part of CalFed's two-year effort to
restructure its financial service business, selling
marginally profitable assets and jettisoning side ventures.
Since the summer of 1989, its principal subsidiary,
California Federal Bank, has sold its $125 million credit
card portfolio, and CalFed has sold off several insurance
units, a retirement-plan business and its interests in a
string of real estate properties.
   Last year, Beneficial Standard had a loss of $5.3 million
on revenue of $150.4 million. In the first six months of
1990, it had earnings of $3.5 million. Beneficial Standard
had $1.8 billion in assets as of June 30, 1990.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   UNDER AN AGREEMENT by which CalFed Inc. will sell its
subsidiary, Beneficial Standard Life Insurance Co., to
Conseco Inc., CalFed may purchase back from Beneficial $35
million of real estate assets acquired through foreclosure,
as well as some nonperforming and other mortgage loans within
three years. The period of time was misstated in Friday's
edition.
   (WSJ Sept. 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Administration Turns Shy
   About S&amp;L Bailout Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Who dares to ask for more savings-and-loan
money?
   Everyone knows the massive S&amp;L cleanup will require at
least $120 billion in the next year, more than twice
originally forecast.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Congress -- with a nervous eye on the calendar, less
than a month away from its recess and a month and a half from
the election -- is waiting for the Bush administration to
formally ask for the funds. And administration officials
won't make the request. The administration says it's only
"prepared to discuss" a range of funding options.
   So far, the unpleasant topic has been relegated to the
closed-door budget summit, which is bogged down trying to
slash the federal budget deficit.
   Just this week, William Seidman, chairman of the
Resolution Trust Corp., the bailout agency, tallied up the
needs for the cleanup. The final costs are certainly going to
be at the high end of the administration's projections,
approximately $130 billion, not including hundreds of
billions more in interest, he said. By the end of the year,
the bailout operation will run out of funds.
   "I am astonished that we have not received a request for
$100 billion from the Treasury," said Sen. Timothy Wirth (D.,
Colo.) at a Senate Banking Committee hearing yesterday. "They
aren't going to waffle out of this. This enormously important
effort will be shut down because they won't have the ability
to operate."
   Sen. Donald Riegle (D., Mich.), chairman of the committee,
promised to write "a strong letter" to Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady, urging him to make the specific funding
request. "We aren't going to sign any blank checks around
here," he said. House Banking Committee Chairman Henry
Gonzalez (D., Texas) has already dispatched a similar appeal
to the Treasury.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Industry Focus:
   Mideast Crisis May Revive Arms Industry
   ---
   Lessons Learned Will Shape
   Defense of the Future
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LOR ESY GQ TDY GM GMH BA TRW MD LIT GD RTN TXN LK ROK NOC
FMC TXT G.THY
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   PALMDALE, Calif. -- Just a few months ago, Lockheed Corp.
executive Sherman Mullin stood on the steps of the company's
aircraft materials center here and watched the desert sun
sink, along with his spirits.
   Off to his right sprawled the factory where rival Rockwell
International Corp. once assembled B-1 bombers; these days,
under a leftover banner proclaiming "Progress for Peace," it
upgrades commercial jetliners instead. Nearby, Northrop Corp.
builds the radar-evading B-2 Stealth bomber; but with the
Warsaw Pact collapse, the factory has barely escaped being
mothballed by lawmakers eager for a peace dividend.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is one of the last enclaves of military aviation,"
Mr. Mullin mused. "And you've got to wonder how long it can
last."
   Longer than ever, it suddenly seems, now that the world is
on the brink of war again. Defense contractors, although wary
of jumping the gun, clearly view Iraq's thrust into Kuwait
and the U.S.'s launch of Operation Desert Shield as a
much-needed transfusion for their moribund businesses.
   "The Iraqi invasion will really stimulate thought about
how we should be armed 10, 20, 30 years from now," says Mr.
Mullin, a beefy, straight-talking Lockheed veteran who's
developing what the company hopes will become the Air Force's
next generation of jet fighter. "The military services had
tried to articulate that there are other threats out there
besides Russia. But nobody, including Congress, seemed
convinced. What's happening now is pivotal."
   Lockheed figures to be featured prominently in any debate
over how the U.S. should shape its arsenal of the future. As
the builder of the C-5 and C-141 transport aircraft that have
hauled more than five billion pounds of material to the
Persian Gulf in the past six weeks, the company stands to
benefit, long term, from a renewed call for more airlift
capability. In particular, the four-engine C-130 Hercules
transport -- which the company had envisioned dribbling out
at three a month -- could be destined for a faster rate of
production.
   More immediately, McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s new C-17
military cargo plane, which is being riveted together inside
a giant Long Beach, Calif., factory, has gained some clout.
"We need a fast, mobile system that can move people right
into a combat area," says Bob Bresette, deputy general
manager of the program, sounding a theme that many outside
observers say has become an easier sell to Capitol Hill.
Indeed, although the C-17 has been beleaguered by cost
overruns and delays, supporters contend that it is perfect
for snuffing out Third World conflagrations because of its
ability to carry 167,000 pounds of equipment 2,400 nautical
miles and then land on a short, remote strip of land.
   Similarly, demand is certain to increase for cargo ships,
particularly swift ones.
   Litton Industries Inc. recently completed a study for the
Navy on "fast sea-lift" vessels that could tote 20,000 tons
of personnel and gear at speeds as high as 55 knots, twice as
fast as today's cargo ships. "We're looking at the Mideast as
an important opportunity," says Gerald St. Pe, the executive
in charge of the company's giant Ingalls shipyard in
Mississippi.
   Perhaps the biggest boon, however, will be for those
companies adept at exporting their goods. The Bush
administration, trying to fortify its Mideast allies,
disclosed last week that it plans to sell new arms valued at
about $20 billion to Saudi Arabia. The cache, which comes on
the heels of a $2 billion deal with the Saudis, is likely to
include 17 Lockheed C-130s; 24 F-15 fighters and 48 Apache
attack helicopters, built by McDonnell Douglas; about 700 M-1
battle tanks made by General Dynamics Corp., including some
previously committed; Raytheon Co.'s Patriot ground-to-air
missiles; Bradley Fighting Vehicles, a product of FMC Corp.;
as well as training, communications and support equipment.
Already, Israel is demanding parity with Saudi Arabia, which
would generate even more business abroad for U.S. companies.
   Still, how any of this will translate to the bottom line
-- and when -- is uncertain. Iraq or not, the military
establishment remains in the midst of its steepest nose dive
in 40 years.
   The melting away of the Cold War is still going to cause a
rapid decline in the military budget, tens of thousands of
layoffs across the country and a continuing exodus of
companies doing business with the Pentagon. Phillip Karber,
of BDM Corp., which counsels the Pentagon on technical
issues, points out that with the cost of deploying and
maintaining a force in the Mideast expected to run about $1
billion a month, there simply may be no money left for new
weapons development.
   Nevertheless, in due course, Congress and the Defense
Department "will shift their attention to lessons learned in
the Mideast," predicts Michael Rich, vice president for
national security at Rand Corp., the think tank. That change
in focus, he suggests, will affect "not only the level of
future defense budgets, but their composition as well."
   There is little mystery to where the money might go. In
many ways, the Mideast situation only underscores concepts
that have long been evolving inside arms makers' laboratories
and research centers.
   Joe Falkner, a manager with Colsa Corp., an El Paso,
Texas, company that is advising the Army on the kinds of
airborne weapons needed on the battlefield of the future,
notes: "What's going on in the Middle East is that we're
staring at short- to medium-range tactical missiles. And in
the past, we've thought about how you see them and intercept
them." Yet traditionally, Mr. Falkner says, "by the time the
defense budget has been completed," development money to
explore this area more thoroughly "is usually what falls
out."
   William Perry, Pentagon research chief during the Carter
administration, says the Defense Department has been so
intent on developing the Strategic Defense Initiative, a
space-based missile shield to thwart Soviet warheads, that
money for less exotic but more practical ground-based systems
"just sort of dried up."
   Lockheed, General Motors Corp.'s Hughes Aircraft division,
Rockwell, Boeing Co. and TRW Inc. -- all of which have been
major players in SDI research -- may benefit if new funding
is allocated for a more down-to-earth anti-missile network.
   The key to any advanced weapons system, experts say, lies
in the continued development of high-tech electronics. That
bodes well for companies such as Loral Corp., E-Systems Inc.
and Hughes, leaders in outfitting missiles with sensors and
jet fighters with radar-warning receivers and jamming
instruments. "One of the advantages of modern electronics is
that they're reliable," explains Peter Oram, who runs Grumman
Corp.'s aircraft division. "That means fewer people, fewer
parts and less test equipment."
   The Pentagon will require lighter, more flexible weapons.
Retired Army Gen. Donald Keith, while arguing for a balance
between heavy and light forces, singles out the service's
"armored gun system," a tank that would be about half the
weight of a 65-ton M-1 Abrams. Although FMC, General
Dynamics, Teledyne Inc. and Textron Inc.'s Cadillac Gage unit
have done some design studies on it, "the system never made
the priority cut when those tough budget choices had to be
made," says Gen. Keith, president of Cypress International,
which advises contractors on R&amp;D decisions. "Now, it probably
will."
   U.S. troops also will need superior ground protection.
Such is the aim of the Fox reconnaissance vehicle, which is
designed to provide protection from nuclear, biological and
chemical blasts. Already, more than 1,000 Fox chassis have
been produced by Thyssen Henschel, a West German company, and
the Pentagon wants General Dynamics to begin upgrading those
and then build its own by 1994.
   For many contractors, the military's changing mandate will
offer both pluses and minuses. At Lockheed, for instance, the
strong support it has enjoyed on Capitol Hill for its
strategic Trident II missile could conceivably wane. Other
companies producing nuclear weapons and their components,
including Boeing, Rockwell and Northrop, may face similar
roadblocks.
   Moreover, bringing any new weapon from the drawing board
to the trenches is a slow and risky process for defense
concerns, which find themselves subject to the vagaries of
politicians, generals and Wall Street. "You can't scrap
everything and suddenly change direction overnight," says
Daniel Tellep, Lockheed's chairman.
   For one thing, systems are so technically complex
nowadays, it takes years to get them to work right. And when
they slip behind schedule -- as they almost always do -- it
leads to hand-wringing by lawmakers, who are then inclined to
take a whack at the program budget. That slows progress even
more.
   In addition, many corporations have been burned by putting
up lots of money to design a new weapon only to have the
government decide it doesn't really want such a gizmo after
all. And should a company get too pushy, it risks offending a
monolithic market: The Defense Department is known among
Pentagon suppliers simply and deferentially as The Customer.
   "You try and listen very carefully and help the military
people understand what is possible," says George Heilmeier,
senior vice president and chief technical officer at Texas
Instruments Corp. But in the end, he says, "it's a juggling
act."
   The Dallas company has proven more dexterous than many of
its competitors. For instance, it recently won a contract to
make a light, shoulder-fired tank destroyer known as the
AAWS-M. "It would drive the Iraqis nuts," says Mr. Heilmeier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   IRS, Newhouse Kin Settle Dispute
   Over the Estate of Firm's Founder
   ----
   By Jill Abramson and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES TWX UAL AMR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
SOFT DRINKS, MAKERS OF NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (SFT)
INSURANCE (INS)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
AIRLINES (AIR)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Internal Revenue Service and the Newhouse family have
reached a final settlement in what is believed to be the
biggest ever estate-tax dispute.
   Under terms of the settlement, which was entered Sept. 5
in U.S. Tax Court in Washington, the Newhouse family will pay
$46.4 million in taxes on the estate of S.I. Newhouse Sr.,
who died in 1979. That amount is about $2 million more than
called for in a ruling in the case last February by Tax Court
Judge B. John Williams Jr.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the settlement, culminating an 11-year battle, still
is a blow to the IRS, which had sought $609 million in estate
taxes and another $305 million in penalties from the Newhouse
family. The settlement means that the IRS won't appeal Judge
Williams's decision, which upheld the Newhouse family's
valuation of the stockholdings in the estate of the late
publishing magnate.
   S.I. Newhouse Sr. founded Advance Publications Inc. and
built it into the nation's largest privately held media
fortune. The Newhouse empire includes 26 newspapers and
publishing gems such as the Conde Nast magazines, Random
House book publishers and The New Yorker, which was acquired
after Mr. Newhouse's death.
   During a long trial that began in January 1989, the agency
was badly outgunned. Judge Williams threw out most of the
government's expert testimony on the stock valuation, which
was based on the breakup value of Mr. Newhouse's individual
holdings at the time of his death.
   For its part, the Newhouse family produced an all-star
cast of witnesses -- including industry rivals such as Rupert
Murdoch, chairman of News Corp., and Douglas McCorkindale,
vice chairman of Gannett Co. -- as well as an array of Wall
Street investment bankers and lawyers.
   As part of the settlement, the Newhouse family will pay
off the remainder of its deferred estate-tax liability, or
$12.9 million, now rather than pay it annually through 1995
as allowed under IRS rules.
   The IRS also agreed to apply the same method in evaluating
Advance stock owned by Mr. Newhouse's widow, Mitzi, who died
in 1989, and his brother Norman, who died in 1988. But the
per-share value of their stock will be greater because of
substantial growth and appreciation in the value of the
family's media properties in the 1980s.
   Albert Turkis, one of the family's Washington attorneys,
said the settlement was "consistent with the understanding of
the Newhouse family" on the value of the stock. "The
settlement provides an objective and consistent method of
valuing the shares. . . . without the risk or necessity of
costly and protracted litigation," he added.
   Robert Shilliday, the IRS's special trial attorney, and
Joseph Baniewicz, an IRS financial analyst who also worked on
the case, could not be reached for comment.
   ---
   WARNER ADVANCES in a dispute with widow of author Richard
Wright.
   A federal judge in Manhattan ruled that Warner Books
Inc.'s 1988 biography of Mr. Wright -- best-known for his
books "Native Son" and "Black Boy" -- wasn't a copyright
infringement although it paraphrased or quoted several
unpublished works by Mr. Wright. Mr. Wright died in 1960; his
copyrights are owned by his widow, Ellen Wright.
   The decision, if upheld on appeal, could help shape the
law on when and how unpublished works may be used. Previous
court rulings -- including a federal appeals court decision
in Manhattan about the work of J.D. Salinger in 1987 -- have
limited the material that can be used in biographies.
   Mrs. Wright contended in her lawsuit that the book,
"Richard Wright, Daemonic Genius," violated copyrights to
published and unpublished works by her late husband. At the
heart of the suit are unpublished letters that Mr. Wright
sent to Margaret Walker, author of the biography, in the
1930s.
   Federal Judge John Walker agreed with the Time Warner unit
that Prof. Walker's use of the material was "fair use" under
the copyright law. Judge Walker, a federal appeals-court
judge in Manhattan, was designated to handle the case at the
district-court level.
   In the Salinger case, a federal appeals court in Manhattan
ruled that unpublished works "normally enjoy complete
protection against copying any protected expression."
   But Judge Walker ruled that the appellate decision didn't
ban the use of unpublished material in all cases. For
instance, Judge Walker said, there is no copyright violation
if the unpublished work is used to convey facts, rather than
creative style. Judge Walker added that Prof. Walker "has
used the letters not to recreate Wright's creative
expression, but simply to establish facts necessary to her
biography."
   Mark Fowler, an attorney for Warner and for Prof. Walker,
praised the decision. "A biographer can't practice his craft
unless he can use some unpublished, primary sources," Mr.
Fowler said, adding: "This decision gives biographers some
breathing room in the wake of the earlier decisions."
   Andres Valdespino, an attorney for Mrs. Wright, couldn't
be reached for comment.
   ---
   INSURER, BEVERAGE CONCERN battle over attorney fees, legal
costs.
   Dr Pepper Co., a unit of Dr Pepper/Seven-Up Cos., is suing
Harbor Insurance Co. for reimbursement of attorneys' fees and
other costs incurred in defending itself against several
shareholder suits settled in 1984. The case is raising an
increasingly common dispute about the boundaries of
directors' and officers' liability-insurance coverage.
   The shareholder suits had been brought against Dr Pepper
and its directors, challenging a plan under which Dr Pepper
was taken private in a leveraged buy-out. The suits were
settled for about $375,000. Dr Pepper paid the settlement,
plus defense legal fees of $265,000, then sought
reimbursement under a directors' and officers' liability
policy issued by Harbor, a New York-based company.
   Underlying the dispute in this and similar cases is the
fact that standard policies, such as the one Harbor issued,
generally provide coverage for officers and directors, but
not for the company that employs them. However, shareholder
lawsuits increasingly name the company and individuals as
defendants. And because the defendants often are represented
by the same legal counsel -- for strategic and economic
reasons -- it's frequently hard to separate the relative
costs of defending them.
   "It's a hot topic," says Kenneth Wollner, a consultant in
the Chicago office of Wyatt Co., an actuarial and consulting
firm.
   When Harbor and Dr Pepper couldn't agree on an allocation
of the costs, Dr Pepper filed suit in state district court in
San Antonio, Texas, alleging breach of contract and duty of
good faith. Harbor has denied the charges. The trial is
scheduled to begin Dec. 3.
   ---
   JURY WAS TAINTED by publicity in thrift case, judge rules.
   Federal Judge Robert B. Maloney of Dallas set aside the
convictions of two Dallas men because jurors in the case
discussed the indictment of Don R. Dixon, former owner of
Vernon Savings &amp; Loan Association of Dallas.
   The indictment was released during the trial of Mr.
Dixon's former accountant, Wellington O. Rothwell, and the
accountant's real-estate partner, Rosswell H. Westmoreland,
on tax-fraud charges related to loans from Vernon Savings.
Messrs. Rothwell and Westmoreland were convicted less than
two weeks after the indictment.
   Mr. Dixon's name had been mentioned frequently in the
trial, and several jurors conceded that they had discussed
Mr. Dixon's indictment during their deliberations after
learning of it through the news media. In an order filed
earlier this week, Judge Maloney said the possibility of
prejudice against Messrs. Rothwell and Westmoreland justified
a new trial for the two men.
   The judge's ruling damps the Justice Department's campaign
for publicity about its thrift-fraud cases. The department
has been criticized in Congress for responding too slowly to
thrift fraud, and has responded by issuing news releases in
Washington to announce thrift-fraud cases. Some big cases are
announced at full-blown news conferences.
   The Justice Department had canceled its plans for a news
conference to announce Mr. Dixon's indictment on June 13
after defense attorneys for Messrs. Rothwell and Westmoreland
raised questions about the possible effect on jurors.
   U.S. Attorney Marvin Collins of Dallas said the Justice
Department and Internal Revenue Service will consider
appealing.
   "We fully intend to retry the case in the event the order
becomes final," he said, adding: "I would consider this a
bump in the road for us."
   ---
   UNITED AIR WINS ROUND in row with American Air over
Chicago's skies.
   The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington refused to issue
an emergency stay barring implementation of a planned Oct. 1
schedule shift by United at Chicago's O'Hare airport.
American, an AMR Corp. unit, had requested the stay.
   The ruling means that UAL Corp.'s United unit can schedule
certain evening departures prior to American flights. The
decision upholds a Federal Aviation Administration decision
last week. The FAA says United's changes will cut delays and
ease air-traffic workloads.
   The new schedule takes effect Oct. 1 and is scheduled to
expire Jan. 15, 1991.
   United called the court's ruling a "a victory for the
traveling public." American said it intends to challenge the
schedule.
   But the court decision may render moot any American
challenge because it is unlikely a new ruling will be issued
before United introduces its new winter schedule.
   ---
   ADULT-FILM DISTRIBUTOR PROTESTS federal indictment in
Utah.
   Adam &amp; Eve, a North Carolina distributor of sexually
oriented materials, was indicted yesterday by a federal grand
jury in Utah for mailing allegedly obscene films and
magazines and related advertisements. The indictment, based
on mailings in 1986, is part of Project Postporn, a federal
crackdown on mail-order distributors of adult films and
publications.
   Adam &amp; Eve contended that the Utah prosecution was aimed
at derailing the company's earlier civil lawsuit against the
Justice Department, which accuses the government of trying to
bully the company out of business. The company's pending
lawsuit alleges that prosecutors have threatened to file
multiple obscenity cases in several far-flung jurisdictions
unless Adam &amp; Eve closes down.
   Bruce Ennis, a lawyer for Adam &amp; Eve, asserted that the
Utah indictment "is clearly in retaliation for the civil
lawsuit, in which we are finding extraordinary admissions of
bad faith" by federal officials.
   A Justice Department spokesman denied Mr. Ennis's
accusation, but said that department lawyers plan to seek a
stay in the civil suit until the criminal charges are
resolved.
   ---
   Christi Harlan and Wayne E. Green contributed to this
column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Considers
   Clarifying Tax Benefits
   For Buyers of Thrifts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury Department said it is
considering whether legislation or other action is needed to
clarify the status of the tax benefits that were part of 96
government-assisted sales of insolvent thrifts in 1988.
   In a series of hearings, Congress is reviewing the
much-criticized transactions, which heaped more than $4
billion in tax benefits on buyers of thrifts. The benefits
occurred primarily through nontaxable government notes and
were shared among the buyers of the sick thrifts and their
affiliates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Resolution Trust Corp. has said it could save as much
as $4 billion if it received $22 billion in funding to pay
off the high-interest government notes that were part of the
deals.
   Yesterday, William Seidman, chairman of the RTC, said
government savings could be even higher, depending on rulings
from the Internal Revenue Service and the Treasury regarding
the tax benefits. "The tax benefits are complicated by what
assurances the government gave buyers at the time," said Mr.
Seidman.
   Mr. Seidman said that just having the $22 billion on hand
might give the thrifts the clout to renegotiate the sales,
without spending all the money. "Then the funds wouldn't have
to be spent, and we would have the particular pleasure of
returning them to the Treasury."
   Jack Kemp, secretary for the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, suggested that tax breaks might be
considered to help the RTC sell its swelling inventory of
properties seized from S&amp;Ls, which currently includes about
$31 billion in real estate or troubled real-estate loans. Mr.
Kemp, a member of the RTC's Oversight Board, said tax
incentives could "drive some of this property back to the
private sector."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   National Westminster Bank PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
09/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NW
</CO>
<IN>
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (London) -- Roger
Flemington, 58 years old, was named deputy group chief
executive of this U.K. bank, effective Oct 1. Mr. Flemington
is currently chief executive of U.K. financial services at
the bank. He will be succeeded in that post by Derek Wanless,
42, currently general manager of U.K. branch business. Mr.
Wanless, in turn, will be succeeded in that job by Martin
Gray, 44, currently deputy general manager of group strategy
and communications. That position will be filled by Bernard
Horn, 44, previously general manager of the group chief
executive's office.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   BERNARD HORN has been appointed general manager, group
strategy and communications, at National Westminster Bank
PLC. His title was misstated in the Sept. 13 edition.
   (WSJ Sept. 21, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Thinking the Unthinkable: Abandoning Your Mortgage
   ----
   By Jill Bettner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   TRW TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   As the real estate slump drags on, a lot of people are
thinking the unthinkable: What would happen if I just walked
away from my mortgage?
   While most people wouldn't act on the fantasy, some people
are abandoning their mortgages, turning their house over to
the bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After years of double-digit appreciation, many homeowners
already have seen the value of their homes drop by as much as
20%. That can be enough to wipe out a homeowner's equity, so
that the remaining mortgage is greater than the value of the
house.
   "A lot of people bought when prices were going up; now
they're going down," says Kenneth Rosen, chairman of the
Center for Real Estate and Urban Economics at the University
of Southern California at Berkeley. "More of those people
view walking away as an option. It happened in Texas and
Arizona, and now it's happening in the Northeast. It's not a
massive problem, but it could become one."
   But simply letting the bank take your house when you can
afford to hang on through the current real-estate slump is a
terrible idea, says Roger Sirlin, a Mamaroneck, N.Y., lawyer
who represents lenders.
   "A lot of people think they can just mail back the keys,
but it isn't that simple," he says. A foreclosure often has
several serious, long-term repercussions.
   For one, it blackens a homeowner's credit record, where a
foreclosure stays for seven years. Because lenders view
mortgages as some of the safest loans they can make, a
foreclosure can make it hard to get new credit of any kind.
   Banks consider the way people manage their house loans as
"probably the best indicator of their general
creditworthiness," says Joe Belew, president of the Consumer
Bankers Association, a Washington trade group.
   A foreclosure can also mean losing existing credit, such
as one's credit cards. "It's up to the individual lender, but
many of them check credit reports periodically to look for
problems," says Michael Van Buskirk, a vice president at
Cleveland-based TRW Inc., the nation's largest credit bureau.
"If they see a foreclosure, they could take away your credit
cards, reduce your limit or just not renew the cards."
   Some banks say they wouldn't revoke the credit cards of
someone who defaulted on a mortgage, so long as that
individual kept up the payments on the credit cards.
Defaulting on a mortgage also wouldn't necessarily
preventetting new credit cards from some banks. "It makes it
difficult, but not impossible," says William L. Capps, who
heads credit-card operations at Security Pacific National
Bank, Los Angeles.
   Mr. Van Buskirk of TRW also doubts that a homeowner who
walks away from a mortgage, and also has an outstanding auto
loan, would have the car repossessed. "It's uncollateralized
loans that are most likely to be called," he says.
   But there are plenty of other headaches the homeowner
could face. Many houses have fallen so far in value they
aren't fetching enough in foreclosure auctions to cover the
remaining mortgage.
   As a result, more and more lenders are using the laws in
some states, such as New York, to force borrowers to make up
the difference. They can do that by taking a homeowner's car
and savings accounts or garnisheeing paychecks for as long as
20 years.
   Such "deficiency judgments" were relatively rare when
inflation was boosting home values year after year. Now, says
Mr. Sirlin, lenders are "beginning to go after people."
   Tax rules also are stacked in favor of hanging on to your
house. Unhappily, if you sell the house at a loss, that loss
isn't deductible on your income taxes. Under tax laws, "a
house is considered personal property, just like a car," says
William G. Brennan, a tax partner in the Washington office of
accountants Ernst &amp; Young.
   But if you walk away from your mortgage, you could end up
owing the taxman. Some states don't permit lenders to seek
deficiency judgments. If a lender can't go after the
difference between the auction price and the outstanding debt
on the house, the Internal Revenue Service can. The IRS
considers any unclaimed shortfall "forgiveness of debt," in
effect, a payment to you from the lender. Then it becomes
taxable income.
   The tax consequences of abandoning a mortgage could be
even worse for homeowners who refinanced before the bottom
fell out of the housing market.
   Many people took advantage of spiraling real estate values
to take cash out and refinance for more than they originally
for their homes. Walking away now could trigger a tax
double-whammy, says Ernst &amp; Young's Mr. Brennan.
   Mr. Brennan offers this example: "Suppose you bought a
paid house a few years ago for $100,000 and took out a
mortgage for $90,000. The house doubled in value to $200,000,
so you refinanced for $170,000. Since then, the house has
dropped in value to $150,000.
   "Now, you walk away. The bank takes back the house, sells
it for $150,000 and doesn't go after you for the other
$20,000 still left on the mortgage.
   "That $20,000 of forgiven debt is taxable income," he
says, but that isn't all. "Since your tax basis in the house
is still $100,000 because that's what you paid for it, but
the bank sold it for $150,000, you also have a $50,000
taxable gain."
   A financially strapped homeowner who can't avoid
foreclosure might be better off filing for bankruptcy, says
Ray Martin, a Dallas lawyer. In many states, the owner gets
to keep a house, even if it isn't fully paid for, because the
house is an "exempt asset that doesn't go into the bankruptcy
estate," he says.
   Mr. Martin adds, however, that the mortgage holder could
still foreclose if a bankrupt homeowner doesn't meet the
mortgage payments. A bankruptcy also stays on an individual's
credit record for 10 years.
   Homeowners with serious debt problems should keep in mind
that lenders aren't eager to get back houses they have to
turn around and sell themselves at current depressed prices.
   "The last thing they want to do is foreclose," says TRW's
Mr. Van Buskirk. "If you've had a problem or lost a job, most
lenders will help you work it out. But if you just walk away,
that's very difficult, if not impossible, to explain. In
short, it's a big mistake."
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE CENTER for Real Estate and Urban Economics is at the
University of California at Berkeley. The university's name
was misstated in the Sept. 10 edition.
   (WSJ Sept. 21, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900921-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900921-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Open Sesame:
   In the Arcane Culture
   Of Computer Hackers,
   Few Doors Stay Closed
   ---
   Frank Darden Easily Broke
   Into Bellsouth's Network,
   Trading Tips With Others
   ---
   Entering the Legion of Doom
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   BLS
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Frank Darden got his first computer at the age
of 16, a Christmas present from his parents. Sitting on a
desk in his bedroom, it opened a window on a world he found
so consuming that he quit high school and spent most days and
nights at the keyboard.
   His parents often wondered what their son found so
compelling in the endless hours he spent alone in his room.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Then one afternoon last summer, a dozen Secret Service
agents burst into the family's suburban home. Agents held
Edward and
   Lou Darden at gunpoint as they swarmed into their son's
room, seizing scores of disks, armloads of files and three
computers.
   When Frank got home an hour later, the terrified young man
confessed that he had used his home computer to break into
   BellSouth Corp.'s telephone network. In February, Mr.
Darden and two others were indicted on felony charges of
conspiracy and wire fraud.
   "I guess now my parents know what I was doing in my room,"
says a remorseful Mr. Darden, a bright, impatient 24-year-old
with shoulder-length hair and a tiedyed T-shirt.
   Mr. Darden thus became another of the growing number of
"hackers" nabbed by federal agents. For a long time, these
high-tech trespassers operated in relative obscurity, using
their computers and phone lines to go where few people were
meant to go. But lately, in a string of highly publicized
cases, hacking has moved toward the forefront of white-collar
crime. Increasingly, banks, businesses, credit bureaus and
telephone companies are discovering that someone, often in
the dead of night, has wandered into their computer systems
-- and left his mark.
   As Mr. Darden's experience reveals, hacking has developed
its own subculture, rich with literature and legend and
peopled by electronic vandals, voyeurs and explorers known by
fanciful code names. "Any business that has a computer hooked
to a phone is vulnerable," warns Mr. Darden, who called
himself the "The Leftist." Before the bust, he was one of the
best.
   Mr. Darden's case is part of a broad federal crackdown on
*  computer hackers that has led to more than 30 raids in
cities across the country. In the most recent sweep, 13
people were arrested in New York last week, including a
14-year-old suspected of breaking into a computer used by the
Secretary of the Air Force.
   An early target in the crackdown was the Legion of Doom,
an elite clique of hackers that included Mr. Darden and was
targeted by the Secret Service because of its members'
notable skills. "The Legion of Doom had the power to
jeopardize the entire phone network," says Kent B. Alexander,
an assistant U.S. attorney prosecuting Mr. Darden's case in
Atlanta.
   In a Secret Service affidavit filed in U.S. District Court
in Atlanta, BellSouth investigators call the Legion of Doom
"a severe threat to U.S. financial and telecommunications
industries." Federal agents suspect the Legion was
responsible for software "time bombs" -- destructive programs
designed to shut down major switching hubs -- planted in
telephone company computers in Denver, Atlanta and New Jersey
last year. The programs were defused before causing damage,
investigators say, but the intrusions, which weren't
disclosed by the phone companies, could have knocked out
service to hundreds of thousands of customer phone lines.
   The government sweep so far has bagged a motley band,
mostly loners and young rebels in their teens or early
twenties. In past cases, many of the hackers who have
admitted breaking into computers have insisted that they
didn't damage the systems they penetrated. They did it for
sport.
   "There's no thrill quite the same as getting into your
first system," says Phrack, an electronic magazine run out of
a University of Missouri dorm and accessed by computer.
Before it was shut down in the latest sweep, Phrack (for
phone-freak hacking) published tips on cracking computer
security. One issue offers a "hacker's code of ethics," which
advises, "Do not intentionally damage any system" or alter
any files "other than ones you need to ensure your escape."
Another rule: "Don't be afraid to be paranoid. Remember, you
are breaking the law." Mr. Darden says he strictly adhered to
the code.
   But the hackers' creed means nothing in court. There,
hacking is treated much like any other form of criminal
trespass under a law Congress passed in 1988. The law
persuaded many hackers to end their illicit forays. But it
turned other hobbyists into criminals.
   During his hacker days, Mr. Darden's world was an oddly
solitary one. For hours on end he sat in front of the
computer screen, finding his only human contact in the words
*  and arcane code that arrived via computer from other
hackers. "Once he got into a subject, there was no stopping,"
recalls his mother. "He was always studying up on something.
He read encyclopedias as a pastime."
   Geography was meaningless; friends from around the world
were just a few keystrokes away, thanks to modems that
connect computers through phone lines. Mr. Darden says he has
struck up many lasting friendships on-line with people he has
never met in person.
   In this silent, cerebral world, age is also irrelevant.
Only computer skills count. Once on-line, a hacker can be
anyone he or she wants to be. "No one knows if you're fat,
pimply, or scared to talk to girls," says Sheldon Zenner, a
Chicago attorney who recently defended an editor of Phrack on
felony wire-fraud charges. "Suddenly you're no longer just
the shy adolescent, but Knight Lightning or The Prophet."
   "It's a compulsion for some of these people," adds Mr.
Alexander, the Atlanta prosecutor. "I'm convinced that if
Lotus 1-2-3 was behind Door No. 1, and Cheryl Tiegs was
standing behind Door No. 2, a hacker would go for the
software."
   Mr. Darden recounts his hacking days with disapproval --
and just a touch of pride. He broke into his first system at
the age of 17, dialing his way into a big computer at Hayes
Microcomputer Products Inc., in Norcross, Ga., and nosing
around the system. "I didn't take anything, I was just trying
to see if it could be done," he says now. Hayes uncovered the
breach and quickly tightened security, he says.
   Hacking sessions often stretched into the early morning
hours. He would start by checking lists of computer phone
numbers collected by his computer the night before through an
automatic process called "war dialing." That's the brute
force approach to hacking, when the computer runs through the
night, methodically dialing every number in a telephone
exchange. It records the number whenever it hits a "carrier
tone" signaling a computer is on the other end.
   In a typical night of war dialing, in which the computer
might check thousands of numbers, perhaps 100 computer
carrier tones would be unearthed, "each one a potential
treasure chest," Mr. Darden says. He would then begin calling
down the "hit list" with his computer, each time trying to
determine what kind of system was on the other end. Fax
machines were a problem, because they emit a tone that sounds
like a computer, so he wrote software that ignored them.
   Each kind of computer had a distinctive response to his
call, so he would tailor his approach to the type of system
he encountered. Computers that used the Unix software
operating system were especially easy to break into, while
Digital Equipment Corp.'s VAX computers, which have multiple
levels of security, presented a bigger challenge. But he says
he was fond of the VAX because of its widely used software.
"For a hacker, the VAX is like putting on an old Jimi Hendrix
record in a bar -- it's a real classic." Using purloined
telephone credit-card numbers, which his computer generated
through trial and error, he got into computers all over the
world, including an encounter with a VAX that spoke Finnish.
   He devised password-cracking programs that automated the
hacking process. He also devised a program that let him
capture legitimate users' passwords as they logged onto the
system. When he found a password the target computer
recognized, his screen would typically respond with a prompt,
such as a sign. "Once you get that, you've got an open door,"
he says. Often he would play "cat-and-mouse games" with a
company's computer operators. "I'd send a little greeting to
their printer, to let them know I was there. It drove them
crazy."
   Credit bureaus were a favorite target. And, despite the
warnings of other hackers that it might give him away, his
first move was to look up his own credit report. "Naturally,
I didn't have one," he says. He found his parents' report,
and looked up others for friends.
   To make the process more efficient, and show off, Mr.
Darden and other hackers traded phone numbers and
system-cracking tips on pirate "bulletin boards" -- computer
systems that store and forward text and electronic mail over
phone lines. "Black Ice" was one such board. Access was
tightly limited to an elite circle.
   Mr. Darden's biggest thrill as a hacker -- and ultimately
his downfall -- came when he broke into a big BellSouth
computer in Atlanta used by technicians to maintain and
control the phone system. He learned how to navigate within
the system by asking questions of BellSouth's own online
"help" program. Once inside, he found he had the ability to
reroute telephone calls or bring down switching centers,
neither of which he says he did. Mr. Darden did, however,
listen in on a few phone lines, but only those of other
hackers, he insists, and only to prove his prowess.
   "If we'd wanted to, we could have knocked out service
across the Southeastern U.S.," he says. "The fact that I
could get into the system amazed me. But we were careful not
to damage anything."
   Not surprisingly, when BellSouth discovered hackers were
rummaging through its computer, it reacted swiftly. It put 42
investigators on the task of tracking the intruders down, and
spent $1.5 million on the effort. Once it found the source of
the intrusions, it called in the Secret Service, which
enforces computer-crime laws.
   In the indictment, Mr. Darden and two co-defendants,
Robert J. Riggs, 21, a.k.a. The Prophet, and Adam E. Grant,
22, a.k.a. The Urvile, were charged with taking copies of
proprietary software from BellSouth during their ramblings in
the system, and with unauthorized intrusion, possessing
illegal phone credit-card numbers with intent to defraud, and
conspiracy. Messrs. Darden and Riggs pleaded guilty to
conspiracy and face a maximum of five years in prison and a
$250,000 fine. Mr. Grant pleaded guilty to possessing
BellSouth computer access codes with the intent to defraud
and faces a maximum of 10 years in prison and a $250,000
fine. Sentencing is scheduled for Sept. 14. The only good
thing to come out of the whole experience,
   Mr. Darden muses, is that after he was indicted, his
high-school sweetheart -- whom he often spurned in favor of
his computer -- saw his picture on the front page of the
local paper and got back in touch. Mr. Darden, who now works
installing systems for a local computer company, views
himself as a purist, hacking for the thrill of exploring the
forbidden. He looks down on those who use their skills simply
to steal phone and credit-card numbers. But in this game,
information is everything, and not even Mr. Darden can
control its spread. During their sweep, federal agents have
found some hackers using code-cracking information dug up by
the Legion of Doom to perpetrate their own practical jokes
and fraud.
   For a few days last year, for example, phone calls to the
Delray Beach, Fla., probation office were mysteriously
rerouted to a dial-a-porn line in New York. Secret Service
agents say it's the kind of thing the Legion might have done.
   And in Elwood, Ind., a 15-year-old calling himself Fry Guy
allegedly used information he got from the Legion to carry
out an elaborate fraud. Secret Service agents say he used his
computer to break into a credit rating service in Maryland to
pilfer VISA and MasterCard credit information. He then
entered BellSouth's control network and altered a pay phone
on a street corner in nearby Paducah, Ky., to residential
status. Next, he called Western Union and had cash wired out
of credit-card accounts to the Paducah Western Union office.
When Western Union called the credit-card holders to verify
the transactions, the calls were forwarded to the pay phone
and then to the youth's home phone, where he posed as the
credit-card holders and gave approval. The cash was then
picked up at the Western Union window, investigators say.
   In all, Fry Guy siphoned more than $10,000 in cash and
purchases from credit-card accounts, alleges William M.
Gleason, the Secret Service investigator. He also found
evidence that Fry Guy, whose name hasn't been released,
hacked his way into a payroll computer for a local McDonald's
Corp. outlet, giving pay raises to his friends working at the
restaurant.
   Fry Guy's case is being handled by state juvenile
authorities and, because of his age, it is unclear what
punishment he might get. At the very least, his parents are
likely to watch the family phone bill more closely. In a
recent meeting with federal prosecutors, Fry Guy's
exasperated father wore a baseball cap bearing the legend
"Kids: They'll drive you crazy."
   Federal agents admit that, when they detect an intruder
inside a computer, there isn't any way of telling if it's a
precocious teen-ager or a crook out to commit fraud. So they
simply execute the law.
   "When a hacker gets into a system, it's no different from
a burglar breaking into your home or office," says Secret
Service agent James Cool. If the door is open, the law treats
a trespasser differently, he adds. But if a hacker cracks a
password to get into a system, "it's the same as kicking in a
locked door -- and we're going to come after them."
   Ed Darden wishes he had known all of this before he gave
his son that Apple II for Christmas eight years ago. "I'd
have thought twice about it," he says. "Maybe we should have
given him a bicycle."
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   AN ARTICLE on computer hackers on Aug. 22 mentioned
computer bulletin boards, including one called Black Ice. The
one referred to, which federal law enforcement officials say
had been operating in Richmond, Va., isn't connected with a
computer bulletin board system in Austin, Texas, that also is
named Black Ice.
   (WSJ Sept. 20, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
