<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Borrowing
   Will Set a Record;
   S&amp;L Bailouts Cited
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The federal government plans next week to
borrow a record amount for any regular quarterly refunding
operation, in part to help finance savings-and-loan bailouts.
   The Treasury said it plans to sell $30.5 billion of notes
and bonds to raise about $12.4 billion in cash and redeem
about $18.1 billion in maturing government securities. The
borrowing will be $500 million higher than the last two
refundings, the government said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new securities will consist of:
   -- $10.5 billion of three-year notes, to be auctioned next
Tuesday.
   -- $10 billion of 10-year notes, to be auctioned next
Wednesday.
   -- $10 billion of 30-year bonds, to be auctioned next
Thursday.
   The three-year notes will mature on May 15, 1993, the
10-year notes on May 15, 2000, and the 30-year bonds on May
15, 2020.
   For the current quarter, the government estimates a net
borrowing need of $12.6 billion, assuming a $30 billion cash
balance at the end of June. That is a considerably greater
borrowing need than for the same quarter last year, when an
unexpectedly high level of tax receipts poured into the
Treasury's coffers. At a news conference yesterday to
announce next week's refunding, Robert Glauber, the
Treasury's undersecretary for finance, refused to comment on
tax receipts this year.
   Mr. Glauber said the $12.6 billion net borrowing
requirement for the second quarter includes borrowing to
finance the Resolution Trust Corp., the agency set up to
manage failing savings and loans, under thrift bail-out
legislation.
   Including next week's refunding, the Treasury will have
raised $2.6 billion of its net borrowing requirement. The
remaining $10 billion could be raised through regular sales
of three-month and six-month Treasury bills and one-year
notes, or through a planned sale of a two-year note in May
and a five-year, two-month note in early June, Mr. Glauber
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bassett Furniture Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BSET
</CO>
<LP>
   BASSETT FURNITURE INDUSTRIES Inc. (Bassett, Va.) -- John
W. Snow, president and chief executive officer of CSX Corp.,
was elected a director of this furniture manufacturer,
increasing board membership to 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology and Medicine:
   New Clues About Huntington's Disease
   Are Found in Studies of Suicide's Brain
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Studies of the brain of a young suicide who carried the
gene for Huntington's disease are providing a glimmer of hope
that treatments can be developed for the deadly brain
disorder.
   Based on the discovery and some previous findings,
researchers are beginning to test several prototype drugs on
patients with the disease. Doctors caution that the tests are
in preliminary stages and that they are uncertain about the
drugs' effects.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, "the new research suggests a (treatment) strategy,
and that's very important," said Susan Folstein, a
Huntington's disease researcher at Johns Hopkins School of
Medicine in Baltimore.
   Huntington's is an inherited disease, often called a
genetic time-bomb because its symptoms -- a degeneration of
physical and mental control -- don't explode until a person
is nearing middle age. The disease, invariably fatal, affects
only about 25,000 Americans, but another 125,000 are thought
to carry the gene that causes it. Everyone who inherits the
gene is destined to develop the disease.
   While scientists know the disease is caused by a single
defective gene passed from parent to child, they have yet to
find the gene. And they don't yet know how it wreaks havoc on
the body. But in a report published in today's New England
Journal of Medicine, researchers at the University of
Michigan said they have traced a trail of destruction to
certain nerve cells in the brain of a young woman who carried
the gene but had yet to develop symptoms.
   "The study is a capstone for a series of recent studies
suggesting a pathway through which the gene damages the
brain," said Roger Albin, a neurologist at the University of
Michigan. "It's a provocative finding."
   For several years, Dr. Albin and his colleagues, and
researchers elsewhere, have been studying the brains of
people who died from Huntington's disease. The scientists
found that nerve cells related to a chemical called
enkephalin, which transmits messages among brain cells, are
destroyed. But they weren't certain if nerve cell destruction
was the cause or just one of the effects of the disease.
   To solve the riddle, scientists needed to analyze the
brain of someone who carried the gene but hadn't yet
developed the disease and thus might provide a clue about
whether the nerve damage was occurring before the disease.
But until the early 1980s, scientists had no way of knowing
who carried the gene and who didn't. Then in 1983 scientists
used new DNA technology to pinpoint a genetic "marker" that
was physically close to the Huntington's disease gene. A test
that detects the marker can determine whether a person has
inherited Huntington's disease.
   The test has become controversial because it can predict
who will develop the disease yet there is no treatment to
offer people who learn of their fate. Thus, researchers are
under great pressure to find some type of therapy for the
disease.
   The Michigan researchers were sent the brain of a 31-year
old woman who had suffered bouts of severe depression, willed
her brain to research and subsequently committed suicide.
When the scientists examined the brain, they were startled to
see early signs of the kind of cell damage usually seen in
older Huntington's disease victims. Tracing back, they found
that the woman had relatives with Huntington's disease.
   The woman had also had a specimen of her blood stored
before she died. Using the new gene detection test, the
Michigan researchers found evidence in the blood that the
woman had carried the Huntington's disease gene and,
therefore, had been destined eventually to develop the
disease.
   The scientists found that the woman's brain was missing
normal amounts of a "receptor" on nerve cells that receives
certain chemical messages. The receptor, called NMDA, is also
thought to be the target of toxic proteins released by the
brain following a stroke or other trauma. Dr. Folstein at
Johns Hopkins said the Michigan report and other research
strongly suggest that an NMDA-protecting drug could prevent
the nerve damage associated with the disease. Several drug
research teams, including one at Merck &amp; Co., are testing
drugs that can protect the NMDA receptor from the destructive
proteins.
   Dr. Folstein said she and others are now testing
experimental drugs that appear to block the toxic proteins.
"The trick is to develop drugs that selectively affect only
those NMDA receptors involved in Huntington's disease, and
not the other receptors located throughout the brain," Dr.
Folstein said. Scientists racing to find the Huntington's
disease gene hope that it will provide the final clue,
helping to identify the specific NMDA receptors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Conagra Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CAG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CONAGRA Inc. (Omaha, Neb.) -- Scott W. Rahn, formerly
president of the ConAgra Frozen Foods division, was named to
the new post of vice president, internal development, of this
food and grain company. James R. Tindall will succeed Mr.
Rahn and continues as president and chief operating officer
of ConAgra Prepared Food Cos.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   AIDS Protein
   May Promote
   Kaposi's Tumor
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LONDON -- A team of U.S. scientists found that a protein
released by the AIDS virus may promote the spread of Kaposi's
sarcoma, a skin cancer that afflicts many AIDS patients.
   The test-tube experiments mark the first direct link
between KS and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome virus,
according to a report published in today's issue of the
British scientific journal Nature. The work could lead to
improved treatment for the cancer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The research, led by the National Cancer Institute's
Barbara Ensoli and Robert Gallo, showed the AIDS virus
produces a protein called Tat that promotes the growth of
cells cultured from KS lesions in AIDS patients. The finding
was confirmed when the scientists blocked further growth of
KS cells by adding antibodies to Tat.
   "Tat may contribute to the induction or progression, or
both, of KS in HIV-1 {AIDS virus} infected individuals, thus
representing one of the links betwen HIV-1 infection and KS,"
the report concluded. But the authors emphasized that the
laboratory work doesn't "definitively establish a general
mechanism" for the genesis of KS and that other factors may
play a role. They noted that "the mechanisms by which Tat is
released and promotes growth are unknown."
   Other experts also cautioned that identification of the
protein link might have remote impact on preventing KS. The
cancer responds poorly to chemotherapy and kills roughly 10%
to 15% of all AIDS sufferers.
   Knowing that the Tat protein "can drive the {KS} tumor and
make it worse . . . doesn't explain why the tumor occurs in
the first place," observed Donald Jeffries, a virologist at
St. Mary's Hospital here.
   Nevertheless, he went on, the report "does lead to a
possible way for modifying the growth of the tumor." The
virologist said several pharmaceutical manufacturers are
trying to develop Tat inhibitors, intended to block
replication of the AIDS virus, as well as to slow the spread
of KS.
   Pinpointing the Tat protein's role in specific cell growth
eventually might benefit other cancer victims, a second
scientist suggested. "There may be many more of these
{proteins} we don't know about yet, and these may have roles
in other types of cancer," said Ken Powell, who heads
antiviral research at Wellcome PLC, a British drug concern
that makes AZT, the only antiviral drug approved for AIDS
treatment.
   Dr. Gallo, a lead author of the report and head of NCI's
laboratory of tumor cell biology, shared that view. In a
statement released by the institute, he said: "These results
demonstrate for the first time that a viral regulatory
protein can be released as a biologically active molecule
capable of directly inducing proliferation of the cell which
leads to a human tumor." The work "may open up a new approach
for evaluation of the multiple functions of this" protein and
similar types of molecules. Dr. Gallo declined requests for
interviews.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Going for Broke:
   Hunt for Blockbusters
   Has Big Movie Studios
   In a Spending Frenzy
   ---
   Cash-Flush Film Chiefs Need
   Projects, So Even Scripts
   Are Selling for $1 Million
   ---
   Pricey Search for a Snowstorm
   ----
   By Kathleen A. Hughes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI NWS SNE DIS TWX CRC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- On a recent Friday afternoon, 20 film
producers and studio executives received by messenger loud
ticking alarm clocks painted black with a cryptic message on
the face: "The Ticking Man is Coming."
   The clocks were sent out not by terrorists but by a talent
agency trying to draw attention to a new movie script, "The
Ticking Man," about an android implanted with a nuclear bomb.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The script itself, the executives were told, wouldn't be
available until the following Tuesday at 9 a.m. That day, it
took but 1 1/2 hours for the bidding to start. By nightfall,
the script was sold to "Die Hard" producer Larry Gordon's
company for a whopping $1.2 million. Just a few years ago,
$250,000 was considered an astronomical price for a script.
   Hollywood is in the midst of a spending frenzy. Even
cynical executives here are astonished at the hyperinflation
in movie costs and in particular, the salaries of actors,
directors and even scriptwriters.
   At the ultra-high end, Sylvester Stallone was just paid
more than $20 million for the coming "Rocky V," and Arnold
Schwarzenegger commanded about $10 million for the
soon-to-be-released "Total Recall."
   On location, it seems no expense is too great. The
producers of "Die Hard 2" transported cast and crew to three
cities in a multimillion-dollar and largely unsuccessful
attempt to shoot during a real snowstorm. The total cost of
the airport thriller, being made for the film unit of Fox
Inc., is said by some in the industry to be fast approaching
$60 million. Joel Silver, the producer, insists those
estimates are way too high.
   Paramount Communications Inc.'s movie unit is said to have
already spent between $50 million and $60 million on the new
Tom Cruise movie "Days of Thunder." At that rate, what's an
extra $5,000? So Paramount spent that much to knock down
walls in the Charlotte, N.C., Hilton hotel so that director
Tony Scott could have a suite (producers were occupying the
existing suites) and so that a large office could be created
out of about 10 small hotel rooms.
   Paramount acknowledges the wall-busting but says it got a
great deal on room rentals. The studio also says public
estimates of the picture's budget are too high.
   Many Hollywood executives recall past spending binges,
which produced some monumental flops and huge losses that
forced some studios into mergers or takeovers. Some
executives also point warily to the publishing industry,
which is struggling under the burden of a recent spate of big
advances paid to too many writers who didn't deliver at the
bookstores.
   "There's an enormous loss of control over spending, and
the repercussions will be bad," says Barry Diller, chairman
of Fox Inc., a unit of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. "Who is
going to get struck by the lightning, where and how, I can't
tell you. But the loss of control is almost all-pervasive.
There is a whole slew of pictures with budgets above $40
million. Some of them are going to lose a whole lot of
money."
   No major studios seem to be in trouble right now. In fact,
one of the things fueling the current spending binge is a
wave of consolidations that swept the industry over the past
few years, leaving the remaining studios stronger, wealthier,
and in some cases with new, cash-rich parents such as Japan's
Sony Corp.
   The studio heads tapped to spend all this new money are
falling over one another in a race to get the most movies
into production and thus justify the backing of such
big-pocket investors. "There's an enormous amount of
competition and desperation," says David Hoberman, president
of Walt Disney Co.'s Touchstone Pictures unit.
   This recent and unprecedented round of lavish spending on
so many movies eventually may trigger a glut as early as this
summer when a lot of big-budget movies are scheduled for
release. Harold Vogel, who follows the industry for Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co., says, "It's highly questionable that all these
costs will ever be recouped. There's likely going to be a
period of consolidation and earnings difficulty."
   Right now, there is a very receptive market for films.
Last year was a record one at the domestic box office, with
revenues topping $5 billion. Seven movies brought in more
than $100 million each in theaters, meeting Hollywood's
definition of blockbusters.
   The growth of other revenue outlets has made producing
movies more lucrative and less risky. Money from foreign
distribution, videocassettes and network and cable television
sales can help make even a box-office flop profitable a few
years down the road.
   For example, MGM/UA Communications Co.'s 1988 film
"Willow" appeared early on to be a flop. It cost about $55.5
million to make, and took in only about $27.8 million in the
studio's share of box-office revenues. But Paul Kagan
Associates estimates that foreign theatrical rentals added
another $41.8 million, domestic video another $18.2 million,
domestic television $15.3 million, and foreign video and
television $21.7 million, bringing total revenues to $124.7
million, making the film ultimately profitable.
   Such growing markets helped total feature-film revenue hit
the $10 billion mark for last year, four times the level of a
decade ago, says Art Murphy, an analyst for Daily Variety.
   No one noticed this more than the Japanese, who last year
made a huge investment in Hollywood. The biggest of such
moves came last September, when Sony bought Columbia Pictures
Entertainment Inc. for about $3.4 billion, and then shocked
the industry by paying another $200 million for a small
company owned by Peter Guber and Jon Peters, two highly
successful producers, and naming them co-chairmen of
Columbia.
   Last December, a Japanese brokerage house, Nomura Babcock
&amp; Brown, signed a $100 million production agreement with
Morgan Creek, an independent production firm. Producer Larry
Gordon's company, Largo Entertainment, signed a $100 million
production agreement with JVC/Victor Co. of Japan earlier
last year. "In the absence of Japanese investments, there
would be far fewer films being made," says Mr. Vogel of
Merrill Lynch.
   No one is spending more money these days than Messrs.
Guber and Peters. The high-priced duo recently has bought 10
expensive scripts. They recently, for example, shelled out
$600,000 for "Radio Flyer," a script written by David Mickey
Evans, a 27-year-old virtual unknown. They are also paying
him a total of $500,000 more to direct the picture, his first
such assignment, and to handle rewrites of the script.
   But plenty of other studios are cranking up movie
production, and some are bidding aggressively for new
material. Director Joe Roth, the new chairman of Twentieth
Century Fox, the film unit of Fox Inc., announced plans to
more than double production to 20 movies a year. Disney,
which has Touchstone Pictures and Walt Disney Pictures, last
year created a third movie unit, Hollywood Pictures, to help
boost production. "If you can maintain quality and increase
production, it's more money and more market share," says
Touchstone's Mr. Hoberman.
   Competition among studios means increased profit and power
for Hollywood agents. "We are having the best year we have
ever had," says Jim Wiatt, president of International
Creative Management, one of the town's top agencies. Bruce
Kaufman, co-head of the motion picture and literary
department at Triad Artists, which sent around the alarm
clocks for "The Ticking Man," says, "We're selling a script
or a book a week here. A year ago, an agency would have been
lucky to sell half a dozen major scripts."
   Perhaps the biggest beneficiaries of the frenzy, then, are
writers, who have generally been passed over while producers,
studio executives, stars, directors and even agents have
gotten rich.
   Industry executives were stunned a few weeks ago when,
after a heated bidding war, Time Warner and David Geffen Co.
paid $1.75 million, the biggest script fee anyone can
remember, for "The Last Boy Scout," a new screenplay by
28-year-old writer Shane Black. The screenplay is about a
detective who links up with a former professional football
player to solve a murder. Mr. Black scored big with his first
movie, "Lethal Weapon."
   A look at the bidding for scripts shows just how intense
competition is right now and also provides a look into the
pack mentality that tends to govern Hollywood's "creative"
process.
   Roger Birnbaum, president of world-wide production at
Twentieth Century, says it is trying to stay out of the high
end of the script-bidding war. He recently considered
offering $25,000 for an option to buy "Stay Tuned," a script
by first-time screenwriters Tom S. Parker and Jim Jennewein
about an unhappy couple whose life takes a bizarre turn after
a door-to-door salesman loans them a TV set.
   Mr. Birnbaum says he thought he would have to pay $200,000
to $250,000 to convert the option into ownership of the
script. That's when Morgan Creek swooped in and bought it
outright for $750,000. "We thought {the script} needed a lot
of work," Mr. Birnbaum says.
   Morgan Creek's chief operating officer, Gary Barber, says,
"There were other offers later that were higher than ours
from major studios. The script was so unique, so well
written."
   The hottest projects are still those that are somewhat
incongruously labeled "high-concept," which generally means
they are based on a conceptual gimmick, like boy becomes an
adult overnight, which translated into the hit film "Big."
   A provocative life story can also command big money,
sometimes even before the script is written. Earlier this
year, Time Warner's Warner Bros. paid Polish Solidarity
leader Lech Walesa $1 million for the rights to his life
story. And last year, Warner Bros. -- while still under the
direction of Messrs. Guber and Peters -- reportedly paid $1
million for the rights to the story of the murdered Chico
Mendes, a Brazilian labor leader who fought destruction of
the rain forest.
   Of the recent bidding battles, one of the most frenzied
and unusual was over "Prelude to a Kiss," a play that opened
off-Broadway in March and which is neither a so-called "high
concept" piece nor a compelling biography.
   In fact, when the play, a love story with a happy ending,
first opened in Southern California in 1988, every major
studio turned down the movie rights.
   But when it opened in New York, Frank Rich, the
influential theater critic for the New York Times, wrote a
rave review. "I loved this play," he announced.
   Suddenly, Hollywood had changed its mind. Playwright Craig
Lucas, 39, and his agents at William Morris Agency were
inundated with calls from Hollywood's heaviest hitters,
including Disney and independent producer Ed Pressman, whose
credits include "Wall Street." Mr. Lucas, who has written
several off-Broadway plays to critical acclaim but wasn't a
big shot in Hollywood, says he found that his phone answering
machine got more than 30 messages a day, mostly from
Hollywood moguls. One day it logged 70 calls.
   Record producer Quincy Jones, who has a movie production
deal with Warner Bros., flew in and spent an evening with Mr.
Lucas at the trendy Odeon restaurant. "He said whatever you
want, just let me know," recalls Mr. Lucas. Even Columbia's
Mr. Guber called Mr. Lucas and said, "We want you to be
happy."
   Studio executives tried to win favor in other ways. One
sent Mr. Lucas a studio hat. Another sent him a book about
dogs after Mr. Lucas mentioned he likes them.
   Mr. Lucas's agent at William Morris, Michael Peretzian,
received seven bids for Mr. Lucas to write the script. Mr.
Lucas finally agreed to a deal with Fox and producer Michael
Gruskoff for $1 million. The studio also agreed to almost all
of Mr. Lucas's creative demands, including one that the
play's director, Norman Rene, be allowed to direct the movie.
"We made our demands and 50 minutes later they said yes,"
says Mr. Peretzian.
   Looking back with awe on the experience, Mr. Lucas says,
"People called and said: `Tell us what you want. It can be in
the middle of the night.' I have everyone's home phone
number. I felt like I was tripping."
   ---
                    Blockbuster Spending
                                                                                                       

   Some recent high points in Hollywood spending, in millions
of dollars
                                                                                                       

                          Salaries
                                                                                                       

   Sylvester Stallone           Rocky V            $20.0
                                                                                                       

   Arnold Schwarzenegger        Total Recall        10.0
                                                                                                       

   Bruce Willis                 Die Hard 2           7.0
                                                                                                       

                        Movie Scripts
                                                                                                       

   Shane Black                  The Last Boy Scout   1.75
                                                                                                       

   David Mickey Evans           The Ticking Man      1.2
                                                                                                       

                   Unpublished Manuscripts
                                                                                                       

   Warren Adler                 Private Lives        1.2
                                                                                                       

                   Movie Production Costs
                                                                                                       

   Paramount Pictures           Days of Thunder     50+
                                                                                                       

   Twentieth Century Fox        Die Hard 2          50+
                                                                                                       

   Carolco Pictures             Total Recall        50
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Pacific Net
   Fell 43% in 1st Period;
   Rights Plan Is Cleared
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Canadian Pacific Ltd. said first-quarter net
income fell 43%.
   The company also said holders approved a shareholder
rights plan and the distribution of an 80% interest in the
company's real estate subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, James F. Hankinson, 46 years old, was named
president and chief operating officer and elected to the
board of this transportation, resources, telecommunications
and real estate concern. He was executive vice president. The
chief operating officer post is new. As president, Mr.
Hankinson succeeds William W. Stinson, 56, who remains
chairman and chief executive. Also elected to the board was
consultant Dian Cohen, 57. The newly elected directors fill
vacancies.
   Net fell to 76.2 million Canadian dollars (US$65.4
million), or 24 Canadian cents (21 U.S. cents) a share, from
C$134.1 million, or 42 Canadian cents a share, a year
earlier. Year-earlier figures include profit from
discontinued operations of C$2.7 million, or one Canadian
cent a share. Revenue fell to C$2.59 billion from C$2.62
billion.
   Mr. Stinson told the annual meeting that first-quarter
results "are far from satisfactory," adding that "earnings
this year will be significantly below those of 1989." He
didn't elaborate.
   Holders approved a shareholder rights plan, with 58% of
votes cast in favor of the plan. In a separate ballot,
holders approved the distribution of 80% of Canadian
Pacific's interest in its Marathon Realty Co. subsidiary,
with 90.2% of votes cast in favor of the proposal. Shares in
Marathon, a Toronto-based real estate concern, will be
distributed to holders on the basis of one Marathon share for
every four Canadian Pacific shares held. Canadian Pacific
retains a 20% interest in Marathon, which will be listed on
the Toronto and Montreal stock exchanges.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Canadian Pacific rose 12.5 cents a share to $18.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   M.A. Hanna Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MAH
</CO>
<LP>
   M.A. HANNA Co. (Cleveland) -- Douglas J. McGregor, Hanna's
president and chief operating officer; Jack L. Cockwell,
executive vice president and chief operating officer of
Brascan Ltd.; and Paul M. Marshall, Brascan's vice chairman,
were elected directors of this plastics and other polymers
company. Four directors retired, reducing the board to 12
members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Allies Expected
   To Offer to Scrap
   New-Missile Plans
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration and its European
allies are expected to propose scrapping plans for a new
generation of short-range nuclear missiles in West Germany,
according to administration officials.
   In the face of persistent complaints from West Germany and
other allies, Secretary of State James Baker is likely to put
the proposal on the table today in Brussels during a meeting
with foreign ministers of the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance,
the officials said. The proposal also is expected to call for
negotiations with the Kremlin about eliminating nuclear
artillery shells from both U.S. and Russian forces stationed
in Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Once the U.S. formally proposes to kill plans for
short-range missiles to be deployed in West Germany, the idea
is certain to be embraced by the rest of the allies. West
German officials especially have criticized the Bush
administration for proceeding with plans to field such
weapons, asserting that they no longer are necessary in light
of the dramatic changes in Eastern Europe.
   White House aides are considering having Mr. Bush announce
the new alliance position at a commencement speech in
Oklahoma tomorrow, but they may decide to go public with it
earlier.
   The White House may couch the move as a significant new
proposal intended to show its good faith and prod the Kremlin
to make similar concessions. But it has been clear for some
time that building European and congressional opposition
almost certainly would prevent the administration from
fielding a replacement for the Lance missile in any case.
   The Pentagon previously proposed spending about $500
million over the next five years to develop the new weapon,
and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney has maintained that the
U.S. shouldn't move on its own to scrap those plans. Now, the
administration appears ready to make an important symbolic
gesture by announcing the new policy and embracing
congressional efforts to spend those funds elsewhere.
   The administration's gambit could provide a domestic
political boost for Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, who
is likely to portray it as a sign that his sweeping
arms-control proposals and other policies to improve
East-West relations are showing results. More important,
NATO's willingness to forgo short-range nuclear missiles is
bound to help reassure Kremlin leaders that a unified Germany
wouldn't pose a military threat against Russia.
   As part of any agreement covering a replacement for the
Lance, Pentagon officials have consistently argued that NATO
should be allowed to retain aircraft-launched missiles in its
arsenal. Because congressional opposition to such missiles is
considerably weaker, Mr. Baker isn't likely to include them
in his proposal.
   ---
   Gerald F. Seib contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pickens to Disclose
   Results of Survey
   On Japan Pricing
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.KOI TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- T. Boone Pickens, the Texas shareholder
advocate and corporate raider, said he will disclose the
results of a survey of 2,500 Japanese auto parts suppliers,
in testimony before the House Judiciary Committee tomorrow,
that indicate dissatisfaction with Japan's system of
corporate ownership.
   Mr. Pickens, who owns a 26% stake in Koito Manufacturing
Co. through his Boone Co., is fighting Japan's "keiretsu"
system, under which parent companies dictate pricing policies
of affiliated companies from which they purchase supplies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the system, Toyota Motor Corp., which owns 19% of
Koito's stock, may dictate prices of the lights they purchase
from Koito for Toyota cars. Mr. Pickens asserts that the
keiretsu system gives Toyota "hidden dividends," and benefits
at the expense of Koito's other shareholders.
   Mr. Pickens said that responses to the survey indicate
dissatisfaction with the system. A Japanese executive, whose
identity will be hidden by a screen, is also scheduled to
testify about the system.
   Mr. Pickens, in an interview, said he expects to earn a
profit on his Koito's holdings by exerting pressure to
broaden the potential buyers of Koito's products. "We believe
Koito has great opportunity to expand its business," he said.
"They aren't allowed to do it, because they are a Toyota
captive."
   He added that other parts suppliers with relationships to
parent companies similar to Koito's are pleased that Mr.
Pickens is attempting to upset the status quo. "Other peer
companies to Koito are in communication with us," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grow Group Settles
   Felony, Misdemeanor
   Charges From Fire
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GRO
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Grow Group Inc. said the company and two of
its executives settled charges stemming from a 1988 chemical
fire at its Commerce, Calif., facility.
   The fire released a cloud of chlorine gas over the
company's warehouse, forcing authorities to evacuate some
25,000 residents in surrounding neighborhoods.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it would incur a $3.8 million charge in
its fiscal third quarter ended March 31 because of the
settlement and other related matters concerning its consumer
and professional products group. Grow Group reported a loss
of $2,263,000 in the March 1989 quarter.
   Under terms of the settlement, the company said it pleaded
no contest to one felony and three misdemeanor charges of
violations of the California Hazardous Waste Control Act,
agreeing to pay a fine of $400,000.
   The company also agreed to contribute $350,000 to fund
academic scholarships at five high schools in the Commerce
area as restitution for the costs incurred by Los Angeles
County agencies and municipalities.
   Grow Group also agreed to be placed on summary probation
for three years.
   Two executives in the company's consumer and professional
products group pleaded "no contest" to four misdemeanor
charges.
   The company said it has reached an agreement in principle
to settle a related civil action which the California state
attorney general had been considering bringing against the
company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   National City Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   NCC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NATIONAL CITY Corp. (Cleveland) -- Richard E. Beeman,
executive vice president of National City Bank, was elected a
senior vice president of the parent holding company, with
responsibility for the $40 billion-asset trust business.
Gregory L. Tunis, a senior vice president of National City
Bank, was elected executive vice president of corporate
administration for the holding company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Avis Hit by Almost Every Obstacle in Franchise Book
   ---
   Its Quick-Lube Unit Faces Full-Fledged
   Revolt Amid Intense Competition
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Avis Service Inc. entered the quick-lube franchise
business three years ago, it hoped its parent company's big
name in rental cars would help produce big profits in a
booming field.
   But since then, nearly every problem in the franchise book
has dogged the company: Its market is creeping toward
saturation, competition is fierce and the Avis Inc. unit,
which had no experience in the quick-lube field, is having
trouble finding sites for its Avis Lube stations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Avis Service, Garden City, N.Y., lags far behind its goal
to sell 200 outlets its first year; three years later, only
67 quick-lube stations are open today. And now, the company
that built a name "trying harder" is up against a
franchiser's nightmare: a full-fledged revolt of franchisees
throughout the Northeast and Florida.
   So bitter are franchisees that many are demanding refunds.
Some are filing lawsuits, alleging fraud and
misrepresentation in the sale of franchises. And one lawsuit,
which has hounded Avis Service since its first days in
business, charges that the company tricked and destroyed a
small competitor to enter the market itself.
   "Avis has been my first enemy from day one," says Gary
Dolderer, who put up $50,000 to start five Avis Lube
franchises in Connecticut. Nearly three years after quitting
as a vice president for a transportation management firm to
get into the business, he is still waiting to break ground on
his first franchise, set for July.
   Bill Clifford, who has yet to see the first of three sites
in Brevard County, Fla., after waiting nearly two years,
says, "I put up $30,000 and they don't have the courtesy to
return my call." Echoing frustrations of many franchisees, he
says Avis Service promised to help him find sites and then
repeatedly said the locations he proposed were too expensive
or unsuitable.
   Avis Service denies wrongdoing and insists franchisees --
including Messrs. Dolderer and Clifford -- who ultimately are
responsible for finding and developing sites, expected too
much help in doing that.
   Less than four years ago, nobody imagined the problems
that would hound Avis Service. In September 1986, Avis
Service and Witco Corp.'s Kendall refining division in
Bradford, Pa., agreed to form K&amp;A Partnership to develop a
nationwide chain of Avis Lube centers. (Avis bought out
Kendall in 1989 and is sole owner.)
   The partnership was controversial from day one. A suit in
U.S. District Court in Camden, N.J., by Lightning Lube Inc.,
a Berlin, N.J., operator of Laser Lube outlets, charges that
during meetings in the first half of 1986, Kendall obtained
valuable marketing information from Laser Lube regarding its
franchise operation. The suit alleges Kendall didn't disclose
plans to enter the market as a competitor. The meeting
ostensibly was held to negotiate the sale of Kendall oil and
oil-dispensing gear to Lightning Lube, the suit says.
   Later, Kendall tried to buy Lightning Lube, but it refused
to sell. Fearful that Laser Lube would cause competitive
problems, K&amp;A engaged in a scheme to drive Lightning Lube out
of business, the suit charges. The suit alleges Kendall
charged Laser Lube for oil at inflated prices and later
offered discount prices and free lube equipment to Laser Lube
franchisees if they would go independent.
   Also, the suit charges that Kendall denigrated Lightning
Lube President Ralph Venuto, telling franchisees Mr. Venuto
was cheating them, partly by charging for equipment he got
free from Kendall. Mr. Venuto says he fielded several angry
calls from franchisees in late 1986, asking for their money
back. (Some later filed suits, still pending, seeking their
money back.)
   Avis Service declined to comment on the suit except to say
it believes the suit will be dismissed. (Witco, also named as
a defendant by Lightning Lube, also declined to comment.)
   After calling Mr. Venuto, some Lightning Lube franchisees
took down signs, refused to pay royalties and discouraged
prospective investors, Mr. Venuto says. "It was kind of like
a rock slide," says Steven Kramer, Mr. Venuto's lawyer. "They
thought Ralph was ripping them off."
   Largely because of the franchisee rebellion, Lightning
Lube says, it ceased operating in mid-1988; Shamrock Energies
Corp. acquired the rights to serve as franchiser for 30 Laser
Lube outlets. With the proceeds from the sale of these
rights, Mr. Venuto says he will return money to roughly 50
people who had put up $19,500 in deposits for territories.
   While Lightning Lube faded, Avis Service was rapidly
signing up prospective franchisees. But "all of a sudden they
found themselves in a situation where they were taking in a
lot of money and couldn't find acceptable sites," says
Patrick J. Boroian, president of Francorp, an Olympia Fields,
Ill., franchise consulting firm.
   In many areas, convenience stores and fast-food chains had
gobbled up spots with easy access and high-traffic volumes.
More often, former gas station sites, common locations for
quick-lube stations, had come under stricter regulation
because of concerns with toxic contamination.
   Many investors complain Avis Service's real estate staff,
charged with assisting franchisers in finding and developing
sites, didn't do its job. Fred Curtain, a former selector of
service-station sites for Shell Oil Co. and now a Fairfield,
Conn., real-estate broker, says he looked at 20 prospective
Avis Lube sites last year for Avis representatives and a
franchisee. "They were totally inept," he says, adding that
he now refuses to deal with Avis.
   "There's no doubt I've broken a couple of hearts when I've
turned down real estate sites," says Vincent Russo, general
manager and a vice president at Avis Service. But "there are
a variety of reasons. . . ." He acknowledges sites have been
difficult to find and says some franchisees who counted on a
single site were given refunds when none materialized. He
says Avis Service still plans to expand. The company declines
to disclose financial results of the operation so far.
   Mr. Russo notes the firm entered the industry with
look-alike outlets when established chains were already
suffering effects of market saturation. The U.S. today has
about 3,500 to 4,000 quick-lube outlets, more than double
that of five years ago.
   Rivals and others say Avis failed to realize the amount of
capital and attention needed to nurture a franchise system.
Says John Gallivan, executive vice president of Grease Monkey
International Inc., a Denver chain, "I think they had a rude
awakening. It's a long and tedious process to build a
successful chain of fast-lubes."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wolohan Lumber Co. Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   WLHN
</CO>
<LP>
   SAGINAW, Mich. -- Wolohan Lumber Co. said its sales for
April rose 11% to $26.2 million from $23.6 million a year
ago. Sales for stores open one year or longer climbed 6.1%
   Sales for the first four months of the year climbed 9.4%
to $79.3 million from $72.5 million for the same period a
year ago. Same-store sales for the period rose 5.4%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bank of New England Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BANK OF NEW ENGLAND Corp. (Boston) -- John C. Martin,
52-year-old director of Bank of Boston Corp.'s
information-services unit, was named executive vice president
in charge of technology and operations, succeeding Philip
L'heureux, who resigned for personal reasons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Polly Peck International PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.POL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   POLLY PECK INTERNATIONAL PLC (London) -- Sir Michael
Sandberg, 62 years old, has been named non-executive director
of this global trading and manufacturing company, effective
June 1. Sir Michael was chairman of Hongkong &amp; Shanghai
Banking Corp. from 1977 to 1986.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Parker Drilling Unit Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   PKD WGP+
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Parker Gas Cos., a unit of Parker Drilling Co.,
said it agreed to sell its pipeline business to Western Gas
Processors Ltd. of Denver. A sale price wasn't disclosed.
   Included in the sale are 450 miles of pipeline located
primarily in the Giddings, Texas, area and Parker's natural
gas-gathering and measuring segments. Parker's gas-treating
portion of the business was not part of the sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transaction is subject to approval of the Texas
Railroad Commission and Federal Trade Commission pre-merger
regulations. Closing is set for July 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Roche Holding Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.HR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROCHE HOLDING Ltd. -- Kathy Ordonez was named vice
president of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., a health-care company
based in Nutley, N.J., and president of Roche Diagnostic
Systems Inc., where Ms. Ordonez was previously vice
president. The diagnostic products and instruments unit and
its U.S. parent company are owned by Roche Holding, Basel,
Switzerland.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By John J. Keller
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   NIPNY ERICY GE MOT
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rivals Offer Answers
   To Motorola's Phone
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   IT'S A GAME of one-upmanship for makers of pocket phones.
   A year ago, Motorola Inc. scored a technological coup over
Japanese and European rivals with its MicroTac, a cellular
phone that fits easily into a pocket. Now, in trying to do
more than merely catch up, competitors are altering the tiny
circuitry in these phones to extend battery life between
recharges. By reducing power consumption, two rival phone
makers have prolonged battery life and doubled the 30-minute
talking limit MicroTac offers with its standard battery.
   NEC Corp.'s Mobile Radio Division is pushing the P-300,
which offers 80 minutes of talk time. NEC finagled the extra
minutes through a 30% reduction in power-hungry circuitry.
   Engineers at L.M. Ericsson have designed a pocket phone
with larger, more efficient filters in its transceiver to cut
power drain. This summer, Ericsson GE Mobile Communications
Inc., a Lynchburg, Va., joint venture between the Swedish
telecommunications giant and General Electric Co., plans to
begin selling the unit, called Hotline, in the U.S. Although
an inch longer than MicroTac, the Hotline is already a big
seller in Scandinavia, according to Ericsson and GE.
   Ericsson-GE isn't stopping there. In a move that surprises
industry watchers, the venture also says it will have a
digital phone the size of Hotline within a couple of years.
Digital phones are considered the phones of the future
because they are more efficient, but it's generally assumed
that the first digital phones, which must also work with the
current analog transmission networks, won't be very small.
   Ours will be, Ericsson-GE says. "A large phone will have a
hard time finding a market," says Fleming Orneholm, vice
president of Ericsson Radio Systems. "We will fight Motorola
to the line."
   Motorola declined to comment on its competitors.
                                                                                                       

   New Kind of Disk Aims
   For a Hit on the Radio
                                                                                                       

   RADIO STATIONS may be able to quit fumbling with bulky
audio tapes for commercials.
   Computer Concepts Corp. has designed a personal
computer-based system that stores up to 340 minutes of audio
program on a single computer hard disk. The Lenexa, Kan.,
company says the system allows stations to cue up crisper,
clearer jingles and other radio fare without the bother of
myriad, separate tape cartridges.
   Key to the system's operation is a computer board that
plugs into a PC and attaches to the broadcaster's audio
equipment. Electronic chips on the board convert a tape's
analog audio sound to digital and store it on the disk. Each
program is also cataloged according to its play time and
schedule for airing. An operator at the PC can then retrieve
what he wants and, by pushing a button, put it on the air.
   "Today, a radio station has three or four tape players
that can get dirty and muddy the sound," says company
President Greg Dean. "This is CD-quality sound, only it's on
a computer rather than laser disk."
   It costs about $22,000 to equip a production studio and
control studio, and the staff would require totally new
training. Still, radio stations have tested the system with
good results and about a dozen have put in orders.
                                                                                                       

   A Computer Uses an Eye
   For Its Hearing Aid
                                                                                                       

   GEORGE BUSH, a computer may accept your challenge.
   Ben P. Yuhas, a graduate student at Johns Hopkins
University, is training a computer to read lips. Mr. Yuhas,
who works in the school's electrical and computer engineering
department's speech-processing lab, says people unconsciously
lip-read to augment their hearing when conversing in a noisy
place. He figures a speech-recognition computer with the same
lip-reading ability could operate better on a factory floor
or in other noisy spots.
   Rather than use a conventional computer, which operates
solely on a program, Mr. Yuhas is using a "neural network"
system that learns how to solve problems by mimicking the
thought processes of the brain. Mr. Yuhas videotaped a man's
mouth forming vowel sounds and fed the information into the
neural computer. When this visual reference was combined with
acoustic patterns of speech, the recognition system was able
to overcome its difficulty with background noise.
   When could all the video and other components from Mr.
Yuhas's research be combined into a commercially applicable
system? Read his lips: Not until after the next election.
                                                                                                       

   High-Tech Sherlock
   Tracks Down the Beep
                                                                                                       

   COMPUTER CROOKS beware: Identifax Computer Recovery
Bureau, Setauket, N.Y., is offering a security registry that
helps police trace stolen personal and laptop computers.
   The system uses software called COP (Computer Owner
Protection), which lets the owner program a special
identifying beep that sounds when the computer is turned on.
When the police come across a machine they suspect is stolen,
they can call Identifax, hold a phone next to the computer as
it is turned on, and Identifax's central data bank will
identify the beep and the computer's owner.
   "We're hitting the education market first since they're
the ones that get hit the most," says Warner Loeb, Identifax
president. The company has already equipped the State
University of New York at Stony Brook with COP and has a
contract to register computers at John Jay College of
Criminal Justice in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Henley Group
   Plans Spin Off
   Of Biggest Units
   ---
   Value of Fisher and Pneumo
   Put at Over $700 Million;
   Stock Posts Surge of $2
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   HENG ALD ITL
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HAMPTON, N.H. -- Henley Group Inc. plans to spin off its
two biggest units, Fisher Scientific Group Inc. and Pneumo
Abex Corp. in tax-free distributions to shareholders, Michael
D. Dingman, chairman and chief executive officer, said in an
interview.
   Mr. Dingman said that based on market values of similar
companies, Fisher could sell for about $350 million to $520
million and Pneumo could sell for about $350 million to $500
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, Henley Group Class A shares closed in
over-the-counter trading at $37.75, up $2, on volume of
419,100 shares. Holders would get one share in each company
for each Henley share held. Henley's remaining assets would
have a tangible book value of about $180 million, or $9 a
share.
   Henley, spun off from Allied-Signal Corp. four years ago
with 35 different businesses that didn't fit in Allied, has
been reorganizing and spinning off companies in an effort to
increase shareholder value. Mr. Dingman hadn't previously
disclosed his plans for Fisher, a laboratory equipment maker
and Pneumo, an aerospace-parts firm.
   Following the distributions, Henley Group would include a
brake company, a methanol plant in Chile, 14.7 million shares
of Itel Corp. and certain other investments. Mr. Dingman said
he expects to push to liquidate or dispose of those assets
during 1991.
   A Henley spokesman said that the plan was approved by
Henley's board at a meeting last night. Mr. Dingman said he
plans to present it to shareholders at Henley's annual
meeting today. The plan also is subject to financing, to
Securities and Exchange Commission filings and to approval by
shareholders at a special meeting to be held in this year's
third quarter.
   Before the spin-off of the two companies, Mr. Dingman said
that Henley will take a number of steps to inject equity and
remove debt from the units. He said those steps to
"deleverage" the units, would make them viable companies and
would boost the value of Pneumo's junk bonds outstanding.
   Mr. Dingman said in an interview that as an independent
company, Fisher would have sales of about $900 million this
year and projected 8% to 10% growth next year. The maker and
distributor of scientific instruments and chemicals for
research and development laboratories is "a good growth
company," he said. Income before interest, taxes and
depreciation is expected to be $70 million this year and to
grow 12% annually, he added.
   Pneumo Abex makes airplane landing gear and other
aerospace parts, and airport Jetways. It will sell its Abex
brake business to Henley for about $200 million as one of a
number of moves to reduce its heavy debt load.
   As an independent company, Pneumo will have revenue of
about $700 million this year. It has strong cash flow with
earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation of $120
million, growing 7% to 8% a year, he said. Mr. Dingman said
that Pneumo's aerospace business is about 75% commercial,
with Boeing Co. its largest customer.
   Currently, Pneumo has $1.03 billion in debt and just $77
million in equity. Mr. Dingman said that by the time its
shares are distributed it will have reduced debt to about
$678 million and increased equity to $330 million.
   That will be accomplished partly through Henley's $200
million cash purchase of Abex Friction Products group, which
makes brake parts for auto and truckmakers. That sum,
together with bank borrowings, will be used to repurchase
Pneumo's $235 million in reset notes, which are expected to
rise to 15% interest this summer from their current 12.75%
rate.
   Pneumo will have assets of over $1 billion, and an
investment portfolio Mr. Dingman valued at $170 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Walgreen Sales Rose in April
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WAG
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEERFIELD, Ill. -- Walgreen Co. said its April sales rose
17.2% to $500 million from $426.7 million a year earlier.
   The operator of drugstores said year-to-date sales were up
12.9% to $1.97 billion from $1.74 billion a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Walgreen said its comparable store sales increased 13.4%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   ALG AJG IMNR SPLS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arkla Inc., shelf offering of $250 million of debt
securities.
                                                                                                       

   Arthur J. Gallagher &amp; Co., offering of up to 2,038,642
common shares.
                                                                                                       

   Chiles Offshore Corp., proposed offering of five million
common shares, of which 4.2 million will be offered by Chiles
Offshore and 800,000 by holders, via Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. and
Salomon Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Immune Response Corp., proposed initial offering of 2.2
million shares of common stock, via Dillon, Read &amp; Co.,
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and Smith Barney, Harris Upham
&amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Staples Inc., proposed offering of $50 million of
convertible subordinated debentures, via Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co., Montgomery Securities and PaineWebber Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bearings Inc. Sets Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BER EMR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Bearings Inc. said it agreed in principle to
acquire King Bearing Inc., a Corona, Calif.-based bearings
distributor, from a unit of Emerson Electric Co.
   Bearings Inc. declined to state the purchase price or to
disclose annual sales of King.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   King operates 94 branches in nine Western and Southwestern
states, Bearings said, distributing electrical, mechanical
and fluid power transmission parts and industrial rubber
products as well as bearings.
   Bearings Inc. distributes bearings, power transmission
parts and other industrial products through 269 branches
located in 35 states and Puerto Rico.
   If necessary approvals are received, the purchase is
expected to be completed about June 30, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Film: Demme's Wit Plus B-Movie Pulp
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   "Miami Blues" has such an original pulse, it cons you into
thinking it might be deep. It isn't, but what a good idea to
combine the low pleasures of B-movie pulp (sex and extreme
violence) with a wayward wit and a nifty visual style.
   Jonathan Demme produced this dandy little face-off between
a nearly derelict detective and his ex-con nemesis, and he
has embossed it with his quirky sensibility. The picture is
suffused with Mr. Demme's obsession with the hidden darkness
in people and the intrinsic humor he finds in ordinary
things. Things like pork chops, white picket fences, false
teeth, pie.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The writer and director George Armitage met Mr. Demme when
both of them were learning their craft making pictures for
Roger Corman, the legendary B-movie master. Mr. Demme went on
to make his name at the edges of mainstream moviemaking with
"Melvin and Howard," "Stop Making Sense," "Something Wild"
and "Married to the Mob."
   Mr. Armitage didn't stray nearly as far from his
exploitation beginnings, writing and directing movies for
what used to be the drive-in circuit, movies such as "Private
Duty Nurses," "Hit Man" and "Vigilante Force." Along the way
Mr. Armitage learned inventive and horrible ways to do damage
to body parts, which he vividly puts to use in "Miami Blues."
A Hare Krishna dies convulsively after his finger is crushed.
People are shot in the thigh. An eyebrow is ripped from a
face. Fingers are chopped off.
   Yet the grossness doesn't overwhelm the humor, which is
far more threatened from time to time by the movie's chaotic
structure. But Mr. Armitage keeps pulling you back in with a
fresh view of something through the inventive shots he's
dreamed up with his skillful director of photography, Tak
Fujimoto. Their Miami seems like someplace new, not just
another rearrangement of the cool pastels of "Miami Vice,"
though there is the occasional flash of a brilliant sky blue
suit and a flamingo pink house.
   Also like the television show and Mr. Demme's own films,
this one's rhythms are set by the soundtrack, composed by
Gary Chang. So it's not surprising that the movie was
produced, with Mr. Demme, by Gary Goetzman, the composer and
former record-industry executive who supervised the music for
"Something Wild" and "Married to the Mob."
   Mr. Armitage drew his story from one of the late Charles
Willeford's Hoke Moseley detective novels. Moseley isn't
hardbitten or world-weary or any of the usual cliches. As
played by Fred Ward, Moseley has traveled well beyond
world-weary. He doesn't have teeth. There's something awful
about the gummy way he talks, the suggestion of drool. He has
false teeth, but they don't fit correctly, so he keeps them
on his desk.
   The first time he appears on screen he's toothless, and
that's the picture that stays in your head, even when he pops
his teeth back in. He's not oblivious to the fact that he
looks like a geezer; he seems to enjoy it in some perverse
way. He lives in a hotel whose other occupants appear to have
retired long ago, and he likes to tell people who call that
the man at the front desk can't hear.
   Mr. Ward is a very good character actor who can fill in
several lines of missing dialogue with a look on his face.
Moseley knows the world works in mysterious and often absurd
ways, so he doesn't get too bent out of shape when he's
called to investigate a murder that could be just an assault.
It's the case of the Hare Krishna killed by a broken finger.
As Moseley's partner puts it, if the perpetrator merely
snapped the guy's finger, it's assault. "But if the guy knew
Krishnas had a weird habit of dying every time their fingers
break," well, then he'd be a murderer.
   Though this is a Hoke Moseley story, the gum-mouthed
detective becomes a sideshow to the main circus, who is
Junior, a charming nihilistic psychopath who frequently robs
and occasionally kills. He is played by Alec Baldwin, another
talented character actor who became a movie star a few months
ago with the success of "The Hunt for Red October." His
Junior has a dangerous strut, an automatic pilot walk that
doesn't deviate from course for anyone or anything. With his
crew cut and big grin and frequently exposed biceps and pecs,
he's not unlike Richard Gere, except that Mr. Baldwin always
appears to be fully awake. Maybe the blue eyes glint
menacingly just a tad too often, but it works. The more sweet
and engaging his Junior seems to be, the scarier he becomes,
like a pretty volcano that's been quiet much too long for
comfort.
   Eventually Junior steals Moseley's wallet (but leaves the
money), his false teeth and his police badge and for a time
plays cop. The picture never quite lives up to the comic
possibilities in this, and indeed it goes a little haywire
trying to figure them out.
   Junior doesn't have a clue as to what's crooked or
straight, but he settles into a perversely "normal"
domesticity with a prostitute called Pepper whose real name
is Susie. Jennifer Jason Leigh has an impenetrable face and
serious manner that can make her seem very innocent and
sincere or very dimwitted. Her Susie seems to be all three,
happily cooking big square meals for Junior and installing a
white picket fence in front of their pink Floridian bungalow.
The miracle of this movie and these actors is that you
actually think twice about what happens between Junior and
Susie.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: Still, no one can do Jonathan Demme quite like
Jonathan Demme can. Though the shift from comedy to terror
was a bit abrupt, "Something Wild" remains a most ingenious
amalgamation of music, comedy and fearfulness. Sister Mary's
version of the reggae theme song "Wild Thing" is just great.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Net Foreign Bond Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese investors sold $1.75 billion net of
foreign bonds in March, the Japanese Finance Ministry said.
   This compares with a net purchase in February of $3.69
billion of foreign bonds. The Japanese last sold net in
January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foreign investors in March bought $924 million net of
Japanese bonds, down from a net purchase of $2.49 billion in
February.
   In stocks, Japanese were net sellers of foreign stock and
foreigners were net sellers of Japanese stock.
   Japanese investors sold $257 million net of foreign
stocks, the first net sale since March of last year, and a
sharp reversal from February when they bought $2.48 billion
net. Foreign investors continued this year's trend of net
selling of Japanese stock, selling $7.27 billion net in
March, after selling $2.37 billion net in February.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australia Consumer Index Falls
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY -- An index of Australian consumer sentiment
plunged a seasonally adjusted 13.3% in April from March to
its lowest level on record.
   This confirms the economy is slowing, according to Westpac
Banking Corp., which compiles the monthly index with
Melbourne University's Institute of Applied Economic and
Social Research.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The index has dropped 35.5% since reaching a peak in
September 1988. Rising Australian interest rates last year
sent consumer confidence sliding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Lynn Asinof
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   CORPORATIONS TUNE IN to more kinds of video projects.
   "In the early '70s it was a few very large,
forward-looking companies" that were using video and
television, says John McPherson of Sony Corp. of America "Now
it's everybody." Uses range from employee video magazines to
video conferencing. At some companies, employees even send
video memos. Why the boom? Costs have come down to the point
where companies can tailor their message to very small
audiences, says Al Weiss of American Express Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Company video departments are expanding rapidly. At
American Express, the department has grown from five to more
than 50 in five years. The corporate market "will buy more
video equipment in 1990 than call-letter TV stations," says
Kevin Condon of Corporate Video Decisions magazine,
estimating purchases of equipment and services to hit at
least $5.5 billion in 1990. Growth of desktop video
production systems is expected to spur expansion.
   Not far away: The day when there's "a video on everybody's
desk," says Stephen Kultala of Coors Brewing Co.
                                                                                                       

   IMPORT CAR MAKERS accelerate used-car marketing efforts.
   Anxious to help dealers stay profitable in a highly
competitive market, import auto makers for the first time are
pushing the sale of second-hand vehicles. Mercedes-Benz of
North America advertises its "pre-owned" car warranty program
to attract shoppers who want a Mercedes, but want to spend
$25,000 or less. Dealers offer one- or two-year
factory-backed warranties on most second-hand models with
less than 100,000 miles. Prestige Motors, Paramus, N.J., says
used-car sales are up 25% since launching the program as a
pilot in late 1988.
   Other car makers consider lending their credibility and
their advertising dollars to help dealers pump up used car
sales. Saab-Scania of America Inc. says it's developing a
used Saab promotion that may include a warranty. Mitsubishi
Motors Corp.'s U.S. sales arm says it will soon start
featuring used cars in some of its national advertising. One
hope: A good resale market will help spur sales of new cars.
                                                                                                       

   EUROPE TRAVEL takes off despite a shortage of tourist
amenities.
   Travel to the Eastern bloc is so heavy that Squire Travel
Service, San Francisco, says it couldn't book a $3,000 June
trip to Prague for lack of hotel space. While Czechoslovakia
is perhaps the most popular destination, Bulgaria -- with its
Black Sea resorts -- may be the country that's most ready for
tourists, says Zdenka Zila of Balkan Holidays Ltd., a New
York tour operator.
   Many tours have a special focus, ranging from Eastern
European cooking to gemology. Politics &amp; Prose bookstore,
Washington, organizes a trip that will meet with authors and
politicians. "Eastern Europe is really the place to see
history in the making," says bookstore owner Carla Cohen.
Still, the real surge in East European travel won't come
until next year. "Most leisure and vacation travelers made
their plans last December," says Lois Lane, a New York travel
agent, noting tour operators also need time to put packages
together.
   Travel Broker, a Salt Lake City passport and visa service,
is getting 30 calls a week from people interested in Eastern
Europe, up from three a year ago.
                                                                                                       

   THROWAWAY VIEWING: A paperback videocassette designed to
be thrown away after five to 10 playings is being marketed by
Philmax Inc., Owings Mills, Md. Possible uses: movie
previews, product instructions or video letters.
                                                                                                       

   NINJA TURTLE MANIA prompts a surge in pet-turtle buying,
which the New York Turtle and Tortoise Society finds
worrisome. Not only can baby turtles transmit salmonella
bacteria to children, the society says, but they can infect
native turtle populations with other diseases if released
into the wild.
                                                                                                       

   FERTILIZER SENSORS being developed by Georgia Institute of
Technology use beams of light to detect fluctuating levels of
ammonia -- released as soil loses nitrogen. The sensors would
indicate when soil needs fertilizing, thus cutting farming
costs.
                                                                                                       

   TEEN BUYING POWER keeps growing, despite a declining
teen-age population.
   During the 1980s, teen spending grew from $39.1 billion to
$55.9 billion, despite a 15.5% population drop to 23.2
million, says the Rand Youth Poll, New York. The affluence of
teens today "is somewhat shocking," says Lester Rand,
president. Car ownership by teens tripled during the decade,
with 36% of those eligible to drive now owning cars. The
number with their own telephones nearly doubled, and 47% now
own TVs, compared with only 29% in 1980.
   One reason: The declining teen population has made today's
teen a valuable commodity in the labor market. "What had been
an embarrassing abundance of kids reaching working age has
reversed itself," says Fabian Linden of the Conference Board.
That can translate into incomes of up to $300 a week, says
Mr. Rand. "There are very few products that are out of reach
of today's teens," says Peter Zollo of Teenage Research
Unlimited, Northbrook, Ill.
   With the number of teen-agers set to increase starting in
1992, more people are getting interested in the teen market,
says Mr. Zollo.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Power ties go ecological: Field Brothers menswear
stores say floral and leaf patterns now make up 25% of its
tie stock. . . . Shelter, a Chicago nightclub, celebrates the
25th anniversary of the Lava Lite with a display of 200
cone-shaped lamps.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Indonesian Trade Surplus
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   JAKARTA, Indonesia -- Indonesia recorded a trade surplus
of $557 million in February, with exports totaling $1.90
billion and imports at $1.34 billion during the month, the
government said.
   Crude oil and gas exports accounted for $739 million of
February's total export figure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The country had a 15% decline in crude oil and gas export
earnings because of an oil price decline on the world market
in February, but export earnings from other commodities rose
26%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Honestly Now, They Can't Tell Us
   That They Didn't See It Coming
   ----
   By Steven E. Levingston
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Newspapers are giving horoscope readers some advice
lately, much to the chagrin of astrologers.
   Taking a tip from a group of self-described skeptics, some
30 newspapers over the past few years have added disclaimers
to their horoscope columns. Most sound like this tag found in
the Morning Advocate of Baton Rouge, La.: "The horoscope, an
entertainment feature, is not based on scientific fact."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's an outrage to professional stargazers. Syndicated
astrologer Sydney Omarr, himself once a wire service
reporter, says the disclaimers are "so ridiculous it makes me
ashamed of my background in journalism."
   Horoscope labeling is the brainchild of Paul Kurtz,
chairman of the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of
Claims of the Paranormal, a Buffalo, N.Y., group that
delights in debunking. In 1985 and again in 1988 -- inspired
by Nancy Reagan's cosmic consultations -- the committee sent
letters to every daily newspaper in America, urging that
editors warn readers not to plan their lives around planet
placement.
   "If you examine the claims scientifically, astrology is
shown to have no evidential support at all," says Mr. Kurtz,
a philosopher at the State University of New York at Buffalo.
   Agreeing, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch added a disclaimer a
few years back. "I don't think we should encourage people
they're getting the scoop on their future," says Jim
Creighton, features director.
   Many papers don't take horoscopes too seriously. Frederick
G. Eaton, managing editor of the Daily Telegram in Adrian,
Mich., (which runs a disclaimer) recalls how the paper once
wasn't able to get the horoscope for a few weeks. Mr. Eaton
simply filled the space with some months-old forecasts. No
catastrophes were reported.
   Astrologers wonder how in the world critics think they
know so much. Joan Quigley, the former first lady's
astrologer, contends that "astrology is scientific in this
sense: It's based on astronomy, the same way a doctor bases
his diagnosis on lab reports and the economist bases his
predictions on computer-gathered statistics. Only I think
astrology is more reliable than those two."
   Mr. Omarr finds the disclaimer trend darkly menacing.
"Once you permit this kind of thought control and prejudice,"
he says, "it will go over into other areas. . . . Tomorrow
it'll be the bridge column, then the financial column."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Control Data Head
   Offers an Apology
   For Prodigal Past
   ---
   Perlman Vows End to Tilting
   At Quixotic Ventures
   Like Windmill Farms
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CDA
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Control Data Corp.'s chief executive
officer apologized to shareholders for the company's costly
past and said this year's modest earnings expectation is
"only a first step on a long road" back to financial
recovery.
   In a candid appraisal of the business and criticism of his
predecessors, Lawrence Perlman said the helm he inherited
wasn't always manned by those who "thought in terms of
building shareholder value."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although he mentioned no names, Mr. Perlman said previous
managers had failed to "build into its culture the discipline
of constant attention to controlling expenses and reducing
costs." As a result, in losing $1.5 billion over the past
five years, "we have asked stockholders, customers, employees
and the community at large to endure a great deal."
   And in an apparent reference to founder William C.
Norris's dreams of making Control Data a leader in addressing
"unmet societal needs," one that drifted into such
investments as hydroponic herbs and windmill farms, Mr.
Perlman said this:
   "We will not allow promises of success in an indeterminate
future to be excuses for failure to meet financial
commitments in the present. Decisions about where we invest
the stockholders' money for the long term will be based on
financial analysis and reasonable expectations of returns on
investment -- not on hope, not on emotion."
   For the near term, Mr. Perlman voiced caution, suggesting
that some Wall Street earnings estimates for the company this
year may be too high. Noting that the range is between $1 and
$1.50 a share, he said, "we do not yet feel comfortable above
the midportion of that range," indicating that much would
depend on secondhalf results.
   Still, he said, $1 a share would be more than the
cumulative earnings of the company's computer businesses
since 1983. "At the same time, such performance is
unacceptable beyond this year," Mr. Perlman added.
   Last year the computer services and hardware concern lost
$680.4 million, or $16.11 a share, on revenue of $2.9 billion
as it completed a drastic restructuring -- salvage effort. In
the first quarter, Control Data earned $6.8 million, or 16
cents a share, on revenue of $421.6 million, although Mr.
Perlman noted at the annual meeting here that 13 cents of the
per-share figure came from a building sale.
   Mr. Perlman also expressed regrets at the carnage the
company's misfortunes had brought on its work force. But
while "many fine people" lost their jobs, "the alternative
would have meant the loss of the whole company."
   Despite his criticism of the past, Mr. Perlman said he is
cautiously sanguine about the future, partly because "people
are beginning to treat the company's money as if it were
their own."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Federal Reserve Finds Little Evidence
   General Credit Crunch Is Developing
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve said it hasn't found
much evidence of a large-scale credit crunch in the U.S.
   Reporting on a survey of its 12 district banks, the Fed
said: "There is little evidence that a general `credit
crunch' is developing; the majority of businesses say they
have not seen any change in credit terms and have had no
trouble getting credit."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In recent months, concern has grown over reports that
banks and thrifts have become reluctant to make loans to
businesses. Analysts said they might be reacting to pressure
from government regulators and signs of softness in the
economy. Some economists have worried that credit could
become scarce enough to push the economy into a recession.
   While the Fed said it didn't detect a wholesale credit
crunch in its latest survey, it did report that most
districts cited cases of credit-tightening by banks --
particularly in lending to real estate developers and new
small businesses.
   The Boston Fed, which covers most of New England, said
small businesses have found it more costly and difficult to
obtain credit as a result of financial trouble at many of the
region's banks. It said banks in the region are requiring
small firms to increase collateral and provide personal
guarantees. And some banks are calling current loans.
   But the Fed said such tightening seems limited to lending
to smaller firms. "Most large- and medium-sized
manufacturers, in contrast, are experiencing no difficulties
obtaining credit," the report said.
   Meanwhile, in the South, a financial institution withdrew
support for an office complex midway through the project,
according to the Atlanta Fed, which cited a reluctance among
some banks in the region to "engage in further real estate
lending given the overbuilding which has occurred in most
markets." Credit for other businesses and consumers in the
South, however, "is said to be available as usual," the
report said.
   The periodic Fed reports are titled "Survey of Current
Economic Conditions," but are often known as the "Beige
Book." The latest one covered economic activity in April and
was prepared for use by Fed policy-makers before their
scheduled meeting in Washington on May 15.
   Generally, the report indicates that economic activity
continues to expand slowly across the country. Manufacturing,
which has been in the doldrums for most of the past year, is
improving in more than half of the districts. Retail spending
is growing, although slowly. Real estate markets continue to
be weak in much of the country, but activity is vigorous in
some spots, such as Seattle.
   The report's findings may make the central bank officials
feel more comfortable about deciding to raise interest rates
at their coming meeting. Many analysts expect Fed officials
to consider such a move, given recent worrisome inflation
statistics and signs that the economy may be picking up its
pace a bit after slowing severely late last year.
   Following is a summary of the activity in each of the Fed
regions:
                                                                                                       

   BOSTON (The Boston Fed covers Massachusetts, Maine, New
Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island and most of Connecticut):
The New England economy is still sluggish. Manufacturing
health varies by industry; firms producing products connected
to the defense, auto and construction industries are still
weak. Half the firms surveyed plan to slash capital spending
from last year's levels. But others are planning increases.
Home prices are still falling.
                                                                                                       

   NEW YORK (New York State, northern New Jersey and
Fairfield County, Conn.): Activity is mixed, and the region's
economy shows no clear signs of either improving or
deteriorating. Retail sales vary from store to store. Housing
construction is declining, but interest in home-buying
appears to be picking up. Unemployment rates still remain
below the national average. Demand for commercial loans is
down from a year ago.
                                                                                                       

   PHILADELPHIA (Eastern Pennsylvania, Delaware and southern
New Jersey): The economy in this region shows hints of mild
improvement over the first quarter. Retail sales in April
were better than the same month last year. Spring apparel has
sold fairly well, and merchants haven't had to resort to
steep markdowns. Though manufacturers continue to report
falling business, the rate of decline is slowing. Demand for
business loans is picking up. But bankers say that, with a
few exceptions, they are restricting real estate lending to
current customers and limiting the size of the loans.
                                                                                                       

   CLEVELAND (Ohio, western Pennsylvania, eastern Kentucky
and northern West Virginia): Consumer spending and
manufacturing output have increased. Concern about inflation
is growing. Auto production is rebounding after a dismal
first quarter, and manufacturers are canceling planned
cutbacks. Orders for cars have picked up. So have orders for
steel, but the Fed district here believes the increased
bookings may be in anticipation of a small increase in steel
sheet prices scheduled for July.
                                                                                                       

   RICHMOND (Virginia, Maryland, North and South Carolina,
District of Columbia, most of West Virginia): Both retail
sales and manufacturers' orders improved last month. But
large banks reported a slight increase in problem loans,
particularly among loans for commercial real estate. Also,
both banks and borrowers reported stricter lending
requirements for commercial real estate and other types of
business loans.
                                                                                                       

   ATLANTA (Georgia, Alabama, Florida, eastern Tennessee,
southern Mississippi, southern Louisiana): There was some
good news on the inflation front: Prices of raw materials are
generally stable, manufacturers in this region found. Also,
employers haven't noticed any renewed pressure to drive up
wages; generally they are settling for wage increases of no
more than 5%. Real estate markets are still soft. Clothing
sales are strong, but auto sales are slightly below year-ago
levels. Oil drilling is steady. Several firms in Louisiana
said that increasing concern over the environment is
discouraging new drilling.
                                                                                                       

   CHICAGO (Northern Illinois, Iowa, lower peninsula of
Michigan, most of Indiana, southern Wisconsin): Business
conditions are generally improving here. Car production in
the second quarter is expected to be about 20% higher than in
the first quarter. Makers of other consumer goods also are
stepping up output. And consumer spending is generally
growing. An analyst for a major discount store chain said
sales in February and March were the best for that period
since 1983. Construction is stronger here than in many parts
of the country.
                                                                                                       

   ST. LOUIS (Eastern Missouri, Arkansas, western Kentucky,
western Tennessee, northern Mississippi, southern Illinois,
southern Indiana): Economic activity here is still sluggish,
as it has been for the past year. Numerous plant closings,
layoffs and production slowdowns have been reported at
factories across the region. Consumer spending is flat or
barely growing. Some analysts blamed wet weather in March for
keeping people away from stores. Loans outstanding are
growing at the district's banks, so a credit crunch doesn't
seem to be occurring here. A March freeze destroyed most of
the peach crop in Tennessee and Kentucky and damaged some
apple, strawberry, alfalfa and winter wheat crops.

   MINNEAPOLIS (Minnesota, Montana, North and South Dakota,
northern Wisconsin, upper peninsula of Michigan):
Unemployment is lower than the national average in many parts
of this region. Even in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, big
cutbacks in computer and electronics jobs have been offset by
strong growth in positions at medical-technology firms.
Unlike what has happened in many areas of the country,
manufacturing employment in this region in February was
slightly higher than a year earlier. Retailers report strong
sales throughout the district. While new car sales are still
soft, the used car market is vigorous. Credit has tightened
only modestly, and there is no credit crunch. Mining remains
one of the strongest sectors in the district.
                                                                                                       

   KANSAS CITY (Western Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, Nebraska,
Wyoming, Colorado, northern New Mexico): Loan demand is
generally slackening, but the economy here continues to grow
modestly. Retailers don't expect prices to increase much in
the near future. Auto sales are improving slightly in some
states. Home sales are still slow, and prices remain
generally stable. The winter wheat crop is in good condition.
                                                                                                       

   DALLAS (Texas, northern Louisiana, southern New Mexico):
Slow economic growth continues here. Expansion in the service
sector has lead to labor shortages in some professions, such
as health care. Construction employment is growing, but
building-contract values are starting to weaken again. Oil
and gas drilling is strong. Bountiful rainfall and rising
prices have improved the outlook for agriculture.
Manufacturing has picked up somewhat in the past couple of
months. Credit is tight in the district, but that is nothing
new. "Many smaller businesses say their long-established
relationships with their banks have allowed them to avoid
funding problems," the report says.
                                                                                                       

   SAN FRANCISCO (California, Washington, Oregon, Idaho,
Nevada, Utah, Arizona, Alaska and Hawaii): Businesses here
are still doing relatively well, many better than the
national average. Wage and price increases are averaging
between 3% and 5%. Manufacturing industries, particularly
aerospace firms, are reasonably healthy. California real
estate markets are cooling from their torrid expansion of
recent years, but "prices and sales activity remain robust in
the more affordable parts of the state," the report says. In
Seattle, real estate activity is frenetic. Construction is
strong in Hawaii, but softness persists in Arizona. Most
banks in the West report good or stable conditions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Central Reserve Life Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   CRLC
</CO>
<LP>
   BEREA, Ohio -- Central Reserve Life Corp. said it will
report lower earnings for the first quarter ended March 31.
For the year-ago quarter, the insurance company reported
earnings of $558,000, or 13 cents a share.
   The company said the lower earnings are from higher costs
associated with the increase in premiums. Results will be
available next week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Espanol or English?
   ----
   By Linda Chavez
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   A little girl points to a picture in her textbook. "Is
this a fuego?" she asks. The teacher replies, " Si, por favor
hable en Espanol."
   In schools all across America, Hispanic children eager and
ready to learn English are being taught their lessons in
Spanish instead. Their story -- and its disturbing
consequences for the children and society -- is told by
Rosalie Pedaline Porter in "Forked Tongue: The Politics of
Bilingual Education" (Basic Books, 288 pages, $22.95).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. Porter has spent nearly 20 years in the field of
bilingual education, first as a teacher, then as the
administrator of a successful program for
non-English-speaking children in Newton, Mass., and finally
as an outspoken critic of bilingual education. Her
realization that bilingual education is an ineffective method
to teach English came slowly and at considerable risk to her
career. An early bilingual education enthusiast, Ms. Porter
hoped to help a new generation of non-English-speaking
youngsters avoid what she'd gone through as a frightened,
six-year-old Italian immigrant, forced to learn English
unassisted. But Ms. Porter's enthusiasm waned as she tried to
put into practice the theories she'd learned for her
undergraduate degree in bilingual education.
   Her first assignment was teaching kindergarten and
elementary school in Springfield, Mass. Most of her day was
spent teaching the children in Spanish. She recalls dutifully
asking a young boy to identify a green box: "Juan, que color
es este?" she asked, and he replied, "Green." The boy's
response wasn't surprising, because most of the students were
Puerto Ricans born in Massachusetts, not recent immigrants.
They came from homes in which Spanish and English were
spoken. Nonetheless, Ms. Porter toed the line. "Verde," she
corrected the boy, and he repeated, "Green." Says Ms. Porter:
"I came to feel that I was going about things the wrong way
around, as if I were deliberately holding back the learning
of English."
   Eventually, she began introducing more English instruction
into the school day -- and the children thrived. Ms. Porter
developed her methods further when she became an
administrator in the Newton school system, which provided
intensive English-language instruction for
non-English-speaking children. There, her efforts to teach
students English provoked the enmity of the
bilingual-education bureaucracy. She became the target of a
vindictive campaign to impugn her personal integrity and
discredit the Newton program. It was only over strenuous
objections from the state education department's bilingual
bureaucracy that Ms. Porter's critique of bilingual education
ultimately earned her a doctoral degree from the University
of Massachusetts at Amherst.
   According to bilingual advocates, non-English-speaking
children must develop a firm foundation in their native
language before they can learn academic subjects in a new
language. Mexican-American children in California, for
example, spend as little as 20 minutes a day being instructed
in English while they learn most of their lessons in Spanish.
   The problem with bilingual education theory, according to
Ms. Porter and a growing list of critics, is that it ignores
the most important principle of education: The more time a
child spends on a given task, the more likely he or she is to
remember the lesson. Hispanic children who spend hours a day
listening to Spanish may develop better skills in that
language, but they're not likely to learn English as well as
students who are given intensive help learning the new
language. Because virtually all these students will spend
their lives in the U.S., bilingual education may ultimately
deprive them of the ability to earn a decent living or move
into the social mainstream.
   So why do ethnic leaders promote bilingual education? Ms.
Porter thinks they're motivated by their own desire to
preserve Hispanic culture and language in the face of the
inevitable pressure to assimilate. As she reminds readers,
such attempts are usually futile: Witness the fate of Gaelic
in Ireland, where the government has spent years trying to
save the country's ancient language by mandating its teaching
in the public schools, to no avail. Ms. Porter also believes
that bilingual bureaucrats want to protect their own jobs and
exercise control over the Hispanic community.
   Despite the program's shortcomings, mainstream
policy-makers continue to support bilingual education.
Granted, the federal government recently increased its
funding for programs that emphasize more English instruction.
But most programs are supported by state and local funds, and
at those levels, the trend is to expand native-language
programs. A proposed New York state plan, already given
preliminary approval, will extend native-language instruction
from elementary through high school and will allow some
Hispanic youngsters to take graduation exams in Spanish.
   In reacting to this trend, Ms. Porter is at her best when
speaking from personal experience. She is weakest when she
veers off onto discussions of education research, much of it
from other countries. And she spends too much time trying to
refute the assertions of bilingual-education theorists, when
her most eloquent case rests in her descriptions of what goes
on in bilingual classrooms. By sharing her own experiences,
Ms. Porter may succeed in exposing the inanity of current
bilingual education policy.
   ---
   Ms. Chavez, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for
Policy Research, was director of the U.S. Commission on Civil
Rights during the Reagan administration.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Summagraphics Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SUGR AME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEYMOUR, Conn. -- Summagraphics Corp. said it completed
its previously announced acquisition of the Houston
Instrument division of Ametek Inc. for $30.2 million.
   The price consists of $25.2 million in cash and a $5
million five-year convertible subordinated note that will
entitle Ametek, a New York-based industrial manufacturing
concern, to buy 8.8% of Summagraphics's shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Summagraphics makes computer-graphic tablets for use with
high-resolution computers; Houston Instruments makes computer
peripherals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marriott Unit Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   MHS
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Marriott Corp. said its Host
International division received a seven-year contract from
the city of Cleveland, valued at more than $60 million, to
operate the merchandise concessions at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Financial Management
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FFM
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- First Financial Management Corp. said that its
board of directors authorized the purchase of up to $90
million of the company's common stock.
   The financial services concern said it will buy shares in
both open-market and private transactions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said its shares are "greatly undervalued" at
the current stock price. In New York Stock Exchange composite
trading yesterday, First Financial's shares closed at $20.50,
up $1.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japanese Traders
   Informing Tokyo
   Soviet Bills Unpaid
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST J.CIT MITSY J.MIB J.NIW
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Concerned about Soviet importers not paying their
bills, Japanese companies are making the first moves to claim
export insurance on trade with the Soviet Union.
   Major trading houses, including C. Itoh &amp; Co., Mitsui &amp;
Co., Mitsubishi Corp. and Nissho Iwai Co., confirmed they
have submitted notices informing the government that some
Soviet trading partners are delaying payment on import
contracts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As previously reported, many Soviet organizations are
having difficulties honoring trade commitments in a timely
fashion. Dozens of U.S. and European companies have
complained in recent months about nonpayment from Soviet
customers, and some companies have halted deliveries pending
payment. Some analysts estimate the unpaid bills total as
much as $500 million.
   The recent delay in payments arises in part from a
sweeping decentralization of Soviet foreign trade this past
year, Japanese company officials said. Numerous Soviet
trading organizations have sprouted since the reform, but
some lack foreign currency to pay their bills on time. And
Soviet banks are reluctant to bail them out, as they have in
the past. Trading house officials say Soviet steel-trading
organizations, in particular, have been asking Japan to
extend payment deadlines.
   U.S. companies, which also have reported difficulty
getting paid by the Soviets, aren't covered by official
export insurance as many of their Japanese and European
counterparts are for Soviet trade. So far, the payment delays
don't seem to have brought significant European claims to
insurers. A spokesman for Britain's Export Credit Guaranty
Department said "things haven't reached the claims stage
yet."
   An official for C. Itoh, commenting on the Soviet payment
problem, said, "Trade isn't going smoothly." The company's
trade with the Soviet Union last year reached about $300
million. "The {contract} settlements are being extended." The
company recently informed the government about a delay in
payment for chemical products, the official said.
   Japan's giant trading houses said they don't intend to cut
exports immediately, even though the delayed payments may
total as much as $200 million. There are no reports so far of
Japanese companies halting deliveries, but trading company
officials said exports could be affected if delays in Soviet
payments continue.
   Notification of payments problems routinely goes to the
Ministry of International Trade and Industry if insured
export contracts aren't settled for more than two months. The
notice is a preliminary step in claiming insurance. The next
step would be for MITI to begin investigating to determine if
payment is required.
   MITI's international trade-insurance division wouldn't
confirm receiving notifications. An official also denied a
Japanese press report that the ministry itself urged the
companies to submit the notifications. But he said that if
notifications involving a specific area increase, the
government will investigate.
   Japanese-Soviet trade isn't large, edging up only 3.2% in
1989 from a year earlier, to $6.09 billion. Japan's exports
to the Soviet Union were $3.08 billion in 1989, down slightly
from $3.13 billion in 1988.
   Analysts said that Japanese trading houses are keeping a
low profile on the problem, in part because they don't want
to damage trade prospects. "They're being cautious," said
Kazuko Motomura, an official with the Institute for Soviet
and East European Economic Studies, a research organization
set up by traders who do business with Eastern Europe. "But
they're also thinking about the promising possibilities of
the market in the future."
   Officials with Marubeni Co. and Sumitomo Corp., for
example, acknowledged that there was a general move toward
submitting notices but declined to say if further actions are
under way.
   But officials at other houses stressed that the
notifications were purely routine. "We think that the Soviet
Union will definitely make the payment," said Tetsuya Onishi,
an official in Nissho Iwai's public relations division.
Though Nissho Iwai received payments for the bulk of its
annual $400 million exports, it filed a notice for steel and
chemical products, Mr. Onishi said. The company still intends
to participate in a consortium that is involved in a 38
billion yen ($239.4 million) project to build three
compressor plants in the Soviet Union, he added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HealthVest Standstill Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HVT
</CO>
<LP>
   AUSTIN, Texas -- HealthVest, a real estate investment
trust, said it has complied with documentation requirements
of a standstill agreement with lenders and expects the accord
to remain in effect until Dec. 14.
   Under terms, HealthVest's lender groups have agreed to
refrain from foreclosing on about $270 million of property
that was pledged as collateral to secure about $252 million
in debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the standstill period, the trust said it will
continue efforts to restructure the debt. The lenders
involved include Chemical Banking Corp.'s Chemical Bank, the
Bank of Tokyo, a group of European banks and several U.S.
insurance companies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rogue Bank:
   BCCI Took Deposits
   From Drugs, Noriega,
   And Now Is in the Red
   ---
   Offshore Operator Cultivated
   Powerful U.S. Friends
   And Hired Clark Clifford
   ---
   Sting at the Mazur `Wedding'
   ----
   By John J. Fialka and Peter Truell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST DLP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   For years, Bank of Credit and Commerce International
chased the fast buck. If deposits from drug dealers were
proffered, the bank only asked: How much? If it was money
from Manuel Noriega, BCCI opened its doors.
   To keep a respectable face, the bank hired Washington
insiders, such as Clark Clifford, the former defense
secretary, and cozied up to former president Jimmy Carter and
other political figures. Amid all this, it grew --
astoundingly. From seemingly nowhere, BCCI rocketed to $21
billion in assets spread over an empire of 400 branches in 73
countries, making it one of the world's 20 biggest privately
held banks. It kept its headquarters in Luxembourg, kept its
main offices in London, kept its ownership obscured by Cayman
Islands trusts -- and kept its regulators always off balance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the fast life is catching up to BCCI. Earlier this
year, in a much publicized case, BCCI pleaded guilty to
running the biggest single-bank drug-money laundering
operation in U.S. history. Now, this week, BCCI announced
another shock: It had a loss of $498 million in 1989, largely
because of a charge for bad loans. It also said the
government of Abu Dhabi had injected $400 million into the
bank to help it meet international loan standards, increasing
Abu Dhabi's stake in BCCI to 77%. People familiar with the
bank's operations say BCCI is also planning sweeping
organizational changes.
   The convulsions at BCCI are the latest chapter in a
shadowy history that ultimately created the world's biggest
rogue bank. "This bank is offshore at all points," grumbles
one U.S. state investigator, who, along with House, Senate,
Justice and Treasury Department officials is trying to piece
together BCCI's U.S. connections.
   Of greatest interest is how BCCI surfed on the edge of one
of the big financial waves of the 1980s: The hot money
generated by the cocaine industry. According to Michael L.
Rubinstein, a federal prosecutor in the money-laundering
case, BCCI has been guided by a policy that "came down from
the highest levels of the bank: to take in as many deposits
as you can, as fast as you can, and not to be too careful
about where they came from." BCCI's representatives declined
to be interviewed for this article. But, in the wake of its
guilty plea in January, BCCI said the bank had been "misused
by unscrupulous elements" and that it was retraining its
employees.
   The bank got out of the laundering case with a $15 million
fine -- a small rap on the knuckles, given BCCI's size.
What's more, three of the bank's six branches in the U.S.,
located in California and New York, were allowed to continue
operating.
   Clark Clifford and his protege Robert Altman are the
primary figures behind the legal clout the bank wields in the
U.S. The two men even picked the attorneys who are now
representing nine former BCCI officials charged in the
money-laundering case in which the bank pleaded guilty.
Messrs. Clifford and Altman, however, have an interest in
BCCI that goes beyond legal representation: The two are also
the Washington managers for the people who own First American
Bankshares Inc., an $11.5 billion bank holding company in
which BCCI's principals have an overlapping ownership.
   BCCI's twisting trail has even turned up amid the wreckage
of the U.S. thrift industry. Treasury and Justice Department
investigators probing the ruins of scandal-plagued CenTrust
Bank of Miami suspect that BCCI secretly "parked" $25 million
in CenTrust in 1988 to help keep the sick thrift
institution's books looking healthy. CenTrust went into
receivership in March, and is expected eventually to cost
U.S. taxpayers about $2 billion. But before CenTrust failed,
BCCI got all of its money back -- at a time when the
institution was paying other creditors 67 cents on the
dollar. BCCI insists its investment in CenTrust -- in the
form of a debt purchase -- was legal and wasn't part of any
"parking" scheme, under which the size of CenTrust's debt
could be concealed. Nonetheless, the deal is being
investigated by the Justice Department. A lawyer for David
Paul, the former head of CenTrust, says his client denies any
wrongdoing.
   The story of BCCI's staggering growth, knack for survival
and keen nose for cash begins decades ago in Allahabad,
India. In 1947, when India won its independence, Agha Hasan
Abedi was one of thousands of Shiite Muslims trekking from
India to the new nation of Pakistan. After he arrived, Mr.
Abedi, a cultured man, started the United Bank of Pakistan
along with several other immigrants, including Swaleh Naqvi,
who became his deputy.
   In 1973 the Pakistani government nationalized United, but
Mr. Abedi was prepared. He had ingratiated himself with the
rulers of the United Arab Emirates, where oil had just been
discovered. Mr. Abedi had spent years courting the U.A.E.'s
princelings studying in Pakistan. He was there to take them
and their falcons out in air-conditioned jeeps to hunt for
the slowflying bustard. And he proffered financial advice to
their fathers, some of whom kept stacks of cash in their
basements.
   U.S. banks, including Bank of America, the
California-based giant, also sensed opportunity in the
region. But they found they couldn't gain entree to the
United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait without going
through the well-connected Mr. Abedi. So in 1972 Bank of
America stole a march on its rivals and put up $2.5 million
for a 25% stake in a new bank to be called Bank of Credit and
Commerce International. It would be run by Mr. Abedi.
   Bank of America now declines to comment on its role in
creating BCCI. But former Bank of America executives say its
considerable prestige was crucial to BCCI's early growth.
"During the early years he (Mr. Abedi) benefited a great deal
from his association with Bank of America," says Alvin C.
Rice, who oversaw the American bank's investment in BCCI.
   From the start, according to testimony by Yves LaMarche,
Bank of America's former director of Middle East operations,
Mr. Abedi wanted BCCI "to become the biggest bank in the
world." Mr. Abedi combined that ambition with a mystical
management style. At an in-house gathering, he encouraged
employees to pursue "the all-encompassing cosmic wisdom"
through "humility, love and total submission to God."
   The deposit-hungry bank targeted what it termed "HNWs" --
people with "high net worths." Spreading from its base in the
Persian Gulf, it opened 45 branches in England. Some of those
served Pakistani and Indian immigrants. But the big money in
London came from BCCI's "Middle Eastern Mobilisation Unit,"
which catered to the whims of visiting oil sheiks.
   Bank of America soon began to feel uneasy about its
high-flying partner. Oil prices quadrupled in the years after
BCCI's founding, but BCCI's asset growth far outstripped that
pace. That bothered Bank of America officials who couldn't
find records explaining where the growth was coming from.
Poorly documented loans also scared them: "If you were lucky,
you'd see a memo that said something like, `Obviously the
sheik is good for a million dollars,'" recalls Mr. Rice. Mr.
Rice, who would rise to vice chairman of Bank of America
before leaving in 1978, says Mr. Abedi repeatedly promised
better controls, but failed to implement them. Mr. Abedi, who
recently received a heart transplant, is an invalid and
wasn't available for comment for this article.
   Eventually, says Mr. Rice, Bank of America quietly began
to back away from BCCI, beginning with a request in 1976 that
the bank remove Bank of America's logo from its letterhead.
   At that point Mr. Abedi began making another U.S.
connection. Like much of BCCI's activities, some of the facts
are disputed, and much of the story is murky. But this
portion of the BCCI saga appears to have begun with R. Eugene
Holley, the former Georgia state senator who is remembered as
the first person ever charged under the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act. He agreed not to contest the charges, which
stemmed from bribes he allegedly made to an official in
Qatar. Mr. Holley, who declined to be interviewed, knew Mr.
Abedi from a deal he had made to refinance an oil-drilling
concession in Qatar.
   Bert Lance, who resigned from the Carter Administration in
1977, says that Mr. Holley brought Mr. Abedi to the U.S.,
where Mr. Abedi was interested in establishing a banking
"presence." Mr. Lance sold his own institution, National Bank
of Georgia, to Ghaith Pharaon, a sometime shareholder in BCCI
and a longtime business ally of Mr. Abedi, in a deal arranged
by Mr. Abedi and financed with a bridge loan from BCCI.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Lance acted as BCCI's agent in the takeover
of the Washington-based bank holding company then known as
Financial General Bankshares. On Feb. 17, 1978, according to
court records in Washington, he informed Financial General
that BCCI held 20% of its stock, and wanted more.
   In separate actions, Financial General and the Securities
and Exchange Commission sued Mr. Abedi, BCCI, several Arab
investors and Mr. Lance for failing to make the required
disclosure that they were acting in concert. Mr. Lance then
introduced the BCCI men to Messrs. Clifford and Altman. The
ensuing 3 1/2-year court battle eventually boiled down to the
relationship between BCCI and four Middle Easterners who each
had purchased just under 5% of Financial General's stock, the
threshold beyond which ownership must be disclosed. In
depositions, they revealed an array of ties to BCCI as both
borrowers and shareholders. Indeed, one turned out to be the
chairman of Kuwait International Finance Co., BCCI's branch
in Kuwait.
   But in 1981 Mr. Clifford managed to convince the Federal
Reserve Board, which had to approve the bank acquisition,
that those ties were unimportant. "I think it is a group of
individuals operating as individuals," he said at the time.
One of the Arab investors, he said, told BCCI about the deal,
and it brought in three other unrelated bank clients.
   The SEC suit ended in a consent agreement under which the
defendants neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing, and agreed
to obey securities laws in the future. Financial General's
suit was eventually dropped.
   With the conflict resolved, Mr. Clifford's relationship
with the bankers grew: He became chairman of Financial
General, now named First American Bankshares Inc., and Mr.
Altman became its president.
   Officially, First American is controlled by a company in
the Netherlands Antilles called Credit and Commerce American
Holdings N.V. Mr. Clifford declines to say to what extent
BCCI shareholders own shares in his bank, saying that "Most
people of means like to keep their business private." But a
review of regulatory filings and several interviews in the
U.S., France, England, and the Middle East indicate that the
degree of overlap is considerable, and that the ruling
families of Abu Dhabi and Dubai -- two of the United Arab
Emirates -- have a dominating presence in both banks. Also,
former Saudi intelligence chief Kamal Adham is a key
shareholder in both.
   Moreover, in 1986 the owners of Mr. Clifford's bank
decided to expand by buying Mr. Lance's old bank in Georgia
from Mr. Pharaon, the old BCCI ally. Four former employees or
associates of BCCI already were working there. The
acquisition, made for $220 million in cash, gave First
American a network that now extends from Florida to upstate
New York.
   The early '80s were busy years for BCCI. Mr. Abedi
cultivated important political figures around the globe. In
the U.S. he concentrated on Jimmy Carter. He donated $500,000
to the former president's library in Atlanta and later gave
$2.5 million to Global 2000, a program launched by Mr. Carter
to help eradicate disease and promote better farming in the
Third World. Mr. Carter has used BCCI's Boeing 727 jet on at
least four international trips over the last five years. His
joint appearances with Mr. Abedi in such places as China,
Thailand and the Soviet Union have been regularly featured in
BCCI's in-house magazine. Through a spokesman, Mr. Carter
declines to comment.
   In London, meanwhile, BCCI lost $150 million speculating
in U.S. government bond options. Shaken by the experience, it
launched a bankwide drive to gather new deposits.
   In its push, it aggressively pursued one of the
fastest-growing sources of dollars in the 1980s: drug
profits. It purchased a Colombian bank with 30 branches,
including five in Medellin, home of the largest, most
notorious cocaine cartel.
   It also ran into a U.S. Customs Service sting operation.
Amjad Awan, an officer with BCCI's Latin America division
based in Miami, became the main target of the sting, which
took some $32 million from various operatives of the Medellin
cartel and ran almost half of it through BCCI.
   Robert Mazur, an undercover Customs agent who deposited
the cartel's funds, says various BCCI officers warned him he
was doing it all wrong, and would likely be nabbed by
American authorities. In testimony in federal court in Tampa,
he said Syed Aftab Hussain, a BCCI officer in Panama, advised
him not to use checks, but instead to employ an untraceable
"counterbalancing loan scheme." Mr. Mazur has testified, for
example, that, under the scheme, $476,595 he placed with an
unidentified BCCI office was wired through a correspondent
account in First American Bank in Washington to the BCCI
branch in Geneva, Switzerland. Then he received what appeared
to be an unrelated loan for the same amount, minus a small
fee, from BCCI's Panama branch.
   Mr. Mazur testified that he told the BCCI banker that his
cash was cocaine money. Mr. Mazur added that Mr. Hussain
replied, "Well, in that case, perhaps you would want to put
the funds in Luxembourg" to hide them better. Wearing his
hidden tape recorder, Mr. Mazur also talked about cocaine
profits with BCCI officers in London, Geneva, Paris and Los
Angeles.
   Attorneys for Mr. Hussain and other BCCI officials
currently being tried in Tampa for money laundering say they
were merely following BCCI's aggressive policies to bring in
deposits, and weren't involved in money laundering.
   The bank tells a different story. When it pleaded guilty
to money laundering in January, it admitted to knowingly
dealing with two major U.S. drug dealers. One, Stephen
Kalish, later confessed he was grossing $60 million a year,
and that when he was caught he was making financial
arrangements through BCCI to import one million pounds of
marijuana.
   By October 1988, Mr. Mazur was such a treasured client of
BCCI that a dozen bank officers he had dealt with, including
Mr. Awan and several from Europe, flew to Tampa to attend
what was billed as his wedding. The limousines that met them
at the airport, however, whisked them not to a bachelor party
but to the federal courthouse, where most of them were
booked.
   Meanwhile, a Senate Foreign Affairs subcommittee had begun
poking around Manuel Noriega's finances, and in the course of
that ran into BCCI. Among other things, it subpoenaed Mr.
Awan to talk with him about Mr. Noriega's client relationship
with the bank. (Mr. Rubinstein, a prosecutor in the Tampa
case, has asserted in federal court that in August 1988,
Messrs. Clifford and Altman advised Mr. Awan to dodge the
Senate subpoena by having BCCI transfer him out of the
country. Both lawyers deny giving such advice, and Mr. Awan
stayed in the U.S.)
   Mr. Clifford, in his capacity as BCCI's lawyer, told Sen.
John Kerry, chairman of the subcommittee, that he wasn't
aware of any BCCI documents concerning Mr. Noriega that were
in the U.S. subject to the subpoena. BCCI documents later
seized by British customs show that at least $600,000 of Mr.
Noriega's money flowed from Panama first to BCCI accounts in
a Washington branch of First American, Mr. Clifford's bank,
and then to Europe. In a letter sent last week to Mr.
Clifford, Sen. Kerry contended that at least the documents
regarding those accounts "should have been produced" by Mr.
Clifford under the earlier subpoena.
   Mr. Altman says that a check of First American customer
accounts shows no indication of Mr. Noriega's money.
Identifying documents, he says, might have been in a BCCI
internal file, "but not anything that First American had."
   Sen. Kerry isn't convinced. "I think there's a regulatory
failure here," he says, referring to the links between BCCI
and First American. He says he will ask the Senate Banking
Committee, which he recently joined, to look into the matter.
   Since he is still recuperating from his heart transplant,
Mr. Abedi has handed over operation of BCCI to Mr. Naqvi, his
longtime deputy, who, spokesmen say, has instituted the major
retraining program for bank employees. In a recent open
letter to them he vowed that "never again shall we allow our
bank's good name to be smeared and tarnished by carelessness
or negligence or lack of vigilance."
   Left holding the bag for BCCI's U.S. misadventures are its
former employees now on trial in Tampa. As part of its plea
agreement, BCCI fired them. BCCI, however, continues to pay
for their legal representation.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CLARK CLIFFORD AND ROBERT ALTMAN were incorrectly
identified in artwork accompanying a page one article
yesterday on Bank of Credit and Commerce International. The
illustrations of the two men were transposed.
   (WSJ May 4, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Michaels Stores' Sales Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MKE
</CO>
<LP>
   IRVING, Texas -- Michaels Stores Inc. said April sales
rose 34% from a year earlier, with sales at stores open more
than a year rising about 18%.
   The crafts retailer said April sales rose to $27.2 million
from $20.3 million a year earlier. It attributed the showing
to the fact that Easter fell in April this year, whereas last
year it was in March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first quarter ended April 29, Michaels said sales
increased about 28% to $71.7 million from $56.2 million.
Sales at stores open more than one year increased about 12%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's April Trade Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan posted an $11.473 million trade deficit in
the first 20 days of April, compared with a $3.125 billion
surplus a year earlier, the Japanese Ministry of Finance
said.
   Imports surged to $13.750 billion in the period, up 29.5%
from $10.617 billion a year earlier. Exports slipped to
$13.739 billion, down slightly from $13.742 billion a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ministry doesn't release a detailed report of
intramonth trade statistics.
   Japan's trade surplus totaled $7.085 billion in March, the
latest full reporting period, expanding from $6.608 billion a
year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   James River Corp. New Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   JR
</CO>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- James River Corp. said it will build a
$157 million chemical recovery unit at its Naheola mill in
Alabama.
   The new unit will support future pulping capacity
increases and will take the place of three existing chemical
recovery units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   James River is a manufacturer of pulp, paper and plastic
products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OPEC Postpones
   Special Meeting
   On Cutting Output
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENEVA, Switzerland -- OPEC postponed the start of its
emergency meeting here after informal talks revealed
disagreement about how to achieve temporary cuts in oil
production.
   The debate appeared to be over determining which members
of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries should
carry the burden of reduced production this month and next,
and the base from which cuts should be figured.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The delay so far isn't viewed as a serious threat to the
generally accepted goal of the session, which is to prop up
sagging world oil prices with a short-term production
cutback.
   Informal talks among the oil ministers continued late into
the night, and several remained optimistic. "It's just a
normal course of developments," Diego Tamariz, Ecuador's oil
minister, said in an interview.
   The formal session of OPEC's monitoring committee -- but
with all 13 nations represented -- had been scheduled to
begin yesterday afternoon, after the late arrival of Iran's
oil minister. But as the day wore on, it was postponed
several times. It has been rescheduled for today.
   Several delegates said they still expect to keep the
meeting brief. All want a fast agreement -- in two days at
the most -- because they hope that will provide a "quick fix"
to oil markets that have deteriorated because of OPEC's
overproduction.
   The ministers remain convinced that only a major
short-term cut in production -- one million to two million
barrels a day -- can support oil prices, which have fallen
25% so far this year.
   However, by embracing that strategy, the ministers have
put themselves in an unfamiliar position: Instead of
squabbling over how to allocate a rise in production, as
often occurs at their meetings, they are arguing about how to
allocate a cut.
   So far, according to individuals close to yesterday's
informal deliberations, the debate over apportioning a cut
turns on two main suggestions: that all member-nations reduce
output by 5% to 10%; or that the Persian Gulf countries of
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, all
currently producing over their quotas, bear the brunt of the
reduction. If every country stuck to its quota, OPEC's total
production would drop from the current 23.5 million barrels a
day to 22 million, the group's official production ceiling
for the first half of this year.
   But Kuwait and the Emirates, chronic overproducers, are
unlikely to go for strict adherence to quotas. By stubbornly
ignoring its past production allotments, Kuwait has been able
to force an increase in its official quota to a current 1.5
million barrels a day, and its recent output has ranged up to
two million a day. The Emirates also have won special
treatment in the past and are now producing two million
barrels a day -- nearly double the formal quota.
   Oil ministers previously decided they could safely ignore
a certain amount of such "cheating," and factored some into
their first-half ceiling. The reasoning was that because some
other countries couldn't produce all they were officially
permitted, net production would still only be around 22.6
million barrels a day. In view of rising demand for OPEC oil,
they figured, prices would remain firm.
   Now, some of the ministers said, OPEC needs to get back to
its projected level. Output of 22 million barrels a day "will
be very right," said Fawzi A. Shakshuki, Libya's oil
minister. Others suggested cuts to a level even below the
ceiling. Asked if he still wants a reduction of two million
barrels a day, Issam Abdul Raheem Al-Chalabi, Iraq's oil
minister, replied: "We are definitely looking for a cut."
   Most outside experts here to track the meeting, including
oil executives who are in Geneva to talk with some of the
producers, seemed confident that the ministers will strike a
bargain, simply because they must if they want to head off
further price erosion. "If they walk out of here without an
agreement, it's $2 to $4 down" a barrel for oil prices,
predicted Oscar Wyatt, chairman of Coastal Corp. The market
can't absorb continued high output right now, he explained.
"Everybody's storage is full."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Fund Assets
   Plunge as Investors
   Seek Higher Yields
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Money market mutual fund investors are starting to look
for higher yields elsewhere.
   Money fund assets fell $3.5 billion in the week ended
Tuesday, the largest drop in more than two years, excluding
end-of-year seasonal declines, according to IBC/Donoghue's
Money Fund Report. Total assets of the 426 taxable funds
tracked by the Holliston, Mass., newsletter were $378.1
billion, the lowest in 12 weeks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The drop was entirely attributable to individual
investors; assets of funds open only to institutions rose
$948.3 million.
   "Money fund investors are pretty sophisticated," said
Brenda Malizia Negus, the newsletter's editor. "They're
locking in higher yields elsewhere . . . in CDs or
Treasurys."
   Yields on taxable money funds declined in the latest week,
while yields on certificates of deposit and Treasury
securities rose. The average seven-day compound yield of the
funds declined to 7.96% from 7.99%. Compound yields assume
reinvestment of dividends.
   Meanwhile, the yield on a six-month T-bill sold at
Monday's auction rose to 8.49% from 8.35% the week before.
Six-month CDs sold by major brokerage houses are currently
yielding an average of 8.37%, according to Banxquote Money
Markets, a New York information service.
   Yields are even better for longer-term investments.
Treasury notes and bonds, for instance, are yielding more
than 9% on maturities of two years and longer. Some big banks
are offering more than 9% on five-year CDs of more than
$90,000.
   Some of the withdrawals from money funds also went to pay
income taxes and some went into bond mutual funds, said
Walter Frank, chief economist for Donoghue's.
   Until the past few weeks, money fund assets had been
increasing steadily, sometimes more than $1 billion a week.
The most recent big drop was $3.6 billion at the end of 1989,
which was attributed to normal end-of-year withdrawals.
Assets fell $3.7 billion at the end of 1988. Yields have
fallen more than 1.5 percentage point since peaking April
1989, after months of steady increases.
   Average maturity of the funds investments -- such things
as commercial paper (short-term corporate IOUs), bank CDs and
short-term Treasury securities -- remained at a relatively
long 44 days in the latest week. Longer maturities usually
are considered a sign that portfolio managers think rates are
falling because the longer maturities enable the managers to
retain comparatively high yields longer.
   The average maturity has been longer than 40 days for
several months. The range has been 29 to 53 days in recent
years.
   The average seven-day simple yield of the taxable funds
fell to 7.67% from 7.69%. The average 30-day simple yield
slipped to 7.68% from 7.69%, while the average 30-day
compound yield went to 7.98% from 7.99%.
   Assets of tax-free money funds also fell, although yields
rose. Assets of the 220 tax-exempt funds tracked by
Donoghue's fell $1.2 billion, to $75.4 billion. The average
seven-day compound yield of the tax-free funds rose to 5.79%
from 5.74%. That's equal to 8.04% for an investor in the 28%
tax bracket and to 8.64% for someone paying 33%. Tax-free
yields have moved in response to the supply of tax-exempt
securities in recent months, said Mr. Frank of Donoghue's.
   The average maturity of the tax-free funds shortened to 41
days from 43 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastman Kodak
   Earnings Fell 6%
   In First Quarter
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   EK
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eastman Kodak Co., showing the benefits of extensive cost
cutting, recorded a 6% drop in first-quarter net income,
better than analysts expected.
   Net fell to $199 million, or 61 cents a share, from $212
million, or 65 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales fell to
$4.11 billion from $4.21 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Rochester, N.Y.-based photographic, chemical and
pharmaceutical concern said it restated 1989 results to
reflect the company's conversion to a calendar year. Kodak's
fiscal year began Dec. 26, and its quarters weren't uniform.
The change increased 1989 first-quarter net three cents a
share.
   In Kodak's core photographic products division, domestic
sales fell 15%, but lower costs and higher film prices helped
boost operating earnings 50% to $219 million. Colby H.
Chandler, chairman and chief executive officer, who retires
this month, cautioned that the rate of earnings increase in
this division will moderate in the coming months.
   Mr. Chandler said, "Barring unexpected developments in the
economy, we believe the recovery forecast for Kodak will come
about and that this will become increasingly clear in
subsequent quarters."
   Kodak's results exceeded most analysts' expectations of 50
to 55 cents a share, but analysts said it's uncertain how
much the improvement in photographic products comes from
one-time cost-cutting benefits derived from a restructuring
program announced last year, as opposed to fundamental
improvements in operations.
   Yet, despite the better-than-expected results, some
analysts expressed disappointment with the 3.5% decline in
operating profit, as earnings fell in Kodak's
information-system, chemical and health divisions.
   "Even though the company's on track in terms of Wall
Street's earnings expectations, how can you be excited if
chemical profits are off 38% and information systems is off
20%?" asked David Nelson, an analyst at Shearson Lehman
Hutton. "That's not the stuff you write home about."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Mass Murder and a Mall's Negligence
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<LP>
   In regard to the April 4 editorial-page article "Was a
Mall to Blame for a Mass Murder?" by Prof. Lawrence W.
Sherman: As the lead attorney for the plaintiffs who won the
case against the owners and management of the Springfield
Mall, in the Philadelphia suburbs, I view Prof. Sherman's
article as a sour-grapes attempt to win from a sympathetic
"jury" of business people the case his team lost in the
Delaware County Courthouse in February.
   He says the jury ruled that Sylvia Seegrist's "crime was
the fault of the shopping mall." In fact, the jury found that
the mall and its security staff were "negligent" in failing
to take reasonable precautions that would have prevented the
Seegrist rampage. As a professor, he should know the
difference between the two.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Semantics aside, judge for yourself the facts of what
occurred at the Springfield Mall prior to and on Oct. 30,
1985, the day Sylvia Seegrist shot and killed three people
and seriously wounded seven others.
   As Prof. Sherman notes, Ms. Seegrist had been a nuisance
at the mall over a period of time. But after the mass murder
of 21 people at a McDonald's restaurant in San Ysidro,
Calif., in 1984, her behavior turned belligerent, she made
deaths threats on several occasions, donned battle fatigues
and combat boots, and acted "bizarrely." He also noted that
she had been committed to mental hospitals 12 times and that
during one such commitment she stabbed a hospital employee.
   What he didn't mention was that:
   -- Just two weeks before the shootings, Ms. Seegrist was
in the McDonald's at the Springfield Mall threatening to kill
people.
   -- No one on the mall's security staff ever bothered to
find out Ms. Seegrist's mental state or her police record.
   -- No one on the mall's security staff ever called the
local police to notify them of the threats Ms. Seegrist had
made. If they had, she probably would have been banned from
the mall and possibly recommitted. The local police knew she
was dangerous and the chief of police testified to that
effect at the trial.
   -- There was no notification from one security shift to
another of Ms. Seegrist's activities so that some security
people had no idea who she was or what she did. No photo had
ever been taken of her by security to identify her as a
problem person, something routinely done with anyone who
shoplifts a few dollars' worth of merchandise.
   -- There was virtually no training for the security staff,
whose main focus was on protecting the premises and property
of the mall tenants, not the customers' safety.
   -- One of the mall security staff saw Ms. Seegrist,
dressed in battle gear, take a rifle from the back of her car
in the parking lot that fateful day, but took no action
because it was the day before Halloween and he thought it was
a prank.
   -- Security never called Ms. Seegrist's mother and told
her of her daughter's behavior. If it had, she would have
taken steps to keep Ms. Seegrist out of the mall because she
knew she was dangerous. She had been struck by her daughter
on more than one occasion.
   -- One forensic psychiatrist testified at the trial that
Ms. Seegrist picked the Springfield Mall not by coincidence,
but because she felt "comfortable" there. Why? Because she
tested the limits of what the mall would let her get away
with and found there were no serious limits on her outrageous
behavior.
   In his article, Prof. Sherman said "foreseeability" was a
"crucial legal question" in this case. He reasoned that if
the mall's security staff could not foresee what happened
that day, the mall should not be held negligent and liable.
To prove his point, he cited statistics that the odds on what
happened in the Springfield Mall were "1 in 156 million" and
the "prior rate of such crimes by women nationwide was zero."
   Now it's all well and good to cite probability in a
courtroom, but can you imagine a $3.75-an-hour security guard
stopping and computing the odds on mass murder when he
encounters a person making terroristic threats? Of course
not. But one can reasonably expect a security guard
confronted by someone in battle gear holding a rifle to stop
that person, and say, "Pardon me, but guns are not allowed in
the mall." And then to call the appropriate authorities.
   The reality is that an underpaid, poorly trained security
staff at the Springfield Mall did not take "reasonable care"
as is specified by Pennsylvania law for public places, i.e.
to exercise reasonable care to discover that intentionally
harmful acts of third persons are being done or are likely to
be done and to give warning to enable visitors to avoid the
harm or to protect them against it.
   Is it any wonder the jury took less than three hours to
find the Springfield Mall and its management guilty of
negligence?
   Rodger L. Mutzel
   Partner
   Cherry Ferrara Mutzel Belefonte McFadden &amp; Wesner
   Media, Pa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Is Proposing
   To Boost Pensions
   Of Top Officials
   ----
   By Paul Ingrassia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. wants to boost pensions
for 3,350 top officials including Chairman Roger B. Smith,
whose retirement pay would nearly double to about $1.2
million a year under the plan.
   The move is drawing fire from the United Auto Workers
union, which may make sweeter pensions an issue in this
summer's national contract talks with GM and the other
domestic auto makers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new pension formula, outlined in GM's proxy statement
issued last month, is being submitted to shareholders for
approval at the company's May 25 annual meeting. The new
formula would apply to GM's U.S. executives who retire after
Nov. 1, 1989. That includes Mr. Smith, who will retire Aug.
1.
   The formula would be sweetened by including salary and
bonuses in calculating each executive's pension. Currently,
the formula reflects only an executive's base salary. The
change would be especially lucrative for top executives such
as Chairman Smith, for whom bonus is an important part of
total direct compensation.
   GM contends that its executive pensions aren't
competitive, and that the change would merely bring its
pension formula up to prevailing standards.
   The proposed change "is consistent with what a number of
other large companies do," said a spokesman. "GM had been
behind other companies in this area." He added that GM
doesn't have to submit the change to shareholders, but the
company's directors had decided to do so.
   Despite GM's arguments, the timing of the proposed change
is sure to complicate the company's contract talks with the
UAW. A sizable portion of the union's rank and file wants to
make inflation-indexing for pensions a key contract demand.
The union's leadership believes the demand isn't realistic
and would prefer to focus on job-security issues, but GM's
move may bring the pension issue to the fore.
   "Later this year we will be bargaining for hundreds of
thousands of retired union workers," UAW President Owen
Bieber said in a statement yesterday. "In view of GM's
largesse to its executives, there will be no excuse for the
corporation to be less than fully responsive to the needs of
our older members and retirees."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Leading Index
   Of Economy
   Rose in March
   ---
   Gauge's 0.9% Gain Follows
   1% Decline in February;
   Factory Orders Increase
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government's gauge of expected economic
strength rose in March, suggesting the economy will maintain
its recent pattern of mild growth.
   The 0.9% gain in the Commerce Department's index of
leading economic indicators was the biggest increase since a
1.6% jump in June 1988. But it didn't make up for a 1% drop
in February, and it left the index only 0.3% higher than it
was a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Economic analysts said the figures allay fears of a
recession, but don't point to robust growth. On a more
worrisome note, the report offers a bit more evidence to
bolster recent reports that inflation may accelerate.
   Most of the March increase in the indicators, which tend
to foreshadow broad movements in the economy, came in two
areas: plant and equipment orders, which were influenced by a
big increase in aircraft bookings, and prices of commodities
and raw materials.
   "There's no sign of a recession but not a lot of signs of
strong growth either," said David Wyss, chief financial
economist at DRI/McGraw Hill, an economic forecasting concern
in Lexington, Mass. The increase in raw material prices, Mr.
Wyss added, "may be good for the indicators but it's not good
for the economy. It suggests higher prices for goods and more
inflation which could have to be choked off" by a rise in
interest rates engineered by the Federal Reserve Board.
   Separately, the Commerce Department said factory orders,
also boosted by the spike in aircraft orders, rose 3.8% in
March, to $240.37 billion, after a 1.8% increase in February.
The increases almost offset the 5.5% January decline.
   Orders for durable goods rose 6.6% to $128.70 billion,
while orders for nondurables increased 0.8% to $111.67
billion. An earlier report on durable goods, which are
intended to last at least three years, showed a 6.7%
increase.
   "The manufacturing sector is beginning to recover, but
it's not yet out of the woods," said Edward Campbell, senior
economist at Brown Brothers Harriman &amp; Co.
   Of the 11 statistics that make up the leading indicators
index six contributed to the March increase. In addition to
plant and equipment orders and raw material prices, they
were: new orders for consumer goods, stock prices, deliveries
by factories to suppliers, and a drop in claims for
unemployment benefits.
   Holding the index back in March were declines in building
permits, factory backlogs and the money supply. An index of
consumer expectations and the average workweek were
unchanged. Analysts attribute the drop in building permits to
the housing industry's slump, induced by higher interest
rates.
   "Within the composition we see a housing market that is
quite weak and a business sector which is beginning to show
signs of bottoming out," said Mr. Campbell. "I have been
positive on the economy and this reinforces my positive bent.
But it's still a mixed economy."
   The leading indicators have risen in four of the past six
months, and seven of the past nine, Mr. Wyss noted. However,
four of the increases in the past nine months were a mere
0.1%.
   Both reports are adjusted for seasonal fluctuations.
                                                                                                       

                     Leading Indicators
                                                                                                       

   Here are the net contributions of the components of the
Commerce Department's index of leading indicators. After
various adjustments, they produced a 0.9% increase in the
index for March and a 1.0% decline for February.
                                                                                                       

                                     March     Feb.
                                     1990      1990
                                                                                                       

   Workweek .....................    0.00      0.00
   Unemployment claims ..........    0.06      0.08
   Orders for consumer goods ....    0.18      0.26
   Slower deliveries ............    0.11     -0.17
   Plant and equipment orders ...    0.25     -0.14
   Building permits .............   -0.17     -0.82
   Durable order backlog ........   -0.04     -0.08
   Materials prices .............    0.24     -0.08
   Stock prices .................    0.13     -0.16
   Money supply .................   -0.01      0.08
   Consumer expectations ........    0.00     -0.08
                                                                                                       

   The seasonally adjusted index numbers (1982=100) for
March, and the change from February, are:
                                                                                                       

   Index of leading indicators ............. 145.2   0.9%
   Index of coincident indicators .......... 134.2   0.2%
   Index of lagging indicators ............. 120.3   0.8%

   The ratio of coincident to lagging indicators was 1.11,
down from 1.12 in the previous month.
                                                                                                       

                       Factory Orders
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Commerce Department's latest figures for
manufacturers in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                             March     Feb.
                             1990      1990       % Chg.
                                                                                                       

   All industries            240.37    231.62     + 3.8
    Durable goods            128.70    120.78     + 6.6
    Nondurable goods         111.67    110.84     + 0.8
                                                                                                       

   Capital goods industries   48.67     43.77     +11.2
    Nondefense                41.29     36.09     +14.4
    Defense                    7.37      7.67     - 3.9
                                                                                                       

   Total shipments           236.80    234.33     + 1.1
                                                                                                       

   Inventories               371.94    373.16     - 0.3
                                                                                                       

   Backlog of orders         516.22    512.65     + 0.7
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   A Little Moss on the Rolling Stone
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kudos on editorially deboning the "Mean Greens" at Rolling
Stone for their bland hypocrisy-pontificating about the
environment while promoting the production of virtually
non-biodegradable CDs, LPs and cassettes ("Are CDs
Recyclable?" April 18).
   Your editorial, however, revealed just the tip of the
iceberg. In the throes of their ecohysteria, Hollywoodites
and the music industry ignore not only their contribution to
the solid-waste crisis (not to mention noise pollution), but
also their own willynilly squandering of our precious natural
resources.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For instance, how many million kilowatts of energy are
wasted annually to overamplify today's deafeningly loud rock
concerts? Ecologically sensitive balladeers should be blazing
a trail for the rest of us by going acoustic, instead of
wailing through 30-foot speakers about rain forests and the
horrors of nuclear power.
   And speaking of nuclear power, how many entertainers check
out the source of their juice before plugging in and cranking
up? Atomic fission has undoubtedly powered performances by
thousands of unsuspecting artistes.
   Finally, how much electricity was wasted on public-address
systems to exhort the faithful at Earth Day rallies?
   Like the Sierra Club, which prints its calendars on
unrecyclable paper, Rolling Stone and the rest of the
glitterati have found in environmentalism a cause du jour
that is painless to preach but much more difficult to
practice.
   John B. Scanlon
   Alexandria, Va.
   ---
   Congratulations for doing battle with the zealots of
environmentalism. By the time I finished reading your
editorial on Earth Day ("O Holy Day," April 19), I was
determined to lend my hand and join the iconoclasts. What
could I do? Then I spied the enemy's major icon. Without any
hesitation I smashed my six-year-old's globe. Hah]
   What next? My gaze fell upon the week's accumulation of
The Wall Street Journal. No problem there -- but then my
iconoclasm blossomed in full. Why stop with the granolas?
There in front of me were the scriptures of another
neo-religion run amok. A quick glance assured me that the
priests and priestesses were busy at work uplifting the
masses to new heights of well-being. Their sermons rolled
down from the pulpit: to produce more is good; to consume
more is better; to ignore all other purpose of existence is
best; unfettered and unquestioned economic growth is the
sacrament.
   There are zealots of just about every persuasion. The Club
of Rome was as wrong as the atomic-energy visionaries of the
1950s. Thankfully, being wrong is not a proscription for
speaking out on issues or the Earth would be a very quiet
place.
   You are quite right that there is a religious-like
atmosphere to this issue. The debate is about more than clean
air and GNP. It extends to the core questions of how and why
we live.
   Daniel Flanagan
   Ulm, Mont.
   ---
   Everything has its downside, and Earth Day is no
exception. I am appalled at what well-meaning environmental
alarmists are doing to our children. The environmental
problems, and possible solutions to those problems, easily
boggle the mind of the most knowledgeable, concerned adult.
For example, I have read numerous, convincing predictions
that the Earth will perish because it's going to get hotter
and equally convincing ones proving that we're headed for
another ice age. To little children, these issues are only
terrifying fairy stories.
   Thanks to a relentless barrage of doomsday predictions,
children now believe that the entire world is a hopeless
mess. That careless, greedy adults have irrevocably tipped
the "delicate balance of Nature" toward destruction.
   These unremitting, gloomy messages hit our kids from all
sides -- in school and at home over the airwaves. Every
nature show on TV must now whipsaw kids by first glorifying
and romanticizing Nature and then predicting that adults are
on the verge of ruining everything the children have just
seen.
   Adults just can't seem to resist inflicting their fears
and ideology on children. It's sickening. As Pink Floyd sang,
"Leave them kids alone]"
   Charles H. Small
   Newton, Mass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Nasdaq Composite Adds 1.73 Points
   As Technology Shares Lead the Market
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Technology shares again led over-the-counter stocks
higher, extending their gains for the week.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index gained 0.4% to close at 423.58,
up 1.73. The Nasdaq 100 index of big industrial issues,
including some of the larger computer companies, outpaced the
broader index with a 0.7% gain, climbing 2.92 to 417.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Volume rose to 143.2 million shares from 124.1 million
shares Tuesday. However, the margin of advancing over
declining issues narrowed as 956 gained and 901 fell.
   Shares of Seagate Technology and Oracle Systems were the
day's most active. Both companies are scheduled to appear
this morning at the final day of the Hambrecht &amp; Quist
technology conference in San Francisco. Seagate, a Scotts
Valley, Calif., maker of computer disk drives, closed up 3/4
at 12 3/8 on 2.2 million shares. Oracle, a Belmont, Calif.,
maker of database software, closed up 1 1/8 at 15 7/8 on more
than two million shares.
   While the conference spotlighted technology stocks,
Richard Bruno, director of OTC trading for PaineWebber, said
that this week's steady market has attracted some buyers.
"Both institutions and retail investors have come back on the
buy side after the market stabilized a couple days ago," Mr.
Bruno said, adding that fears of inflation and higher
interest rates appear to have faded somewhat.
   Robert C. King, head of OTC trading at Robinson Humphrey
in Atlanta, said investors there were coming in and "picking
away at stocks." While retail activity remained "spotty," Mr.
King pointed to some interest among some weaker Southeastern
banks shares, such as First American of Tennessee, up 1/8 at
13 1/8, and First Tennessee National in Memphis.
   Quantum, a Milpitas, Calif., maker of disk drives, climbed
1 1/8 to 15 3/4 on 1.9 million shares, more than four times
average volume. Late Tuesday, Quantum reported net income for
the fiscal fourth quarter ended March 31 of 46 cents a share,
including an extraordinary gain of five cents a share, up
from 27 cents a share a year earlier. The company also said
it plans to buy as many as three million of its 24.6 million
shares outstanding.
   Valid Logic Systems rose 3/8 to 3 on nearly two million
shares, more than 10 times average volume. Late Tuesday,
International Business Machines said it will make an initial
investment in the San Jose, Calif., maker of software for
computer workstations representing 5% to 8.3% of Valid's
common shares. Valid also announced a first-quarter loss of
21 cents a share, compared with year-earlier net income of
five cents a share.
   MCI Communications issues continued to recover, hitting
$36 a share for the first time in two weeks. Chief financial
officer Daniel F. Akerson said the long-distance carrier
plans to sustain "solid, high-quality" earnings growth in the
1990s. MCI closed up 5/8 at 36 on 1.4 million shares.
   Other active technology stocks included Ashton Tate, up
1/4 at 11 1/8; Intel, up 5/8 at 40 1/4 and Apple Computer, up
1/8 at 39 3/4.
   Chiron jumped 1 3/8 to 30 1/2 after the Food and Drug
Administration approved a test for screening hepatitis C
offered jointly by the Emeryville, Calif., health care
product company and Johnson &amp; Johnson.
   Pacificare Health Systems advanced 1 1/4 to 18 after the
Cypress, Calif., health maintenance organization reported net
income for the second quarter ended March 31 of 33 cents a
share, compared with 18 cents a share a year earlier.
   Shares of EnClean climbed 1 to 12 after the Alvin, Texas,
provider of environmental cleaning services reported net
income for the third quarter ended March 31 of 20 cents a
share, up from two cents a share a year earlier.
   Nike climbed 1 3/4 to 71 1/4. Analysts with Montgomery
Securities and Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben recently spoke
positively about the Beaverton, Ore., athletic footwear and
apparel maker, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report. A Nike spokesman said the company is comfortable with
analysts' earnings estimates ranging from $1.35 to $1.55 a
share for the fourth quarter ending this month, and $6 to
$6.20 a share for all of fiscal 1990. Those results aren't
scheduled for release until July 9, the news service said.
   Henley Group rose 2 to 37 3/4 after Michael D. Dingman,
chairman and chief executive officer of the Hampton, N.H.,
maker of industrial and scientific instruments, said the
company might spin off its Fisher Scientific Group Inc. and
Pneumo Abex Corp. units, in tax-free distributions to
shareholders.
   First Bancorp of Troy, N.C., slid 3 1/2 to 15 after the
bank rejected a proposed acquisition by CCB Financial, a
Durham, N.C., bank.
   Shares of NAC Re, a Greenwich, Conn. reinsurance holding
company, dropped 2 3/8 to 30 after the company reported net
income for the first quarter fell to 40 cents a share from 55
cents a share a year earlier.
   Gantos fell 1 3/4 to 9 1/2 after a Prescott Ball analyst
suggested that the Grand Rapids, Mich., specialty retailer's
April sales figures could be disappointing, according to
Professional Investor Report.
   ---
   BULLETIN BOARD APPROVED: The Securities and Exchange
Commission yesterday approved the long-awaited OTC Bulletin
Board developed by the National Association of Securities
Dealers. The bulletin board will allow NASD member companies,
but not public investors, to enter, update and retrieve
quotation information on a real-time basis in "pink sheet"
stocks, generally smaller issues whose prices are printed on
pink paper by the National Quotation Bureau, a unit of
Commerce Clearinghouse Inc. of Riverwoods, Ill. A NASD
spokesman said the bulletin board system is expected to be
operating within 30 days.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   AMGEN Inc. recently lost a round in patent infringement
litigation involving erythropoietin, an anti-anemia drug,
against Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. of Japan. Yesterday's OTC
Focus column mistakenly said that Amgen had won and that
Genetics Institute Inc. also was involved. Genetics Institute
is involved in a separate suit with Amgen.
   (WSJ May 3, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Three Broker Firms
   Fail in Dismissal Bid
   In West Virginia Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MS SB NW
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A state court judge denied a motion by three
investment firms to dismiss a lawsuit filed by West Virginia,
accusing them of partial responsibility for losses on the
state's investments.
   In October, the state filed suit in West Virginia,
accusing five brokerage firms with responsibility for much of
large losses arising in West Virginia's consolidated
investment pool. The firms, Morgan Stanley Group Inc.'s
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. unit, Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., Greenwich
Capital Markets, and subsidiaries of Salomon Inc. and
National Westminster Bank PLC, processed investments for the
state.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Greenwich and the NatWest subsidiary since have settled
with the state. Salomon Brothers Inc., Morgan Stanley and
Goldman asked a judge in state Supreme Court, a trial court,
in Manhattan to declare that the firms hadn't any liability
in the case or to declare that the case should be heard here.
   In an opinion, Justice Harold Baer here declined to
absolve the firms and he said the case should be heard in
West Virginia. The U.S. District Court in Charleston, W.Va.,
now is weighing whether it or a West Virginia state court
should hear the case.
   Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs declined to comment. A
spokesman for Salomon couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Gorbachev vs. Reform-III:
   Disappearing Perestroika
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   It would be nice to be a fly on the walls inside the
Kremlin right now, listening to what the men of the Politburo
made of the scene in Red Square on Tuesday. We wonder if
anyone is talking about the inextricable relationship between
the two ideas for which Mikhail Gorbachev is famous: glasnost
and perestroika.
   The immediate problem that led to reform in the Soviet
Union was the backwardness and impending collapse of the
economy. To meet this problem, the analysis ran, you needed
fundamental economic reform, perestroika. However, the frozen
political system made this impossible, and needed to be
shaken up by glasnost, an intellectual opening. This was all
quite correct, but in the event, there has been no economic
reform. The signs in the square -- "Communists Don't have any
illusions, you're bankrupt" -- are the result of glasnost
without perestroika.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gorbachev is now faced with two basic options. He
could presumably use the KGB and army to close down glasnost
with repression, but this would at the very least leave his
economy on the skids and at the most risk popular revolt. Or
he could make the leap of actual perestroika and even more
glasnost, throwing his lot clearly with the reformist forces.
   After all, nearly every Soviet economist one speaks to can
offer a thorough, often hilarious critique of the centralized
Soviet system. They can talk about the kinds of market
reforms needed to create growth. But for the past four years,
Mr. Gorbachev has implemented these reforms piecemeal, more
or less soldering various market reforms onto the monstrous
Rube Goldberg contraption the Soviets call their economy.
This has created much pain -- inflation, shortages,
unemployment -- and no gain. The Soviet model needs to be
discarded and replaced with a real market economy, but only
last week Mr. Gorbachev ruled out Polish-style "shock
therapy" for the economy.
   He spoke to a crowd of industrial workers in Sverdlovsk,
some of whom have been tutored to fear the dislocation of
reform. For of course some will lose, and reform is opposed
by forces in thrall to the old order -- some elements of the
armed forces, the Pamyat nationalists, state-controlled
unions and the growing fascist workers' United Front
movement. In his recent actions, and in appointments to his
new Presidential Cabinet, Mr. Gorbachev has been bidding for
the support of this constituency.
   Not least, of course, he has repressed dissident
republics. Yesterday, the Lithuanian government formally
announced its willingness to "suspend" its declaration of
independence. Thus, Mr. Gorbachev's pressure prevailed once
more against another group unhappy with the pace of
perestroika. The repressions so far have been carried out
against Lithuania, Georgia and Azerbaijan. Tomorrow they may
be deployed against Moldavia, Mongolia, Estonia and Ukraine,
or perhaps the free-market administration of Moscow City
Council Chairman Gavriil Popov.
   Yet with at best piecemeal perestroika, the economy
continues to falter, fomenting the distrust and bitterness
that materialized in Red Square. It can only get worse. It is
a recipe for disaster. If the economy isn't set right soon,
political conditions inside the Soviet Union will become
disordered and dangerous.
   The historical currents roiling in the Soviet Union and in
Eastern Europe are enormous. Little Lithuania is not alone;
there are democratic forces that share its goal of personal
and economic freedom across the breadth of the Soviet Union.
Similarly large forces oppose them. To enact the right
policies, and survive the heat, a political leader needs both
political legitimacy and a supporting constituency. Mr.
Gorbachev has to choose which side of the Soviet political
landscape he wishes to be part of, the reformers or the old
guard. At present he is walking a tightrope between them,
alone, surviving on great defensive political skills, but
running the risk of losing the support of both sides.
   With this crisis gathering steam within the Soviet Union,
the position taken by President Bush and most of the West's
political leadership is: Don't rock the boat. It is becoming
clear to us that this policy is shortsighted and most likely
a mistake. Western leaders seem to believe they are helping
Mr. Gorbachev by "supporting" him whichever way he leans.
With all the other pressures operating on him, he has in
effect become not a reformer but an obstacle to reform, and a
milepost on the road to economic disaster and potential
political chaos.
   To "succeed," even to survive, Mr. Gorbachev needs
pressure from the politicians of the West. With their
hands-off-everything policy, the West's leaders haven't
helped him; they have abandoned him.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toys `R' Us Sales Rise 23%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TOY
</CO>
<LP>
   PARAMUS, N.J. -- Toys "R" Us Inc. said sales for its first
quarter, ended April 29, rose 23% to $943.6 million from
$767.7 million. The toy retailer said comparable-store sales
in the U.S. rose 9.8%.
   Charles Lazarus, chairman and chief executive officer,
said "our sales performance reflects strong sales in video
game products as well as non-electronic toys."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Salomon Chief Tells
   Meeting His Views
   On `Liar's Poker'
   ---
   Gutfreund Says Book on Firm
   Caused Tension but Bears
   `No Relation to Reality'
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   SB
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- At Salomon Inc.'s annual meeting yesterday, it
was business as usual until somebody mentioned That Book.
   In an unusual diversion from Wall Street solemnity,
Salomon Chairman John Gutfreund treated shareholders to his
first comments on the book "Liar's Poker," a bestseller about
bond trading at the firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We have been a laughingstock" because of the book, he
said. The book apparently caused tensions with some clients.
But "we have overcome that by doing our job well."
   The bestselling book chronicles the bawdy antics of some
Salomon traders, including one known as the "Human Piranha."
Written by a former Salomon bond salesman, Michael Lewis, it
paints an unflattering picture of Salomon sticking certain
clients with bad bonds on occasion, among other things.
   At the meeting, Mr. Gutfreund said he never met the author
Mr. Lewis, and said the book bears "no relation to reality."
The book "systematically attempted to say we ravaged our
customers. It didn't make much sense," he said. "We may have
been stupid, but we have been honorable in dealing with our
customers."
   When "Liar's Poker" came out last autumn, Salomon
officials discussed the book at a morning meeting, telling
employees to read it so they'd be able to defend themselves,
industry executives said. Since then, the firm hasn't said
much publicly about the matter.
   But "Liar's Poker" wasn't the only piece of literature on
Salomon's agenda at yesterday's 1 1/4-hour meeting. Mr.
Gutfreund called "Barbarians at the Gate" -- the book about
the mammoth RJR Nabisco Inc. takeover -- a "pretty good
book."
   One passage in Barbarians has Salomon pulling out of the
deal because its name wouldn't be on the preferred side of a
planned advertisement. That passage was "a gross
oversimplification," Mr. Gutfreund said. "We had major
reservations about other aspects of the deal."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southern Co.'s Net
   Slumped by 43%
   In First Quarter
   ----
   By Rick Christie
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   SO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Southern Co. reported its first-quarter earnings plunged
43% to $113.1 million, or 36 cents a share, because of higher
operating costs and sagging electricity sales.
   The drop marks the third consecutive quarterly earnings
decline for the operator of energy utilities in the
Southeast. In the 1989 first quarter, Atlanta-based Southern
earned $197 million, or 62 cents a share. Revenue slipped to
$1.67 billion in the most recent quarter from $1.68 billion a
year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The earnings slump comes at a time when the beleaguered
company faces new federal inquiries into alleged business
ties between Southern and the son of the company's chief
executive officer, Edward L. Addison, as well as a continuing
federal tax investigation into the company's accounting for
spare parts.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Southern
closed at $23.625, down 50 cents.
   In recent quarters, Southern has been smarting from its
Georgia Power Co. unit's continuing rate dispute with the
Georgia Public Service Commission over the utility's Vogtle
nuclear-power plant. The commission has allowed Georgia Power
to recover only $218 million -- over a 10-year phase-in
period -- of the company's estimated $413 million in cost
overruns at the plant's No. 2 unit alone.
   Meanwhile, the latest quarter shows Southern carrying the
higher fixed costs for that unit, as well as the No. 4 unit
of its Scherer nuclear plant near Macon, Ga. "This was a
significant factor in our cost increases," a company
spokesman said. "Not only were we not carrying them last
year, but we've not received the rates to fully recover the
costs." The spokesman didn't specify the amount of the cost
increase.
   To make matters worse, Southern's kilowatt-hour sales fell
1.2% in the first quarter because of mild winter
temperatures, which affected the entire industry. The trend
apparently carried over through April, according to the
spokesman, which could hurt second-quarter earnings.
   The second-quarter results could be further affected by a
Mississippi Supreme Court ruling in April that the state's
four-year-old Performance Evaluation Plan is invalid.
Southern said the plan allowed residential electricity rates
for its Mississippi Power Co. unit to be automatically
adjusted according to its financial condition and
performance.
   But if the court's decision to curtail the plan as of
April 30 stands, Mississippi Power may have to refund as much
as $75 million to customers.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   A SOUTHERN CO. REQUEST to the Georgia Public Service
Commission for a $413 million rate increase was made to
recover the company's investment in the No. 2 unit of its
Vogtle nuclear power plant, as well as other costs of
providing services. In earlier editions it was misstated that
the $413 million was for cost overruns at the plant.
   (WSJ May 4, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Units Post
   Combined Drop
   In Quarter's Net
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GME GMH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp.'s finance arm and
defense-related subsidiary reported lower first-quarter net
income, but its Electronic Data Systems Corp.
computer-services unit posted a 10% gain.
   All together, GM's three big non-automotive units posted
combined first-quarter profit of $591.4 million, down 6% from
a year earlier. The No. 1 auto maker is scheduled to report
first-quarter results for the rest of its operations,
including its core vehicle business, today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At GM Hughes Electronics Corp., which includes the defense
operations of Hughes Aircraft Co. and the automotive
electronics operations of Delco Electronics Corp.,
first-quarter earnings slumped 16% to $145.6 million, or 46
cents a Class H share, from $172.9 million, or 51 cents a
share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 5.1% to $2.86 billion.
The unit blamed the declines on a combination of reduced
Pentagon spending and lower vehicle sales.
   General Motors Acceptance Corp., the auto maker's finance
arm, said first-quarter net income dropped 5.6% to $336
million from $356 million a year earlier. GMAC said its
year-earlier net reflected a onetime gain of $51 million from
the sale of GMAC's 51% interest in Isuzu Motors Finance Co.
to Isuzu Motors Ltd. However, the finance unit said it also
had a $48 million gain in the 1990 quarter, attributable to
changes in accounting practices related to certain European
operations.
   At Dallas-based Electronic Data Systems, meanwhile,
earnings rose 10% to $109.8 million, or 46 cents a Class E
share, from $100 million, or 41 cents a share. Revenue rose
10% to $1.42 billion. About 46% of EDS's first-quarter
revenue came from business outside GM. EDS has said its goal
is to have non-GM business equal revenue from the parent
company by the end of this year.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, GM
Class H stock, which represents dividend interest in GM
Hughes Electronics earnings, closed at $22.25, down 12.5
cents. GM Class E stock, which is tied to EDS, closed at
$30.625, up 25 cents. GMAC doesn't have a separately traded
stock; its profit contributes to the earnings for GM's common
stock.
   GM common closed at $44.75, up 50 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wednesday's Markets:
   Late Rally
   Gives Stocks
   Modest Gain
   ---
   Bond Prices Stabilize;
   Dollar Ends Mixed,
   Rising Against Mark
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Stock prices continued their muted rebound while bond
prices stabilized.
   A late rally helped push the Dow Jones Industrial Average
up 20.72 points to 2689.64 in relatively light trading.
Long-term bond prices were unchanged and the dollar gained
modestly against the mark while slipping against the yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said the stock market's gain, the third in as
many days, came from bargain-hunting and the perception that
interest rates may be nearing a peak. The most optimistic
analysts contend that inflation fears have been exaggerated
and that interest rates may soon ease. The Federal Reserve's
"beige book," a summary of economic conditions around the
nation, tended to support that view yesterday, citing modest
economic growth and "no general upward pressure" on
industrial prices.
   But traders said investors shouldn't read too much into
the stock market's performance so far this week. Trading
activity has been modest at best, they say, and this week's
gains may be nothing more than a temporary bounce from last
week's big drop, which saw the Dow industrials lose more than
50 points.
   Still, bond traders have been impressed that prices for
long-term Treasurys haven't dropped precipitously this week
given other economic news that shows the economy picking up
steam. They point especially to Tuesday's survey of the
nation's purchasing managers, which showed a resumption in
economic growth in the industrial sector after nearly a year
of contraction. And they're looking to Friday's government
report on April employment levels for further clarification
about the economy's health.
   At the same time, the bond market is facing a potential
problem in the form of next week's big quarterly Treasury
refunding auction. Yesterday the Treasury said it plans to
sell $10.5 billion of three-year notes, and $10 billion each
of 10-year notes and 30-year bonds. That's about in line with
what many traders expected.
   But the question is what role Japanese investors will
play. In previous auctions they have been major buyers, but
interest rates in Japan have reached competitive levels with
U.S. rates. If big Japanese buyers decide to focus more of
their purchases in Japan, where they don't face any currency
risks, the yield on U.S. bonds could rise sharply from
current levels. In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices climbed in light trading. Volume on the New
York Stock Exchange totaled 141.6 million shares. Advancing
issues on the Big Board outnumbered declining issues 864 to
612.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were virtually unchanged. The yield on the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year issue stood at 9.01%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6848 marks and 157.95 yen, compared
with 1.6808 marks and 158.83 yen Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Mexico's Progress
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   While Mikhail Gorbachev flounders with perestroika,
popularly elected Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari
speeds forward with the reformation of Mexico's formerly
inert economy. Yesterday he submitted to the Mexican Congress
a bill to eliminate restrictions on private-sector ownership
of banks. Simply put, he plans to privatize Mexico's banking
system, nationalized in 1982 by former President Lopez
Portillo. To do so, Mr. Salinas will have to change the
constitution, and this takes a two-thirds vote by Congress.
But with the support of the free-market opposition party,
PAN, the President should be able to achieve this necessary
step in the continuing economic liberalization of Mexico.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   A Game of Chicken
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The world's largest game of chicken ended this week, as
both Japan and the U.S. drove off the road before they rammed
each other in a trade collision. Unfortunately, Congress has
decreed that the same game be played every year, and one of
these times we may not be so lucky.
   A big trade crackup is just what many in Congress have in
mind. After George Bush decided to lift Japan and Brazil from
the "Super 301" trade-offender list, the Members sped to ram
Japan even though it'd made multiple trade concessions the
past 15 months. "It's time we quit playing patsy with these
guys," declared Rep. Frank Horton, a heretofore obscure
Republican from New York. Richard Gephardt, the House
Majority Leader, said Congress may pass legislation to force
Mr. Bush to cite Japan again, because "at the very moment you
ought to be hitting the gas, we're hitting the brake."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   George Bush ignored these reckless drivers. He knows that
after Japan's Prime Minister Kaifu made public concessions on
last year's 301 list -- on wood products, supercomputers and
satellites -- another U.S. slap could well have toppled him.
Mr. Bush also knows that the same Americans who hail the
smallest concession by Moscow, an historic adversary,
denounce any agreement with Japan, a friend and ally. These
people will never be satisfied.
   Yet even the Bush Administration seems enamored of the 301
"tool," as trade rep Carla Hills calls it. The idea is that
somehow the trade "pressure" of 301 is responsible for
Japanese concessions. This is impossible to disprove, but
Japan's own domestic politics probably have much more to do
with it. Japanese consumers are awakening to their relatively
poor standard of living, enough so that even Japan's
Socialist Party exploited the consumer issue in last year's
elections. Mr. Kaifu's Liberal Democrats have scrambled to
catch up.
   U.S. diplomacy may be a useful echo, but the ultimatum
that 301 represents -- give in or we retaliate -- is
counterproductive. It feeds the resentment of mirror-image
mercantilists in both countries -- for example, "The Japan
That Can Say No" crowd. It makes compromises more difficult.
Worst of all, if both sides fail to back down and the U.S.
retaliates, everyone loses. Japan's markets won't be open to
any greater degree, and American consumers will pay higher
prices on whatever goods the U.S. decides to punish in
return. What price, trade machismo? Sensibly, the Bush
Administration hopes to make further progress in the Uruguay
round of world trade talks set to conclude later this year.
   As we've said before, the 301 game of chicken is a
political reaction to a non-problem, the trade deficit. Mr.
Gephardt this week asserted that "the $49 billion trade
deficit this year with Japan represents one million lost
American jobs." The U.S. economy will create tens of
thousands of new jobs this year and has created some 20
million over the years that the deficit was even larger. U.S.
exports to Japan doubled in four years to $44 billion in
1989. Who's your economist, Dick?
   The world economy desperately needs American leadership,
but the 301 game makes us no better than the other
mercantilists pandering to domestic producers. It's a global
crackup waiting to happen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Simon's Venture Sells a Major Stake
   In HonFed Bank, Hawaii's Biggest Thrift
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   William E. Simon's thrift venture sold a major stake in
HonFed Bank, Hawaii's largest thrift, marking an unusual vote
of confidence for the troubled industry from an unusual
source.
   The investor, the Kamehameha Schools/Bishop Estate, a
wealthy Hawaiian educational trust and landowner, agreed to
invest $50 million in HonFed, which has assets of $3.2
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Simon, Treasury Secretary from 1974 to 1977, and his
partners paid $17 million to acquire control of the
institution in 1986 as part of a government-supervised
transaction.
   HonFed has been profitable recently, but, like hundreds of
thrifts around the country, it has been scrambling to raise
funds to comply with new federal capital requirements.
   At Dec. 31, HonFed had an estimated $24.5 million tangible
capital deficit and needed about $72 million in new funds to
meet federal regulations. The infusion is significant because
it is believed to be the first successful capital-raising
effort by an ongoing thrift since the new capital rules went
into effect in December.
   Still, the participation of what is commonly referred to
as the Bishop Estate, established in 1884 by the last
descendant of Hawaii's 19th century conquering King
Kamehameha I, is a two-edged sword for Mr. Simon and his
partners.
   On the one hand, the money combined with proceeds from
pending asset sales, may bring HonFed into compliance with
the key federal tangible capital test as soon as June 30,
when the now definitive agreement is expected to be
completed, officials said. That also is expected be an
impetus to HonFed's further growth, which has been
complicated lately by its lack of capital.
   On the other hand, the investment also will cut into the
Simon group's own return on equity investment in HonFed,
which last year reached a heady 47%. Terms of the Bishop
Estate investment weren't disclosed, although officials said
that the new equity investors won't have any voting rights.
   The $50 million infusion and planned asset sales also
replace a highly touted $100 million public preferred stock
offering that HonFed proposed last fall and that officials
said they would cancel. Some observers considered that
development somewhat embarrassing to Mr. Simon and his
investment bankers for the proposed offering, Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   Following his service at the Treasury, Mr. Simon became
something of a Wall Street darling, amassing an estimated
$200 million fortune from well-timed leveraged buy-outs of
such concerns as Gibson Greeting Cards and other ventures.
   Bert Ely, an Alexandria, Va., thrift analyst, said he
figures that the terms of a private transaction such as that
with Bishop Estate were less favorable to the Simon group
than under a public offering. Nonetheless, he said that such
private transactions probably would become the last best hope
for capital-shy thrifts because of continuing public jitters
about the sick industry.
   "We believed that this transaction could be done more
efficiently and with a very strong local partner that we
knew," said Gerald Parsky, a Los Angeles lawyer and a partner
in Mr. Simon's WSGP International, the Los Angeles-based
merchant bank that serves as the parent company for the
group's myriad financial ventures.
   The Bishop Estate, for instance, invested in the Simon
group's recent purchase and sale of First Interstate Bank of
Hawaii, a transaction that allowed participants to pocket an
estimated $20 million profit on a one-year investment of
about $15 million.
   In a statement, the estate's trustees called its latest
venture "an excellent investment opportunity with attractive
return potential." The Bishop Estate oversees a private
school for students of Hawaiian ancestry and is the islands'
largest private landowner with about 338,000 acres, equal to
about 8% of the state.
   Mr. Simon couldn't be reached for comment.
   HonFed reported 1989 profit of $8 million, down from $10.2
million in 1988, although fourth-quarter earnings rose to
$3.3 million from $1.2 million a year earlier. The
institution has about doubled in size since the Simon group
bought in, although last month it chose not to proceed with a
planned acquisition of 18 Hawaiian branches from First
Nationwide Bank because of capital concerns.
   HonFed is just one of three major thrifts that the Simon
group controls, and from a capital position, has been the
worst off. The others include Western Federal Saving &amp; Loan
Association of Marina Del Rey, Calif., and Southern
California Savings &amp; Loan Association, Beverly Hills.
   The $4.8 billion-asset Western Federal is generally
healthy; Southern California Savings, with about $2.3 billion
in assets, needs to raise about $35 million. Mr. Parsky said
Southern California Savings should be in compliance late next
year.
   Despite thrift assets currently totaling $10.5 billion,
the Simon group has been relatively quiet on the
thrift-acquisition front in recent months. Some officials
said the group remains committed to expanding itself,
however, and sees increasing opportunities as the government
steps up sales of insolvent thrifts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Customer Rebate Program
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp.'s Oldsmobile division has
increased the rebate on its 1990 Toronado to $2,500 from
$1,500 and has announced a new rebate of $1,000 on its 1990
Cutlass Ciera effective through Aug. 2.
   The Chevrolet division also announced rebates. Both
divisions are offering the option of discount financing terms
ranging from 7.9% to 10.9%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Gallery:
   Oases of Art, Far From the Madding Crowd
   ----
   By Roger Kimball
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Are you weary of the art scene? Have the
staggering prices, the unrelenting hype, the mobbed
blockbusters made you want to call it a day and take a
vacation from art? Cheer up: There are two refreshingly quiet
exhibitions in New York that offer oases from all that.
   Uptown at the Metropolitan Museum you will find "Master
Drawings From the Ian Woodner Family Collection," a rich
sampling from what probably is the most distinguished private
collection of drawings in the U.S. And in midtown, at the
Pierpont Morgan Library, you will find "The Golden Age of
Dutch Manuscript Painting," an exhibition of illuminated
manuscripts from the late 14th through early 16th centuries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While both exhibitions are connoisseurs' delights -- full
of rarities and scholarly puzzles -- they also contain
several surpassingly beautiful works of art accessible to us
all. What's more, both shows are installed in an elegant,
even an understated way, and they seem to have been spared
the huge crowds that make it impossible to savor many popular
museum exhibitions these days.
   Ian Woodner, a real estate developer, architect and
amateur painter, began collecting drawings in the 1950s. The
150 drawings on view at the Met represent about one-sixth of
his collection. Mr. Woodner selected the works for this
exhibition himself. He also commissioned the handsome
scholarly catalog that accompanies it and that provides a
useful thumbnail history of collecting drawings in the U.S.
from colonial times to the present.
   The Woodner drawings span more than six centuries, from
the 14th-century Florentine studies of St. Francis kneeling
to several drawings by such 20th-century masters as Braque,
Matisse and Picasso. Arranged chronologically within school
(Italian, French, German and so on), the exhibition includes
stunning examples of the draftsman's art in metal point,
chalk, pen and ink, charcoal, watercolor and other media.
There are works by Correggio, Botticelli, Cellini, Durer,
Goya, Hans Holbein (father and son), as well as Ingres,
Claude Lorrain, Raphael, Rembrandt, Seurat and Watteau.
Altogether there are drawings by some 50 artists.
   Until fairly recently, drawings were mostly made and
appreciated as preliminary studies, acts of imitation, or as
efforts to solve particular pictorial problems, not as
independent works of art. Thus while several of the items on
view here are highly finished -- Durer's and his contemporary
Hans Hoffmann's painstaking studies of animals, for example,
or Ingres's portrait of Mademoiselle de Borderieux -- many
are to varying degrees rough-hewn, sketchy and seem
spontaneously personal. The very unfinished quality of many
drawings gives them an air of intimacy and immediateness that
the more polished works they presage often lack.
   Mr. Woodner surely is correct in thinking that the drawing
of a satyr by Cellini (a pen-and-ink study for a relief
sculpture that was never executed) and the page from the
Renaissance biographer and painter Giorgio Vasari's book of
drawings are among the highlights of the show. The large page
from Vasari's book -- which he assembled to accompany his
famous "Lives of the Artists" -- contains 10 separate
drawings on its two sides, nine by Filippino Lippi and one by
Botticelli.
   Vasari added decorations to frame the drawings and help
harmonize the images on the page. Pages from Vasari's book
naturally have a special attraction for collectors of
drawings since Vasari was himself the first great collector
of drawings. Unfortunately, very few pages have survived. Mr.
Woodner acquired this one from the Duke of Devonshire in
1984, outbidding the Getty Museum for it.
   There are many other marvelous things in the show: an
exceptionally beautiful head of John the Baptist by the
15th-century Florentine artist Andrea del Sarto, "Christ on
the Road to Emmaus" by Claude Lorrain, a revealing
self-portrait by Degas, an extraordinary late watercolor by
Cezanne.
   The exhibition wavers most as it enters the 20th century.
In particular, Mr. Woodner's passion for Odilon Redon --
there are five drawings by the French surrealist included --
will strike many viewers as excessive, but then Mr. Woodner's
affection for Redon's drawings knows no bounds: He is perhaps
the world's leading collector.
   The Woodner drawings span continents and several
centuries. The exhibition of Dutch illuminated manuscripts at
the Morgan Library is a much more narrowly focused event,
dealing with a single highly specialized art form whose Dutch
incarnation flourished in the 15th century in Utrecht, Delft
and a few other cities in the northern Netherlands.
   Co-organized by the Morgan Library and the Rijksmuseum Het
Catharijneconvent in Utrecht, the exhibition draws on more
than 50 collections and contains some 100 items. Among the
many jewels on view are pages from a Book of Hours done
around 1440 by artists known as the Masters of the Delft
Grisailles. Produced rapidly and in comparatively large
numbers, the grisailles illustrations are simpler and less
luxurious than the best known illuminations of the time. But
their very leanness and sparsely applied gold leaf and color
imbue them with a haunting nimbus of distilled spirituality.
   The centerpiece of the exhibition is the Morgan's own Book
of Hours for Catherine of Cleves, which also was produced in
the 1440s and that generally is regarded as the summit of
Dutch illuminated manuscript artistry. Of the 168
illustrations originally in the book, 157 survive. Painted
with exquisite grace and delicacy, many of the Cleves
illustrations feature an abundance of homey details that give
us a glimpse into the daily life of the times. And the
phantasmagoric picture called "The Mouth of Hell" achieves a
level of surreal fantasy that, as James H. Marrow notes in
his excellent introduction to the catalog, looks forward to
the febrile productions of Hieronymus Bosch.
   As with all the illuminated manuscripts in the exhibition,
the artist of the Cleves Hours is anonymous. What has come
down to us about these artists are a few details about their
commissions, some idea of when and where they were active,
and the extraordinary names by which they are known to
posterity: Master of the Feathery Clouds, Master of the
Playing Cards, Masters of the Suffrages, Masters of the Dark
Eyes.
   There is something peaceful and serene about an exhibition
of illuminated manuscripts, though the subjects depicted
often are anything but placid. There are scenes of hell and
crucifixion and martyrdom aplenty. Moreover, the actual
history of some of these manuscripts is full of intrigue and
perhaps even murder.
   It is said, for example, that a miniature illuminated
prayer book was the death of John of Bavaria. After the death
of William VI in 1417, John had beat out his cousin
Jacqueline to become Count of Holland, Zeeland and Hainaut.
When, in 1424, he died from the effects of poison, Jacqueline
was suspected to have played a part in his demise. In a twist
that might have come from "The Name of the Rose," John was
poisoned not by food or drink but -- according to one
contemporary -- by "venom" smeared "onto my Lord's book,
which was about as large as a nut." It is not clear whether
the book in question is on view at the Morgan. The exhibition
of drawings from the Woodner collection is on view through
May 13. "The Golden Age of Dutch Manuscript Painting" closes
May 6.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   R.H. Macy Says
   Its Loss Narrowed
   In April 28 Quarter
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MZ
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- R.H. Macy &amp; Co. said in a letter to
shareholders that it narrowed losses in its third quarter
ended April 28 on flat sales.
   Although investors won't receive an audited filing for the
company's third quarter before mid-June, Macy management
regularly updates shareholders about the company's
performance. In the year-ago quarter, Macy had a loss of $64
million on revenue of $1.5 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the letter, which was signed by Edward Finkelstein,
chairman, Mark Handler, president, and Myron Ullman,
executive vice president, Macy noted that earnings before
interest, taxes and depreciation had exceeded the $154
million the company reported for the same period last year.
   Macy executives also said they expect fourth-quarter
results will "be similar" to those of the third quarter.
However, they predicted that revenue will probably be higher
because of a planned July preseason sale. One of Macy's
objectives has been to reduce its storewide promotions, a
goal management said it is achieving. Retailers who saw their
Christmas profits disappear because of aggressive
price-cutting are trying to limit such discounting.
   "The letter indicates not only that they had a plan, but
that the plan is working," said Barre W. Littel, a high yield
analyst at First Boston Corp. who recently issued an
optimistic report on Macy's junk bonds. "Macy entered spring
with low inventories, had fewer promotions, and increased
{operating} earnings as a result."
   Mr. Littel noted that Macy continued to keep inventories
down, and by doing so, reduced both borrowings and interest
expense. In its shareholder letter, Macy management said its
inventory expenditures during the third quarter were $250
million below that of the 1989 quarter, a strategy that
enabled the company to cut its seasonal working capital
needs.
   "Macy is working on both blades of the scissors, reducing
the seasonal borrowings and interest expense while improving
margins and operating expenses on the other," added Mr.
Littel.
   In recent weeks Macy bond prices have dropped as anxiety
levels regarding retailer bonds have risen. The Macy 14.5%
senior subordinated debentures due 1998 are being quoted at
about 70.5 cents on the dollar, while the l4.5% subordinated
debentures due 2001 are being quoted at 60 cents on the
dollar.
   Still, others besides First Boston are upbeat about Macy's
bonds. "Assuming a return to a normal retail environment and
a slow-growth economy, they are a good buy," said Clayton
Rose, managing director at J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. "But
even if there is a recession and the company is forced to
restructure on a worst-case basis, the two coupon-paying
bonds have values only five to seven points below current
levels. Given the price level and the yield there is value
for the risk."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tobacco Critics See a Subtle Sell to Kids
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR MO J.SEL ERTS
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Is the tobacco industry marketing to kids?
   Cigarette makers vehemently deny it, but that's one of the
hottest questions being raised by anti-smoking groups. They
cite these recent cases:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   -- A recent memo from an RJR Nabisco Inc. division manager
discussing plans to promote cigarettes with premiums,
typically free gifts, told sales representatives to pinpoint
certain stores -- including those "in close proximity . . .
to high schools."
   -- A new Winston Cup newsletter, published for fans of the
cigarette-sponsored car races, has a "Kids' Korner" with a
puzzle and a contest. The child who writes the funniest
caption for a photo of kids driving mini-race cars past a
Winston Cup banner wins a Winston Cup sweatshirt.
   -- An ad for free Camel T-shirts in Sports Illustrated
magazine has led some teen-agers to call a toll-free number
and say they're older than the offer's limit of 21. After the
shirts arrive, they are mailed coupons for free packs of
Camel.
   In these instances, RJR says any appeal to children was a
mistake, unintended or not its doing. And the tobacco
industry says its advertising is for adult eyes only. Still,
cigarette brands are showing up in a growing number of the
staples of modern youth, such as video games and giveaways
for rock-music compact disks. Critics say tobacco companies
have a powerful economic motive for targeting youths:
Research shows that 90% of people who smoke started before
they were 21.
   What's more, tobacco critics fear that the increasing use
of what they see as youth-oriented promotions is taking hold.
A widely followed University of Michigan survey shows the
prevalence of smoking among high school seniors has been flat
in recent years, but the Gallup Youth Survey, an independent
study of children's behavior, shows that the percentage of
13- to 15-year-olds who smoke jumped to 11% last year from 7%
in 1988.
   "Children have to replenish the market for tobacco
companies," says Rep. Tom Luken (D., Ohio), who has held
several hearings on cigarette marketing to win support for a
bill to severely restrict tobacco ads. "You'd have to be
blind, deaf and insensitive to deny that they are trying to
appeal to young people."
   The tobacco industry denies that it's focusing any
marketing efforts on children. The Tobacco Institute, the
industry trade association, says it has rules to shield
children from promotions. Under the self-imposed measures,
cigarette companies can't advertise in publications read
primarily by young people. They can't use models in ads who
are -- or even appear to be -- under age 25. They can't offer
free samples to people under 21. And they can't offer samples
within two blocks of schools, college campuses or
playgrounds.
   An RJR spokeswoman says the memo dealing with high schools
was simply a "mistake." The memo, issued in January by a
division manager in Sarasota, Fla., was corrected within 48
hours, she says, to explain that the manager clearly violated
company policy in targeting secondary-school children. She
adds that the manager was disciplined, but wouldn't
elaborate.
   Critics of the tobacco industry acknowledge the absence of
a "smoking gun" in the apparent connection between the
tobacco industry and children. For instance, RJR, which makes
Winston cigarettes, says it never saw or approved a copy of
the Winston Cup newsletter. Sunbelt Video Inc. of Charlotte,
N.C., which produces a Winston Cup TV show, says it published
the newsletter for the show's race fans, including children.
   But critics say the subtleness of the marketing is what
makes it such a problem. Cigarette companies "are very
clever. They aren't sponsoring cartoon shows on Saturday
morning or going to kindergarten classes and giving away free
cigarettes," says Joe B. Tye, president of Stop Teenage
Addiction to Tobacco. "You have to look at a lot of
circumstantial evidence."
   One piece of evidence surfaced last summer in testimony by
a former Winston model before a congressional subcommittee.
David Goerlitz, a model who appeared in Winston ads during
the 1980s, said the ads were designed "to appeal to children
and teen-agers." Mr. Goerlitz said RJR marketing experts
interviewed teen-agers in shopping malls, showing them
pictures of him and other "Winston men" to choose the most
effective photos for the ads -- a charge RJR denies.
   More recently, the subcommittee's attention has turned to
whether cigarette names appearing in video-arcade games are
an advertising ploy. Doctors Ought to Care, an anti-smoking
group, recently asked the Federal Trade Commission to
investigate certain games. In one, Super Monaco GP, Marlboro
race cars whiz past Marlboro signs. Philip Morris Cos., which
makes Marlboro, says it didn't approve the use of its logos
and demanded that the machine's maker, Sega Enterprises Inc.
of San Jose, Calif., drop the Marlboro name from the games.
   Sega, which says it is removing the trademarks, says they
appeared as "a game designer's innocent attempt to mimic"
real racing.
   Sega and Philip Morris say they had no agreement on using
the Marlboro name, but smoking critics have their doubts.
Indeed, the flap even prompted a bill, being considered by
legislators in Sega's home state of California, to outlaw any
mention of cigarette or alcohol brands in video games used
mainly by minors.
   Home video games may come into the spotlight next. Ferrari
Formula One, computer racing software made by Electronic Arts
of San Mateo, Calif., shows the Marlboro name on the box
cover several times, and the game itself shows the Marlboro
logo on a car driver's helmet, on signs and on the car.
Philip Morris and Electronic Arts say they had no agreement
to include the Marlboro logo in the game.
   A Philip Morris offer of a free rock-music compact disk
with the purchase of its Parliament Lights cigarettes early
last year drew a stinging editorial from CD Review magazine.
"It's pitiful that the CD is being aligned with the stench of
cigarettes," wrote Larry Canale, the magazine's executive
editor. "Parliament is targeting a young crowd -- the
impressionable 16- to 17-year-olds who are most attracted to
the type of music on the disk." Philip Morris counters that
the promotion was actually aimed at adult consumers, who buy
the bulk of CDs, and says it specifically selected artists,
such as Tina Turner, to appeal to older listeners.
   RJR's Camel advertising has been widely criticized for its
appeal to children. Intentional or not, the redesigned
cartoon camel character, accompanied by beautiful women and
race cars and jets, has intrigued youngsters. Tobacco
billboard opponent Jacqueline Jackson says that when she
recently asked fifth- and sixth-graders at Detroit's J.R.
King Elementary School what they knew about Camel, they
rattled off specific details from ads: the kind of jackets
the camel wears, the number of planes shown and the types of
cars. At Atlanta's Northside High School, Camel hats have
been hot items.
   RJR says it doesn't believe the Camel cartoon campaign
appeals to children. And the brand itself, says a
spokeswoman, is targeted mainly at 21- to 30-year olds.
   The free Camel T-shirt promotion has been particularly
controversial. At a congressional hearing in March, Rep. Jim
Slattery (D., Kan.) charged that youths were the real goal of
the advertising. He told of a 13-year-old in Simsbury, Conn.,
who called the ad's toll-free number, indicated he was over
21 (the minimum age for the offer), and was added to a
company mailing list. Shortly after he received the T-shirt,
the boy was mailed a flier for three free packs of Camels.
"When you are giving away T-shirts, you are targeting
children," said Rep. Slattery in his testimony. "You aren't
targeting adults."
   RJR records show the boy claimed he was 24 and smoked
Marlboro Lights, a spokeswoman says. "Parents ultimately have
to be responsible for whether or not their children lie," she
says.
   Tobacco critics say even subtle imagery should be stamped
out. Bubble-gum cigarettes modeled after real brands have
been sold for years, and toys have popped up resembling
cigarette packs and lighters. Cigarette makers say they try
to eradicate trademark infringements.
   But smoking activists say the companies ignore such
products because having their brand names mixed with candy
names, on store shelves or in vending machines, adds an air
of respectability to otherwise controversial products. In
contrast, says Edward Popper, a tobacco expert and marketing
professor at Bryant College, Smithfield, R.I., "If someone
came up with fake Coca-Cola, Coke attorneys would be in their
office immediately."
   John W. Richards Jr., who is president of Doctors Ought to
Care and has written medical journal articles on the effects
of tobacco ads on youths, worries that the pervasiveness of
cigarette names sends a dangerous message to youngsters --
namely, that cigarettes can't be all that bad if they appear
in videos, on billboards and at sporting events.
   Some children do seem to take cigarette advertising for
granted. When the Junior League of Washington dispatched
junior high students to collect information for an alcohol
and tobacco billboard study last year, one student, Angela
Austin, jotted some notes about a Salem ad. "It makes me
mad," she wrote, referring to some graffiti around the ad.
She was unfazed, however, by the placement of the Salem ad on
an ice cream truck.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Posts Gains Against the Mark
   Despite German Monetary Agreement
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar rose yesterday against the mark as
an agreement was announced for monetary unification of the
two Germanys, but the U.S. unit lost some ground against the
yen on a recovery in Tokyo stock prices.
   Sterling was little changed against the dollar ahead of
today's local council elections in Britain. Though the
elections don't involve Parliament, they are seen as a
barometer of the strength of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher
and are expected to result in losses for her governing
Conservative Party.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Traders said the mark lost ground despite the announcement
of terms for the monetary unification because conditions in
West Germany will remain unsettled while the plan is
implemented. Earlier, some market participants had expected
that agreement on terms would benefit the mark by removing
uncertainties.
   Under the plan, which was announced in Bonn and East
Berlin early in the New York trading day, most East Germans
will be able to exchange 4,000 East German marks in cash and
savings for West German marks at a 1-to-1 rate, while those
60 years old and over will be able to change 6,000 East
German marks at 1-to-1. Those 14 years old and under will be
able to change 2,000 East German marks at the 1-to-1 rate.
   The agreement, negotiated Monday and Tuesday by a
commission of East German and West German officials, differed
slightly from the original proposal by the government of
Chancellor Helmut Kohl, which had offered to exchange 4,000
East German marks at the 1-to-1 rate for each East German and
contained no special provisions for different age groups. The
accord will take effect on July 2.
   The Germans also established a new official 2-to-1 rate
for East German-West German mark transactions, replacing the
3-to-1 official rate in force since Jan. 1, and agreed to
convert East German liabilities at a 2-to-1 rate. Safeguards
against speculation in East German marks were also set.
   Participants said the market will be focusing on the West
German central bank in the wake of the announcement of the
pact, watching to see when it raises interest rates to offset
inflationary pressures.
   But they cautioned that the central bank isn't likely to
raise rates right away, preferring to wait and see how many
marks are changed at 1-to-1 and what the East Germans do with
them, developments that won't be completely clear for some
time.
   In the meantime, the mark will weaken a bit against the
dollar and other major currencies as participants take
advantage of the uncertainty in West Germany to sell the West
German unit, said Andrew Busch, senior mark dealer at Harris
Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago.
   Mr. Busch said another source of trouble for the mark
yesterday came from a second round of warning strikes by IG
Metall, West Germany's powerful workers union. About 200
plants in North Rhine -- Westphalia and northern Baden --
Wuerttemberg were affected, far higher than the 10 plants
affected by similar warning strikes Monday. The total number
of striking workers claimed by the union was 68,000, slightly
higher than Monday's 65,000.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6848 marks, up from 1.6808 marks late Tuesday, and at
157.95 yen, down from 158.83 yen late Tuesday. Sterling was
quoted at $1.6425, down from $1.6445 late Tuesday.
   Meanwhile, the dollar fell almost one yen as market
participants began to reassess their bearish stance on the
yen in light of the improved performance of Japanese stock
prices. But participants said the Japanese unit also was
helped by the thinness of the market, in which a few large
yen buy orders caused exaggerated movement. The Japanese will
observe holidays Thursday and Friday as part of the "Golden
Week" of holidays in Japan.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $369.50 an ounce, down 50 cents.
Estimated volume was a light 2.2 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Thursday, gold was quoted at $369.90 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Olsten Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OLS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   OLSTEN Corp. (Westbury, N.Y.) -- Gordon J. Bingham,
previously a senior vice president, strategic planning at
Ryder System Inc., was named senior vice president, sales and
marketing, a new position, at this temporary personnel
services concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Johnson &amp; Johnson
   Unit's Hepatitis C Kit
   Is Approved by FDA
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ CHIR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Food and Drug Administration approved a
hepatitis C test kit developed by Ortho Diagnostics Systems
Inc., a unit of Johnson &amp; Johnson.
   The kit, which is used to detect hepatitis C in blood for
transfusions, includes a biotechnologically derived
recombinant antigen developed by Chiron Corp. of Ermeyville,
Calif. Chiron, whose stock is traded over the counter, has
licensed the product to Ortho.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The antigen detects the presence of the antibody to
hepatitis C, which is "responsible for the majority of
post-transfusion hepatitis cases," according to an FDA
spokeswoman. There are 170,000 new infections of hepatitis C
each year.
   The FDA is recommending the new screening test to all
blood banks. A spokesman for Ortho said the company will
begin shipping the test kits immediately.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Wide-Ranging Bill to Broaden Access
   For Handicapped Clears House Panel
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Judiciary Committee approved a
wide-ranging bill that would open up access for handicapped
people to employment and public accommodations.
   The panel voted 32-3 for the bill, clearing the way for a
vote by the full House, possibly this month. Three other
House committees -- Labor and Education, Public Works and
Transportation, and Interstate and Foreign Commerce -- all
have given their green lights to various provisions of the
legislation. The Senate approved a similar bill late last
year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, a significant stumbling block has been created,
related to the issue of whether to allow an expansion of the
legal remedies available to disabled people who are
discriminated against as job seekers or holders. Groups
representing the disabled want those remedies to include
compensatory and punitive damages and the right to jury
trials, the same remedies that are among those provided by a
major civil-rights bill pending in Congress.
   The civil-rights bill would overturn several recent
Supreme Court decisions, which tended to rein in some legal
gains made over the years by plaintiffs in sex- and
race-discrimination cases.
   But the Bush administration, congressional Republicans and
business groups want the disability bill limited to the same
legal remedies provided by existing civil-rights law. These
remedies were part of a compromise on the disability bill
reached by all parties last year, when the Senate was
considering the measure. They would include collecting back
pay for hiring or job discrimination and court injunctions to
require hiring, promotion or job reinstatement.
   During the House Judiciary Committee's consideration of
the bill yesterday, an amendment offered by Rep. James
Sensenbrenner (R., Wis.) to limit the employment remedies to
the current civil-rights act was defeated on a voice vote.
   Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said in a March letter to
Rep. Steny Hoyer (D., Md.) and others in the House that the
administration would support such a "clarifying amendment,"
and continue its vigorous backing for the disability bill
with that change. But Mr. Thornburgh expressed administration
opposition to an expansion of the employment remedies,
calling the remedies provision in the compromise Senate bill
"a very critical element."
   In return for that compromise, he said the administration
had agreed to "broad coverage" under the disability bill's
public-accommodations provisions, by including such
establishments as grocery stores, retail stores, doctors' and
lawyers' offices and drugstores, all "necessary for people
with disabilities to be truly in the mainstream."
   Such coverage is broader than Title II of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, the attorney general said, which essentially
prohibits race discrimination in hotels, motels, restaurants,
gasoline stations and places of public entertainment.
   Disability groups say the expanded remedies are vital to
give the handicapped "parallel" rights to those that the
civil-rights bill would provide for other groups. But G. John
Tysse, vice president and general counsel of the Labor Policy
Association, a group of personnel executives for large
corporations, said the legal remedies in the measure, if tied
to the civil-rights bill, would mean a "litigation
nightmare."
   "All the negotiation we did last summer is out the window.
Until this is fixed, we've got major problems with the bill,"
Mr. Tysse said.
   A Justice Department spokeswoman said that the department
is "disappointed" with the defeat of the Sensenbrenner
amendment, but that the administration still supports the
thrust of the bill -- addressing the "special needs and
rights of the disabled."
   President Bush, in fact, told a meeting of the President's
Committee on Employment of People with Disabilities here
yesterday that disabled people have waited long enough for
equality, and urged the House to pass the disability bill.
His remarks were made before the Judiciary Committee's action
on the measure.
   Besides banning discrimination against disabled people in
employment and in access to public buildings, the legislation
would prohibit discrimination against the handicapped in
transportation access. This would include making Amtrak and
commuter-rail service accessible, along with new mass-transit
and intercity buses and subway trains, rebuilt mass-transit
vehicles, and new transit stations and facilities. Special
door-to-door buses or vans and other such services must be
made available to many handicapped people.
   Telecommunications services would also have to be
provided, allowing deaf people to send or receive messages
using computer keyboards and screens. Those communications
would be linked to voice-relay services, provided by
telephone operators.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Morgan Stanley: Program Powerhouse
   ---
   Firm Woos Clients
   With High Tech
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Morgan Stanley Group Inc. has emerged as the
most powerful program trading firm on Wall Street, following
a big shakeout in the business after October's "minicrash."
   In the first quarter, the investment-banking firm traded
more than 100 million shares a month in computer-assisted
program trading strategies, according to New York Stock
Exchange data, or about as much volume as the entire Big
Board does on some slow days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Morgan Stanley's recent program trading is far more active
than that of any firm since the Big Board began releasing
data in 1988. It's even more striking because Morgan Stanley
and most other firms say they're no longer doing program
trading for themselves, only for customers.
   In March, Morgan Stanley traded as many shares as Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co., Philadelphia's Susquehanna Investment Group, a
program-trading specialist, and PaineWebber Group Inc.
combined. Morgan alone did 31.6% of the total program trading
volume in the first three months of this year. Program
trading accounts for about 10% of daily Big Board volume.
   Morgan Stanley's emergence as Wall Street's
program-trading powerhouse is partly attributable to its
competitors' queasiness over the strategy after the public
outcry against program trading late last year after the
October market plunge. Program trading involves the rapid
buying and selling of large baskets of stocks, and critics
have especially blamed one form of it, stock-index arbitrage,
for making the market more volatile. Morgan Stanley, by
keeping its doors wide open to customers, obviously thinks
the volatility debate is an open question.
   Another reason Morgan Stanley advanced to the head of the
program trading class is the increasing emphasis among
investors on computerized trading strategies in stocks,
futures and options markets around the world. Also, managers
of stock-index funds say Morgan Stanley has wooed clients
with its hot technology and trading dexterity.
   "I think they've continued to make a big investment in
technology," says Jeffrey Geller, managing director at BEA
Associates Inc., a large money management firm that uses
program trading.
   Last year, Morgan Stanley was in head-to-head competition
with such firms as Salomon Inc., General Electric Co.'s
Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., PaineWebber and Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
for top billing as a program trader for both customer and
proprietary accounts. But since the October minicrash, all of
these firms cut back or ceased stock-index arbitrage, the
most debated form of program trading, partly out of concern
for the market but also to keep small investors coming to
their retail brokerage offices.
   Morgan Stanley has no small investors to worry about and
is able to keep its doors open for those institutional
customers who want to use stock-index arbitrage strategies.
   Morgan Stanley's spokesmen have little to say on why the
firm is doing so much program trading. The firm is, in part,
cashing in on the demise in February of Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc., which created a big scare on Wall Street about
other firms and their stock-clearing operations. A number of
clients, who wanted to clear big trades through a stable
firm, migrated to Morgan Stanley, which boasts that its
clearing and settlement operations are as safe, fast and
efficient as any on the Street.
   Yet Morgan Stanley's activities have raised eyebrows among
some investors. The active trading by the firm's customers
appears in some cases to ignore the New York Stock Exchange's
request last November for a voluntary pullback from program
trading in times of volatile markets. A panel appointed by
the exchange currently is studying market volatility and
program trading as part of the exchange's response to the
public's outcry; results aren't expected until next month.
Morgan Stanley's chairman, S. Parker Gilbert, is a Big Board
director and member of the panel.
   The Big Board implored member firms to "ask their
customers to refrain from program trading, unless those
trades would have a stabilizing influence on the market." The
exchange's request was tantamount to a cease-and-desist
order, but it has been clearly ignored by the clients of
Morgan Stanley and other firms.
   For example, on Jan. 24, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
fell 60.42 points in the first half-hour of trading. During
that period Morgan Stanley sold 226,000 shares for a client.
Among other sellers, Susquehanna Investment Group sold
466,000 shares, PaineWebber 460,000, Merrill Lynch 219,000,
and Kidder Peabody 154,000.
   "All we can do is make sure customers are aware of the New
York Stock Exchange's position," a Morgan Stanley
spokesperson says. "But they have a need to adjust their
exposure to the market, and we can't tell them they can't
trade. They need access to the market."
   And Morgan Stanley prides itself on providing this access.
While other firms have shifted their program-trading focus
away from the U.S. to foreign markets, Morgan Stanley has
absorbed many clients who trade in the U.S. market.
   "They are good at client relationships," says Jeremy
Lefkowitz, managing director at Chancellor Capital Management
Inc.
   Individuals familiar with the firm's activities, speaking
on the condition they weren't identified, say Morgan
Stanley's rising market share in program trading may reflect
the firm's large technological investment in its trading
businesses. For example, the firm is currently negotiating
with Sun Microsystems Inc. and other concerns to purchase
several high-performance computer workstations. The people
familiar with the firm said the workstations will help link
trading departments to a central computer. In addition, these
workstations will allow Morgan Stanley traders to use some of
the hottest automated trading systems on the market today.
   Morgan Stanley recently installed a computer in its
trading room that carries an artificial intelligence trading
package designed by Dale Prouty, a physicist who has turned
his talents to the securities business as head of a company
called Integrated Analytics Corp. Mr. Prouty's brainchild,
called "MarketMind," is a powerful market-surveillance system
that can give traders up-to-the-second data on relationships
among hundreds of stocks, stock baskets, futures and options.
   While about half of Morgan Stanley's program trading in a
typical month involves stock-index arbitrage-rapid trades
among stocks, stock-index futures and options -- the other
half involves a variety of portfolio trading strategies.
George Douglas, formerly head of Drexel's quantitative
trading and research team, says Morgan Stanley is one of the
most aggressive firms when it comes to winning portfolio
trading business.
   "We've evaluated the capability of leading firms, and in
terms of aggressiveness and pricing, Morgan Stanley is right
at the top," says Mr. Douglas, now chairman of a consulting
firm, Dais Group Inc. He adds that many foreign investors are
using U.S. brokers to buy baskets of stocks. Also, Morgan
Stanley is said to be a large broker in already completed
arbitrage trades. Stock-index arbitrage is considered by many
money managers an alternative to short-term investments such
as Treasury bills. Brokers such as Morgan Stanley will sell
these money managers stock-index arbitrage trades that
usually deliver a return on investment a bit higher than
short-term interest rates. These trades are typically done in
London to get around technical rules in the U.S. market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   F ITT EUROP F.BNP PA FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford Capital BV -- $400 million of notes, due May 15,
2002, priced as 9 7/8% securities at 99.463 to yield 9.952%.
The noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 86 basis
points above the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated double-A-2 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and double-A by Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters led
by First Boston Corp. Ford Capital BV is the Dutch finance
subsidiary of Ford Motor Co. The notes are guaranteed by Ford
Motor.
   ITT Corp. -- $150 million of notes, due May 9, 1991,
priced at par to yield 9.125%. The noncallable notes were
priced at a spread of 50 basis points above the bond
equivalent yield of the Treasury's one-year bill. Rated
single-A-2 by Moody's and single-A by S&amp;P, the issue will be
sold through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Federal Farm Credit Banks -- $125 million issue of bonds,
due May 23, 1994, priced initially at par to yield 9.44%, or
a spread of 31 basis points above the Treasury's four-year
note. The bonds, which are noncallable for two years, will be
reoffered at various prices through Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Commercial Credit Corp. -- $100 million of step-down
floating rate notes, due Nov. 13, 1991, priced at par to
float initially at a spread of 30 basis points above the
Federal Reserve's double-A rated 30-day commercial paper
rate. The rate on the noncallable notes will be reset monthly
with the first coupon set occuring on May 8. As part of the
stepdown feature, the notes will begin to float at a spread
of 25 basis points above the Fed's double-A 30-day commercial
paper rate starting Nov. 14, 1990. The notes are known as
step-down notes because the spread at which the notes float
tightens over time. Rated Baa-1 by Moody's and single-A-minus
by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNCIPALS
                                                                                                       

   New York State Mortgage Agency -- $111.7 million bonds
were repriced by a Bear Stearns &amp; Co. group late Tuesday. The
issue consists of Series OO term bonds and Series PP term
bonds. The Series OO bonds, which are super-sinker term
bonds, are 7.90% securities, priced at par due in 2010 and
8.05% securities, priced at par due in 2011. The Series PP
bonds, which are taxable, are 10.37% securities priced at par
due in 2005 and 10.75% securities priced at par due in 2012.
The bonds have been rated double-A by by Moody's.
   Indiana Health Facilities Authority -- $70 million revenue
bonds, tentatively priced by a First Boston Corp. group. The
bonds, for Bartholomew County Hospital Project, were priced
to yield from 6.80% in 1994 to 7.85% in 2020. The issue has
been rated triple-A by S&amp;P and is Capital Guaranty insured.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Banque Nationale de Paris -- 10 billion yen of step-down
coupon bonds due June 5, 1996, priced at 101 7/8, via JP
Morgan Securities. In first year, coupon is 18%, in the
second, 10%, in the third and fourth year 4% and in the fifth
and six year 2.4%.
   National Bank of Hungary (Hungary) -- 200 million Deutsche
marks of 9 3/4% bonds due May 29, 1996, priced at par, via
Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank (DG Bank).
   World Bank (agency) -- $150 million (Canadian) of 13 1/4%
Eurobonds due May 31, 1995, priced at 101 5/8 to yield 13.28%
less fees, via IBJ International. Fees 1 3/4.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Virginia Gov. Wilder, Mr. Inside, Challenges
   A More Charismatic Mr. Outside, Jesse Jackson
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- At about 9 o'clock Saturday night, Virginia
Gov. Douglas Wilder will step to the podium at Atlanta's
Westin Peachtree Plaza Hotel and deliver a polite lecture to
the Rev. Jesse Jackson and his National Rainbow Coalition.
   Mr. Wilder, the nation's first black elected governor, has
been criss-crossing the country, preaching a message of
Democratic party unity and mainstream values that sometimes
seems to be targeted directly at the prickly, thin-skinned
Mr. Jackson, a two-time presidential candidate who may decide
to run again in 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gov. Wilder will deliver his message personally Saturday
night in the lion's den -- to Mr. Jackson himself and to
about 1,000 of the people who worked for him, campaigned for
him and attended national conventions as his delegates and
alternates.
   "People call it 'The War of the Roses,'" says Joseph
Johnson, executive director of Mr. Jackson's Rainbow
Coalition, referring to a movie in which an angry couple
destroys almost everything they own. "But that's not fair."
   Fair or not, the contest between these two black leaders
is more and more perceived as a battle between Mr. Inside and
Mr. Outside. Mr. Inside, Gov. Wilder, spent 16 years in the
Virginia state senate and served four years as lieutenant
governor before being elected governor last year. Mr.
Outside, the charismatic Mr. Jackson, has never been elected
to any public office and disappointed some of his friends by
declining to run for mayor of Washington this year.
   National Democrats who quake at the prospect of another
Jackson presidential campaign see Mr. Wilder as a checkmate
to Mr. Jackson's ambitions and possibly even as a running
mate to the party's 1992 nominee.
   Gov. Wilder has surprised some of his friends by the
eagerness with which he has stepped forward to challenge both
Mr. Jackson's position as his party's premier black
politician and his views on how the party should proceed to
become competitive once again in presidential elections.
   Mr. Wilder calls, first of all, for the kind of party
unity in which politicians who lose agree to support the
people who win, without cavil. In both 1984 and 1988, Mr.
Jackson demanded concessions and special treatment from the
winners of the party's presidential nomination, Walter
Mondale first, then Michael Dukakis.
   "If those who fail to win in our primaries don't reject
their sense of injury and unite behind our candidates -- come
election day it will be Democratic nominees who are
rejected," says Gov. Wilder, in a remark that could hardly be
more pointed (though he insists he isn't singling out Mr.
Jackson).
   Mr. Wilder's chief political adviser, Virginia party
chairman Paul Goldman, sponsored a resolution at the most
recent meeting of the Democratic National Committee's
executive commitee calling for an end to "internecine
political warfare" within the party and urging "all
Democrats, especially those with prior experience in the
presidential primary process," to take steps to remedy the
problem. It, too, could hardly be more pointed. The
resolution was passed unanimously.
   But perhaps even more importantly, Mr. Wilder is
challenging Mr. Jackson on the basic direction the Democratic
Party should take to once again become competitive in
presidential elections.
   As Mr. Wilder sees it, the nation is "being asked to
choose between two great forces -- the forces that are locked
in the past and the forces that look to the future." Needless
to say, he comes down on the side of the future. "This force
of the future," he says, "is what I call America's New
Mainstream, that uniquely American combination of solid
family values and individual initiative that knows our best
years are ahead of us."
   He boasts that he balanced his state's budget by cutting
$1 billion in spending. Democrats, he says, face "a choice
between individuals who intend to lead a government which
promotes fiscal responsibility and an ability to compete in a
global economy {and} government that runs up huge deficits
and ignores fundamental changes in economic reality."
   Throwing money at social problems isn't "a panacea" for
everything, Gov. Wilder says. More important is "the power of
economic development. For we know that it's among the
greatest of all social equalizers."
   Mr. Jackson -- neither he nor Mr. Wilder would be
interviewed about their relationship -- dismisses the
governor's talk about a new mainstream. In a recent speech in
New Orleans, Mr. Jackson said: "For those who are not in the
mainstream, does that mean backwater? Does that mean
cesspool? We want justice to roll down like a mighty stream,
not like a narrow mainstream."
   While Mr. Wilder addresses ordinary voters struggling with
paying their bills and worrying about crime and drugs, Mr.
Jackson continues to concentrate on the victims of society,
the jobless, the workers on picket lines, even, frequently,
the fate of oppressed people in Third World nations. He
spends much of his time recalling the triumphs of his
mentors, including the Rev. Martin Luther King, and reciting
his own primary successes in his two presidential campaigns.
   "The governor doesn't wallow in the past," asserts Mr.
Goldman, his political adviser. "Others" -- he refuses to
single out Mr. Jackson -- "tell you what's wrong. But you've
got to tell people what they've accomplished just to keep
them going."
   Mr. Goldman believes Gov. Wilder can deliver that message
credibly because he has come such a long way himself, working
his way up the political ladder. "The Rev. Jackson has taken
another approach," says Mr. Goldman. "I just think people
have been more successful working their way up than
parachuting from the top of Mt. Everest. The Rev. Jackson
thinks he should start at the top."
   Mr. Wilder's approach has won him some unlikely allies --
including the conservative Democratic Leadership Council,
among whose founders was Mr. Wilder's old nemesis, Virginia
Sen. Charles Robb. "His message, basically, is our message,"
says Al From, the DLC's executive director. "He has done what
all successful Democratic politicians have done in recent
years. He has combined a progressive social approach with
fiscal responsibility and toughness on crime. He's the
paradigm of the new Democratic politician. He drives Jackson
up the wall."
   But the battle for the Democratic mind and soul is far
from over. It isn't just Mr. Jackson who objects to Mr.
Wilder's mainstream convictions. It's many liberal white
activists in the party, too. "The part they disagree with
most," says one leading Democrat, "is fiscal conservatism.
Many liberal Democrats believe now is the time to take some
resources and apply them to problems." Many of these
Democrats were in the audience when Mr. Wilder addressed the
California state Democratic convention last month. It was the
one occasion, so far, when he drew mixed reviews.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Dynasty Classics Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DNST
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DYNASTY CLASSICS Corp., a Carson, Calif., home decor
maker, announced an intial public offering of 2,529,700
common shares at $11.25 a share, via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and
Salomon Brothers Inc., with 2.5 million to be sold in a new
financing by the company and 29,700 shares to be sold by a
shareholder. Proceeds will be used to redeem $1.5 million in
preferred stock outstanding to repay short-term debt and
working capital requirements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Monsanto Taps NutraSweet's Shapiro
   To Lead Agricultural-Products Business
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MTC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Monsanto Co., in a broad reassignment of top managers,
plucked Robert B. Shapiro from its NutraSweet Co. unit to
head its big agricultural-products business.
   The move places Mr. Shapiro, who established a reputation
as a marketing whiz at NutraSweet, in the race for the
president's post at Monsanto when its current occupant, Earle
H. Harbison Jr., retires. Mr. Shapiro is 51 years old, and
Mr. Harbison is 61.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I thought this was a good opportunity to broaden the
background of Bob Shapiro," said Richard J. Mahoney,
Monsanto's chairman and chief executive officer.
   Mr. Mahoney, 56, also acknowledged that Mr. Shapiro is now
in the line of succession to the highest executive posts at
Monsanto, a diversified chemicals concern based in St. Louis.
But he added that there are other candidates and various
reasons for the management shuffle, which takes effect June
1.
   The other executive often named as in the running for the
president's post is Robert G. Potter, 51, the president of
Monsanto's core chemicals company. Under the new arrangement,
he and Mr. Shapiro both become corporate executive vice
presidents. Mr. Potter had been a corporate group vice
president.
   At the agricultural-chemicals business, Mr. Shapiro
succeeds Nicholas L. Reding, who will remain an executive
vice president but will have responsibility for programs in
environment, safety, health and manufacturing. Some
chemical-industry analysts observed that Mr. Reding's age,
55, may have weighed against him in succession issues if
Monsanto is planning who ultimately will take Mr. Mahoney's
place.
   Mr. Mahoney dismissed that speculation, noting that
Monsanto has recently taken strong stands on environmental
protection and that Mr. Reding, unlike his predecessor in the
top environmental job, will report directly to the chief
executive. "I wanted Reding on the environment, working very
closely with me," Mr. Mahoney said. "That's all there is to
say."
   As the new president of Monsanto Agricultural Co., Mr.
Shapiro will be running a business that last year earned $432
million pretax on sales of $1.72 billion. His jobs will
include protecting the company's big-selling Roundup
herbicide, which is beginning to go off patent in several
markets, and overseeing the market introduction of new crop
chemicals in the Monsanto pipeline.
   Mr. Shapiro, who of late has served on the advisory
committee of the agricultural company, will also have to
establish himself in the farm industry, where Mr. Reding has
strong ties. In recent years, "there has been a change for
the better at Monsanto as far as the customer is concerned,"
said Keith Boyer, president of Brayton Chemical Co., a
Burlington, Iowa, distributor of crop chemicals.
   A lawyer by training, Mr. Shapiro saw his star rise at the
NutraSweet unit, where he was chairman and chief executive.
He made a huge success of NutraSweet's aspartame sweetener,
managing to get food companies to pay a premium while
displaying the ingredient's logo on their own products. Last
year, NutraSweet had pretax profit of $180 million on sales
of $869 million, even after about a $170 million charge
related to patent values.
   "I'm glad to see Monsanto will reach anywhere for
management talent," said Leslie Ravitz, a chemical-industry
analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc., arguing that Mr. Shapiro's
marketing savvy will serve him well in the competitive
crop-chemicals field. But at Anantha Raman &amp; Co., analyst Pat
O'Brien expressed surprise that Monsanto would pick someone
from a legal and consumer-products background to run a
farm-related business. "It's nothing short of phenomenal,"
she said.
   Succeeding Mr. Shapiro at NutraSweet will be Robert E.
Flynn, 56, currently chairman and chief executive of
Monsanto's Fisher Controls International Inc., a maker of
process-control valves and other equipment. That appointment
also raised some questions, since Mr. Flynn lacks
consumer-products experience outside his service on the
NutraSweet board.
   But Mr. Mahoney, the Monsanto chief executive, called Mr.
Flynn "a very well-rounded businessman" who will arrive at
NutraSweet during a period when it plans to rapidly expand
production capacity and shave costs. Mr. Flynn will also
oversee the protection of the aspartame franchise as it loses
patent protection in the U.S. in 1992 and early marketing of
NutraSweet's new Simplesse fat substitute.
   Larry W. Solley, 48, currently a group vice president at
Fisher, will succeed Mr. Flynn there.
   Harold J. Corbett, 62, a corporate senior vice president
in charge of environmental and other affairs, will retire in
1991. In the interim, he will assist Mr. Reding.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Monsanto closed at $101.125, up $1.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Common-Sense IMF Needed for a Repentant Third World
   ----
   By Michael Manley
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The exhilarating political transformation in Eastern
Europe has removed a major threat to democracy. But threats
outside Eastern Europe to countries which have been in the
"trenches of democracy" for generations remain.
   Some of those countries, like Jamaica today, stand at the
threshold of economic growth. In the past, many leaders,
myself included, placed too much reliance on government
involvement in the production of goods and services. Now we
are part of a general agreement that private sectors
operating in market conditions provide the best means to
economic growth and development. We have developed strong
private sectors, have for years attempted to implement
International Monetary Fund stabilization programs and World
Bank structural adjustment programs -- but find our economies
burdened by debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, the intractable rules of lending
agencies frustrate rather than stimulate economic growth.
Without that growth, the social progress that is both the
implied promise of the democratic system and the expectation
of its practitioners, is impossible to sustain.
   Third World debt has tripled in the past nine years, from
$600 billion to $1.8 trillion. There are three main kinds of
international debt. First, there is debt owed to commercial
banks. Second, there is government-to-government, or
bilateral debt. Third, there is debt owed to multilateral
lending agencies such as the IMF, the World Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank. This is the type of debt
that makes up a large portion of the loans owed by the
English-speaking nations of the Caribbean.
   Multilateral debt has two distinct disadvantages: No
rescheduling whatsoever is permitted. And the Brady Plan's
debt relief applies only to commercial debt, not IMF and
other agencies' loans.
   In the case of Jamaica, only 8% of our debt is commercial,
while 45% is owed to multilateral agencies. Clearly, in our
case a Brady Plan has little relevance. Further, our total
debt of $4.5 billion represents some 180% of the island's
gross national product, and debt servicing requires 40% of
our annual export receipts. Jamaica is one of the most
indebted nations on a percapita basis.
   Obviously, the island's capacity for sustained growth is
severely constrained by this burden, despite a confident and
aggressive private sector that enjoys both the confidence and
backing of the government and the cooperation of the trade
union movement. Expansion plans are constantly frustrated by
the shortage of foreign exchange and even private foreign
capital, which we solicit and encourage vigorously, tends to
be apprehensive.
   Finally, Jamaica is burdened by the fact that no
rescheduling of any loan from a multilateral agency is
permitted. Every single dollar of interest and principal
repayment must be met, in terms of the original agreement, on
the due date -- or we face the prospect of the suspension of
all disbursements under existing programs. In 1988-89, the
net flow of capital from Jamaica to the IMF and the World
Bank was -- incredibly -- $208 million. During this period,
the island borrowed $70 million.
   Normally, one would not have any quarrel with these strict
arrangements, which would be the normal and proper
obligations of a commercial debtor. But these are not normal
times, nor is this a normal situation. The whole world shares
responsibility for the debt crisis. The inflationary
explosion following the Vietnam War and the OPEC oil price
hikes, the ensuing stagnation, rising interest rates and
tightening money market, the careless lending of commercial
banks, the inexperience or in some cases shortsighted
borrowing by developing countries together with many other
factors contributed to the crisis in which we are all now
trapped.
   Ironically, there have been great advances in
debtor-country management capabilities and understanding of
strict financial prudence. And there is now general reliance
upon market-driven strategies of private-sector-led growth.
However, all these incalculable advantages garnered from
experience to provide the basis for a new maturity in today's
debtor countries are negated by the sheer weight of the debt
burden.
   The lending agencies exert pressure to force debtor
countries to implement immediately policies that may be
justified in strict economic theory but that are impossible
to attain overnight. Import duties and internal interest
policies are good examples. High duties encourage
inefficiency but their immediate removal can kill off
industries that could become competitive if given time to
adjust. In the area of interest rates one lending agency is
proposing policies that would require Jamaican small farmers
to pay 22% on development loans. No business can hope to
expand successfully at that interest rate.
   Third World debtor countries represent more than half of
humanity, that is to say, more than half of the potential
market for the exports of creditor nations. The debt crisis
restricts the capacity of developing countries to buy the
exports of developed countries -- which, in turn, hurts
developed nations.
   I am not advocating a retreat from the sanctity of
contract, nor do I expect Jamaica to be permitted to walk
away from its debt obligations. However, common sense and
conscience surely demand that the major powers that determine
the policies of the multilateral lending agencies take an
urgent look at those agencies' inflexible rules, rules that
have long since outgrown justification and now add to the
strangling burdens of countries like Jamaica.
   Surely the time has also come to take a new look at
bilateral debts. Canada's recent unilateral cancellation of
all debts held by English-speaking Caribbean countries is a
powerful example. The sum involved -- $183 million -- might
be small in the context of total Third World debt, but it is
relatively large in the context of the Canadian economy.
   Could not the reduced military expenditures accompanying
the end of the Cold War be recycled into a new facility to
supplement IMF/World Banks funds? This new pool of money
could be used to reschedule debts due to the multilateral
lending agencies, restricted to those nations undergoing the
effects of structural adjustment.
   A significant first step would be the creation of a small
expert group at the Group of Seven's Houston Summit in June.
The group's mission would be to come up with practical
recommendations in, say, three months, to ease the debt
crisis. The menu of remedies to deal with the problem is
adequate. What we need now is the vision and the will to act
in response to common sense as much as conscience, and that
will safeguard democracy in my part of the world.
   ---
   Mr. Manley is prime minister of Jamaica.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Los Angeles Mayor Submits
   Water Conservation Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Mayor Tom Bradley proposed a mandatory
water conservation plan to cut individual water use 10% from
1986 levels as the state faces a fourth consecutive year of
drought.
   The plan would include penalties for excess use and the
hiring of additional workers to enforce the program. The
proposal, which must be enacted by the City Council, would be
the toughest yet in the struggle to curtail use by homes,
businesses and corporations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A voluntary conservation program has been in effect since
April 1988, but Mayor Bradley said that "we are facing a
crisis." Those who have voluntarily reduced consumption 10%
won't be required to make additional cuts. The mayor urged
the council to act on the plan "as soon as possible," which
could mean the program may be in place in six weeks, but
local officials said full implementation could take months.
   Preliminary water runoff projections from the eastern
Sierra watershed are about half the normal level for the
summer months, according to L.A. Department of Water and
Power officials. The runoff is even lower than that of the
past few drought years.
   In Northern California, the San Francisco Public Utilities
Commission is scheduled to vote Tuesday on a proposal for
mandatory 25% cuts in water use based on 1987 consumption.
The rationing, if approved, would be similar to a mandatory
program in place from May 1988 to May 1989, said Cheryl
Davis, acting manager of the San Francisco Water Department's
customer service unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bushes to Pay More Taxes
   Than Expected for 1989
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President and Mrs. Bush paid an additional
$7,497 in federal taxes after coming across an additional
$26,250 in 1989 income they hadn't reported, the White House
said.
   The additional payment brought the Bushes' total federal
tax bill to $108,879, on total income of $483,030, according
to amended tax forms released by the White House.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the couple's
federal tax return had to be amended to reflect deferred
income, in the form of a paid-up life-insurance policy from
Zapata Off Shore Corp., an oil exploration company Mr. Bush
headed until 1966.
   Mr. Bush became entitled to the policy when he turned 65
years old last year. But the president didn't receive a form
notifying him of the income, and his tax preparer, whose firm
manages Mr. Bush's blind trust, didn't become aware of the
transaction until April 19. The Bushes' original tax return
was filed April 13.
   The discovery caused the couple to lose $525 in itemized
deductions and to pay $40.97 in interest on the extra
payment. But the Bushes shouldn't have to pay a penalty, Mr.
Fitzwater said, because the omission was unintentional, due
to a "reasonable cause," and corrected in a timely fashion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury's Brady Voices
   Mild Concern About Dollar
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady expressed
mild concern over the rise in the value of the dollar against
the yen, saying it "certainly doesn't help" U.S. efforts to
narrow the country's massive trade deficit with Japan.
   Mr. Brady said he doesn't know whether the dollar's recent
strength against the Japanese currency will hurt U.S. exports
seriously, but he added: "it's something you do worry about."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Speaking at a United States Information Agency conference,
Mr. Brady said he was pleased by the way the world financial
markets have weathered the recent plunge in the Japanese
stock market.
   "When you get that huge an adjustment in an individual
country, you worry it's going to ripple out and produce
dislocation all over the world," he said. "The truth is the
system has worked very well.
   Although the yen has fallen, he said, "the very, very good
news is we've had stability while we've had an enormous
sell-off in the Japanese market."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Investors May Be Ready for `Prime' Time
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   GNU RFU DPU GCU JNU XPU KDU
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Little-known securities called Americus Trust "Primes" may
be a good choice for people who want to own stocks these days
but are anxious about price declines.
   Traded on the American Stock Exchange, Primes function
like lower-risk versions of 26 blue-chip issues. The Primes
allow investors to collect almost all of the dividend income
from the related stock and any appreciation in the price of
the stock up to a preset maximum.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While Primes generally lag when the market takes off, they
suffer less than the related stock when prices collapse. And
because Primes sell for less than the related stock, several
will deliver solid, double-digit returns over the next two
years as long as the related stock prices don't fall below
current levels.
   "It's a good way for someone to have some participation in
the stock market without being quite so nervous," says Tracey
Faby, a senior investment officer with Axe-Houghton
Management Inc., Tarrytown, N.Y., a money management unit of
insurer USF&amp;G Corp. that has been a big buyer of Primes.
   These odd-ball securities are the brainchild of Americus
Shareowner Service Corp., which sponsored a series of
"Americus Trusts" from 1983 to 1987. (No new trusts are being
created because of changes in the tax rules.)
   The idea was to divide some household-name stocks into a
conservative, income-oriented investment and a
more-speculative, appreciation-oriented investment. Investors
tendered stock to the trusts, and for each share received a
conservative Prime and a speculative "Score."
   Prime holders get the stock dividend minus an
administrative charge of as much as a nickel a year. The
holders also get the appreciation in the underlying common up
to a preset maximum price, or "termination claim." When the
trusts terminate after five years, they receive common shares
worth the lower of the then-current stock price or the
termination claim.
   Price appreciation beyond the termination claim goes to
the Score holders. But Prime holders are compensated for
accepting that limit because Primes sell for less than the
related common.
   That discount is central to the Primes' appeal.
   The lower price provides "a head start on the stock in
terms of performance," explains J. Richard Tashjian, a senior
vice president of Sovran Capital Management Corp., a unit of
banking company Sovran Financial Corp. Further, Mr. Tashjian
says, "the discount represents your reduction in risk."
   Consider General Electric Co. Primes, in which Sovran
Capital has a big stake. GE Primes are selling at $55.63, a
sizable discount from $64 for the company's stock, as of
April 30. When the GE Americus Trust terminates in two years,
Prime holders will get either the prevailing stock price or
the $70 termination claim, whichever is lower.
   GE Primes will deliver an annualized return of 10.8% from
now to termination if GE's stock price and dividend remain at
current levels, according to calculations by Peter Broms,
Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. senior vice president. That return
comprises dividend income and the appreciation from the Prime
price to the current stock price.
   The annualized return will be a heftier 14.7% if the stock
rises at least to the termination claim. And it will be 15.6%
if the dividend also grows at the rate Kidder expects.
   Meanwhile, GE common will have to fall below the current
Prime price, which is 13% below the current stock price, for
someone buying the Prime now to take a loss at termination.
   Among other Primes that offer double-digit returns even
without price appreciation, Atlantic Richfield gets high
marks from Robert Haber, manager of Fidelity Balanced Fund.
Ms. Faby of Axe-Houghton likes Du Pont, General Motors,
Johnson &amp; Johnson and Mobil.
   But don't buy any Prime if you don't like the company.
"You always want to make sure you have faith in the outlook
for the underlying common stock," Kidder's Mr. Broms says.
   Investors should also realize that the Primes vary greatly
in the levels of risk and reward they entail. Some offer
limited returns and risk that make them comparable with
bonds, while others expose holders to almost all the price
fluctuations of the related stocks.
   It's all a function of the relationship between the common
stock price and the Prime's termination claim.
   The Philip Morris Prime is often cited as a good bond
alternative. That's because Philip Morris common stock, as of
April 30, was trading at $42, far above the termination claim
of $27.50. That gives Prime buyers a high probability of
collecting the full termination claim when the Philip Morris
trust expires in July 1992.
   At the April 30 price of $24.50 for a Philip Morris Prime,
Kidder figures investors will earn 10.6% a year without
dividend growth and 11.7% with the projected dividend growth.
That compares with a yield of around 9% on two-year Treasury
notes.
   Mr. Broms says investors might also want to consider the
American Telephone &amp; Telegraph and GTE Primes as fixed-income
alternatives. Two Primes that currently do not offer
attractive returns as bond substitutes are the Procter &amp;
Gamble and Coca-Cola issues.
   Meanwhile, at the other end of the spectrum are Primes
such as American Express, Eastman Kodak, International
Business Machines and Xerox where the common stock price is
far below the termination claim. The Primes of such issues
sell at only a small discount to the underlying common stock
because the termination claim doesn't crimp the appreciation
potential of the Prime very much.
   Investors interested in those companies should consider
the Primes as "a cheaper way to own the same stocks," says
Sandy Weisman, a broker with Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben Inc. in
Cleveland.
   But Mr. Broms advises sticking with the common stock if
the price discount of the Primes is less than 5%, as it
currently is with IBM and Xerox. For such a small savings, he
figures, it's not worth giving up the chance to make a
killing if the stock goes through the roof.
   ---
      Americus Trust Primes and Their Vital Statistics
                                                                                                       

   Prices as of April 30. Excludes Exxon trust expiring Sept.
20.
                                                                                                       

                                          POTENTIAL RETURNS*
           STOCK    PRIME  TERMINATION     CURRENT   TERM.
 COMPANY   PRICE    PRICE  CLAIM &amp; DATE    PRICE     CLAIM
                                                                                                       

 American Express
           $27.25  $25.00  $50.00 ( 8/92)    7.5%    34.9%
                                                                                                       

 Am. Home Products
            95.63   80.00   90.00 (12/91)   12.4     12.4
                                                                                                       

 Amoco
            50.88   43.75   52.50 ( 3/92)   12.5     14.2
                                                                                                       

 AT&amp;T
            40.13   26.88   30.00 ( 2/92)   10.8     10.8
                                                                                                       

 At. Richfield
           111.13   97.25  116.00 ( 7/92)   11.9     13.0
                                                                                                       

 Bristol-Myers
            56.13   46.75   55.00 ( 2/92)   13.5     13.5
                                                                                                       

 Chevron
            65.88   60.00   75.00 ( 7/92)    9.5     14.8
                                                                                                       

 Coca-Cola
            76.25   48.88   56.00 ( 7/92)    7.6      7.6
                                                                                                       

 Dow Chemical
            61.63   56.50   73.33 ( 5/92)    8.7     17.2
                                                                                                       

 Du Pont
            37.25   31.13   36.67 ( 3/92)   13.5     13.5

 Eastman Kodak
            36.88   34.38   61.33 ( 4/92)   10.1     36.5
                                                                                                       

 Ford Motor
            44.00   40.88   52.00 ( 6/92)   10.7     18.1
                                                                                                       

 General Electric
            64.00   55.63   70.00 ( 5/92)   10.8     14.7
                                                                                                       

 General Motors
            44.38   41.00   53.50 ( 6/92)   11.8     19.2
                                                                                                       

 GTE
            60.38   41.25   44.00 ( 7/92)    9.7      9.7
                                                                                                       

 Hewlett-Packard
            43.63   41.25   90.00 ( 7/92)    3.6     38.7
                                                                                                       

 IBM
           109.00  104.75  210.00 ( 6/92)    7.0     38.3
                                                                                                       

 Johnson &amp; Johnson
            56.63   45.75   59.00 ( 6/92)   13.8     14.7
                                                                                                       

 Merck
            73.25   56.88   66.67 ( 4/92)   11.2     11.2
                                                                                                       

 Mobil
            60.25   51.38   60.00 ( 6/92)   12.5     12.5
                                                                                                       

 Philip Morris
            42.00   24.50   27.50 ( 7/92)   10.6     10.6
                                                                                                       

 Procter &amp; Gamble
            70.63   47.75   52.50 ( 6/92)    8.2      8.2
                                                                                                       

 Sears
            35.50   33.75   64.00 ( 7/92)    8.7     35.8
                                                                                                       

 Union Pacific
            68.00   62.75   87.00 ( 4/92)    8.0     20.6
                                                                                                       

 Xerox
            49.50   48.75   97.00 ( 7/92)    7.3     38.4
                                                                                                       

 *Annualized returns to termination date if the common stock
price (1) remains at its current level or (2) reaches or
exceeds the termination claim. Figures assume no growth in
dividends.
                                                                                                       

 Source: Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. High School Students
   Fail to Improve Test Scores
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Years of increasing efforts to improve
America's schools have failed to boost high school student
scores on two widely administered tests.
   In its annual performance review, the Education Department
reported that scores have barely changed over the past four
years. "We have reached a plateau," Education Secretary Lauro
Cavazos complained. "Moving beyond this point will require
more comprehensive and even radical changes in our school
systems."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The average score on the Scholastic Aptitude Test slipped
to 903 in 1989 from 904 in 1988, while the average score on
the American College Testing Program fell to 18.6 from 18.8.
The report also noted that the proportion of public school
ninth-graders who graduate with their class fell to 71.1%
last year from 71.7% the year before.
   These figures for the 1988-1989 school year are likely to
become one of the baselines against which the Bush
administration's efforts to improve U.S. education are
measured. Early this year, President Bush and the nation's
governors detailed an ambitious set of education goals for
the year 2000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Seeks to Give East Europe, Soviets
   Expanded Access to Western Technology
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   AAPL IBM DEC FREST EUROP CDA INTC HWP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The White House proposed a "complete
overhaul" of a multilateral system of controlling
high-technology exports in order to give Eastern Europe and
the Soviet Union more access to Western technology.
   President Bush's aides said the proposal would eliminate
or substantially ease controls on 40 of 120 product
categories that currently are under export restrictions to
those countries, and create a more practical list "from
scratch."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Commerce Department said the proposed changes would
eliminate licensing requirements for U.S. exports valued at
billions of dollars annually.
   The Bush plan would release most off-the-shelf personal
computers from the existing controls and give certain Eastern
European countries access to some mainframe computers such as
International Business Machines Corp.'s 4381 MG24, Digital
Equipment Corp.'s VAX 800 and Control Data Corp.'s Cyber 910.
The use of these mainframes could rapidly improve Eastern
Europe's performance in banking, airline reservations and
light industry, U.S. officials said.
   A spokesman for IBM, in Armonk, N.Y., called the proposal
"a very modest first step." He said that critical
applications -- such as banking, education and health-care
systems -- "require substantially more computing power than
is provided by this order."
   Some of the applications cited by U.S. officials -- such
as banking and airline-reservation systems -- have appetites
for computing power that are among the most ravenous of any
computer applications now in use. Those applications tend to
run on hardware that has 10 to 15 times the computing power
of the systems that could be exported to Eastern Europe under
the Bush administration proposal.
   Meanwhile, a spokesman for Maynard, Mass.-based Digital
Equipment said, "We're quite encouraged by this. We see it as
a positive." He said that under the new proposal, Digital
could sell its MicroVAX 3000 line in areas where it
previously was limited to selling five-year old MicroVAX 2
computers.
   The White House announcement capped three months of
intensive interagency discussions on how the U.S. can meet
the demands of its allies for liberalized trade with the
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. The Coordinating Committee
on Multilateral Export Controls, or Cocom, the forum in which
the U.S. discusses such issues with its allies, will hold a
high-level meeting in June in Paris to discuss these issues.
   White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the U.S. wants
Cocom to complete work on the new "core list" by year end.
However, the U.S. recommendations for Eastern Europe could be
acted on more quickly because many prospective transactions
await such decisions.
   In addition to giving Eastern European countries favored
treatment in importing mainframe computers, the U.S. also is
proposing to allow those countries to obtain modern
telecommunications equipment, including fiber-optic circuits
with a capacity of as much as 156 megabits and some microwave
transmission systems.
   The U.S. proposal isn't likely to go far enough to suit
West Germany and other European members of Cocom. However,
Dennis Kloske, undersecretary of commerce for export
administration, said it would "allow us to engage in a real
and substantive discussion with the allies."
   The White House, heeding the intelligence community's
advice, decided to keep most digital switching equipment on
the restricted list, even for Eastern Europe. The U.S.,
though, is agreeable to eliminating all export controls on
certain cellular communications systems and satellite ground
stations, the White House said.
   The reaction of U.S. industry groups was mixed, though.
Richard Iverson, president of the American Electronics
Association, called the core-list proposal "terrific" because
it signifies the administration's intention to catch up with
rapidly changing events in Europe. But he also said that the
administration should have gone further in easing controls on
computers and added digital switching equipment to the list
of unrestricted products.
   John Pickitt, president of the Computer and Business
Machines Manufacturers Association, said he hopes there is
"negotiating room" in the U.S. proposal so that some
refinements can be made at the Cocom meetings.
   U.S. officials insist that the White House proposal is
generous concerning computers since it would eliminate
controls on most personal computers using Intel Corp.'s 80386
microprocessor, which represents mid-1980s technology. These
models, which are among the most widely used in the
noncommunist world, include IBM's AS 400, Control Data's
Cyber 840 and Hewlett Packard Co.'s 3000, Commerce Department
officials said.
   Apple Computer Inc., the Cupertino, Calif., personal
computer manufacturer, said that the proposals, if accepted,
would open for Eastern bloc distribution its entire Macintosh
PC line. Such a move wouldn't endanger national security, an
Apple spokeswoman said, who added that the company recently
began evaluating Eastern European markets on a
country-by-country basis. It's still too early to say how the
company would sell and distribute its PCs there, given the
different currencies and the lack of distribution systems,
the spokeswoman said.
   State Department officials said the White House
announcement reflects the work of many agencies, including
the Pentagon and the Central Intelligence Agency. The
Pentagon previously resisted significant changes in the Cocom
list, but Defense Secretary Richard Cheney finally consented
to the proposal, a senior Pentagon aide said.
   The U.S. also proposes to remove restrictions on
numerically controlled machine tools with an accuracy as
close as two to three microns; a micron equals one thousandth
of a millimeter. Under the current rules, Cocom countries
can't ship to the Soviet Union machine tools with a precision
of less than 10 microns.
   The proposed changes are likely to benefit U.S. vendors
most in the computer field and Western European suppliers
most in machine tools. U.S. and Western European companies
are in toe-to-toe competition for telecommunications
equipment sales in Eastern Europe.
   The U.S. will also urge Cocom to give favorable licensing
treatment to Eastern European countries that adopt
Cocom-approved safeguards against the reshipment of
controlled goods to unauthorized users. A Pentagon official
said these safeguards could include on-site verification, the
passage of export-control laws, and some degree of
"intelligence-sharing" with Cocom suppliers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Viewpoint:
   Ted and Me: A Stalinist Baby-Killer Remembers May Day
   ----
   By Alexander Cockburn
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<LP>
   Somewhere in the late morning of May Day, on Tuesday, the
phone rang and a voice asked if I would be prepared to go on
Ted Koppel's Nightline that same evening. I asked cautiously
what the theme was going to be. The voice, belonging to the
Koppel Show's Ms. Tracy Day, said that Mr. Koppel and his
guests would be addressing the theme "Is Communism Dead?"
   I grew more cautious still. When TV producers are figuring
out the balance of a show I'm reckoned to be over in the
"left wild man" category. In the early and mid1980s, when
panels on terrorism were all the rage, I'd be invited on,
confronted with a full-color picture of hideous carnage,
replete with mangled babies, and then asked with heavy
sarcasm how I justified this kind of behavior. Lately I've
noticed I'm often described as "controversial," which is a
flash card to the audience: Rabid, approach with extreme
suspicion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I outlined to Ms. Day my position: that while the old
Communist regimes either had already or are in the process of
falling apart under the weight of their own ossification and
repressiveness, this didn't mean that communist or socialist
ideals are dead and that anyway, if we were going to talk
about dying communism we should also discuss how capitalism
was faring across large portions of the globe, such as Africa
or Latin America. Answer, badly.
   In Eastern Europe millions of people chafed under the
yokes of archaic Stalinist regimes, finally throwing them
off. In Central America they battle against the capitalist
tyrannies supported by the U.S. and get massacred for their
pains.
   By late afternoon in Los Angeles, which is where I
happened to be, Ms. Day called from New York. I'd be on with
Angela Davis and Melor Sturua, a Russian columnist for
Izvestia on leave at the Carnegie Endowment.
   So it probably wasn't going to be a Crossfire-type
situation, with brutal fisticuffs: "Mr. Cockburn, as a keen
admirer of Stalin and his Gulag empire . . ." I won't go on
those shows. They're a waste of time. Either you repeat
conventional thoughts or sound like a madman, which is of
course what they want you to be, tricked out with the cap,
bells and bomb of the controversial terrorist Stalin-lover.
   One of the beauties of the propaganda system embodied by
the mainstream media here is that complexity is impossible.
Take the "death of communism." Any rational discussion would
try to examine what kind of economies were constructed in
Eastern Europe. In Czechoslovakia and East Germany,
collectivization of agriculture worked pretty well. Ditto in
Bulgaria, where Communists now stand a chance in a free
election. In the Soviet Union the "free-market" advisers to
Mikhail Gorbachev urge a Polish solution, but workers vow to
resist and fight for anti-capitalist rights-full employment,
protection of public assets and so forth. It's complicated.
   On European TV and radio you can talk seriously for 30
minutes or even an hour. Here, as an almost constant rule,
that's possible only on listener-subscribed FM radio. Radio
is inherently more democratic than TV. Otherwise we're in the
world of the McLaughlin Group: "Mr. Cockburn, in a word, is
Communism dead or not?" "Well . . ." "Thank you Mr.
Cockburn."
   I drive east across Los Angeles toward the ABC studios,
thinking about communism and capitalism, pondering my
strategy. From previous experience on Nightline I know that
one has time to make about three points, like a dog barking
through the fence. What will I say?
   May Day: It began in the late 1880s, as part of the
American working-class movement's struggle for the eight-hour
day. I rehearse, shouting out to the stream of commuters
heading the other way into Santa Monica: "Well Ted, we still
haven't got the eight-hour day. It's compulsory overtime for
some workers and unemployment for others, as the East Germans
will soon find out. A hundred years ago battle for the
eight-hour day began as a socialist ideal and it's still
valid. In fact, more valid than ever. Workers these days
often have to work two jobs, 16 hours or more, just to keep
afloat."
   I plan to talk about the ideals of socialism as set
against the collapse of the old Communist regimes, but also
about trends in capitalism: In much of the world "market
economies" survive only in the guise of authoritarian, quasi
or actually fascist regimes. The battle of the next world
generation will be between this tooth-and-claw market
authoritarianism and democratic planning.
   At the ABC studios they make me up and sit me down. The
drill with Mr. Koppel is that you look into a camera and
listen to you earphone. You can't see what's happening. You
have to keep looking at the camera because you don't know
when Mr. Koppel, the only person who can see all the people
on the show, who controls everything, is going to call on
you. Swivel your eyes away from the camera and millions will
think you have something to hide.
   Suddenly we're off. I can hear the soundtrack of some
footage; of people hammering down the Wall, denouncing
communism. Then I hear Mr. Koppel saying, ". . . the state of
distress in which Communism finds itself. . . . seems easier
for some Soviets to accept than for . . . left-wingers like
Alexander Cockburn or leaders of the American Communist Party
like Angela Davis." So it's a setup: The viewers have been
invited to watch scenes of collapsing communism, then here's
Mr. Koppel cutting to the last dinosaurs, clanking into the
studio dragging the ball and chain of dead, bad ideas. Had
Tracy Day told Mr. Koppel the lines I was thinking along? Had
Mr. Koppel decided to shackle me and Prof. Davis as
gauleiters of the gulag, offset by the virtuous Mr. Sturua,
symbol of New Thinking and penitence for the past?
   This was the trend of the show. Mr. Koppel got
increasingly testy. Why, he asked, did I keep bringing up
capitalism? We were meant to be talking about communism. It
became a dialogue of the deaf. I said in order to understand
why millions of people around the world are still fired with
socialist ideals you have to understand that if actually
existing communism was and is abhorrent to some, actually
existing capitalism is abhorrent to others.
   I was going to add that on the same May Day that Russian
workers were booing the Soviet leaders, workers in the
Philippines were demonstrating against the regime and the
U.S. bases, and in South Korea striking shipyard workers were
still battling police.
   No time for this though. By now Mr. Koppel was saying that
I was putting words into his mouth and Prof. Davis was trying
to explain that capitalism was not working too well for black
people here in the U.S. and Mr. Sturua was saying that Karl
Marx was right when he said that theory was gray but green
the tree of life. From the corner of my eye I saw a copy of
Business Week featuring on its cover the best-paid executive
of 1989, Craig McCaw, weighing in with $53.9 million. Why
didn't I just hold it up to the camera and say that against
salaries like this, how could the ideals of socialism ever
die? But it was all over. I didn't even have time to tell Mr.
Sturua that Goethe, not Marx, said the thing about the green
tree. At least he had Marx associated with living things.
   ---
   Mr. Cockburn is a columnist for The Nation and the
Anderson Valley (Calif.) Advertiser.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Republic Health
   Leaves Chapter 11
   As Public Company
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   REPHV
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Republic Health Corp. said it completed
reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
and emerged as a publicly traded company.
   The owner of 14 acute-care hospitals and two psychiatric
hospitals went private in August 1986 in a $406.2 million
leveraged buy-out led by Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp. But changes in Medicare regulations and
overly optimistic projections made the debt burden too heavy.
The company and its parent, REPH Acquisition Co., sought
bankruptcy-court protection last December to restructure
total debt of about $645 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the reorganization plan, which was approved by the
majority of the company's creditors before the company filed
for Chapter 11 protection, Republic Health and its parent
reduced total debt to $379 million and reduced their annual
interest obligations to $40 million, from $89 million.
   Of the remaining debt, $74 million is owed banks and $86
million is owed under capitalized leases and notes. The
remainder consists of new securities issued to creditors, the
company said.
   As part of the reorganization, REPH Acquisition was merged
into the now-publicly traded Republic Health. Debtholders own
88.8% of the new stock; holders of the old preferred stock
own 6.1%; and holders of the old common stock own 5.1%.
   Under the reorganization plan, the company said, secured
debtholders received 81 cents for each dollar owed; senior
subordinated debtholders received 67 cents; and subordinated
debtholders received 20 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Brent Musburger Agrees
   To Work for ABC Sports
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Brent Musburger, whose contract wasn't renewed
last month by CBS Sports, was hired by ABC Sports, a division
of Capital Cities/ABC Inc.
   Mr. Musburger signed a multiyear agreement to be a
commentator on the network's coverage of college football,
college basketball and the World Football League. However,
the 15-year veteran of the CBS Inc. unit will not be included
on ABC Sports's showcase "Monday Night Football," which
enters its 21st season in September.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Musburger's first assignment will be to host a
prime-time special "AllStar Pro Sports Awards" on June 25.
   Mr. Musburger, who was paid an estimated $2 million
annually by CBS Sports to anchor "The NFL Today" among other
broadcasts, was informed by the network the day of his final
CBS broadcast of the National Collegiate Athletic Association
basketball championship last month.
   A CBS official said Mr. Musburger and the network couldn't
come to terms on a new agreement. Mr. Musburger blasted CBS
Sports executives by saying he was let go for no reason other
than a clash of personalities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Crude Oil Markets Are Hit Hard as Traders See
   A Lack of Progress at OPEC Ministers' Meeting
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Crude markets were thrashed by what traders saw
as a lack of progress at the oil ministers' meeting in
Geneva, with prices ending lower in nerve-racking trading.
   Prices had been stronger most of the day, on optimism that
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries would agree
on production cuts. A number of statements from OPEC
ministers and their representatives bolstered that sentiment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in midafternoon, the Dow Jones International Petroleum
Report moved a headline stating that yesterday's official
session of OPEC's policy-setting committee would be
postponed. The headline, viewed on a big screen on the floor
of the New York Mercantile Exchange and flashed across
numerous computer screens at trading houses, quickly took the
steam out of the market.
   Traders interpreted it to mean that the oil ministers were
still far apart and couldn't reach a consensus on output cuts
in their informal discussions.
   "There were rumors out that OPEC was going to do some kind
of a production cut," said Eric Bolling of Edge Trading Corp.
"Then it hit the wires that the meeting was going to be
suspended for the rest of the day, and the market sold off
fast."
   On the Merc, West Texas Intermediate for June delivery
ended at $18.68 a barrel, down 13 cents. Earlier it had
crossed $19 a barrel -- a bullish barrier -- and climbed as
high as $19.10. Many speculators were betting on further
price rises, but when news of the postponed meeting became
widespread, they quickly unloaded those "long" positions.
   Petroleum-product prices moved in lockstep with crude,
though they didn't come off as much. Gasoline for June
delivery wound up at 60.95 cents a gallon, down 0.08 cents.
June heating oil fell 1.11 cents, to 51.86 cents a gallon.
   The OPEC meeting is critical to oil markets, because the
cartel's production has been running as much as two million
barrels a day above its production ceiling, helping to create
a world-wide glut of crude. The challenge is for the group to
determine how much to cut and how to apportion the reductions
among the 13 members.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Corn futures prices are likely to
continue to climb this morning, following a flurry of buy
orders executed shortly before the close of trading yesterday
on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn futures for July delivery
gained 4.25 cents to close at $2.89 a bushel. That late rally
was spurred by rumors that the Soviet Union will be back in
the market soon for U.S. corn, said Steven Freed, a futures
analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Chicago. Certain
Asian countries may also be buying corn soon, according to
other Board of Trade rumors. Analysts said that one sign the
Soviets may be about to buy corn was a round of futures
buying by Refco Group Ltd. late yesterday. The Soviets are
rumored to have used Refco in the past to buy futures
contracts a week or so ahead of major grain purchases, as a
way to hedge their exposure to fluctuating grain prices.
Refco and other commercial grain trading firms don't comment
on their trading activities, nor do the Soviets. Soybean
futures prices closed higher as well, after it became clear
to traders that Tuesday's price slide in the final minutes of
trading wasn't going to continue into yesterday's trading
session, analysts said. Once soybean futures prices
stabilized in early trading, traders covered their "short"
positions by buying contracts to offset those they sold
Tuesday in anticipation of further price declines. July
soybean futures gained 8.25 cents to close at $6.5175 a
bushel. July wheat futures rose 5.75 cents to close at
$3.4750 a bushel.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices eased, but soonest-to-expire
positions continued firmer than more distant months. The May
delivery was off 0.80 cent a pound to $1.2130. However, July
declined by 1.15 cents to $1.1215, widening the premium of
May over July by 0.35 cent a pound to 9.15 cents. Among more
distant months, December 1990, which has the most significant
amount of trading, lost 1.50 cents on the day. Much like the
softness that took place after the strong expiration of the
April contracts last Thursday in New York, prices in London
yesterday softened, and the premium of the cash position on
the London Metal Exchange over the three-months' position
narrowed. On Tuesday, the premium had widened sharply after
buyers of expiring call options exercised their right to buy
futures contracts and sellers of the contracts had to buy
futures to fulfill their commitments. In Peru, the government
ordered miners and smelter workers of the Southern Peru
Copper Corp. to return to work by today or lose their jobs.
Late in the day, Reuter reported that, according to Jorge
Quesada, secretary general of the Peruvian National Mine
Workers' Federation, the workers would ignore the
government's decree and continue the strike that began March
12. However, a company spokesman said that the federation
didn't speak for the five unions involved in the strike.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Most futures prices eased slightly. The July
contract was off 0.48 cent to 92.34 cents. Statistics
indicate that since last July, when quota and price segments
of the International Coffee Agreement were suspended,
producing countries have been on a selling binge. For nine
months through March, exports of member producing countries
have totaled 61.3 million bags, compared with 48.8 million
bags during the same period a year earlier. A bag weighs 132
pounds. According to one New York coffee dealer, these sales
have caused supplies in importing countries to swell to
substantial proportions. But, he noted, shipments from April
through September will be much slower and will cause some of
these reserves to be used up. As a result, prices are likely
to remain stable until Central American coffee begins to come
to the market in September, he said. "A critical factor will
be if the shipments begin on time," he said. If they don't,
prices could rise. At the moment, there is little interest in
reviving the International Coffee Agreement, the dealer
noted. Most Central American countries are getting a
reasonable price for their coffee, and with the abolition of
the Brazilian Coffee Institute no one knows who would decide
whether Brazil would participate in a new pact, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sale of American
   General Sought
   In Spite of Vote
   ---
   Company Apparently Wins
   Torchmark Proxy Fight,
   Then Puts Itself on Block
   ----
   By Michael Allen and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   AGC TMK G.ALL F.AXA TA TDY UNIT
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- American General Corp., in a surprising move,
told shareholders it apparently won its proxy fight for
independence -- and then put itself on the auction block
anyway.
   Speaking near the close of the insurer's annual meeting,
Harold S. Hook, chairman and chief executive officer, said
the company was "very confident" it had defeated an attempt
by rival Torchmark Corp. to place five new directors on the
15-member board and encourage a sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the applause from the 600 attendees had scarcely died
down when he dropped his bombshell: Concerned that American
General remained "vulnerable to possible acquisition at a
discount price," he said, the board decided to offer the
company for sale.
   "We believe the full value of the company greatly exceeds
the value as reflected in the public market price for the
company's stock," Mr. Hook said. He added that directors also
think American General is worth "substantially in excess of"
the $50-a-share, or $6.3 billion, price Torchmark offered in
March.
   American General's stock price surged $7.50 a share on the
news to close at $47.625 a share on very heavy volume of 6.6
million shares in composite New York Stock Exchange trading.
Also on the Big Board, Torchmark shares closed at $44.25, up
62.5 cents.
   American General also said it is more than doubling its
quarterly dividend to 80 cents a share from 39.5 cents,
payable June 1 to stock of record May 16.
   Mr. Hook's surprising announcement underscores the
increasing willingness of institutional investors -- such as
pension funds, insurance companies and banks -- to exert
their influence over the companies in which they own stock.
Institutions hold about 70% of American General's shares, up
from about 30% 10 years ago, and they have become
increasingly vocal in urging Mr. Hook to do something about
the company's lagging stock price.
   One person familiar with the proxy contest said American
General believes that only 40% of the 60 largest
institutional investors -- holding about 50 million shares --
sided with management. Even though smaller institutions and
individuals gave American General a victory of roughly 60
million to 40 million, management believed those large
holders "couldn't wait another two or three years" for
significant improvement in the stock price, the same person
said.
   Carol Manning, an analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham
Co., speculated that American General was disappointed by the
proxy results. "I think the proxy might have been closer than
they anticipated," she said.
   Torchmark, the small Birmingham, Ala., insurance company
that first targeted American General as a takeover candidate,
issued a terse statement saying it was "very pleased" by Mr.
Hook's announcement. Torchmark added that, "regardless of the
proxy vote," it intends to make another proposal to combine
with American General.
   But Jon W. Rotenstreich, Torchmark's president, was
somewhat more demonstrative. Grinning tightly, he remained in
his seat here until Mr. Hook finished his talk. When the
meeting adjourned, he leapt to his feet, planted a big kiss
on the cheek of Samuel Upchurch Jr., his general counsel,
then rushed over to chat with Mr. Hook.
   Whether Torchmark can finish what it started remains to be
seen. The Alabama insurer is just one-sixth the size of
American General -- which has $32 billion in assets -- and
has yet to disclose how it would fund a takeover of that
size. Moreover, speaking before the annual meeting began, Mr.
Rotenstreich called the $50 a share price "not only adequate
but substantial." Results of the proxy contest aren't
expected to be released for a week or two.
   And the competition could be fierce. Mr. Hook said that
American General has already received inquiries from
"numerous" others interested in buying pieces or otherwise
"offering their services" and that it has retained First
Boston Corp. to begin soliciting offers immediately.
   Analysts' estimates of the final sales price range as high
as $55 a share, or $6.9 billion. The company has about 119
million shares outstanding.
   Analysts say potential bidders could include a number of
well-heeled foreign companies, including Allianz A.G. of West
Germany and Axa-Midi Assurances, a Paris-based insurer that
just dropped its bid for B.A.T Industries PLC's Farmers
Insurance Group. Mr. Hook, responding to a question at a news
conference, declined to comment on the possibility of a bid
from Axa-Midi, although he noted that the French company uses
a management system he developed and that top executives "are
good friends of mine."
   An Axa-Midi spokesman said the company declined to comment
on a possible bid.
   Possible domestic acquirers include Transamerica Corp.,
and Unitrend, a new company recently spun off by Teledyne
Inc.
   The winning bidder won't be announced any time soon. "In
light of the size and complexity" of American General's
operations, "it may be several months before we begin the
process of detailed negotiations," Mr. Hook said. He added
that the company is prepared to auction off pieces if it
doesn't draw rich enough bids for the whole company.
   A takeover would also have to be cleared by about 10 state
insurance commissioners -- a cumbersome process that has
impeded Torchmark's bid thus far. (Yesterday, a federal
appeals judge denied an attempt by Tennessee insurance
regulators to overturn a federal judge's order blocking them
from halting Torchmark's proxy solicitation, Torchmark said.)
   Predictably, American General's aboutface sparked some
controversy in the investment community. Some takeover stock
traders were furious that American General didn't disclose it
was contemplating an auction earlier, although Mr. Hook said
the decision wasn't made until Tuesday night.
   The company had vowed to remain independent throughout the
proxy fight.
   And it clearly wasn't an easy decision for Mr. Hook, who
has run American General since 1978. He steered the company
through major changes in the 1980s, quintupling assets by
buying, among other things, a consumer-finance business and
several competing life insurance companies. "This has been a
very troublesome, very nettling problem to deal with," he
told one shareholder.
   And yet Mr. Hook remained remarkably good-humored
throughout the annual meeting, offering wry asides and
introducing his directors as though he were a ring announcer
at a prize fight. He even complimented the Torchmark
management for its conduct during the proxy fight.
   When Mr. Rotenstreich took the floor to deliver a
20-second pitch to shareholders, he jabbed Mr. Hook gently
for his refusal to meet with him earlier. "Finally, it's a
pleasure to meet you," he said. Mr. Hook paused dramatically.
"Thank you," he replied, drawing laughter.
   ---
   Caleb Solomon contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Saxton is Named
   Chief of General
   Housewares Corp.
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   GHW WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   General Housewares Corp. named Paul A. Saxton, the
51-year-old president and chief operating officer, to the
additional post of chief executive officer.
   He succeeds John H. Muller Jr., 65, who remains chairman.
The appointment, which was made after the annual meeting
yesterday, is effective July 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Muller formed the Stamford, Conn., company almost 23
years ago. He cedes the top operations post just as the firm
has closed the sale of its candle unit, substantially
completed its effort to focus on the high end of cookware and
cutlery, and announced plans to move its corporate office to
Terre Haute, Ind., near its main plant.
   Housewares is "a very difficult business, and I didn't
realize how much when I got in," Mr. Muller said.
Fluctuations in interest rates, changes in life styles, plus
competition from the U.S. and overseas created roller-coaster
results at General Housewares, and the stock price followed
suit.
   General Housewares' stock price, which through the 1980s
ranged from $7 a share to near $30, has only rarely cleared
$14 a share since late 1984. The shares were unchanged
yesterday at $11 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.
   Now the challenge of strengthening and stabilizing General
Housewares' results, through marketing the company's Chicago
Cutlery and Magnalite cookware brands, falls entirely to Mr.
Saxton.
   Mr. Saxton, a former English instructor, came to General
Housewares from Allegheny International Inc.'s Sunbeam
appliance unit, where he was vice president, sales and
marketing. In his 3 1/2 years at Sunbeam, Mr. Saxton said,
sales nearly doubled to $228 million, and in September 1987,
Mr. Muller hired him to light a fire under General
Housewares' cookware business. In August 1989, he was named
president and chief operating officer.
   When Mr. Saxton joined General Housewares, one problem he
identified was that the company offered too many products,
confusing the sales force and making inventory control
difficult. He pared back the product lines, and in so doing
"jettisoned some things near and dear to {Mr. Muller's}
heart," Mr. Saxton said.
   Mr. Saxton determined to get the company out of
mass-merchant, low-priced cookware. "The better place to be
was the high end, but I bet on it only so much," Mr. Muller
said. And Mr. Saxton brought the sales force in house,
replacing independent representatives.
   Mr. Saxton also has determined to move the company's
marketing efforts away from retail stores and more directly
to consumers. He notes that the retailing industry is in
financial turmoil, and he suggests that busy consumers are
increasingly likely to choose offerings from a catalog or
home-shopping television program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corvus Systems Files
   Plan to Reorganize
   In Bankruptcy Court
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CRVSQ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Corvus Systems Inc., which sought
federal bankruptcy court protection nearly two years ago,
said it filed a proposed plan of reorganization.
   Under the terms of the plan, filed in federal bankruptcy
court in San Jose, the company's unsecured creditors would
receive an immediate cash payment equal to 10% of their
allowed claims from Corvus's current cash. They would get
another cash payment equal to 10% of their allowed claims
within 12 months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corvus also said the plan provides that unsecured
creditors may receive one share of Corvus stock for every $10
of their claims, or they may participate in a creditors'
fund. Under the fund, they might receive further cash
payments on their claims from the sale of certain Corvus
assets, which the company declined to identify. Corvus
shareholders will retain their stock, subject to a one-for-10
reverse split, the company added.
   Corvus, which makes equipment that allows computers to
communicate with one another, said at the time of its filing
in June 1988 that its cash position wouldn't allow it to
"move forward" without Chapter 11 protection. Under Chapter
11 of the Bankruptcy Code, the company is protected from
creditor lawsuits while it works out a plan to pay its debts.
At the time of its filing, Corvus listed total assets of
$11.5 million and total liabilities of $9.6 million, of which
$3.6 million were secured.
   Under the plan, Corvus said its largest shareholder, Berg
&amp; Berg Industrial Developers, which controls 1.45 million
shares, or 8% of Corvus's common stock outstanding, is owed
$3.2 million and as a secured creditor would be paid in full
over a sevenyear period. The firm added in the plan that it
intends to file a lawsuit to ask the bankruptcy court to
determine the extent and value of Berg &amp; Berg's interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- TV3 Network Ltd.:
   Appointment of a Receiver
   Asked of Westpac Banking
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GE WBK
</CO>
<LP>
   TV3 Network Ltd., a New Zealand television broadcaster
14.7%-owned by General Electric Co.'s National Broadcasting
Co. of the U.S., said it has asked Westpac Banking Corp. to
appoint a receiver.
   In a brief statement to the New Zealand Stock Exchange,
Auckland-based TV3 said Westpac, its principal banker, "has
withdrawn its banking facilities from the company." The
statement added, "Accordingly, the directors have resolved to
request Westpac to appoint a receiver."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   TV3 is New Zealand's first private television network. It
began broadcasting in October 1989 in competition with two
state-owned television networks, and was floated on the stock
exchange in November.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM to Buy Minority Stake
   In Valid Logic Systems
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM VLID
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARMONK N.Y. -- International Business Machines Corp. said
it will buy a minority stake in Valid Logic Systems Inc., a
San Jose, Calif.-based developer of software that helps
engineers design electronic parts.
   Continuing its recent series of investments in small
hardware and software companies, IBM said it will make an
initial investment of $11.2 million in Valid's newly issued
voting-convertible-preferred stock. That will give it between
5% and 8.3% of Valid, with the per-share price and resultant
stake depending on how Valid's common stock performs between
May 2 and May 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An IBM spokeswoman said the new capital will help Valid
develop applications that run on IBM's new RS-6000
workstation.
   IBM also said it will buy $1.2 million of warrants to
acquire up to 4.5 million Valid common shares at $11 a share.
And it agreed to buy up to $90 million more in Valid
convertible preferred stock between 1991 and 1994, with the
condition that IBM's stake isn't required to exceed 49.99%.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Valid
shares closed at $3, up 37.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Savings Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>

   Super-NOW Accounts-a           5.00%
   Six-month Certificates-a       7.78%
   One-year Certificates-a        7.87%
   Thirty-month Accounts-a        7.90%
   Five-Year Certificates-a       7.94%
   U.S. Savings Bonds-b           7.01%
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   a-Average rate paid yesterday by 100 large banks and
thrifts in the 10 largest metropolitan areas as compiled by
Bank Rate Monitor.
   b-Current annual yield. Guaranteed minimum 6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Share Prices Gain, Reflecting Advances
   By Domestic Demand-Linked Issues, Traders Say
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices finished higher, boosted by the pace of
strong advances by domestic demand-related stocks such as
steels and shipbuildings, traders said.
   In London, share prices finished higher in light trading,
largely led by strength in stock-index futures and mark-ups
that supported the underlying shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Nikkei index of 225 issues was up 483.81 points at
30173.64, its high for the day. The most recent time the
index closed above 30000 points was April 9.
   The index gained 105.03 points Tuesday.
   Volume remained thin, as most investors avoided largely
increasing their positions ahead of holidays in Japan today
and tomorrow, traders said.
   An estimated 480 million shares changed hands on the first
section, improving from 245 million shares Tuesday. Advancers
widely outnumbered decliners 773 to 196, while 130 issues
were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section, also boasted strong performances Wednesday,
rising 33.03 points, or 1.49%, to 2247.81. The index gained
8.82 points Tuesday.
   The second section index, which added 16.19 points
Tuesday, jumped 32.82 points, or 0.93%, to close at 3579.96.
Volume was estimated at 10 million shares, up from seven
million shares Tuesday.
   Almost all sectors finished with gains yesterday as
expectations for future advances were fueled by the yen's
stability, participants said.
   But brokers who had been trying to boost trading in May by
establishing electronics shares as a trade focus ended the
day in uncertainty, reflecting a rumor spread during the
afternoon session.
   The rumor, which was said to have been started by a
foreign brokerage house, said that TDK's earnings predictions
for the fiscal year may be lowered. Share prices of TDK and
related companies such as Sony and Pioneer fell sharply
during the last hour before bouncing back halfway toward the
end of the day.
   The market closed without confirming the information on
TDK, as the company has been closed all week, extending this
week's national holidays.
   Shigeru Akiba, head of equity trade at UBS Phillips &amp; Drew
International, said that if the rumor is true, many
securities companies would have to revise their strategy of
promoting the electronics sector as a market leader.
   A senior trader at Wako Securities said the market must
wait until next week to weigh the impact of the rumor. But
yesterday's sell-off of high-priced, high-tech shares didn't
involve general investors, and was largely done by dealers
who were trading for their own accounts, he noted.
   Because dealers had bought these stocks Tuesday, they
reduced their holdings ahead of the holidays today and
tomorrow, the trader said.
   Some participants predicted that stock prices will rise in
May, with the Nikkei index approaching 32000 points.
   Helped by the yen's stability, investors are gradually
regaining confidence on the stock market, despite growing
expectations for higher interest rates in the U.S. and West
Germany, said Kimitoshi Hasegawa, deputy vice president
supervising separate account management at Dai-Ichi Mutual
Life Co.
   Participants were also encouraged by favorable technical
news that the Nikkei index at Tuesday's finish climbed above
its 25-day moving average line for the first time this year,
indicating that stock prices have turned technically upward
from their continuous downward trend since the beginning of
this year, traders said.
   Winners were spread among large-capital shares such as
steel and ship-building companies that rebounded from their
Tuesday losses. Construction companies and other
public-spending related shares, such as road builders, were
also higher.
   Sumitomo Metal was up 14 yen at 604 yen (nine cents to
$3.80), while Kobe Steel gained 19 yen to 595 yen. Kawasaki
Heavy Industries advanced 13 yen to 848 yen and Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries rose 16 yen to 939 yen.
   TDK finished at 6900 yen, down 160 yen, and Sony was down
130 yen at 8520 yen. But many other electronics shares ended
the day firmer or unchanged.
   Separately, the Tokyo Stock Exchange said that in the week
ended Friday, the balance of margin buying declined 158.8
billion yen to 7.585 trillion yen. The balance of short
positions outstanding fell 100.9 billion yen to 612.7 billion
yen.
   In London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 share
index closed up 19.7 points at 2137.6. The index reached its
intraday high of 2145.1 around midafternoon and posted its
low for the day of 2121.7 at the start of official trading.
   The Financial Times 30 share index ended up 14.5 points at
1678. Volume was 433 million shares, modestly better than the
370.8 million a day earlier.
   Several diverse factors, including early firmness on Wall
Street, a flurry of bullish corporate results and a shortage
of stock helped push the market up, dealers said.
   Caution about the U.K.'s economic and political situation
-- currently focused on today's scheduled municipal
elections, in which Margaret Thatcher's Tory Party is
forecast to take a drubbing -- is damping new investor
enthusiasm, traders said.
   Dealers said the technical bounce that gripped the market
at the start of the week has probably run its course. They
predicted that the market would most likely come off its
current levels shortly and possibly even test the technical
support level of 2050.
   To stimulate fresh position-taking, "what you need is a
little bit of corporate activity" such as concrete takeover
bids, one trader said.
   Bidding speculation buoyed the insurance sector, as
expectations that French group Axa-Midi might try for a U.K.
composite insurer following the collapse last week of
Axa-Midi's efforts to buy B.A.T's U.S. insurance unit,
Farmers Group.
   Commercial Union, regarded the most likely candidate for a
takeover bid by the French insurer, shot up 11 pence to 455
pence; elsewhere in the sector, General Accident rose 5 pence
to #10.13, and Royal Insurance climbed 2 pence to 429 pence.
   Favorable results by the Royal Bank of Scotland bolstered
banking shares, which have been depressed since Midland Bank
released a profit warning last week. Pretax profit for the
RBS's first half ending March 31 was up 1.5%, beating
analysts' expectations and pushing the share price up 10
pence to 169 pence.
   Elsewhere in Europe and South Africa, prices closed higher
in Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich, and Stockholm; and were mixed in
Amsterdam and Milan. South African gold stocks closed lower.
   Meanwhile, prices closed higher in Sydney, Hong Kong,
Manila and Wellington; lower in Taipei; and mixed in
Singapore. The Seoul market was closed for a holiday.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                           May 1      Apr 30       Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ................     307.1       305.7      - 5.5
 Britain .............     628.3       624.3      -12.9
 Canada ..............     365.8       365.7      -15.4
 Japan ...............    1260.7      1255.1      -23.8
 France ..............     574.1       574.2      + 1.3
 Germany .............     290.4       290.4      + 1.8
 Hong Kong ...........    2191.3      2192.5      + 4.5
 Switzerland .........     196.7       197.0      -10.9
 Australia ...........     291.5       288.8      -12.0
 World index .........     477.9       475.9      -15.8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Interneuron, NutraSweet
   To Explore Salt Substitute
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IPIC MTC
</CO>
<LP>
   LEXINGTON, Mass. -- Interneuron Pharmaceuticals Inc., a
small research and development company, said it reached an
agreement with Monsanto Co.'s NutraSweet Co. involving
research on a salt substitute.
   Although sugar substitutes have been available for years,
and fat substitutes have begun to come on the market,
researchers say that salt substitutes have thus far failed to
satisfy the human craving for salt. The simple molecular
structure of salt makes it difficult to alter chemically.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Charles J. Casamento, president and chief executive
officer of Interneuron, said the company will use the
NutraSweet funding to pay for research "to look at compounds
that will satisfy salt cravings in animals." If it finds such
compounds, the company would sign a more extensive research
agreement. "We believe the technology is there that will let
us come up with something," he added.
   Under the agreement, NutraSweet, a maker of sugar
substitutes, gets a nine-month option to license from
Interneuron the right to develop and market any salt
substitute or salt enhancer developed. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   NutraSweet, based in Deerfield, Ill., said that
Interneuron's work is at the "very early stages."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Budget Committee Backs Plan
   To Cut Federal Deficit by $43 Billion
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Budget Committee rallied behind a
plan to reduce the federal deficit by $43 billion by spending
less on defense and domestic programs than either the House
or the White House has proposed.
   After weeks of bickering and back-room bargaining, Budget
Committee Chairman James Sasser (D., Tenn.) won support for a
$1.23 trillion fiscal 1991 spending plan from all 13
Democrats on the panel as well as from Iowa Republican Sen.
Charles Grassley.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sen. Sasser called the plan "the largest single
deficit-reduction package we have passed in more than a
decade," and said it demonstrates that Congress can come up
with a budget without first negotiating with President Bush.
It also demonstrates Sen. Sasser's horse-trading ability: To
assemble a majority on his divided committee, he proposed no
cuts in farm subsidies whatsoever.
   The senior Republican on the budget panel, Sen. Pete
Domenici of New Mexico, predicted flatly that Congress won't
adopt the tax increases or spending cuts outlined in Sen.
Sasser's plan except as part of a pact with Mr. Bush. "There
is no way to get from where we are to where we have to be"
without a so-called budget summit, he said.
   Sen. Sasser said he hopes to bring the budget to the floor
of the Senate within 10 days. There it is certain to run into
fire from those who would cut defense spending more and
domestic spending less, and from others, including
influential Sen. Sam Nunn (D., Ga.), who would cut defense
spending less.
   The committee's budget essentially embraces all the tax
increases in the president's budget -- and then some. It
calls for $13.9 billion in tax increases plus $6.2 billion in
unspecified user fees. The House has a similar tax number,
but only $1.4 billion in fees.
   For the Pentagon, the Senate plan calls for cutting $13
billion from projected outlays in fiscal 1991, which starts
Oct. 1. That's more than the $11.5 billion in the budget
narrowly approved in the House this week and far from the
$3.2 billion in cuts in President Bush's budget, a figure the
administration itself has all but abandoned.
   Sen. Nunn, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, is
recommending a $10 billion cut. He termed the budget
committee's spending cuts "deeper than I believe can be
justified by the changes in the threat" from abroad and said
they would require sharp cutbacks in troop levels. But Sen.
James Exon Jr. (D., Neb.), who described himself as Sen.
Nunn's "right-hand man," voted with Sen. Sasser yesterday and
said he will do so on the floor.
   The Budget Committee also backed a sharp, $30 billion
reduction from projected levels in defense spending authority
-- essentially the sum to be deposited in the Pentagon's
checkbook to be spent over several years. The committee backs
$285.6 billion in spending authority, compared with $283
billion in the House budget. Sen. Nunn is calling for $289
billion. The Bush budget proposes $306.9 billion.
   The Senate committee's plan would spend substantially less
on domestic programs than would the president's budget, which
Democrats have criticized harshly. It would cut $3.6 billion
from projected spending on nondefense discretionary programs,
a category that includes everything from foreign aid to
housing assistance, compared with cuts of only $200 million
in the Bush budget and an increase of $3.7 billion in the
House budget.
   Although the total is stated boldly in the plan, the
specific cuts aren't. When pressed, Sen. Sasser said the list
includes saving $300 million next year, and billions in the
future, by terminating a giant atom smasher called the
superconducting supercollider.
   "There are no gimmicks here," Sen. Sasser asserted.
"There's nothing up our sleeve."
   But Sen. Domenici noted that Sen. Sasser's plan shows
increased spending in almost every government function, and
then lumps the proposed cuts together in one big catch-all
category at the bottom. Calling the maneuver "ingenious,"
Sen. Domenici said, "Everyone can say . . . they voted to
increase something."
   The Senate committee's budget does call for spending more
on entitlement programs, such as Medicare and federal
retirement programs, than President Bush has proposed. While
Mr. Bush would pare $5.5 billion from projected Medicare
spending, the committee would cut $2 billion and the House
$1.6 billion.
   If the Senate backs the Budget Committee's proposal, then
the two houses of Congress will attempt to reconcile their
differences to come up with a guide for appropriations and
tax-writing committees -- unless talks with the White House
begin first.
   In addition to the $43 billion deficit-reduction plan, the
Senate Budget Committee resolution calls for raising $11.1
billion by waiving penalties for Americans who pay their back
taxes and by intensifying tax-collection efforts. Sen. Sasser
included the amnesty scheme to win support from its author,
Sen. Kent Conrad (D., N.D.), and from Sen. Charles Robb (D.,
Va.), who added the figures together and said he was voting
for a $54.1 billion plan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Speaking of Business:
   Japan Doesn't Always Do Everything Right
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   The U.S. is Japan's best customer, so it's not surprising
that the Japanese for many years avoided overt criticism of
Uncle Sam. But the Oriental patience gradually eroded and, in
the past year or so, there have been books, articles and
public proclamations from Tokyo that the U.S. should stop
blaming Japan for its trouble and clean up its own house.
   These criticisms have gotten farther than they might have
in chauvinistic America because Americans have begun to feel
that the Japanese do almost everything right. New ideas may
come from the U.S. but Japan knows how to convert them into
profitable products. At the time we were becoming accustomed
to 4% to 5% inflation, which would double prices in 15 years
or so, Japan was trudging along with price increases
averaging 1% or so.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Suddenly it has become apparent that the Japanese are
human beings after all. By the end of 1987, after a great
deal of manipulation by the U.S., Japan and other nations,
the dollar had plunged to 120 yen. A strong currency is often
viewed as an indicator of a strong economy, but Japan didn't
like this situation. Either Americans would have to be
persuaded to pay more for Toyotas and Hondas or they would
buy fewer of them -- or Japan would have to cut its prices to
keep market share.
   Japan mainly opted to cut prices, so profits declined.
Japan also decided to weaken the yen in the standard way: by
inflating the economy. The solution worked the way any
Economics 101 student would tell you it would work. The yen
has dropped and may go lower. Japan, whose wholesale prices
dropped every year from 1984 through 1988, has had
substantial price increases since then.
   The inflation has been most spectacular in land. Milton
Friedman, the Nobel economist, talking to Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
clients earlier this year, noted that the value of the land
in Tokyo is now equal to the value of all the land in the
U.S. In 1946, Bank of America bought a house for the manager
of its Tokyo branch, paying about $40,000. Recently the bank,
looking around for assets to sell, found that the house was
now worth $40 million -- and sold it.
   Japan may not allow its inflation to get out of hand. The
Bank of Japan has had a change in management, and the new
people seem determined to keep prices in check. At any rate,
despite predictable political objections, the bank has been
maneuvering increases in interest rates.
   Higher interest rates aren't welcome in a country that has
grown on the basis of cheap credit. But at least some
Japanese seem to recognize that this is something they have
done to themselves, not a punishment inflicted by foreigners.
   Since fooling around with exchange rates was the main
cause of Japan's troubles, it might be hoped that the
Japanese in the future will forgo such foolishness. But
that's a lot to hope. The U.S. still fools around with
exchange rates, although the effectiveness of such actions is
at least controversial. The U.S. "sterilizes" its
intervention, offsetting inflationary effects by buying or
selling securities in the domestic market.
   To the extent that there is a significant effect, it's
probably more psychological than real. If the intervention
doesn't achieve its aim, the market knows the U.S. government
probably will try again, silly as such action may be. Anyway,
the market isn't likely to try to thwart what it perceives as
the government's wishes.
   Several people recently, however, have questioned whether
the U.S. is playing this game by the rules -- its own rules,
that is. Anna J. Schwartz, in a paper for the Shadow Open
Market Committee in March, noted that Congress in 1934
empowered the Treasury to deal in foreign currencies to
"stabilize" exchange rates.
   Most of the funds the Treasury was given were taken over
by the International Monetary Fund after World War II. That
left the Treasury with limited sums to play around with, so
the Treasury enlisted the Federal Reserve as a player.
   The legal basis for the Fed's participation is at best
questionable. A number of Fed officials aren't happy about
it, but the game goes on. The Federal Reserve now
"warehouses" foreign currencies for the Treasury, in effect
making no-interest loans to the Treasury. At best this
operation distracts Fed officials from their own problems,
such as persistent U.S. inflation.
   Even if this operation is necessary, Mrs. Schwartz argues
that the Treasury and the Fed should at least ask Congress
for authority. But the Fed, which has the unique ability to
create its own money, simply goes on helping the Treasury
out.
   So both the U.S. and Japan are having trouble getting
their acts together. In the circumstances it seems wise that
the Bush administration has decided not to condemn Japan this
year under the so-called Super 301 provision of the trade
law. The failure to include Japan this time didn't attract
many complaints from Congress, so maybe this punitive law is
losing some of its support. Maybe American politicians are
learning.
   Maybe Japanese politicians are learning, too. They are
concerned about inflation, and they are taking some steps to
open their markets; maybe they're learning that more
competition tends to hold down prices.
   Japan, it's apparent, has done some things wrong. It's in
our interest, and theirs, for both of us to stop
finger-pointing and deal with our own problems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Little Changed in Lifeless Trading;
   No Surprises in Terms for Treasury Refunding
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Andrew Bary
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   F ADD MZ EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond prices ended little changed in lifeless
trading activity as investors anxiously awaited details of
the Treasury's next big bond auction.
   The announcement, which came very late in the day, had
little impact on the market because the terms of the auction
were as analysts had expected. The Treasury said it will sell
a record $30.5 billion of notes and bonds at next week's
quarterly refunding of the federal debt. The government will
auction $10.5 billion of three-year notes Tuesday, $10
billion of 10-year notes Wednesday and $10 billion of 30-year
bonds next Thursday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Treasury also set the next auction for Resolution
Funding Corp. thrift bailout bonds for July 10 and said it
will announce details of the auction July 3.
   In trading yesterday, Treasury bond prices initially fell
as much as 3/8 point, or $3.75 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount, following news that Federal Reserve Board Vice
Chairman Manuel Johnson said inflation was too high.
   But Treasury prices recuperated later to end unchanged to
about 1/8 point higher.
   Mr. Johnson's remarks, which were made to reporters after
a speech to executives of the National Automated Clearing
House Association, were interpreted by investors as yet
another sign that the Fed may eventually raise interest rates
in an effort to reduce inflationary pressures.
   The comments were especially disturbing considering that
the date of the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee meeting
is fast approaching. The committee, which is the Fed's
policy-making arm, will meet on May 15, and the members will
decide whether to change monetary policy.
   Fears of Fed tightening seemed to have calmed down a bit
later in the day when the Fed released the latest edition of
its so-called beige book, a summary of economic conditions
prepared for use by policymakers before their May 15 meeting
in Washington.
   The report indicated that economic activity continues to
expand slowly across the country, but not fast enough to
allow the Fed room to raise interest rates. Manufacturing,
which has been depressed in many parts of the nation, is
improving.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   The mortgage securities market was abuzz with talk that
the Comptroller of the Currency may soon impose curbs on
commercial banks' holdings of certain high-yielding mortgage
securities.
   Banks have been big buyers of all mortgage securities
during the past year because new risk-based capital bank
standards favor these securities over many traditional bank
investments.
   But dealers on Wall Street said the comptroller's office
is concerned with the large increase in bank holdings of
derivative securities, which are a riskier type of mortgage
security. These would include highly volatile securities such
as inverse floating-rate, zero-coupon, residual and "jump Z"
bonds. The comptroller might also restrict "companion" bonds
with original average lives of more than seven years.
Companion bonds are relatively high-yielding derivative
securities that are created in tandem with
prepayment-protected planned amortization classes.
   A spokesman for the comptroller said regulations on bank
investment in mortgage securities are "in the formulation
stage," but nothing has been made final.
   Andrew Carron, head of mortgage research at First Boston
Corp., said banks would probably be permitted to hold most
standard derivative mortgage securities. These would include
"plain vanilla" real estate mortgage investment conduits,
which are a type of collateralized mortgage obligation.
   In trading yesterday, most mortgage-backed securities
ended little changed.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   Ford Capital BV, the Dutch-based finance subsidiary of
Ford Motor Co., made its debut in the U.S. credit markets
with $400 million of 12-year notes. The notes were priced to
yield 9.952%.
   Ford Capital is a financing vehicle set up primarily to
refinance debt incurred in connection with Ford Motor's $2.52
billion acquisition of Jaguar PLC.
   It is unusual for offshore units of U.S. companies to tap
the U.S. debt market because their primary purpose is to
raise capital through the Eurobond market.
   But Peter Milhaupt, director of capital markets at lead
underwriter First Boston Corp., said the U.S. market is
currently more attractive than the Euromarket for domestic
issuers.
   Among other things, Mr. Milhaupt noted that European rates
have been rising relative to U.S. rates and that traditional
Eurobond investors tend to prefer securities that mature in
10 years or less.
   Moreover, he said, "The Euromarket has not been able to
consistently" absorb certain types of bond offerings. "It is
our judgment that for the size, $400 million, and the
maturity, 12 years, {Ford} could not get this kind of
execution in that market in Eurodollars or for that matter by
swapping out of currencies" for dollars, said Mr. Milhaupt.
   Although First Boston officials said the deal went well
and attracted a broad-based buying interest from
institutional investors, some corporate bond traders said the
issue was priced a little aggressively.
   The non-callable notes were priced at a spread of 0.86
percentage point above the Treasury's 10-year note. A
comparable Ford Holdings 9 1/4% issue of 10-year notes is
trading at 0.89 percentage point above the Treasury's 10-year
note, dealers said. Officials at First Boston said the deal
hasn't been completely sold yet.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Broad buying interest buoyed the junk bond market, lifting
prices of most actively traded bonds.
   Most junk bonds, which are high-yield speculative-grade
securities with low credit ratings or no credit ratings,
gained 1/8 and 1/4 point.
   Meanwhile, Moody's Investors Service Inc. said junk bonds
were the best performing sector of the bond market last month
after being one of the worse performing sectors most of last
year.
   In its latest bond-market performance report, Moody's said
junk bonds eked out a small 0.5% total return last month.
While that's not a stellar performance, it's far better than
the minus 2% total return posted on long-term Treasury bonds
and the minus 1.5% total return on investment-grade corporate
bonds. Moody's said the biggest losers last month were
long-term zero-coupon Treasury bonds, which plunged 8% last
month.
   In trading yesterday, the junk bonds of Ames Department
Stores Inc. were again the major market-mover as vulture
funds and other investors in distressed securities continued
to swoop down and snap up the retailer's bonds.
   Ever since the Rocky Hill, Conn.-based firm filed for
protection under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code,
its bonds have been gaining ground. Some investors believe
the bonds will be valued at higher levels if and when the
company emerges from bankruptcy-law proceedings. Ames's 13%
senior subordinated reset notes, due in 1999, rose 2 1/4
points to end at 27 1/2.
   The junk bonds of R.H. Macy &amp; Co. were unchanged despite
news that the retailer has reduced its loss for the third
quarter. In a letter to investors, Macy said that despite
almost flat sales, it was able to reduce its loss for the
quarter ended April 28. In the year-earlier third quarter,
the company reported a loss of $64 million, on sales of $1.5
billion.
   Macy's 14 1/2% senior subordinated debentures, due in
1998, were unchanged at 70 1/2, while its 14 1/2%
subordinated debentures, maturing in 2001, were little
changed at 61.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The benchmark 30-year bonds ended at 94 19/32 to yield
9.01%, up from 94 14/32 to yield 9.03% on Tuesday. Two-year
notes ended unchanged at 99 23/32 to yield 8.997%.
   Short-term rates ended little changed. The discount rate
on three-month Treasury bills eased slightly to 7.90% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 8.152%, while the rate on six-month
bills was slightly lower at 8.02% for a bond-equivalent yield
of 8.464%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   In a repeat performance of Tuesday's sleepy dealings,
municipal bonds finished narrowly mixed in fairly active
trading. Some actively traded issues were off as much as 1/4
point, while other issues were up as much as 1/8 point.
   Municipals aren't expected to show much life until the
path of the Treasury bond market is clearer, traders said.
   In light primary market activity, a First Boston Corp.
group priced $70 million of Indiana Health Facilities
Authority revenue bonds.
   In secondary market activity, New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018 was unchanged at 95 bid to
yield 7.62%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   News that East and West Germany agreed on terms of
monetary union had only a modest impact on the West German
bond market.
   Under terms of the agreement, most East Germans will be
able to convert 4,000 East German marks of savings into West
German marks at a 1-to-1 exchange rate. East Germans who are
60 years old and over will be able to convert 6,000 East
German marks at the favorable rate, while those 14 and
younger will be limited to 2,000 marks. Remaining savings
will be converted at a 2-to-1 rate. West Germany said the new
official exchange rates become effective immediately.
   Investors took the news surprisingly well, considering the
West German bond market has been depressed for months because
of fears that reunification of the two currencies would
result in exorbitant inflation, especially if the exchange
rate came in at 1 to 1.
   But analysts said inflation concerns already have been
priced into the market.
   In trading, West Germany's benchmark 7 3/4% bond due in
2000 fell 0.25 point to 92.95 to yield 8.85%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Citizens &amp; Southern,
   Sovran Debt Ratings
   Are Cut by Moody's
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   CTZ SOV
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it
downgraded its debt ratings for Citizens &amp; Southern Corp. of
Atlanta, and Sovran Financial Corp. of Norfolk, Va.
   The two companies are in the process of merging to form
Avantor Financial Corp. The $4.7 billion transaction, which
will create the nation's 14th-largest banking company, is
expected to be completed in the third quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's also lowered the ratings on the long-term deposits
of the superregional banking company's subsidiary banks.
   The rating agency said the actions, which affect about
$750 million in securities, reflect the combined $47 billion
institution's significant exposure to overbuilt real estate
markets. Citizens recently reported first-quarter profit fell
28% to $41.6 million, or 64 cents a share, primarily because
of a $54.8 million charge for problem loans.
   The company's senior debt was downgraded to single-A-2
from single-A-1; subordinated debt to single-A-3 from
single-A-2; shelf registration to (P)single-A-2 from
(P)single-A-1, and preferred stock to single-A-2 from
single-A-1.
   Sovran's senior debt was downgraded to single-A-2 from
single-A-1; its medium-term notes to single-A-2 from
single-A-1; subordinated debt to single-A-3 from single-A-2;
subordinated capital notes to single-A-3 from single-A-2, and
shelf registration to (P)single-A-2 from (P)single-A-1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Giving a Hand:
   Steven Rosenthal Tries to Insure
   Students' Success in New Orleans
   ----
   By John D. Williams
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   {From time to time in this column, The Wall Street Journal
will report on efforts by people in business to help others
in need.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   STEVEN R. ROSENTHAL, a 33-year-old insurance-agency scion,
is showing a small group of youngsters from the slums of New
Orleans a way out.
   "Eagles" is the name Mr. Rosenthal gives his
elementary-school-age charges, reflecting his hope that
someday they, too, will soar. Right now, all he asks is that
they apply themselves, staying in school through high-school
graduation. Those who succeed, and gain admission to a
college or vocational school, will get a $1,000 annual
scholarship from a trust funded by Mr. Rosenthal. In
addition, throughout their public-school years in the
program, the Eagles will be treated to special trips and
other extracurricular educational activities, all paid for by
Mr. Rosenthal.
   The program began four years ago, sparked by an idea Mr.
Rosenthal got while doing volunteer education work in New
Orleans public schools. "I know it sounds corny but I wanted
to make a difference," he says.
   Five second-grade students from New Orleans's Laurel
elementary school were the first Laurel Eagles. Since then,
13 more youngsters have been added; by year end, he will have
signed up 21 third-through-sixth graders.
   The candidates are selected from a list put together by
Laurel teachers. Children from neighboring housing projects
have an edge; after that, Mr. Rosenthal looks for
"spunkiness" even more than grades. The willingness of
parents -- only three Eagles have two parents at home -- to
help also is taken into account.
   The first year is a trial period. If the child and parent
pass muster, Mr. Rosenthal signs a simple, one-page contract
with a parent. After completing the sixth grade, the child
also becomes a formal party to the pact, which in part
requires the child to "promise to work hard in school and to
maintain good grades."
   The early signs are encouraging. Four Eagles recently won
transfers to "magnet" schools, which draw the better students
regardless of school district. At the magnet Robert M. Lusher
School, Eagle Lawanda Page won the annual spelling bee. She
and her mother had worked a month memorizing all 2,000 words
in the contest.
   Expectations also are being raised. "After we get to know
each other, about half of the kids want to be insurance
agents when they grow up," says Mr. Rosenthal, a graduate of
Amherst College and the Wharton School and a vice president
and part owner of the Rosenthal Agency. (His father founded
the agency 25 years ago; current annual billings are about
$25 million.)
   There have been setbacks. One 11-year-old left the program
after her mother was murdered, and another dropped out after
her mother stopped attending parent meetings.
   Although the program takes much of Mr. Rosenthal's free
time, its annual net cost -- excluding the scholarship
funding -- is only about $200 for each Eagle, or $4,000
total. That's less than the private-school tuition for Mr.
Rosenthal's seven-year-old daughter.
   To fund the future college scholarships, Mr. Rosenthal
will contribute to a tax-free corporation every year sums
ranging from $100 a student for those completing sixth grade
to $1,500 a student for those in 12th grade.
   "The Laurel Eagles are No. 3 priority to Steve after his
own family and his job," says his sister, Leslie Jacobs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Slhd Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SPTO
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SLHD Inc., formerly Sporto Corp., again reduced the
estimated value of its final liquidating distribution to
shareholders because of environmental cleanup costs. It
reduced the estimated value of the distribution "by at least
10 cents a share" from the $1 to $1.25 a share previously
estimated. As reported, Slhd agreed to sell its Jasper, Ga.,
footwear manufacturing facility to Carter Footwear Co.,
Wilkes-Barre, Pa., subject to cleanup of contaminated soil.
Slhd said that the state of Georgia rejected its original
cleanup plan and it estimated that the revised plan, which
has been approved, will cost $340,000, rather than less than
$225,000 as previously announced. However, the state added
requirements for water monitoring. Slhd said that it doesn't
think ground water has been contaminated, but "if
contamination is present, the cost for remediation could
significantly increase."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   Milken's Accomplishments: Not Such a Big Deal
   ----
   By Herbert Stein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   In a statement at the U.S. Courthouse in Manhattan on
April 25, Arthur Liman, Michael Milken's lawyer, said:
   "It is an enormous accomplishment for Michael to have been
instrumental in finding the capital for hundreds of American
corporations, which are generating jobs, providing a
livelihood for hundred of thousands of people. . . . It is
Michael's hope that in the long run history will see his
violation in context and judge him not just on the basis of
his lapse but on the basis of the contributions that he made
to the economy and to the American people."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This reflects an error that is common among people who
have not been exposed to economics. It is like the claim that
increasing defense spending creates jobs or that increasing
imports destroys jobs. It fails to distinguish between what
happens in a part of the economy and what happens to the
economy in total, and it fails to recognize that there is an
equilibrating mechanism in the economy that tends to keep
capital and labor fully employed.
   Mr. Milken did not save or create the capital that he
found for his corporate client. He attracted the capital from
the people who saved it -- mainly from savers who had put
their money in insurance companies, mutual funds and savings
and loans. He arranged for the sale of junk bonds to these
institutions. If the institutions had not bought the junk
bonds they would have invested the money in some other way,
presumably in some other corporation but possibly in home
mortgages.
   Mr. Milken did not increase the net flow of capital into
investment. He altered the direction of the flow. There are
some corporations that received capital because of his
efforts. We know their names and Mr. Milken can point to
them. But there are corporations and potential home owners
who, as a result of his efforts, were unable to obtain
capital. We do not know their names, but they are real and
important.
   Because he did not increase the total stock of capital,
and even if he did, Mr. Milken did not create jobs. Given a
reasonably stable monetary environment, and Mr. Milken had
nothing to do with that, people who seek jobs find jobs,
except for market frictions with which Mr. Milken had nothing
to do either. It is wrong to think that the people employed
in Mr. Milken's client corporations would not have been
employed there or elsewhere if it had not been for him.
   The real issue is not the total flow of capital or the
total amount of employment. It is whether Mr. Milken's
efforts affected the quality of the investment made with the
flow of capital and consequently affected productivity and
incomes.
   Here we must distinguish three kinds of cases:
   a) The cases usually described on Mr. Milken's behalf
where it is alleged that he corrected a market imperfection
and improved the allocation of capital, making it more
productive. The argument is that the market had overestimated
the risks in junk bonds. As a consequence companies that
depended on raising money by issuing junk bonds would have
faced an unrealistically high risk premium in their cost of
capital and would have been unable to make investments with a
higher probable yield than the investments actually made by
companies that financed themselves in other ways. By finding
a market for these bonds that evaluated these risks more
properly, it is said, Mr. Milken helped capital to flow to
its more productive uses.
   But there are two other kinds of possible cases.
   b) Cases in which Mr. Milken nurtured and exploited a
market imperfection and by so doing made the allocation of
capital worse. These would be cases in which investment
decisions were made not by the ultimate savers but by agents
and dealers -- investment bankers and managers of financial
institutions -- whose motivation was not the total
productivity of the investment but the short-run cash flow
that could be extracted as commissions, salaries and trading
profits. The money of the passive savers was diverted into
investments whose probable yield was less than could have
been earned elsewhere and this reduced the productivity of
investment.
   c) Cases that had no effect on the real productivity of
investment but only shifted wealth around. Financial
institutions bought junk bonds whose proceeds were used to
buy existing equities at prices well above the previous
market prices and to pay commissions to the managers of the
deals. The corporation does not acquire any additional
capital in the process. It is only the shell for the
transaction. The previous stockholders have a gain, the
managers of the transaction have their fees and the investors
in the financial institutions have assets for which they paid
much more than markets previously thought they were worth and
whose riskiness they did not prefer. In the case of the
savings and loans these ultimate investors turned out to be
the taxpayers.
   I do not know in what proportions these kinds of cases
existed, and I do not think that anyone else knows either.
But I guess that the second and third kind were most
important. I think that partly because, at least toward the
end, when the flotation of junk bonds was largest, they came
more and more to involve well-established corporations that
probably would have had little difficulty raising capital in
other ways. Also, I am impressed by the persistence of Mr.
Milken's dominance of the junk bond market and by the size of
his earnings. I wonder, what was his unique asset that
allowed that? His initial insight that junk bonds were
undervalued would, I suppose, not have remained unique for
very long. But his Daisy Chain of money managers willing to
subordinate the interests of clients to whom they had
fiduciary responsibilities, and even to take the risk of
going to jail, may have been more durable.
   But this is only a speculation. If Mr. Milken's
contribution to the American economy is to be an important
factor in determining his sentence, a more serious effort
should be made to evaluate that contribution than has been
made to date. But I am not hopeful of finding an answer.
   Certainly Mr. Milken can afford to hire an econometrician
who can "prove" that his contribution was large and positive.
Probably the government can afford to hire an econometrician
who will "disprove" it. And even the most objective analyst
will probably be unable to render a verdict. By the time
enough history has passed to see how Mr. Milken's
transactions have come out so many other things will have
happened that it will be impossible to isolate the effect of
his activities from all the other noise in our data.
Moreover, we shall never be able to measure the effect of the
loss of confidence in financial markets generally that his
activities caused.
   Anyway, where is it written that criminals should be
evaluated by the size of their contribution to the GNP --
especially when the contribution was a byproduct of
self-interested action?
   The GNP does not include the value added by criminal
activities, like prostitution or drug trade, so I don't know
whether the Department of Commerce will include Mr. Milken's
value added.
   ---
   A former chairman of the president's Council of Economic
Advisers, Mr. Stein is an American Enterprise Institute
fellow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   THE DRUG THA, being tested by Warner-Lambert Co. for
treating Alzheimer's disease, can cause an increase in liver
enzymes in some patients, a sign of liver damage. The
condition is reversible when the drug's use is stopped and
can be eliminated at low doses. Yesterday's edition
incorrectly said the drug affected kidney enzymes.
   (See: "Technology &amp; Health: THA Might Not Be a Beneficial
Way to Stop Disorder --- Test Drug Used for Treating
Alzheimer's Disease Gets Contradictory Reports" -- WSJ May 2,
1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   AMGEN Inc. recently lost a round in patent infringement
litigation involving erythropoietin, an anti-anemia drug,
against Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. of Japan. Yesterday's OTC
Focus column mistakenly said that Amgen had won and that
Genetics Institute Inc. also was involved. Genetics Institute
is involved in a separate suit with Amgen.
   (See: "OTC Focus: Stocks Shrug Off Falling Bond Market and
Post Slight Gains in Quiet Session" -- WSJ May 2, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ply Gem Industries:
   Quarterly Net Loss Reflects
   Seasonal Business of SNE
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PGI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ply Gem Industries Inc. reported a first-quarter net loss
of $1.7 million, or 16 cents a share, reflecting the highly
seasonal business of SNE Enterprises, acquired by Ply Gem in
March 1989.
   The New York-based manufacturer of home improvement
products earned $2.2 million, or 20 cents a share, a year
earlier. Revenue increased 23% to $121.3 million, from $98.3
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ply Gem said its financial condition remains strong. The
company said SNE normally posts a large first-quarter loss
because of its seasonal window-and-door product line. Ply Gem
added that an increasingly higher percentage of its sales and
earnings will occur during the busy spring and summer
remodeling periods.
   The company also authorized the purchase of as many as
500,000 shares of Ply Gem stock over an unspecified period.
The company currently has 10.5 million common shares
outstanding.
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Ply Gem closed at $7.50, up 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Derlan Industries Ltd.:
   Firm Expects to Post Gain
   For 2nd Period From Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.DRL
</CO>
<LP>
   Derlan Industries Ltd., Toronto, said it expects to report
a second-quarter pretax gain of about nine million Canadian
dollars (US$7.7 million) from the sale of a subsidiary.
   The diversified manufacturing concern reported net income
of C$3.5 million for the year-ago quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Derlan said the gain would result from the recently
completed sale of its Carte International Ltd. unit to
Federal Industries Ltd., Winnipeg, Manitoba, for about C$22
million. Carte makes transformers. Federal Industries is a
retailing, transportation and metals distribution concern.
   Derlan said first-quarter net income fell to C$1.7
million, or 11 Canadian cents (9.4 U.S. cents) a share, from
C$5.8 million, or 34 Canadian cents, a year earlier, when
earnings included a one-time gain of C$1.3 million, or 7
Canadian cents. Sales rose to C$102.3 million from C$101.9
million.
   In trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday, Derlan
closed at C$7.25, down 25 Canadian cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Wednesday, May 2, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/16% high, 6% low, 6% near closing bid,
7% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.25% 15 to 30 days; 8.30% 31 to 59 days;
8.275% 60 to 89 days; 8.25% 90 to 119 days; 8.225% 120 to 149
days; 8.20% 150 to 179 days; 8.125% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.35%
30 days; 8.40% 60 days; 8.45% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.82% one month; 7.89% two
months; 7.94% three months; 8.02% six months; 8.36% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.35% one month; 8.55% three months;
8.75% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.26% 30 days; 8.34% 60 days; 8.34%
90 days; 8.38% 120 days; 8.38% 150 days; 8.39% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/2% - 8 3/8% one month; 8
11/16% - 8 9/16% two months; 8 3/4% - 8 5/8% three months; 8
13/16% - 8 11/16% four months; 8 15/16% - 8 13/ 16% five
months; 9% - 8 7/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 9/16% one month;
8 3/4% three months; 9% six months; 9 3/8% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11.50%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 30, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.91% 13 weeks; 8.03% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.67%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.61%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9.25%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.66%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bayerische Motoren Werke AG:
   German Auto Maker's Net
   Jumped 23% During 1989
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BMW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, citing high customer demand
for its entire model range, said group net income in 1989
soared 23% as sales gained 8.4%.
   The West German luxury car maker said profit gained to
558.1 million marks ($332.2 million) from 454.9 million marks
a year ago, as sales grew to 26.52 billion marks from 24.47
billion marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BMW said it produced 511,476 passenger cars in 1989, up
5.7% from 484,121 cars in 1988. New car registrations in the
U.S., however, fell 12% to 64,900 from 73,400.
   This is the first time the company has reported full
consolidated world-wide annual group financial data.
   Separately, BMW said group sales rose 4.1% to 9.24 billion
marks in the first four months of 1990 from 8.87 billion
marks a year earlier.
   BMW said group car output rose 5.5% to 191,749 from
181,739 in the period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wells American Forms Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WAC
</CO>
<LP>
   WEST COLUMBIA, S.C. -- Wells American Corp. said it formed
a subsidiary to develop and market computer hardware
products.
   The maker of microcomputers, which closed its
manufacturing operations in January because of financial
problems, said the new hardware will be compatible with Apple
Computer Inc.'s MacIntosh computer systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wells American said the unit, NewCo Technology Inc., has a
research and development program and plans to begin
manufacturing operations this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hoechst AG:
   Group Pretax Earnings Fell
   By 8.5% in First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HFA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hoechst AG said its first-quarter group pretax profit fell
8.5% to 920 million marks ($547.6 million), while sales
increased 5% to 11.03 billion marks.
   The West German chemical company said that even though
pretax profit fell, it still expects to post profit for all
of 1990 similar to that posted for 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hoechst had profit of 2.13 billion marks in 1989 on 45.9
billion marks in sales.
   In the current year, the company financial performance has
been "handicapped" by unfavorable foreign exchange rates and
downward pressure on prices, the company said.
   However it said that it managed to have "a good volume
development" in Western Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pic `N' Save Doubts
   Attractive Buy-Out
   Could Be Financed
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pic `N' Save Corp., the target of a potential takeover,
said it doubted that financing could be obtained for any
acquisition or leveraged buy-out bid "that would be
attractive to our shareholders."
   That opinion was part of a statement issued yesterday that
was Pic `N' Save's first public response to Girard Partners
Limited Partnership's threatened proxy fight at the company's
annual meeting on June 20. The partnership, controlled by
David H. Batchelder, also has said it is preparing a bid to
acquire Pic `N' Save, which is based in Dominguez, Calif.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lewis B. Merrifield III, Pic `N' Save's chairman and chief
executive officer, said in the statement that the board and
"management have been and remain committed to maximizing
shareholder value. . . . We have developed an operating plan
which we believe will achieve this end."
   In the company's 1989 annual report that was being
prepared for mailing to shareholders late yesterday, Pic `N'
Save said it plans to "moderate new store growth
significantly so that we can . . . concentrate all of our
energies on improving profitability." As recently as March,
Mr. Merrifield had affirmed the company's aggressive
expansion strategy. Last year, Pic `N' Save opened 35 stores,
bringing the total to 190 by year end.
   The annual report also noted that the board recently
authorized the buy-back of as much as five million, or 14%,
of the company's roughly 35.5 million shares outstanding. In
addition, Pic `N' Save said, "We are actively evaluating
aggressive alternatives which we believe could provide even
more near-term value for our stockholders." The alternatives
weren't spelled out, and company officials declined to
elaborate.
   Mr. Batchelder, a former strategist for T. Boone Pickens,
didn't return calls to his office in La Jolla, Calif.
   Analysts were disappointed that Pic `N' Save didn't offer
a stronger response to Girard Partners.
   Management's response "doesn't address anything specific,"
complained Sarah Stack, a retail analyst at Bateman Eichler,
Hill Richards Inc. in Los Angeles. "Institutional investors
are disappointed by the stock's poor performance in recent
years and are receptive to {acquisition} offers," she added.
   Ms. Stack said Pic `N' Save's business has been hurt as
the gap between the company's markdowns on retail close-out
merchandise has shrunk compared with other retailers'
discounts. She speculated that "the viability of Pic `N'
Save's retail concept may be waning" because the availability
of close-out merchandise is "serendipitous."
   In national over-the-counter trading, Pic `N' Save shares
closed yesterday at $13, down 50 cents, on volume of 524,100
shares.
   Pic `N' Save was founded more than four decades ago in
Southern California. It went public in 1971 and in recent
years has expanded into New York, New Jersey, Texas and other
states. In March, the company reported "disappointing" 1989
results. Net income fell 34% to $30.9 million, or 87 cents a
share, on sales of $475.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrial Average Climbs 20.72,
   Spurred by Federal Reserve Report
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices remained on the upswing as the
Federal Reserve's latest report on the economy spurred
buying.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its fifth
double-digit gain in the last six sessions by climbing 20.72
to 2689.64. The latest gain was the sharpest over that period
and brought the average's rise so far this week to 44.59
points, or 1.7%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index went up 2.23 to 334.48
in the latest session, while the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Index climbed 1.12 to 183.34.
   Advancing stocks outnumbered decliners by 864 to 612 on
the Big Board, where activity remained sluggish despite brisk
business in the shares of American General, which put itself
up for sale.
   Big Board volume amounted to 141,610,000 shares, with
American General accounting for close to 4% of the total. On
Tuesday, 149,020,000 shares changed hands.
   Prices rallied at midday following the release of the
summary of economic conditions in the central bank's 12
districts, which said the economy continued to expand at a
moderate pace last month with "no general upward pressure" on
industrial prices.
   "Slow growth and moderate inflation levels -- that's
exactly what investors like to hear," said A.C. Moore,
director of research at Argus Research Corp., who added that
the Fed summary confirmed other evidence of improvement in
the economy.
   News that the index of leading indicators rose 0.9% and
factory orders rose 3.8% in March was better than generally
expected. On Tuesday, the April survey from the nation's
purchasing managers signaled a pickup in the manufacturing
sector for the first time since May 1989.
   Stocks finished at session highs as the market received a
boost just before the close from some program buying related
to stock-index arbitrage, in which traders sell index-futures
contracts and purchase baskets of stocks in order to lock in
profits from differences in price.
   However, the latest weekly survey of investment advisers
by Investors Intelligence indicated that market sentiment and
stock prices aren't moving in the same direction.
   As of last Friday, 49.6% of the market letter writers
surveyed had a bearish view on stocks, while 17.1% were
calling for short-term price weakness. The totals were up
from 46.5% and 14.9%, respectively, the previous week.
Meanwhile, just 33.3% of the advisers were bullish, down from
38.6%.
   Michael Burke, editor of the survey for Chartcraft Inc.,
New Rochelle, N.Y., said the sharp swing in sentiment stemmed
largely from concerns about rising interest rates and poor
market breadth, or the relationship between advancing and
declining issues.
   American General surged 7 1/2 to 47 5/8 in Big Board
composite trading of more than 7.1 million shares in response
to the company's decision to put itself up for sale, which
came in spite of its claim of victory in a proxy fight with
its hostile suitor, Torchmark. In addition, the company more
than doubled its quarterly dividend to 80 cents a share.
   Analysts and takeover-stock traders cited several foreign
insurance companies as possible suitors, including France's
Axa-Midi Assurances, Nationale-Nederlanden Group of the
Netherlands and Japan's Nippon Life Insurance, according to
Dow Jones Professional Investor Report. Also, Torchmark said
it plans to make another offer. Its earlier bid was $50 a
share.
   Shares of several single-country mutual funds also
recorded sharp gains. Taiwan Fund rallied 3 3/8 to 23 5/8,
Korea Fund rose 2 1/2 to 19 1/2, Jakarta Growth Fund gained 1
1/4 to 13 3/8, Mexico Fund advanced 1 1/8 to 13 5/8, Germany
Fund rose 1 1/8 to 14 1/4, New Germany Fund gained 1 3/8 to
14 1/8, and Future Germany Fund added 1 to 15 1/8.
   Traders at the U.S. units of Japanese brokerage firms said
Japanese investors, whose buying spurred sharp gains among
shares of the country funds early in the year, remain active
in them. "We don't seem to be doing too much else," said
Thomas Callahan, senior vice president of U.S. equities at
Yamaichi International (America).
   Union Carbide fell 1/2 to 18 7/8 on 1.6 million shares.
First Boston downgraded the stock to "hold" from "buy," based
on the company's failure to restructure, and said it should
trade at $16 a share, according to the investor report.
   Eastman Kodak added 7/8 to 37 7/8. While the company
reported that its first-quarter net income dropped 6% from
the year-ago level, the latest results exceeded most market
forecasts.
   General Motors went up 1/2 to 44 3/4 on 1.6 million shares
amid the release of first-quarter results by its major
subsidiaries. GM's Class E shares, representing its
Electronic Data Systems unit, gained 1/4 to 30 5/8. Its Class
H shares, representing its Hughes Electronics unit, slid 1/8
to 22 1/4.
   Ames Department Stores rose 3/8 to 2 7/8 on 2.6 million
shares. A federal bankruptcy judge granted the company
interim approval to obtain $25 million in financing and hire
Stephen L. Pistner as its chief executive officer.
   Rorer Group tumbled 5 1/4 to 64 1/2 in advance of a Friday
deadline for tendering the stock to France's Rhone-Poulenc
under its offer of $78 a share for a 50.1% stake, the first
step in a merger between the two companies.
   Halliburton advanced 7/8 to 44 1/8 after reporting that
its first-quarter earnings from operations went up 192% from
the year-earlier level. Schlumberger, another oil
field-services concern, tacked on 3/4 to 51 1/2 on 1.3
million shares.
   Control Data declined 1/2 to 18 3/8. The company said it
isn't comfortable with analysts' 1990 earnings estimates
"above the midportion" of a range of $1 to $1.50 a share.
   Xerox dropped 1 1/4 to 46 3/4 amid talk that the company,
which took a first-quarter charge of $375 million on its
investment in VMS Realty Partners, may cut its dividend. The
company denied the rumors.
   Fleet/Norstar Financial Group dropped 1/2 to 18 3/4 on
speculation that the bank holding company will report today
that nonperforming loans will increase to $1 billion as of
March 31 from $400 million at the end of 1989. The company
earlier had estimated that nonperforming loans would increase
to $600 million.
   Smith Corona skidded 7/8 to 7. Merrill Lynch lowered the
stock's long-term investment rating and reduced its earnings
estimate for the fiscal year beginning July 1, according to
the investor report.
   Windmere rose 1 to 6 7/8. R. Jerry Falkner, director of
research at Gulfstream Financial Associates, recommended the
issue as "very oversold" in The Wall Street Journal's monthly
stock-selection feature, "Investment Dartboard."
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.91
to 344.23. Volume totaled 11,710,000 shares compared with
10,640,000 Tuesday.
   Ply-Gem Industries gained 1/4 to 7 1/2 after its board
approved the repurchase of as many as 500,000 shares, or
about 4.8% of its shares outstanding. Separately, the company
posted a first-quarter loss compared with a year-ago profit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Cie. Financiere de Paribas:
   Bank Unit's Group Earnings
   Climbed 19% During 1989
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   F.CFP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Banque Paribas said group profit rose 19% in 1989, helped
by a decline in new provisions for loan risks.
   The bank unit of Cie. Financiere de Paribas said group
earnings after payments to minority interests climbed to 1.38
billion francs ($244.3 million) for the year from 1.16
billion francs in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Banque Paribas noted that its 1989 performance was marked
by narrower margins on loan activity, following an inversion
of the yield curve in France. It also said that profit from
capital market operations was weaker than in previous years,
without elaborating. Banque Paribas said merchant banking and
fund management grew significantly in 1989, however.
   The combination of these elements left operating profit
before income taxes and provisions at 3.66 billion francs,
down from 4.48 billion francs a year earlier. This erosion
was offset by a decline in new loan provisions to 1.34
billion francs from 2.5 billion francs in 1988. Paribas noted
that the lower provisions reflected an improvement in the
quality of its loan portfolio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- B. F. Goodrich Co.:
   Sale of Warrant to Michelin
   Brings $20.5 Million Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.MIC GR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   B.F. Goodrich Co., Akron, Ohio, said it will have a
second-quarter gain of about $20.5 million from the sale of a
warrant to Michelin Group of France.
   The warrant would have enabled B.F. Goodrich, a plastic,
specialty chemical and aircraft-product concern, to purchase
up to 7% of Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Michelin said it completed the acquisition of Uniroyal
Goodrich, also based here.
   In the 1989 second quarter, Goodrich earned $52.3 million,
or $1.98 a share, on sales of $628.8 million.
   Uniroyal Goodrich was formed in 1986 when Goodrich and
Uniroyal combined their tire businesses into a joint-venture
partnership. In 1988, Goodrich sold its 50% interest in
Uniroyal Goodrich to a group of investors organized by
Clayton &amp; Dubilier of New York.
   At that time, Goodrich received a warrant to purchase
indirectly as much as 7% of Uniroyal Goodrich.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Johnson Matthey PLC:
   Big Cost-Cutting Program
   Is Planned by British Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.JMA
</CO>
<LP>
   Johnson Matthey PLC, a major British precious metals and
metal-goods manufacturer, said it intends to undergo a major
cost-cutting program that will lead to "substantial" charges
against earnings for the year ended March 31.
   The move was triggered by a need to bring production and
overhead costs back into line after a period in which they
were growing faster than the group's overall gross profit
margin.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   David Davies, who was named chairman of the company in
January following a board room shake-up, said the measures
would include a reduction in the company's business units,
currently totaling 77; a more decentralized management, and
the rationalization of U.K. precious metal refining
operations.
   "Investment will increasingly be focused on those
businesses with potential for good long-term growth," Mr.
Davies said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- EECO Inc.:
   Parent and 3 Divisions Seek
   Protection From Creditors
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   EEC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   EECO Inc. said it filed for protection from creditors
under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code. The filing
affects the Santa Ana, Calif., company's keyboard, switch and
keypad divisions.
   Robert Bonney, chairman, said EECO Computer Inc., a
financially independent unit, and EECO Ltd., a subsidiary
based in Scotland, were not included in the petition. A
company spokesman said the filing didn't include a statement
of assets and liabilities, and said those figures weren't
immediately available.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Previously, the company had said it may seek
bankruptcy-law protection if Sanwa Bank Ltd.'s Sanwa Bank of
California declared the company in default on its $10 million
credit agreement, which expired March 31. EECO said it has
been unable to sell its Maxi-Switch division on terms
acceptable to the bank, and Sanwa had ceased to fund the
company's restructuring plan.
   EECO also said George B. DeHuff III, previously president
of the switch division, was elected president and chief
executive officer of the high-technology products maker.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Loans to Poland
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The World Bank approved two loans totaling
$153 million to Poland for transport-sector projects.
   World Bank officials said a $145 million credit will help
finance equipment needed to modernize the country's state-run
railway system. A second loan, for $8 million, will be used
to improve Poland's administration of highways, rail lines
and other transport facilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both loans will be at variable lending rates, currently
7.75% a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Power for Blacks, Apartheid's End
   Are at Stake as ANC, Pretoria Talk
   ---
   De Klerk, Mandela Hopeful
   They Can Help to Quiet
   South Africa's Politics
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   CAPE TOWN, South Africa -- Reg September shook his head in
disbelief. An elderly white-haired man who has spent most of
his adult life in exile with the African National Congress,
here he was watching officials of the ANC and the government
pose for pictures, standing shoulder to shoulder like old
schoolmates.
   "I didn't think I would live to see this," he said. "It's
a real breakthrough."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That these two bitter enemies could smile together for the
cameras yesterday was remarkable enough. But even more
astonishing, they retreated afterward into an old Cape Dutch
house for 18 hours of negotiations, scheduled over three
days, aimed at ending racial unrest and normalizing the
country's politics. The ANC, legalized in February after a
30-year ban, demands the lifting of the four-year-old state
of emergency, release of all political prisoners and return
of all exiles. Pretoria wants the ANC to disband its
guerrilla wing and end its armed struggle.
   Both sides expressed high hopes for the negotiations,
which are aimed at setting the stage for a new constitution
that would bring equality to the nation's black majority. But
they also cautioned that in three days, they won't bring down
the pillars of apartheid, or racial segregation, nor come up
with a new dispensation of black-white power sharing.
   Pretoria and the ANC remain far apart on their visions for
a post-apartheid South Africa: The ANC wants a simple
one-man, one-vote majority rule system, while the government
claims that will lead to black domination and insists on
constitutional protection of the rights of minorities,
including the whites. Rather, all the delegates agreed, these
initial meetings should be seen as the first steps down a
long and rocky road of racial reconciliation and a
fundamental restructuring of South African society.
   "This is the first time in 78 years that a truly serious
meeting takes place between delegations of the African
National Congress and the succession of white governments
that have ruled our country for generations," said ANC Deputy
President Nelson Mandela, who spent 27 years in prison before
his February release. "It indicates the deadly weight of the
terrible tradition of a `dialogue' between master and servant
which we have to overcome."
   All those gathered on the manicured lawns of the Groote
Schuur estate, which has housed people from diamond magnate
Cecil Rhodes to a series of South African prime ministers,
acknowledged history in the making and the great expectations
surrounding it. South African President F.W. de Klerk said
that government was committed to creating "a new, democratic
dispensation," and that the talks were part of the
"irreversible process of normalization" that he began by
removing the ban on 60 political organizations in February.
   Mr. Mandela said that to live up to the expectations
building in the black community, the talks "must make a
decisive and historic contribution to the repudiation" of
apartheid, which has elevated the white minority to positions
of privilege and denied the black majority basic human
rights. "The black masses of our country," he warned, "demand
and expect fundamental change now -- and not tomorrow."
   Of all the strange bedfellows in political history,
yesterday's photo opportunity provided some of the most
amazing pairings. Foreign Minister Pik Botha, famous for his
anti-communist diatribes in the past, stood next to Joe
Slovo, the head of South Africa's Communist Party, an ally of
the ANC. Law and Order Minister Adriaan Vlok rubbed shoulders
with Ruth Mompati, the ANC's director of administration who
left two children behind when she fled into exile in 1962.
ANC guerrilla commander Joe Modise peered over the head of
Kobie Coetsee, the justice minister.
   Mr. Mandela even spoke Afrikaans. "The ANC wants to assure
the white community, including the Afrikaners," he said with
confidence, "that they have nothing to fear from the ANC."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Integrated Resources Inc.:
   Big Board Plans to Suspend
   Trading in Firm's Securities
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   IRE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Trading in securities of Integrated Resources Inc. on the
New York Stock Exchange will be suspended before the opening
on May 16, and the exchange said it will seek to delist the
issues.
   The exchange said it is taking the action because New
York-based Integrated has fallen below exchange requirements
related to aggregate market value of publicly held shares and
of shares outstanding; average net income for the past three
years; and net tangible assets available to common stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Integrated filed for protection from creditors under
Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in February. The
company, once a high-flying financial-services concern, now
manages more than 600 partnerships in diverse businesses. It
had a third-quarter loss of $183.8 million, or $24.81 a
share.
   The exchange said that in addition to common stock, its
action affects the following securities: three issues of
preferred stock; one issue of senior subordinated debentures;
three issues of senior subordinated notes; and three issues
of senior notes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Weatherford International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WII
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Weatherford International Inc. said it has
completed the sale of 3,450,000 shares of the company's
common at $5.50 a share.
   Net proceeds, about $17.8 million, will be used to pay
debt and for general working capital purposes. Weatherford is
an international energy service and manufacturing company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Tate &amp; Lyle PLC:
   Pretax Earnings Rose 25%
   In Fiscal 6-Month Period
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TAT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tate &amp; Lyle PLC, Britain's biggest sugar producer,
reported a 25% jump in pretax profit for the six months ended
March 31, helped by good results at both its U.K. and U.S.
operations.
   The company said pretax profit rose to #87.5 million
($143.9 million) from #70.2 million, surpassing market
expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit after tax, less minority interests, jumped 35% to
#50.3 million from #37.2 million. The company reported an
extraordinary gain of #28.8 million from the sales of
businesses completed during the half year. It said profit
attributable to shareholders more than doubled to #79.1
million from #37.2 million. There were no extraordinary items
during the same period a year earlier.
   Sales rose 11% to #1.68 billion from #1.52 billion.
   Tate &amp; Lyle Chairman Neil Shaw said the company is
expecting a continued good performance from all the core
businesses during 1990 "to produce another satisfactory
result for the full year."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- German Wings:
   One-Year-Old Airline Files
   For Bankruptcy Proceedings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BAB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   German Wings Luftfahrtunternehmen G.m.b.H. filed for
bankruptcy proceedings and said it has about a "10% chance"
of being saved.
   A spokesman said that in the past week the company "had a
seat-load factor of 60%." German Wings, which struggled with
a load factor of about 45% for most of its maiden year, has
said it needed a load factor of about 55% to break even.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The small, one-year-old airline halted all flights late
Monday.
   The airline said negotiations with a "large European
airline" collapsed at the last minute. German Wings said
contracts were ready to be signed with the partner, believed
to be British Airways. Reports in the German media have said
that British Airways was about to take a 49% stake in German
Wings for 70 million Deutsche marks ($41.7 million).
   German Wings is owned by Peter and Christian Kimmel, who
have a 40% stake, publishing group F&amp;F Burda Gesellschaft
fuer Beteiligungen G.m.b.H., with 45%, and Bayerische
Unternehmens-Beteiligungsgesellschaft AG, a venture capital
company controlled by several Bavarian banks, which holds
15%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Turner, Act Media
   To Offer Programs
   In Supermarkets
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   TBSA HTG GE
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Turner Broadcasting System Inc. is about to
give supermarket shoppers something to do besides thumb
through tabloids while standing in the checkout line.
   Turner's Cable News Network and Act Media Inc. are
expected to announce today that they will begin offering
satellite-delivered news and information programming in
supermarkets throughout the U.S., people familiar with the
deal said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plan is the latest in a series of recent moves by
media concerns to find new ways to reach captive audiences in
public or semipublic places, such as doctors' offices and
schools. Whittle Communications, 50% owned by Time Warner
Inc., has a number of print properties it distributes to
doctors' offices and has launched an ad-supported TV news
program in schools. CNN offers a competing service in schools
with no advertising.
   But the supermarket venture is expected to rely heavily on
advertisers' support. The plan, reportedly dubbed "The
Checkout Channel" during its development, is a partnership
between CNN and Act Media, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Dallas-based Heritage Media Corp. Act Media handles in-store
marketing and promotions.
   Turner and Act Media, which scheduled a news conference
for today, declined to comment. They are expected to announce
the number of stores that will participate and the details of
plans to sell advertising on the programs.
   Turner Broadcasting Chairman and President Ted Turner,
speaking yesterday at an industry luncheon in New York, said
he was "all for commercials, they pay the bills," although he
was opposed to airing them on "CNN Classroom," the
Atlanta-based company's 15-minute daily newscast to schools.
   According to people familiar with the plan, Act Media will
place satellite dishes on top of supermarkets, and
programming supplied by CNN will be beamed to television sets
placed near checkout lanes. The supermarkets will be supplied
with the satellite dishes and television sets.
   Act Media approached the three major networks, as well as
other cable companies, according to network officials who
didn't want to be identified. Network officials were said to
be concerned that the supermarket environment might not be
the optimum place to promote programming and sell
advertising. CNN, by contrast, was said to be eager to
exploit the captive audience.
   Act delined to comment on any discussions with the
broadcast networks.
   An official at National Broadcasting Co., a unit of
General Electric Co., said Act Media approached NBC Cable in
January about the venture. He said the discussions focused on
using programming from NBC's joint venture with Cablevision
Systems Corp., the cable network Consumer News and Business
Channel. "But the investment was enormous, upwards of
millions of dollars," the official said, and NBC decided that
the financial terms weren't beneficial and the only advantage
might be promotional.
   Act Media told broadcast networks that they could promote
their prime-time programs on the channel, people familiar
with the proposal said. But broadcasters were concerned that
the TV shows would annoy cashiers, who might turn down the
volume. "We were told that it would not be a problem," one
network official said. "The TV sets would not have audio
buttons."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN GENERAL surprised shareholders by putting itself
up for sale after saying it apparently had won a proxy fight
to maintain its independence. The big insurer said it is
worth "substantially" more than the $50 a share, or $6.3
billion, that Torchmark had offered in March. American
General soared $7.50 a share to $47.625 in Big Board trading.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An appeals court reversed the conviction of former
stockbroker Robert Chestman and ordered his release from
prison. The federal panel also gutted an SEC regulation that
is widely used in insider-trading cases.
   ---
   Leading economic indicators rose 0.9% in March, the
biggest increase since June 1988, suggesting the economy will
continue to grow moderately. Factory orders rose 3.8% in
March, as aircraft orders spurted.
   ---
   The Fed hasn't found much evidence of a large-scale credit
crunch, despite reports that banks were reluctant to make
loans to businesses.
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices advanced after the report, which also cited
modest economic growth. The Dow Jones industrials rose 20.72
points to 2689.64.
   ---
   The Treasury plans to sell a record $30.5 billion of notes
and bonds at next week's refunding of the federal debt,
partially to finance S&amp;L bailouts.
   ---
   OPEC postponed the start of an emergercy meeting in Geneva
after informal talks revealed disagreement over temporary oil
production cuts. Spot prices fell on the news.
   ---
   Mexico's banking system would be returned to private
control under a proposal announced by President Salinas. The
plan was hailed by businessmen as a boon to companies seeking
financing in Mexico.
   ---
   William Simon's thrift venture sold a major stake in
HonFed Bank to a Hawaiian educational trust for $50 million,
as part of its efforts to meet new federal capital
requirements.
   ---
   Henley Group plans to spin off its two largest units,
Fisher Scientific and Pneumo Abex, to shareholders in
tax-free distributions.
   ---
   The Senate budget panel rallied behind a plan to trim the
federal deficit by $43 billion by spending less on defense
and domestic programs than the House or White House wants.
   ---
   GM's finance arm posted lower first-quarter earnings, as
did its defense-related subsidiary. But its computer-services
unit had a 10% gain.
   ---
   Monsanto named Robert B. Shapiro, who established a
reputation as a marketing whiz at the firm's NutraSweet unit,
to head its big agricultural-products business.
   ---
   Japanese companies moved to collect export insurance on
delayed payments from Soviet importers.
   ---
   Southern Co.'s earnings fell 43% in the first quarter, the
third consecutive quarterly earnings decline for the
beleaguered utility operator.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 141,610,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2689.64, up 20.72; transportation 1138.69, up 1.78; utilities
204.79, up 0.69.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3222.93, up
1.34.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.74, up 0.25; spot
index 135.13, up 0.98.
   Dollar: 157.95 yen, off 0.88; 1.6848 marks, up 0.0040.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Boeing Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   BA WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOEING Co. (Seattle) -- Boyd E. Givan, 54 years old, was
named chief financial officer of this aerospace concern. He
succeeds Harold W. Haynes, 67, who retired last month. Mr.
Givan had been vice president, financial operations and
treasurer before being named senior vice president several
weeks ago as part of a planned transition. He retains that
title in addition to the chief financial officer designation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Unocal Corp.:
   Partnership Unit to Acquire
   Subsidiary of Placer Dome
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   PDG UCL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Unocal Corp. said it agreed to acquire the Prairie
Producing unit of Placer Dome Inc. for about $336 million and
assumed debt. Placer is a Vancouver-based gold producer.
   The transaction, which includes $252 million in cash, adds
to Los Angeles-based Unocal's already substantial natural gas
reserves in East Texas and Louisiana and provides new
exploratory lands in geographical areas close to Unocal
operations. The buyer is a subsidiary of Union Exploration
Partners, a Houston-based limited partnership 95%-owned by
the oil giant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two companies calculate Prairie's holdings
differently, but Prairie's proven reserves are estimated at
between 10.4 million and 15.7 million barrels of oil and
natural gas liquids, between 83 million and 105.5 billion
cubic feet of natural gas and about 20,000 acres of
exploratory land. Prairie also has interests in three
gas-processing plants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Machine Orders
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Orders to the West German
machinery and plant equipment industry were flat in March
from March 1989, the German Association of Machinery Makers
said.
   While domestic orders slowed for the first time in several
months, foreign orders reversed their recent decline and rose
in March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domestic orders fell an inflation-adjusted 8% in March
from a year earlier, while foreign orders rose an
inflation-adjusted 8%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Highland Superstores Inc.:
   Electronics Retailer Takes
   Charge Against 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HIGH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Highland Superstores Inc. took an $8.9 million, or
49-cent-a-share charge against fourth-quarter earnings to
close stores and consolidate operations.
   The restructuring charge resulted in a fourth-quarter loss
of $2.8 million, or 15 cents a share, compared with net
income of $4.3 million, or 24 cents a share, during the
year-ago quarter. Revenue for the quarter ended Jan. 31 rose
less than 1%, to $316.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Plymouth, Mich.-based electronics and appliance
retailer said it plans to pull out of Shreveport, La., and
Milwaukee and suspend previous plans to open stores in
Rochester, N.Y., and Albany, N.Y. It also plans to modify
warehousing and distribution operations.
   The company said it plans to reduce inventories and cut
staffing by 180 jobs in the areas where it is closing stores
or consolidating operations. Highland said the restructuring
plan was adopted to "maximize the company's long-term
operating results."
   For the fiscal year ended Jan. 31, Highland reported a
loss of $12.4 million, or 68 cents a share, compared with net
income of $7.3 million, or 40 cents a share, a year ago.
Revenue rose 15% to $925 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hollywood Park Operating Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD PARK OPERATING Co. (Inglewood, Calif.) --
Lodwrick M. Cook was named a director of this race-track
operator, expanding the size of the board to 11 members. Mr.
Cook is chairman and chief executive officer of Atlantic
Richfield Co., the Los Angeles-based oil, gas and minerals
concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   SOUTH AFRICA OPENED exploratory talks with the nation's
black leaders.
   Beginning three days of historic discussions in Cape Town
aimed at black-white power-sharing, President de Klerk's
government and the African National Congress quickly agreed
on an agenda to address specific problems blocking full-scale
constitutional negotiations. De Klerk called the meeting a
part of the "irreversible process of normalization," and ANC
leader Nelson Mandela said the talks "must make a decisive .
. . contribution to the repudiation" of the apartheid system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A court in Johannesburg charged Winnie Mandela's chief
bodyguard during her husband's imprisonment with the 1988
killing of a teen-age activist.
   ---
   LITHUANIA AGREED to consider suspending some
pro-independence laws.
   In a letter to French and West German leaders who last
week proposed that such a compromise could lead to talks with
the Kremlin, President Landsbergis said the breakaway Baltic
republic was willing to temporarily freeze some secessionist
legislation that prompted Moscow's partial economic embargo.
Lithuania's legislature approved the correspondence, which
said "everything is negotiable" except the republic's March
11 declaration of independence.
   Latvia's Popular Front unveiled an independence plan that
it hopes won't provoke a Kremlin crackdown. The republic's
legislature opens today.
   ---
   East and West Germany reached agreement on a plan for an
economic merger by July 2. The accord calls for exchanging
East German wages, salaries, and pensions at a favorable
1-to-1 rate, but limits the amount of savings to be swapped
on par. It also gives East Berlin a political boost for
Sunday's local elections.
                                                                                                       

   Baker said that NATO membership for a united Germany
should be decided by the alliance rather than the Soviet
Union. But the secretary of state, preparing for this
weekend's unification talks in Bonn, said he is willing to
consider Moscow's views when he meets tomorrow with
Shevardnadze.
   ---
   The Bush administration proposed a "complete overhaul" of
a multilateral system of controlling high-tech exports in an
effort to give East Europe and the Soviet Union more access
to Western technology. The proposal would eliminate or ease
controls on 40 of 120 product categories currently
restricted.
   ---
   A former HUD official testified before a House panel that
then-Vice President Bush's staff intervened to secure funding
for a project that had been rejected in 1985. DuBois Gilliam,
an aide to ex-Secretary Pierce, said the intervention led to
a $500,000 feasibility study on a trade center backed by a
Reagan/Bush supporter.
   ---
   The U.S. and NATO allies are expected to propose scrapping
plans for new short-range missiles in West Germany, according
to Bush administration officials. The plan, which Baker is
likely to submit today in Brussels, also calls for talks with
Moscow on eliminating superpower nuclear artillery shells in
Europe.
   ---
   Former hostage Reed disclosed that he was held for months
with two other U.S. captives in Lebanon, and said he was
angry and embarrassed that they haven't been freed. Speaking
in West Germany, the 57-year-old educator, who was released
Sunday in Beirut after 42 months in captivity, also said he
was held with two Britons.
                                                                                                       

   The White House said it hasn't received any indications
that another U.S. hostage would be freed. In Tehran,
spiritual leader Ayatollah Khamenei said Iran would press its
efforts for the release of Western captives, but rejected any
talks with the U.S.
   ---
   Hungary's legislature elected as interim president a
dissident writer who was imprisoned for six years after the
anti-Soviet revolt of 1956. Arpad Goencz, 68, was chosen
after the country's center-right and liberal parties forged
an agreement. The two parties ousted the Communists in
nationwide parliamentary elections last month.
   ---
   U.S. and Canadian police took control of a Mohawk Indian
reservation in an attempt to quell a nine-month-old tribal
feud over casino gambling on the land. Two Indians were
killed Tuesday in a gunbattle on the 14,000-acre reservation,
which straddles the border between New York and Ontario.
   ---
   The Education Department released its annual performance
review, showing that scores on two widely administered tests
barely changed over the past four years. Secretary Cavazos
said the results "will require more comprehensive and even
radical changes in our school systems."
   ---
   Leftist rebels in El Salvador attacked government forces
and destroyed electricity pylons, and the military said the
insurgents attacked President Cristiani's residence during
the fighting. The raids came as the U.N. prepared to mediate
peace negotiations between the guerrillas and the government.
   ---
   Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui named the country's top
military official to be the new prime minister, a move that
was criticized by the opposition as a setback for democracy.
Defense Minister Hau Pei-tsun, a four-star general, accepted
the post.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Fibreboard Proposal to Boost Stock Options,
   Rights for Company Insiders Raises Tempest
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   FBD
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Expect sparks to fly at Monday's annual
meeting of Fibreboard.
   The tiny wood-products and insulation company has a market
value of not quite $40 million, but shareholders are raising
a bigtime stink over a board-approved plan to double the
amount of options, stock awards and stock-appreciation rights
going to company insiders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Fibreboard was spun off in 1988 from Louisiana
Pacific, its board approved a stock option and rights plan
covering 350,000 shares, equivalent to 9% of its 3.9 million
shares outstanding. Now it wants to amend that plan by
doubling the number to 700,000, or 18% of the shares
currently outstanding -- subject to a vote of shareholders.
   The meeting will be held in Roxboro, N.C., the site of a
small Fibreboard plant that is 2,500 miles from the company's
home base in Concord, Calif.
   "Management and directors are feasting on the value of the
company," says Jery Chambers, a Buffalo, N.Y., investment
manager with Courier Capital whose clients own 170,000
shares. "We're going down to scream and yell."
   Lawrence Hart, the chairman and the sole management
director, says, "The idea is to give an equity stake in the
company so our own personal finances are very tied in with
that of the company."
   However, Fibreboard's managers and directors haven't
invested more than a pittance of their own in Fibreboard. Its
executive officers and directors had purchased only 7,062
shares, or 0.18% of the company, as of the March 29 proxy
statement. Mr. Hart says the total has risen since then, but
he won't say by how much.
   Graef Crystal, a compensation specialist and professor at
the Haas School of Business at the University of California
at Berkeley, says "the percentage of shares {in Fibreboard's
plan} is awesomely large. The rule of thumb is 5% of the
shares outstanding."
   Mr. Hart responds that Fibreboard is an unusual case and
that compensation is adequate and comparable to that of other
"high-risk, start-up companies."
   Fibreboard's lumber operations actually are longstanding;
it isn't a start-up venture in the sense that a high-tech
firm is. But the company does entail plenty of risk.
   The company, a former asbestos-products manufacturer,
lives under a cloud of litigation. However, a trial court has
ruled that Fibreboard's insurers are liable for at least the
bulk of anticipated claims. The bottom line is that while
Fibreboard isn't yet out of the woods, the asbestos cloud
appears to be clearing.
   On the positive side, the company owns 117,000 acres of
timber that have a book value of $30 million but could be
worth $140 million. Last year, it sold 27,500 acres of
relatively lower quality timber and fetched almost $1,200 an
acre. It also owns a ski resort on the northern side of Lake
Tahoe, Calif., which is on the market and could be worth
double its $19 million book value.
   Those values won't be realized overnight, but they suggest
that if the asbestos cloud does abate, Fibreboard's stock,
currently trading at 9 7/8, could become much more valuable.
   Donald Miller, managing partner of Greylock Financial
Partnership, who says he owns 62,000 shares, says the options
pave the way for management and directors to reap a small
fortune. And, Mr. Miller notes, the options are being
proposed at a time when the stock is depressed, down from
last year's high of 19 1/4, and trading at 25% of stated book
value, which is $36 a share.
   That means the exercise price will be cheaper. Some of the
shares, however, are in the form of restricted stock awards
-- stock that is given away free to managers who hang on for
three years.
   Such awards, Mr. Crystal says, require of managers that
they "breathe in and out on the company payroll." Mr. Hart,
who has so far been awarded 35,000 in restricted share
rights, says "this gives me an incentive to perform" well
enough to stay employed. He also says recruiting managers and
directors for an asbestos-plagued company is hard, and
compensation levels therefore are justified. Mr. Hart,
incidentally, received a 118% increase in salary and bonus
last year to $454,000; he also was given a golden parachute
plan.
   Mr. Miller says there is a larger problem of "corporate
governance" at Fibreboard. Fibreboard's four outside
directors, who sit on the compensation committee, each
receive options on at least 2,000 shares and a $10,000
stipend annually. Mr. Miller questions whether this
influences their opinion of Fibreboard's option plan.
   Several directors couldn't be reached or wouldn't comment.
   E. Judge Elderkin, a Fibreboard director and a partner in
a San Francisco law firm that represents Fibreboard, is on
the board's compensation committee. He says through a
spokeswoman that it is inappropriate for him to respond and
refers questions to Mr. Hart.
   ---
   Fibreboard
   (AMEX; Symbol: FBD)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Wood products and insulation
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Sales: $218.1 million
   Net income: $5.3 million; $1.35 a share*
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, March 31, 1990:
   Per share earnings: 51 cents vs. 91 cents*
                                                                                                       

   Averge daily trading volume:
   9,526 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 3.9 million
                                                                                                       

   *Full year includes 38 cents a share and year-ago quarter
includes 26 cents a share of profit from discontinued
operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   R.AAI EUROP LABOR NEB FREST J.ANA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   THE TORIES BRACE THEMSELVES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In local elections across Britain today, Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher's Conservatives are bracing themselves for
a drubbing from voters angered by the nation's new so-called
poll tax.
   National opinion surveys show the opposition Labor Party
running up to 23 percentage points ahead of the Tories. Labor
could gain an additional 600 local-council seats, giving the
party majority control of 24 councils -- including, perhaps,
the Tory flagship boroughs of Westminster and Wandsworth in
London.
   Besides serving as a kind of referendum on the poll tax,
the elections also represent the last chance for voters to
express their feelings before this fall, when Mrs. Thatcher
might face another challenge to her leadership of the
Conservative Party. A poor showing in today's elections would
further weaken her and possibly strengthen the resolve of
Tory politicians eager to succeed her.
   One British bookmaking firm yesterday said there is a
six-in-five chance that Mrs. Thatcher will leave office
before the next general election, which must be called by
mid-1992.
                                                                                                       

   MORE STRIKES IN WEST GERMANY
                                                                                                       

   About 68,000 members of West Germany's powerful IG Metall
union staged a new round of so-called warning strikes to
press their demands for higher pay and a shorter work week,
union officials said. Some 200 companies were affected. The
total is slightly above union claims of 65,000 workers
participating in strikes last Monday and far above the 10
plants hit that day. Yesterday's strikes were concentrated in
the North Wuerttemberg/North Baden district and in the state
of North Rhine-Westphalia, two of the nation's major
industrial centers.
                                                                                                       

   EUROPE'S TRUCK POLLUTION
                                                                                                       

   The European Community Commission proposed tougher
emissions standards for trucks that would cut pollution from
such vehicles by up to 60%. The plan would bring EC members
into line with other European countries -- for example,
Switzerland -- and the U.S. Carlo Ripa di Meana, the EC's
environment commissioner, said an average of 50% to 60% of
goods are carried by road in the community. Trucks can cause
10 times more pollution than other forms of transport, such
as rail or ships, he added.
                                                                                                       

   A COSTLY LONDON MUGGING
                                                                                                       

   A London mugger walked away with almost $500 million in
negotiable securities yesterday after holding up a messenger
at knifepoint on a busy street. Stolen were certificates of
deposit worth $200 million and Treasury bills worth $280
million. A Bank of England spokesman said that while the
bearer certificates were negotiable, it would be difficult to
cash them as the holder would "have to demonstrate that he
has good title to the documents." Hand carrying is the usual
way such securities are moved around London. However, later
this year the Bank of England plans to replace messengers
with an electronic clearing system.
                                                                                                       

   STAKE IN AUSTRIAN AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Japan's All Nippon Airways Co. increased its equity share
in Austrian Airlines to 9% from 3.5%. All Nippon, which had
purchased an initial lot of 77,000 shares a year ago, said it
took up an additional 157,000 shares for about $65 million.
Austrian Airlines offered a total of 400,000 new shares
yesterday, aiming to promote privatization of the company,
whose largest shareholder is the Austrian government. After
the allocation of new shares, the government's holdings will
decline to 51.4% from 61.4%.
                                                                                                       

   SOVIET LABOR MOVEMENT
                                                                                                       

   The first Soviet Congress of independent trade unions, in
a challenge to the state labor movement, voted to form a
council to unite the country's unofficial workers' groups.
"The aim is to unite all forces and to guarantee the rights
of working people in this difficult economic situation," said
a spokesman for the congress, which closed yesterday. The
congress also passed a resolution condemning the Soviet
leadership for leading the economy to the brink of collapse.
                                                                                                       

   GREECE WANTS CENTENARY GAMES
                                                                                                       

   Greece has multibillion-dollar plans to rebuild much of
Athens before 1996, the 100th anniversary of the modern
Olympics, in hopes that the capital will be the site of the
Games that year.
   Among the major projects would be a new international
airport, two underground-railway lines and the completion of
two main roads.
   Notwithstanding those possible attractions, Olympic
organizers will need a lot of convincing: Greece is broke and
emerging from a long political crisis; and Athens, one of the
world's most polluted capitals, suffers from traffic
congestion and a poor telephone system.
   Greece hopes the emotional argument for staging the
Olympics in the country where they originated 2,700 years ago
will be too powerful to resist.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Radicals opposed to the expansion of Tokyo's new
international airport are believed to have set fire to 32
cars at a parking lot near the airport yesterday, police
said. Most of the cars belonged to travelers using the
airport. . . . Scotland's Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St.
Andrews has made Jack Nicklaus an honorary member. He joins
seven other honorary members, including fellow Americans
Arnold Palmer and Gene Sarazen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Environmental Theme Hits Sour Notes
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BUD BLMP TOY SAA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Shell Oil is no Exxon. Honest. At least, that appears to
be the message in a Shell magazine-ad insert that gives
"environmental tips" amid photos of a forest, a fuzzy rabbit,
a deer.
   Shell's marketing idea isn't terribly original, as anyone
who has opened his eyes over the past few months can attest.
It joins scores of other companies that have grabbed onto
environmentalism as a marketing cry. Companies like American
Telephone &amp; Telegraph; Dow Chemical for its Handi-Wrap
plastic wrap; and American Enviro Products, maker of Bunnies
"biodegradable" disposable diapers, have latched onto the
environment as a marketing gimmick. To hear them tell it,
every day is Earth Day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But so many companies have rallied around the
environmental cry that now, some ad executives are detecting
a backlash by consumers. A skeptical public is starting to
wonder just how meaningful many of the claims actually are.
Government investigations into some "green" claims, and news
reports about the spotty environmental track records behind
others, have burst the green balloon to some extent. And
consumers in many cases are just plain getting sick of the
excess.
   "The guy who on Monday morning figured out the environment
is a big issue and put it on his packaging, that isn't going
to mean anything," says Robert Schmidt, chairman of ad agency
Levine, Huntley, Schmidt &amp; Beaver. "You're seeing people
saying `baloney' -- usually about products whose
{environmental} claims are baloney."
   "I think there's definitely some backlash there already,"
agrees a spokeswoman for Ramada International Hotels &amp;
Resorts, which is about to launch an environmental marketing
program of its own. "People are very skeptical of anyone
coming forward with a claim like this."
   The backlash comes as even more environmental claims are
about to roll out. Ramada's quest to become the first
environment-friendly hotel chain, for example, breaks next
week. Ads brag about the biodegradable detergents used at the
Sydney Renaissance Hotel in Australia, and boast that the
Reef Resort in North Queensland, Australia, was built
"without a single tree being lifted or felled." Ramada is
also launching a program to encourage individual hotels to
recycle cans and bottles, to conserve energy and to cut back
on water usage.
   Yet Ramada's claims appear to be a bit, well, premature.
The hefty press kit announcing the environmental program
isn't printed on recycled paper. For that matter, most Ramada
hotels don't recycle bottles, don't use biodegradable
detergents, and don't do much of anything else that's
particularly environmentally conscious.
   The spokeswoman insists, though, that that doesn't affect
the campaign's credibility. "We aren't saying we're
lily-white right now," she says. "We're saying we're going to
make every effort to get to that point, and this is our first
step. We aren't trying to pull the wool over anyone's eyes
here."
   Ad executives say too many companies, though, are slapping
environmental claims on products that are misleading or that
are blatant marketing gimmicks. "To some degree it's become
trendy. It's so transparent . . . people are smart enough to
see through those things," says Louise McNamee, president of
Della Femina McNamee WCRS.
   Indeed, a group of eight attorneys general has been
investigating a number of environmental claims, and some
makers of trash bags, food wraps, and other products have
abandoned such claims. Mobil Corp.'s Mobil Chemical unit
deleted degradability claims from its Hefty trash bag
packaging, while First Brands Corp. removed some
degradability claims from its Glad trash bags. Dow Chemical's
DowBrands also removed a "photodegradability" claim from its
Handi-Wrap because, a spokeswoman says, "it's confusing to
the consumer . . . we don't want to make a claim they don't
quite understand."
   Critics have also focused on the green claims of big
industrial companies, like oil and chemical companies. A
spokesman for Shell, whose ad insert on the environment gives
tips like "avoid unnecessary idling," responds that the
booklet "has been extremely well-received."
   AT&amp;T couldn't be reached for comment.
   At American Enviro, which the attorneys general are
investigating for its "biodegradability" claims regarding
Bunnies diapers, President Robert Chickering said, "We're
making biodegradable material and using the latest
technologies. That's sound." But he added, "If a company
comes out and uses the word `biodegradable' and in fact
hasn't done anything to adjust its product, I think that's
wrong." He said companies serious about the environment
should tell consumers specifically what it is they're doing:
"We aren't showing pictures of a deer in the woods."
   Levine Huntley's Mr. Schmidt believes that the wave of
environmental claims will eventually thin out. Ultimately, he
says, the claims will be confined to companies that really
are concentrating on making environmentally-safe products.
But, he cautions, "You'll probably see more before you see
less. You always see excess until you see a shakeout. You're
going to see more and more until it doesn't mean anything."
   Yet to longtime environmentalists, even empty
environmental marketing claims -- from companies that are
simply joining the crowd by touting the latest buzzword --
are better than nothing.
   "I am cynical about the bandwagon approach," says Della
Femina McNamee's Ms. McNamee. "But if it gets people to {act
more responsibly}, so be it. So what if it's trendy?"
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   RETIREMENT: John S. Bowen, chairman of D'Arcy Masius
Benton &amp; Bowles, New York, will retire June 30. Mr. Bowen, 63
years old, relinquished his post as chief executive officer
in April to Roy Bostock, DMB&amp;B president.
                                                                                                       

   DRAFT BEER: Suntory International, New York, will
introduce its new Suntory Draft beer brand next month with
ads that promise "a taste of another culture." The $6 million
campaign, in which ads will appear in national magazines and
on billboards, was created by Bloom Cos.' Bloom Agency, New
York. Ads in the campaign seek to play up the brand's
Japanese heritage by featuring pictures of a kimono-clad
geisha and a Taiko drummer, among others.
                                                                                                       

   STOCK EXCHANGE ACCOUNT: The American Stock Exchange, New
York, awarded its ad account to Follis &amp; Verdi, New York.
Billings weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   BLIMP CONTRACT: Anheuser-Busch Cos., St. Louis, signed a
three-year contract with Airship International, a New
York-based company that operates blimps as advertising and
public-relations vehicles. Terms weren't disclosed, but an
executive familiar with the deal estimated Anheuser-Busch
will pay Airship about $15 million. Anheuser-Busch said it
would use the capability to promote its beer, snack foods and
family entertainment operations.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNTS: Toys "R" Us, Paramus, N.J., named Geer,
DuBois, New York, to handle a creative development radio ad
project for its Kids "R" Us children's clothing store unit. .
. . 800-Flowers Inc., New York, awarded its ad account to
Campbell-Mithun-Esty, New York. Billings weren't disclosed.
C-M-E is a unit of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   Former assistant deputy secretary of state Charles H.
Fairbanks Jr. writing in the spring issue of the National
Interest:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   From the communist point of view, Gorbachev is a jinx, a
hoodoo, a Jonah. His arrival everywhere presages disaster.
Like Jaruzelski and Poszgay, he did not understand the
people's deep weariness of communism, nor could he sense the
people's mood at a particular crux. Perhaps Gorbachev's
soaring ambition, his splendid vision of the future, and his
courage are spoiled by his lifetime as a member of an
isolated priestly caste, whose pride was its ability to
manipulate people.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Unilever Group
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS UN UL
</CO>
<LP>
   UNILEVER GROUP (New York) -- Melinda M. Sweet was named to
the new position of director of environmental affairs at the
Lever Brothers Co. household products unit. She will report
directly to Lever's president and chief executive officer,
David F. Webb. Ms. Sweet had been assistant general counsel
for Lever, in charge of environmental compliance, since 1986.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Best Sellers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   FICTION
                                                                                                       

                                              LAST   WEEKS
                                              WEEK   ON LIST
  1 September
   by Rosamunde Pilcher (St. Martin's, $22.95)  1       3
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   by Robert Ludlum (Random House, $21.95)      2       8
                                                                                                       

  3 Oh, the Places You'll Go]
   by Dr. Seuss (Random House, $12.95)          3      11
                                                                                                       

  4 Skinny Legs and All
   by Tom Robbins (Bantam, $19.95)              7       3
                                                                                                       

  5 Masquerade
   by Janet Dailey (Little, Brown, $19.95)      4       5
                                                                                                       

  6 Clear and Present Danger
   by Tom Clancy (Putnam, $21.95)               6      35
                                                                                                       

  7 The Scions of Shannara
   by Terry Brooks (Del Rey, $19.95)           10       9
                                                                                                       

  8 Bright Star
   by Harold Coyle (Simon &amp; Schuster, $19.95)   8       3
                                                                                                       

  9 The Evening News
   by Arthur Hailey (Doubleday, $21.95)         5       5
                                                                                                       

 10 `G' Is for Gumshoe
    by Sue Grafton (Holt, $16.95)              12       2
                                                                                                       

   NONFICTION
                                                                                                       

                                              LAST   WEEKS
                                              WEEK   ON LIST
                                                                                                       

  1 Men at Work
   by George Will (Macmillan, $18.95)           1       5
                                                                                                       

  2 Megatrends 2000

   (Morrow, $21.95)                             4      15
                                                                                                       

  3 Means of Ascent
   by Robert A. Caro (Knopf, $24.95)            2       7
                                                                                                       

  4 Secrets About Men Every Woman Should Know
   by Barbara DeAngelis, Ph.D.
   (Delacorte, $17.95)                          6      11
                                                                                                       

  5 Wealth Without Risk
   by Charles Givens (Simon &amp; Schuster, $19.95) 3      65
                                                                                                       

  6 Barbarians at the Gate
   by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar
   (Harper &amp; Row, $22.95)                       5      15
                                                                                                       

  7 Flashbacks
   by Morley Safer (Random House, $18.95)       -       1
                                                                                                       

  8 Beware the Naked Man Who Offers You His Shirt
   by Harvey Mackay (Morrow, $19.95)            7      11
                                                                                                       

  9 Head First: The Biology of Hope
   by Norman Cousins (Dutton, $19.95)           -       2
                                                                                                       

 10 In the Arena: A Memoir of Victory,
    Defeat and Renewal
    by Richard M. Nixon
    (Simon &amp; Schuster, $22.95)                 10       2
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Merck &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MRK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MERCK &amp; Co. (Rahway, N.J.) -- Dr. Eve Slater was named
vice president of clinical and regulatory development, a
newly created position, for Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme Research
Laboratories, a division of this world-wide health products
firm. She previously was executive director of clinical and
regulatory development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Court Limits
   Inside-Trading
   Prosecution
   ---
   Overturning the Conviction
   Of Broker, Judges Gut
   Widely Used SEC Rule
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A federal appeals court, reversing the
conviction of former stockbroker Robert Chestman, set limits
on who can be prosecuted in insider-trading cases.
   As part of the decision, the appeals-court panel also
gutted a Securities Exchange Act regulation that is widely
used in insider-trading cases. That regulation, known as Rule
14e-3, makes it a crime to trade on misappropriated
information involving a tender offer -- even if the defendant
isn't violating a fiduciary duty by making the trade. The
Securities and Exchange Commission commonly relies on Rule
14e-3 in insider-trading cases against defendants who aren't
company insiders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This decision seems to seriously emasculate Rule 14e-3,"
said Harvey Pitt, a defense attorney in Washington, and a
former SEC general counsel. He said Rule 14e-3 has been "the
principal weapon, since its adoption in 1980, in
insider-trading cases involving takeovers."
   The rule has been used in a wide range of SEC lawsuits,
including the original case against Michael Milken. The SEC
also has alleged 14e-3 violations in its suits against Andrew
Solomon, a former research analyst with the broker-dealer
firm Marcus Schloss & Co.; Ronald Yagoda, formerly a senior
official at Marcus Schloss; and Giuseppe Tome, an investment
banker accused of insider trading in St. Joe Minerals Corp.
stock. Mr. Solomon and Mr. Yagoda settled with the SEC, and a
federal judge ordered Mr. Tome to pay back his
insider-trading profits.
   The three-judge panel of the U.S. Second Circuit Court of
Appeals unanimously reversed Mr. Chestman's conviction, and
ordered his release from prison. But it was divided 2-1 in
rejecting Rule 14e-3.
   Richard Kirby, senior litigation counsel for the SEC, said
that if the decision stands, the SEC will be prohibited from
making 14e-3 charges in the Second Circuit, which includes
New York. Assistant U.S. Attorney Scott Gilbert said the
government is reviewing its options for appealing the case.
   Mr. Chestman, formerly a broker with Gruntal &amp; Co., was
found guilty in March 1989 of 31 counts related to alleged
insider trading in Waldbaum Inc. stock. But the trading was
based on information that Mr. Chestman received fourth-hand,
making him what is known as a "remote tippee." The court
reversed the conviction on the ground that Mr. Chestman
hadn't been told that the information was confidential.
   The case, which was seen as an attempt to expand the scope
of who can can be prosecuted for insider trading, involved
Mr. Chestman's trading in Waldbaum stock in 1986 before the
company's takeover by Great Atlantic &amp; Pacific Tea Co. Mr.
Chestman claimed that the information that prompted him to
buy the stock wasn't inside information because it came from
a distant relative of Waldbaum's then-president.
   Mr. Chestman wasn't told that the information was
confidential, and no assurances were made that the
information would be kept secret as it was passed along on
its way to Mr. Chestman, the appeals court said.
   "There can be no misappropriation of information by one
who is unaware of the confidentiality of that information,"
the appeals court said in its decision. "After passing
through several family channels, it cannot be said that the
information was confidential to any degree or was any more
than `family gossip.'"
   Mr. Chestman was expected to be released last night from
the Allenwood Federal Prison Camp in Pennsylvania. He
voluntarily began serving his two-year sentence last June
while his appeal was pending.
   Elkan Abramowitz, Mr. Chestman's attorney, said the
appeals court's decision "should put restraints on the
government. . . . I think they will have to think twice now
when they bring a misappropriation case {for alleged insider
trading} when there is no breach of fiduciary duty."
   John C. Coffee, a professor at Columbia Law School, said
the decision's "significance is to limit the expansion of the
misappropriation theory. Under this decision, it can only be
applied when the government can make a showing that the
defendant knew the information was stolen."
   Theodore Levine, an attorney in Washington, said the
appeals court decision illustrates "the clear need for the
government to define what insider trading is."
   Mr. Pitt, who represented stock speculator Ivan F. Boesky
in his insider trading-related plea bargain in 1986, helped
draft proposed legislation on insider trading in 1987. He
said the court decision could spur the renewal of such
congressional efforts. "It's much better for people to know
what the rules are in advance of the activity," he said.
   Mr. Pitt added that under the 1987 proposal, which was not
adopted by Congress, Mr. Chestman's conduct would have been
prohibited.
   The SEC believes Rule 14e-3 is well within the
commission's rule-making authority, said Mr. Kirby, the SEC's
senior litigation counsel. He said the rule was adopted to do
just what the divided court decision has declared invalid --
to go after alleged insider traders who don't have a
fiduciary duty not to use the information.
   "The commission had the power under the statutes to
provide a rule that didn't require proof of a breach of
fiduciary duty" in insider-trading cases, he said.
   Mr. Kirby said the commission will immediately begin
reviewing the appeals court decision. He said that, in
addition to considering an appeal, the commission could turn
to Congress and ask that the SEC regulation be adopted as
law.
   Mr. Abramowitz said he is reviewing Mr. Chestman's
settlement of SEC civil charges in the case to see whether
the agreement can be revised in light of the appeals court
decision. In that settlement, reached in January, Mr.
Chestman was barred from the securities industry and agreed
to pay $235,125 in profits allegedly made through insider
trading. Mr. Chestman consented to the settlement without
admitting or denying guilt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Seal of Disapproval: States Scrutinize Notaries
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   OI
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Notaries public, the little-noticed functionaries who
attest to the authenticity of signatures on business
documents, are causing big worries.
   A study of notaries in New York shows that the vast
majority are performing their official duties improperly.
Experts say the study highlights a growing national problem.
"You could get substantially similar results in any other
state," says Eugene E. Hines, executive director of the
American Society of Notaries, a Washington trade group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bills to reform guidelines for notaries are pending in
California, Florida and New York. Nearly every other state is
considering reform measures, according to Carole Irwin-Leal,
public records manager in the Oregon secretary of state's
office. A notary reform law is going into effect in Oregon
this July.
   There are about four million notaries in the U.S. Almost
anyone who is over the age of 18 and pays the required fees
is eligible. Typically appointed by the secretary of state or
the governor, notaries are state officers who are supposed to
play a critical role in protecting the public from fraud and
phony documents. Their primary duty is to verify the identity
of the signers of business documents such as deeds, wills,
mortgages and contracts. They also administer oaths, take
affidavits and depositions, and attest to the authenticity of
signatures.
   But procedural errors made by notaries could result in
countless challenges to legal and business documents or their
possible invalidation, says Alfred E. Piombino, president of
the New York State Association of Notaries Public, the
Albany, N.Y., trade group that conducted the survey.
   "I've seen people lose their homes and their life savings
because a notary was careless and didn't check a person's
proper identification," says James Randall, chief of the
notary public division in the California secretary of state's
office.
   In the New York study, the first of its kind in the
nation, a simple affidavit was presented for "notarization"
to 217 randomly selected notaries in New York state.
   The study showed that only one of the 217 notaries
properly completed the procedure; 97.7% were unfamiliar with
the authentification procedure that verifies certificates
issued by notaries; 88.5% neglected to administer the
required oath to the affiant, the person seeking
notarization; and 82.5% failed to check the affiant's
identification.
   "We have a class of public officers who act chiefly
unsupervised and execute acts of law. The results {of the
study} are a mockery to the whole system," says Mr. Piombino.
   William F. Brown, a spokesman for the New York secretary
of state's office, says his office is examining the study but
that he is concerned about its accuracy because only a small
percentage of the state's 251,000 notaries were surveyed.
"While there may be a number of administerial errors, we
haven't seen anything that puts the consumers at risk," he
says.
   Nevertheless, New York Assemblymen G. Oliver Koppell and
Gary Proud have incorporated some of the studies' findings
into a bill to raise the fees notaries can charge the public.
The bill is pending in the Legislature. "People aren't taking
the job as seriously as they should. We want it to be seen as
professional," says Maureen Danaher, staff attorney for Mr.
Koppell. In New York City, notaries can charge up to $1;
elsewhere in the state they can charge 25 cents. The bill
would raise the charge to $2 throughout the state.
   Only five states -- New York, California, Connecticut,
Louisiana and Texas -- require applicants to take a written
examination. But some public officials question whether the
tests are stringent enough. In California, applicants take a
15-item "true or false" open book exam that they have been
given in advance to study, says Mr. Randall.
   "We're in the process of trying to develop a more
comprehensive, proctored exam that will test their knowledge
better," Mr. Randall says. "Right now, it's not the most
difficult test." Still, 20% fail the exam, he says.
   Concerns about notarial abuse in Florida led Gov. Bob
Martinez to form a study commission on notaries, which
resulted in a bill pending in the state's Legislature. The
measure would require applicants to pass a written
examination, among other things. "We want to make the
notarial process mean something -- or do away with it
altogether," says Ken Rouse, general counsel for the Florida
Department of State. "There were large numbers of
transactions done with notarized documents, but it didn't
mean anything anymore."
   That attitude is precisely what concerns the National
Notary Association about the New York study. "The problems
described in the study happen, but not on the scale
indicated. Every once in a while a legislator suggests doing
away with notaries and could point to a study like this as
evidence to do so," says Charles N. Farber, vice president of
the Canoga Park, Calif., trade group, which sponsors
educational seminars for notaries.
   Still, there is widespread agreement that notaries often
don't fully understand their duties. Most questions involve
real estate transactions, where signatures are forged or
property is improperly transferred. Problems sometimes arise
when notaries fail to follow procedures at the request of a
friend, employer or relative.
   Sometimes notaries themselves are involved in fraud. "We
had a case in L.A., where a notary forged deeds of trust
against people's houses and got away with $1.8 million," says
Mr. Randall, the California notary official. "They caught
him, but he left 21 homeowners with a clouded title on their
property and big legal fees."
   Notaries may be suspended or removed for misconduct. They
also can be the target of civil or criminal suits. Only
rarely do they end up in jail. Most states require that
notaries post bonds of up to $10,000 to compensate citizens
who are injured by misconduct, "but that doesn't go very far
when you've lost a house worth $100,000," Mr. Randall says.
   Most experts point to an educational program adopted in
North Carolina in 1983 as a possible model for other states.
North Carolina requires prospective notaries to successfully
complete a three-hour to six-hour course offered through the
state's community colleges.
   "The nature of the complaints we had received involved
simple mistakes made because of the notaries' lack of
knowledge," says Ludelle Hatley, notary public director of
the North Carolina secretary of state's office.
   The need for some sort of official guidance has even
prompted some notaries to seek out seminars and courses on
their own. "We're just crying out for education," says James
W. Paulus, a notary in Baltimore who regularly attends
educational seminars. "I took some papers for notarization,
and the woman didn't even know what to do. She was so
relieved to find out I was a notary."
   ---
   FERRARI WINS trademark suit against a Tennessee kit-car
manufacturer.
   The U.S. District Court in Tennessee permanently enjoined
a manufacturer of kit cars from selling replicas of the
Daytona Spyder and Testarossa cars, both made by Ferrari
S.p.A.
   Ferrari sued kit-car maker Carl Roberts, of Greeneville,
Tenn., when he began advertising replicas of the two cars.
U.S. District Judge Thomas G. Hull said Mr. Roberts can no
longer sell the reproductions because they infringe on
Ferrari's trademark rights on the designs and appearances of
the cars. The judge ruled yesterday that by designing his
cars to look like Ferrari's, Mr. Roberts intended to
misappropriate the image and reputation of Ferrari. The
replicas were called the "Miami Spyder" and the "Miami
Coupe." A lawyer for Mr. Roberts declined to comment.
   Kit cars are do-it-yourself cars usually made up of parts
from a variety of models. Mr. Roberts' Ferrari look-alikes
consisted of molded fiberglass bodies mounted on Chevrolet
Corvette and Pontiac Fiero chassis.
   The decision was the second by a federal court upholding
Ferrari's trademark rights and prohibiting the manufacture
and sale of Ferrari replicas, said Jonathan I. Blackman of
Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen &amp; Hamilton, an attorney for the
company.
   Last year, the U.S. District Court in San Diego made a
similar ruling against a California seller of Daytona Spyder
lookalikes.
   ---
   LAWYER OVERSEEING effort to settle asbestos cases is asked
to step down.
   In a motion made last week, Owens-Illinois Inc., a former
asbestos manufacturer, charged that the attorney, Kenneth R.
Feinberg, has a conflict of interest because of his previous
work for manufacturers of asbestos, which causes respiratory
ailments. In an innovative federal-state arrangement in
January, U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein and State
Supreme Court Judge Helen Freedman jointly appointed Mr.
Feinberg to oversee efforts to settle hundreds of asbestos
cases filed by former Brooklyn Navy Yard workers.
   Owens-Illinois said the prior work by Mr. Feinberg and his
firm, Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays &amp; Handler of New York,
"provided him with confidential information going to the very
heart of the litigation he is now entrusted to mediate." From
1980 to 1983, Mr. Feinberg represented the Asbestos
Compensation Coalition, a group of asbestos companies
involved in litigation across the nation. Mr. Feinberg's work
included lobbying Congress and drafting legislative proposals
on how to compensate victims of asbestos, Owens-Illinois
said.
   In the court documents, written in part by Geoffrey
Hazard, an ethics professor at Yale Law School,
Owens-Illinois claims that the code of judicial conduct bars
Mr. Feinberg from overseeing the settlement efforts. The
company made a similar motion to prevent Mr. Feinberg from
serving as mediator in asbestos settlement efforts in
Maryland, but a lower court judge and state appellate court
rejected the motion.
   Mr. Feinberg's appointment ends May 31, unless it is
extended by the court. "I'm quite optimistic that by the end
of the month a settlement will be reached in these cases, and
no extension of my mandate will be necessary," Mr. Feinberg
said. A hearing on the Owens-Illinois motion is set for May
15 in state court in Manhattan, before Judge Weinstein and
Judge Freedman.
   "Owens-Illinois could not be more cooperative in this
process," Mr. Feinberg said. "They have acted in absolutely
the most good faith. They haven't given me any indication
that they are anything but eager to see this mediation effort
succeed."
   ---
   CONFIDENTIAL MEETINGS by state agency officials
discouraged in Texas.
   The court's decision endorsed a 1973 Texas law that is
similar to the so-called sunshine statutes passed by most
states in the 1960s and 1970s. Such laws require government
agencies to conduct their business in public, but they have
spawned numerous disputes over whether agency officials may
informally discuss contested cases among themselves in
private.
   The vital question is whether administrative
decision-making should be done openly or secretly, the Texas
court said in an opinion by Judge Lloyd Doggett. "We believe
the law requires openess."
   At issue was a 1986 Texas Water Commission decision
denying Charles M. Acker's request for a permit for a
wastewater treatment plant to service his mobile-home park.
Mr. Acker had challenged the decision on grounds that two
commission members violated the open meetings law by
discussing the case in a restroom during a hearing recess. A
trial court upheld his claim.
   But in a controversial decision last May, a state appeals
court said the Texas open meetings law was superseded by a
1975 statute governing administrative procedures in Texas. A
provision of that law specifically permits private talks
among state agency members in contested cases. And Texas
attorneys argued before the state supreme court that
regulators would be hamstrung unless they could discuss
pending cases in private.
   The Texas Supreme Court disagreed, saying the appeals
court ruling would permit "serious circumvention" of open
government. "In administrative review of contested issues
from A to Z -- from alcoholic beverages to zoos, secrecy
would suddenly be authorized," the court ruled in overturning
the appeals court decision.
   ---
   SAN FRANCISCO-BOUND: Latham &amp; Watkins is launching a San
Francisco office. The Los Angeles law firm, with
approximately 550 lawyers, has six other branches. Two
partners work in the new office but partner Robert Dell said
Latham hopes to have 20 lawyers in San Francisco by the fall.
   ---
   Krystal Miller in Detroit contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Banks to Revert to Private Hands
   If Mexican Leader's Plan Succeeds
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEXICO CITY -- President Carlos Salinas de Gortari sent
the Mexican Congress a proposal to return control of the
banking system to the private sector. The banks were
nationalized in 1982.
   The proposed constitutional amendment, which is sure to
spark debate, was hailed by businessmen in the Mexican
capital as the most significant step yet in Mr. Salinas's
rollback of the extensive state apparatus, as well as a boon
to companies seeking financing in Mexico.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If Congress approves the amendment to repeal the state's
banking monopoly, the government would try to cede operating
control of all 18 of the commercial banks in which it holds a
66% interest, officials said. The officials said the
government would be able to maintain a minority interest in
the commercial banks and would continue to operate state
development banks. One official said it was likely that
foreign investors would be permitted to buy into the
commercial banks, though through what means and to what
extent haven't been decided.
   The proposal could face modifications. Some cabinet
members were said to want continued state control of one of
the big commercial banks. The president may have to do some
bargaining to shepherd the proposal through Congress.
   The constitutional amendments would require support of
two-thirds of Mexico's 500-member Congress, as well as
approval by three-fourths of Mexico's state legislatures. Mr.
Salinas's ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party has 263
Congress deputies, and can count on the 101 deputies of the
conservative National Action Party. But some analysts expect
defections within the ruling party's left wing, and stiff
resistance from the populist Party of the Democratic
Revolution, which commands a sizable bloc in Congress.
   The bank nationalization in September 1982 caused a trauma
that Mexico's private sector hasn't gotten over. President
Jose Lopez Portillo expropriated the banks to stymie the
"vultures" he said were taking their money out of the country
after the oil-price collapse. Rather than staunch the flow of
capital, the nationalization only confirmed the conviction of
wealthier Mexicans that their money and property were
insecure at home.
   In a letter to Congress, Mr. Salinas cited the
stubbornness of Mexico's eight-year economic crisis and the
country's conversion to a market-oriented economy as reasons
for returning the banks to private hands. "It's inadmissible
to have a state that owns too many things in a country with
so much poverty," the president said, adding that his plan
would allow the government to divert money from supporting
the banking system to such basic services as water and
electricity.
   Since the nationalization, a parallel banking system has
sprung up made up of stockbrokerage and insurance firms. The
government encouraged the parallel bankers by ceding such
services as marketing treasury bills that had been the
exclusive domain of banks.
   The government also has taken steps to make the commercial
banks more competitive by easing reserve requirements on
deposits and liberalizing the structure of interest rates.
But Mexico's economy, which grew at a brisk 2.9% last year,
increasingly needs a greater quantity of financing and more
sophisticated forms of financial engineering.
   The opening would provide "more competitiveness, more
products and less personnel," says economist Rogelio Ramirez
de la O. "Now the banks are technologically 10 years behind
the times."
   For investors, the most attractive banking franchises
would include Banco Nacional de Mexico S.N.C. and Bancomer
S.N.C., each of which has about a one-quarter share of
Mexico's commercial banking business. In third place is Banca
Serfin S.N.C., with a 17% market share. It's expected that
some of the heads of Mexican brokerage houses, who were bank
owners before the nationalization, will be active in the
bidding for the banks, if the proposal passes Congress.
   Some investors had been anticipating a privatization,
though the announcement came sooner than had been expected.
Mexico's stock market had been one of the hottest in the
world this year, largely because investors were snapping up
bank stocks on rumors of a privatization.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Next He Will Leap
   Some Tall Buildings
   In a Single Bound
   ---
   It's Collor] Brazil's President]
   He Worries His Mother
   With His Derring-Do
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   RIO DE JANEIRO -- Riding a jet ski was fine. Taking a ride
in an ultra-light plane was a bit racy, but why not? Riding a
motorcycle at twice the authorized speed limit without a
helmet was somewhat reckless, but everybody does that here.
But when it appeared he wanted to parachute too, that seemed
a bit much.
   "It would be safer for the country if you were to take on
Mike Tyson," Health Minister Alceni Guerra suggested
politely.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The stuntman here is none other than Brazilian President
Fernando Collor de Mello, whom President George Bush recently
referred to as Indiana Jones, but really acts more like the
elegant daredevil James Bond. Ever since Mr. Collor took
office on March 15, he has looked adventure -- or danger --
in the face every Sunday, a practice that provides great
photo opportunities and lots of press coverage on otherwise
slow news days.
   Not that he's dull during the week. His first major move
as president was to implement a sweeping anti-inflation plan
that he bullied through the Congress. He also decided, a few
days after taking office, to have a look for himself at the
sad plight of the Yanomami Indians, whose livelihood is
threatened by diseases and ecological destruction left behind
by 45,000 gold prospectors who invaded their lands.
   So Brazil's first democratically elected president in 29
years donned a military camouflage outfit, dressed up his
25-year-old wife and two children from a previous marriage in
similar fatigues, boarded an Air Force jet and flew to the
Amazon. After visiting an Indian village and cruising over
the area where prospectors have carved out airstrips, Mr.
Collor turned to the Federal police chief who was
accompanying him, and said: "Dynamite the airstrips. And make
it snappy."
   Brazilians are watching this stylish muscle-flexing with a
mixture of awe, amusement -- and fear that all the glitz
belies a populist, authoritarian streak, not to mention a
dose of irresponsibility, immaturity and megalomania.
   "Collor is a high-tech strongman who has used Third World
tactics to try to make Brazil a First World country," says
prominent Sao Paulo businessman Ricardo Semler. "Collor
should limit his exploits to fixing the economy," says Luiza
Gomes Montes, a Rio cleaning lady.
   To many, the 40-year-old Mr. Collor, whom People magazine
just named one of the world's 50 most beautiful people, has
brought a touch of Kennedy-esque glamour to the largely
discredited Brazilian presidency; former President Jose
Sarney had elevated inertia to an art form.
   "We have a president who is young, good-looking, sporty,
courageous and competent. Everything he does succeeds," says
Mr. Collor's spokesman, Claudio Humberto Rosa e Silva, with
characteristic modesty. Though Mr. Rosa e Silva denies there
is any marketing strategy behind the making of this
president, the media attention has given Mr. Collor the image
of a new kind of politician: youthful, dynamic, quick to
decide.
   Some fear he is too quick. He has already had to remove
two bills he sent to the Congress because they were
apparently unconstitutional. He had to reinstate another bill
he had personally vetoed when it was pointed out that his
party had received prior government approval for the bill.
Some wonder whether Mr. Collor doesn't act before thinking
and isn't doing just a little too much -- both on and off the
playing field.
   Mr. Collor's mother couldn't agree more, at least
regarding his physical exploits. "I'm as worried about this
as all of you are," 74-year-old Leda Collor de Mello told a
women's group last week as she launched a national campaign
to knock some sense into young Fernando's head. "I'm making
an appeal that you address yourselves to him, in letters and
telegrams, asking him that he stop these games." To further
drive in the message, Mrs. Collor this weekend published a
guest column in Veja, a newsweekly, entitled "We're Worried."
She wrote: "Riding a motorcycle is something all my sons did,
and I never approved of it. But this didn't worry me half as
much as Fernando's flight in a supersonic jet."
   Mr. Collor's mother was referring to the way her son the
president chose to celebrate Earth Day -- in the sky,
breaking the speed of sound in a two-man Mirage fighter jet.
That was a respite from his previous day's busy schedule: He
played both volleyball and soccer. Naturally, he scored a
goal. Mr. Collor is also a karate black-belt and has run nine
kilometers in a respectable hour and twenty minutes.
   For one coming attraction, Mr. Collor has scheduled a
submarine excursion. Political columnist Gilberto Dimenstein
thinks this shows bad timing, saying the president should
have saved this stunt for when "his public appeal isn't so
high and he needs to submerge."
   Mr. Collor also plans to train next week with the
Brazilian national soccer team, which is preparing for the
World Cup. (He wasn't chosen among the 22 players who will
fly to Italy in June, however, although his spokesman says he
is a "reasonably competent" defender.) The soccer could also
be a mistake, says political scientist Amaury de Souza.
"He'll either make a fool of himself or of the whole team,"
he says. "If they play hard, he can't keep up with them, and
if they don't, they'll say it was to preserve this clown."
   Just in case Mr. Collor runs out of ideas for acts of
derring-do, humorist Jo Soares helpfully published a list of
potential Sunday outings. He expresses regret at Mr. Collor's
apparent about-face on parachuting, which will deprive people
of exclaiming: "Look, up in the sky] It's a bird] It's a
plane] It's super-Collor]" But he offered some other
tantalizing possibilities: riding down the Igacu waterfalls
in a barrel; walking a tightrope to the Sugar Loaf Mountain
in Rio; or jumping on a motorcycle, Evel Knievel-style, over
all the cars Mr. Collor has confiscated from public servants
as part of his morality-in-government drive.
   Mr. Collor recently issued an official statement about
these tendencies, saying that "the President of the Republic,
as a good son, will attend to his mother's request and will
no longer ride a motorcycle" -- so much for Mr. Soares's last
suggestion. But filial duty comes hard to this president.
"I'm criticized for riding a motorcycle or an ultra-light
plane, as if this were forbidden," he told journalists
recently. "I'm a man of my times. I like motorcycles and
jet-skis."
   But many Brazilians criticize Mr. Collor for more serious
reasons -- like his economic plan, in which he has frozen
about 70% of the money circulating in the Brazilian economy
for 18 months to cure Brazil of its runaway inflation. Mr.
Collor himself says the plan burns all bridges and the choice
is "Win or win." But, some wonder, what happens to Brazil if
it fails, since Mr. Collor says there's no return.
   Mr. Collor himself sees no problem with the plan. Last
Tuesday, he went to check things out for himself, paying a
surprise -- but highly publicized -- visit to a Brasilia
supermarket. Pushing his shopping cart through the aisles,
Mr. Collor picked out 19 items that constitute the basic
grocery basket, all the while carefully comparing the prices
to the official table issued so the government-imposed price
freeze can be enforced.
   After paying with a check for 1,430.97 Cruzeiros (about
$30), Mr. Collor noted with satisfaction that the 19 items he
had picked out were 11.5% cheaper than before the plan. That
satisfaction was offset by the potato problem, however. Mr.
Collor didn't like the look of them, so he told the
supermarket manager: "This can't be. Remove all the potatoes
immediately. There is no way you can offer these potatoes to
the public." Turning to his security guard, Col. Dark Nunes
de Figueiredo, Mr. Collor said: "Colonel, send the Public
Health authorities here immediately to record this."
   Mostly, Mr. Collor's showmanship is popular among
Brazilians, though everyone agrees that the success of his
economic program will prove more satisfying than the stylish
figure he cuts on jet skis. Meanwhile, the letters, telegrams
and faxes requested by Mr. Collor's mother pour in to the
Palacio do Planalto.
   "The letters basically say, `For God's sake, don't expose
yourself to danger, we need you,'" notes Fatima Medreiros,
who works in Mr. Collor's office. Others are more critical,
saying that the high-born Mr. Collor, who claimed during the
campaign to be a man of the people, practices elite sports.
The British School urges Mr. Collor to grow up. Others write
that if Mr. Collor really wants adventure, he should go wait
on line at a bank or at a gas station, like they do all day.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Seeking
   Loans to Poor Nations
   For the Environment
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- World Bank President Barber Conable said he
hopes to launch a fund to make low-interest loans to poor and
middle-income countries for environmental projects.
   Mr. Conable told reporters he plans to seek endorsement
for the fund at a meeting of the bank's development committee
next week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The pilot project would make loans totaling $300 million
to $400 million annually for three years. The loans would be
targeted to addressing environmental problems, such as
deforestation or desertification, that affect the global
climate. He said the loans might also be available for
projects such as cleaning up pollution in Eastern Europe.
   The fund would differ from current World Bank programs by
providing subsidized, low-rate loans to middle-income
nations, as well as poor nations. Currently, the bank's
cut-rate financing is available only to the very poorest
nations. Other countries must borrow from the bank at
market-based interest rates.
   Mr. Conable said the subsidy for middle-income nations is
justified because the benefits of environmental projects go
beyond national boundaries. He said the project would also
result in an increase in the bank's environmental staff.
   In answering questions on the program, Mr. Conable refused
to join the debate over whether there is a general trend
toward global warming. But "if there is global change, it
will affect poor people more than rich," he said, and
therefore is a worthy concern for the bank.
   The environmental fund must be approved by the member
nations of the bank, who will also have to provide the money.
The fund will be a cooperative effort of the World Bank, the
United Nations Development Program and the United Nations
Environmental Program.
   The establishment of an environmental fund at the World
Bank was first advocated last year by French officials.
Treasury officials say the U.S. hasn't formulated a position
on the proposal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<LP>
   Pure Happiness, Please?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even though I recognize
   What's been a blessing
   In disguise,
   I hope it's not
   Too much to ask
   For future ones
   Without the mask.
   -- May Richstone.
   ---
   Metamorphosis
                                                                                                       

   Spreadsheets were once analyses
   Constructed with paper and pens;
   Now they're electronic figments
   Created in computer dens.
   -- Bud Stiller.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ames Financing
   Of $25 Million
   Is Cleared by Court
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   ADD
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ames Department Stores Inc. said it received U.S.
bankruptcy court clearance to receive $25 million in
financing, enabling the discount retailer to purchase badly
needed merchandise for its some 600 stores.
   The loan is part of $250 million in financing Ames
negotiated with Chemical Bank, pending court approval. A May
8 hearing in U.S. bankruptcy court in Manhattan has been
scheduled to determine if more funds should be released.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge Howard C. Buschman approved the initial $25 million
after Ames disclosed in court that it expects to collect
$268.4 million, including sales receipts, through May 19, but
will need $314 million to buy goods and operate the stores in
that period.
   Some of the merchandise will be purchased to make good on
rainchecks issued last week after Ames shoppers discovered
that the stores lacked many of the toys, housewares, toiletry
and clothing items featured in its April 29 circular. Ames
subsequently took out ads in local newspapers apologizing for
the missing goods.
   Ames filed for protection from its creditors under Chapter
11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code last week, after negotiations
with its lenders stalled and many of its suppliers stopped
shipments. The filing followed an announcement that the
retailer expects to post a $228 million loss for the year
ended Jan. 27. The loss includes a charge of $150 million
taken to close 74 of its unprofitable stores. All but two are
part the 389 Zayre store chain Ames acquired for $778 million
in November 1988.
   In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Ames closed at
$2.875 a share, up 37.5 cents.
   Separately, a Chicago investor filed a lawsuit against
Ames directors, alleging that the company issued misleading
statements regarding its financial condition.
   In the suit, filed in federal court in Bridgeport, Conn.,
debenture holder Avers Wexler charged that Ames directors
permitted the firm to sell about $155 million in debentures
without fully disclosing the extent of its financial
difficulties.
   The suit seeks class action status and was filed on behalf
of investors who bought Ames's 7.5% convertible subordinated
debentures from Oct. 5, 1989, to April 9, 1990, the
plaintiff's attorney, Michael J. Freed, said.
   Ames officials didn't return phone calls seeking comment.
   A preliminary meeting between company representatives,
bondholders and trade creditors has been scheduled for May 10
in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trump Shuttle Gains Some Market Share
   But Fails to Meet Soaring Expectations
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   PN AWAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   One year after starting up, the Trump Shuttle has failed
to become the dominant carrier it had hoped -- and some
analysts wonder if it will any time soon.
   Although recent figures aren't available, Trump officials
now acknowledge that while the carrier has gained
significantly on rival Pan Am Corp., it is still far from the
60% passenger share it had hoped for. The airline's
high-profile owner, Donald Trump, also concedes the shuttle
isn't profitable yet, although he says its losses are small
and that it will turn a profit as early as next fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such disclosures are hardly crushing blows to either the
shuttle or the rest of Mr. Trump's vast empire. But they come
at a time when the real estate mogul's business acumen has
already become a subject of media debate. And more
importantly, the disclosures raise some questions about the
value of the shuttle, which Mr. Trump has said he might sell
for $500 million to $600 million -- figures that some
analysts say may be too high.
   In interviews, Trump officials were upbeat about the
shuttle's progress, and said they were only disappointed more
people weren't trying out the new operation. "It's been
tougher to get people to change their travel habits," says
Bruce Nobles, president of the Trump Shuttle. But some travel
agents say Trump's marketing tactics have had only mixed
results, and the carrier's refusal to offer more liberal
corporate discounts has kept away a lot of important clients.
   "The momentum he had is over," says Ed Godwin, chairman of
Foster Joyce Travel Inc., a New York travel agency. "I don't
think he'll pick up much more business."
   The shuttle market, which carries about four million
passengers a year between New York and Washington and New
York and Boston, is one of the industry's most prized routes.
Fares are high -- $119 one-way -- and the passenger clientele
is among the industry's richest. When he bought the shuttle
from Eastern Airlines for $365 million last June, Mr. Trump
had Trump-sized expectations. His flights would be on-time,
he vowed, his planes would be refurbished into luxury liners,
and the Trump name would quickly lure away Pan Am's
customers.
   In fact, the Trump Shuttle's share of shuttle passengers
jumped from 20% in the summer to 48% in December, according
to Airline Economics Inc., a consultant firm that extracted
the results from government figures. More recent figures
aren't available, but both Trump and Pan Am officials agree
that neither carrier holds a substantial edge. "That's one of
the biggest market share increases in the history of the
airline business," boasts Mr. Trump.
   But analysts say the comeback isn't quite so astonishing;
Trump's market share started off so low because Eastern was
in the middle of a strike and many people had switched to Pan
Am; traditionally, these passengers come back to their usual
airline and Eastern held a slight market edge over Pan Am in
the winter season before the strike.
   "Inevitably, you would expect the airlines to split the
market 50-50," says Paul Karos of First Boston Corp. "The
products are pretty much the same."
   Mr. Trump has tried to lure new passengers with a host of
new services and promotions. One of his more flamboyant
efforts was his new concierge desk, which handles various
arrangements for business fliers. While applauding the
thought, some travel agents say shuttle customers pick their
airlines more on schedules and frequent-flier plans. "I don't
see people using it with any great degree," says John
Richard, vice president of business development for U.S.
Travel Systems Inc.
   Some agents also say Pan Am has been much more aggressive
with corporate customers, offering some clients $99 one-way
fares in exchange for large volumes of business. The Trump
Shuttle, agents say, only offers discounts on large bulks of
tickets bought in advance -- which many companies don't like
to do. Mr. Nobles acknowledges he may lose business this way,
but says he brings in more revenues with higher fares.
   Since saying he might sell the shuttle last week, Mr.
Trump says numerous airlines have already contacted him. (At
least one carrier, America West Airlines, has publicly
expressed such interest.) "This is a trophy in the airline
industry," says Mr. Trump. Indeed, analysts say the shuttle's
takeoff and landing slots in the crowded New York and
Washington airports are valuable. But they also point out
that Mr. Trump's fleet is old. "I can't imagine it being
worth a whole lot more than it was paid for," says Mr. Karos.
   ---
                     The Shuttle Race
                                                                                                       

                Market Share of the Shuttles
                                                                                                       

                                               EASTERN/
   1989                       PAN AM            TRUMP*
                                                                                                       

   1st Quarter                 55.1%             44.9%
   2nd Quarter                 80.3              19.7
   3rd Quarter                 55.6              44.4

                                                                                                       

   *Trump acquired Eastern Shuttle in June 1989.
   Source: Airline Economics Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend Brief -- Republic Gypsum Co.:
   Housing Conditions Cited
   In Omission of Dividend
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   RGC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Republic Gypsum Co. said its directors voted to omit the
five-cent quarterly dividend, citing unfavorable conditions
in the housing and construction markets.
   The Dallas-based manufacturer of gypsum wallboard and
paperboard said the omission will save the company about $2
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said its board declared a 5% common stock
dividend to be distributed June 15 to stock of record May 31.
The stock dividend, which won't increase shareholders'
proportionate interest in the company, isn't in lieu of the
cash dividend, it said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy's Consumer Price Index
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MILAN -- Italy's consumer price index rose 0.4% in April
from March, and was up 5.8% from a year earlier, the state
statistical institute Istat reported yesterday.
   The inflation rate was the lowest registered in the past
14 months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Istat said the index registered 104.8 in April, compared
with 104.4 in March and 104.0 in February.
   The index isn't seasonally adjusted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Bone Damage
   Reversed by Use
   Of P&amp;G Drug
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PG
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   A drug marketed by a Procter &amp; Gamble Co. subsidiary is
the first medicine to reverse bone damage caused by
osteoporosis, the degenerative disease that affects aging
women, a study shows.
   Researchers said the drug etidronate had a "significant"
effect in preventing fractures of brittle bones associated
with osteoporosis. "It's extremely exciting," said Harry K.
Genant, a researcher at the University of California, San
Francisco, who participated in a three-year study of 66 women
with doctors from Sundby Hospital in Copenhagen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dr. Genant said the research "provided the first
conclusive evidence that a drug can increase bone mass and
prevent fractures" in women already afflicted with the
disease. At present, doctors try to prevent bone thinning by
prescribing estrogen drugs for women who have yet to develop
the disease. Most treatments in women who already experience
bone thinning rarely work, Dr. Genant said.
   The drug is sold by P&amp;G's Norwich Eaton subsidiary under
the brand name Didronel as a treatment for a rare bone
problem called Paget's disease. Officials at Norwich Eaton
said the company plans to use the latest research, and
several other studies, to seek approval later this year from
the Food and Drug Administration to market the drug for use
against osteoporosis.
   About 20 million U.S. women, mostly over the age of 50,
suffer from osteoporosis.
   In the study, published in today's New England Journal of
Medicine, doctors found the bones of women given etidronate
showed a 5% gain in bone mass in their vertebrae and in their
arms while those taking a placebo showed a 3% loss. Moreover,
the group taking the drug experienced far fewer fractures
than did the placebo group.
   Etidronate is one of a class of drugs called
diphosphonates that appear to work by coating bone cells and
preventing loss of bone tissue. Bone cells normally lose this
tissue, but women with osteoporosis are unable to replace it.
The doctors found that the drug worked when administered for
just two weeks every four months. Previous research had shown
that continuous administration produced irregular bone
formation.
   P&amp;G discovered the drug while studying diphosphonates for
detergents. Several other drug companies, including Merck &amp;
Co., also are testing diphosphonate-related drugs, but none
is expected to be approved for general use soon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal Industries
   Expects Net to Fall
   In 1990 as Much as 20%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FIL.A
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WINNIPEG, Manitoba -- John Fraser, president and chief
executive officer of Federal Industries Ltd., said the
industrial holding company expects a 15% to 20% decline in
net income this year as a result of the "deteriorating
economic outlook" in Canada.
   In 1989, the company had net income of 45.6 million
Canadian dollars (US$39.1 million) or C$1.66 a share, on
revenue of C$2.28 billion. Mr. Fraser had said earlier this
year that the company expected 1990 net to be about the same
level.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The outlook now is worse than it was three, four, six
months ago," Mr. Fraser said. "{Interest} rates have stayed
surprisingly high; the {strong} Canadian dollar seems to defy
gravity; and we have a serious fiscal situation with the
deficit."
   He said the Canadian manufacturing sector is already in a
recession.
   Results for the first quarter of the year, due to be
released Wednesday, will be "quite dramatically" lower than
the year-earlier C$8.9 million, or 31 Canadian cents a share,
Mr. Fraser said. He declined to give a specific estimate.
   "The first quarter is always our weakest quarter," he
said. "Nearly all of our businesses have a seasonal component
to them."
   The company has four operating divisions: consumer
products, metals, industrial products and transportation.
   Mr. Fraser said the company's newly acquired bookstore
chain, W.H. Smith, had been expected to report a
first-quarter operating loss. In addition, the economic
slowdown in Ontario and Quebec hurt Federal's trucking
operations in those provinces. Earnings at the metals group
also declined in the first quarter.
   But Mr. Fraser noted that the company's first-quarter
earnings drop shouldn't be taken as an indication of the size
of the decline it expects for the year as a whole.
   Federal Industries generates about 80% of its
approximately C$2.2 billion in annual sales from its steel
service and distribution centers as well as its trucking
division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   East, West Germany Reach Accord
   On Plan for Merging of Economies
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   BONN -- Sticking close to an outline spelled out by Bonn,
the two Germanys agreed to a plan for merging their economies
by this summer.
   Besides setting terms for introducing the powerful West
German mark into the East on July 2, the agreement gives the
East German government a badly needed political boost on the
eve of that nation's local elections, set for Sunday. Both
sides wanted to hash out a deal in time for the vote, to give
East Germans confidence that the costs of unity won't fall
unfairly onto their shoulders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But while East and West German officials touted the
agreement as a solid compromise, it leaves many details
unclear and differs little from the opening offer made by
Bonn last week.
   The plan calls for exchanging East German wages, salaries,
and pensions at a favorable 1-to-1 rate, but limits the
amount of personal savings to be swapped on par. In accord
with Bonn's original proposal, most East Germans will be
allowed to exchange 4,000 marks of savings at the 1-to-1 rate
($2,380.80). But East Germans 60 years and older will be
allowed to exchange 6,000 marks, while children 14 and under
will be limited to 2,000 marks. All other savings will be
exchanged 2-to-1.
   West German officials say 60% of East German savings
accounts have less than 5,000 marks and that this deal would
allow families to split their savings among family members
for maximum effect.
   The special terms for the elderly are meant to signal the
West's willingness to cushion the effects of the monetary
union, but only in the case of those who really need help.
East German pensions are about a third of the level of those
in the West, and many East German retirees rely heavily on
their savings to survive. Besides offering the higher
threshold for the 1-to-1 exchange, the agreement specifies
that the East will adopt the West German system of
calculating pensions, a move that will lead to a hike in the
base level of many pensions as well.
   But while both sides agreed on the need to protect the
elderly, working out a general exchange rate proved more
difficult. The East Germans initially balked at a 4,000-mark
limit on the 1-to-1 exchange, arguing that this would make
them the paupers in a future united Germany. And in the end,
the rate was determined more by political sentiments than by
sound economic reasoning.
   "East Germans have the idea that their work is just as
good as that of their West German cousins, and politically,
it's impossible to contradict that," says an official in
Bonn's Economic Ministry. "But it simply isn't true."
   Productivity levels in the East are only one-third of
those in the West, for instance, and many East German
factories are hopelessly outmoded.
   Moreover, the East German mark is worth only a fraction of
the West German mark, so any exchange rate even approaching
1-to-1 is considered extremely generous. Black market traders
in East and West Berlin typically exchange the money at a
rate of 6-to-1. Yesterday's agreement sets a new official
exchange rate for East German marks of 2-to-1. Since the
start of this year, the official rate has been 3-to-1.
   The agreement, which sets the outlines for a state treaty,
differs only slightly from what the West German government
put forward as its opening negotiating position. In recent
days, West German officials acknowledged that their offer was
near the limits of what they could afford without endangering
the stability of the mark.
   These factors, together with the East Germans' own
interest in striking a deal that serves their long-term
interests, made it easier to accept the plan.
   To help ease the transition, the two sides have agreed to
exchange East German company debts -- estimated at 260
billion marks -- at a rate of 2-to-1. Exchanging debts 1-to-1
would have forced most East German firms out of business. As
it is, officials on both sides estimate that at least
one-third of all East German companies will quickly go
bankrupt and unemployment could soon reach one million.
   The agreement also will allow rents to be exchanged at the
2-to-1 rate and will give East Germans the chance to buy
shares in state-owned enterprises.
   The West Germans emphasized that the plan was a
conservative solution, a politically necessary stance. The
powerful West German Bundesbank -- which initially groused
that an overly generous deal would endanger the mark -- has
cautiously signed on to the deal, but mainly because it saw
few options.
   The Bundesbank has cautioned that monetary and economic
union, if not carefully structured, could boost West German
inflation and interest rates. In keeping with its role as
defender of a powerful mark, the bank originally put forward
its own plan, which called for an exchange rate closer to
2-to-1.
   Some financial analysts note, however, that the final
agreement is closer to the Bundesbank's original blueprint
than many might think.
   ---
                    The 1-to-1 Solution
                                                                                                       

   Key exchange rates, East German marks for West German
marks, under yesterday's compromise plan for German economic
reunification.
                                                                                                       

   1-to-1
                                                                                                       

   -- Wages and salaries
   -- Pensions
   -- Rents
   -- Personal savings up to 4,000 marks*
                                                                                                       

   2-to-1
                                                                                                       

   -- Company debts
   -- Personal savings above 4,000 marks*
   -- All other monetary exchanges
                                                                                                       

   *People 60 and older may exchange 6,000 marks in personal
savings at the 1-to-1 rate; those 14 or younger only 2,000
marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Simulated Sunlight
   Can Reset Body
   Clocks, Test Shows
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Exposing night-shift workers to an artificial "midnight
sun" can reset their biological clocks, thereby increasing
their performance, an experiment in Boston indicated.
   The experiment, carried out at the Brigham and Women's
Hospital, is the latest effort by scientists to manipulate
the rhythms of the human body that are synchronized with the
Earth's 24-hour day-night cycle. These natural rhythms, the
products of millions of years of evolution, are disrupted
when people work at night and try to sleep in the daytime.
The result is insomnia in the day and decreased alertness
during night work accompanied by a drop in performance and an
increase in fatigue-related accidents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new experiment found that the biological rhythms of
volunteers rapidly adapted to night work if the volunteers
worked the midnight shift under simulated sunlight rather
than the dimmer light of conventional indoor lighting.
   The new experiment, reported in this week's New England
Journal of Medicine, was carried out by Charles A. Czeisler
and his colleagues at the Center for Circadian and Sleep
Disorders Medicine at the Brigham and Women's Hospital, which
is affiliated with the Harvard Medical School. Dr. Czeisler
also heads a nonprofit organization called the Center for
Design of Industrial Schedules, which funded part of the
research.
   Dr. Czeisler and his colleagues have developed a theory
that the body's "clock" that determines the sleep-wake cycle
is set each day by a bright light, presumably the rising sun.
Last year they reported they could change the "time" on this
internal clock by as much as 12 hours by the proper timing of
exposure to bright light.
   A night worker runs into problems because, after working
under indoor lights during the night, he or she goes home and
at some point during the day, perhaps upon leaving work, the
worker is suddenly exposed to the brightness of the sun, the
researchers explained. This confuses the biological clock,
and the worker's body never fully adapts to night work.
   In their latest experiment, the Boston scientists
determined the normal 24-hour biological rhythms of eight
healthy young men by monitoring their body temperature, heart
rate and the production of several body chemicals during a
week of regular bedtimes and wake-up times. During this
baseline period, the body temperature usually dropped to its
lowest point at about 5 a.m., or about two hours and 40
minutes before the men woke up.
   For the next four weeks, the men reported to the
laboratory each night shortly before midnight and spent the
next eight hours working at a desk under a bank of lights
simulating the brightness of the early morning sun. They then
went home and slept in a totally darkened room from 9 a.m.
until 5 p.m.
   By the sixth night of the experiment, the men's biological
clocks had changed "time." Their body temperatures reached
their lowest points 9.6 hours later than normal. The cycle
for the output of various body chemicals also shifted. Tests
also indicated that the daily ups and downs in alertness and
mental performance changed to later times of the 24-hour day.
   By contrast, when the volunteers spent the night working
under ordinary indoor lights, there was little change in the
biological rhythms, and the rhythms even tended to move back
an hour or so rather than forward.
   "Although this study is a step toward the development of a
practical treatment for maladaptation to nighttime work, a
number of important questions remain to be answered," the
scientists said. For instance, the most effective timing and
duration of the light exposures still have to be determined,
they explained.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   With Help of Teens, Snuff Sales Revive
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   UST
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   For a few years, Sean Marsee's story seemed powerful
enough to devastate the smokeless tobacco industry.
   The Oklahoma youth started using Copenhagen brand snuff at
age 13, after receiving a free sample at a rodeo. Six years
later, he died of oral cancer, and his family filed a $147
million product-liability suit against UST Inc., maker of
Copenhagen. The 1986 case prompted a barrage of media
coverage and spotlighted public attention on the dangers of
smokeless.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But today, the snuff business is booming. While sales of
cigarettes continue to decline, consumption of moist snuff
jumped 4.6% last year, according to John C. Maxwell Jr. of
Wheat First Securities Inc. UST, which dominates the
industry, is even trying to capitalize on the growing
anti-smoking movement with a new product called Select that
is advertised as an alternative to cigarettes.
   That's setting off alarms among public health officials
and anti-tobacco groups, who believe snuff products, and the
macho marketing pitches used to hawk them, hold an especially
strong appeal for young people. "Kids start dipping at an
earlier age than smoking," says Elbert D. Glover, director of
the Center for Tobacco Research at Pennsylvania State
University. "We're finding kids in elementary school using
smokeless."
   Tobacco marketers adamantly deny targeting children,
maintaining they are seeking only adult consumers of other
tobacco products. Regardless of that intent, some industry
insiders concede the products are especially popular among
youngsters. "Kids like it because it gives them a nicotine
buzz you don't get from cigarettes," says Tracy Axton Jr.,
chairman of Axton Candy &amp; Tobacco Co., a Louisville, Ky.,
distributor. Adds another southern tobacco distributor:
"Snuff appeals mainly to younger and athletic kids, 14 or 15
years old."
   Perhaps because of its controversial nature, the
industry's vigor is all the more striking. In the mid-1980s,
the far-reaching publicity about the Marsee case galvanized
consumers and government regulators against smokeless
tobacco, which is used by as much as 6% of the population. In
a 1986 report, the surgeon general cautioned that smokeless
tobacco users run a higher risk of developing oral cancer and
other dental problems, and that smokeless products can lead
to nicotine dependence.
   Marketers were required to add one of three warning labels
to products, including "This product may cause mouth cancer."
Broadcast advertising was halted. Manufacturers also
voluntarily agreed to stop using professional athletes to
endorse products and have curtailed product sampling on
college campuses. Since then, Minnesota, Utah and Nebraska
have banned sampling of tobacco products altogether, and now
the Federal Trade Commission is preparing to enforce the use
of warning labels on such promotional items as caps and golf
balls.
   Remarkably, UST, which controls 85% of the $800 million
market for moist snuff, has emerged from the fracas
unscathed. The company won the Marsee case in 1989, after an
appeals court upheld a lower court verdict. Despite the
negative press, the company's tobacco operating profits have
marched steadily upward. Last year, the Greenwich, Conn.,
company's net margin neared 28%, making it one of the
nation's most profitable industrial companies -- and more
than three times as profitable as Philip Morris Cos.
   UST's tobacco unit makes mostly moist snuff products --
cured, finely ground tobacco packed in tins -- under the
brands Copenhagen and Skoal. A pinch or "dip" of snuff
between users' upper lip and gum gives a jolt of nicotine
that lasts about 30 minutes. Favored by young consumers over
other smokeless products such as chewing tobacco, moist snuff
is the only growing niche of the tobacco industry. Chewing
tobacco, made of bigger pieces of tobacco, makes for a
milder, though sloppier, experience.
   The recovery of smokeless is a result, in part, of
aggressive marketing tactics honed by UST. At a time when
marketers of liquor and tobacco have come under increasing
pressure for target marketing, UST has quietly continued the
strategy. That's been possible because few of its customers
are professionals, and most of its low-profile marketing
efforts take place outside media centers. The company targets
mostly white, blue-collar males who work in factories or on
farms, or in such industries as lumber, steel and energy.
   To reach that audience, UST does little print advertising.
Instead, it and other smokeless tobacco makers have learned
to fish where the fishing is good. They spend millions to
sponsor such events as auto racing, rodeos, monster truck
shows and tractor pulls, where their blue-collar customers
are likely to gather. "The motor sports and fishing people
love these companies," says Lesa Ukman, editor of Special
Events Report, a Chicago newsletter.
   To reach into rural areas where few big sporting events
occur, Pinkerton Tobacco Co., the Richmond, Va.-based maker
of Red Man chewing tobacco, has even acted as a promoter to
organize country western concerts. That allows Pinkerton to
bring local artists to small towns that most promoters would
overlook. To grab a bigger piece of the faster-growing moist
snuff market, Pinkerton is in the process of rolling out a
new moist snuff product under its Red Man brand.
   UST also has been adroit at developing a steady stream of
new products to keep consumers dipping. The company
revolutionized the industry in 1983, with its introduction of
Skoal Bandits, snuff packaged in pouches that look like tiny
tea bags. UST is now testing its Select brand, which is also
in pre-measured pouches, in four markets. The milder product
comes in what looks like a cigarette package, rather than in
the traditional tin. Ads for Select aim to lure puffers by
commiserating that "Just when you'd love to have a smoke, you
find you're in a place where you can't."
   What's more, the industry giant has an enormous sales
force it can unleash for product sampling at special events
-- a key strategy for introducing new products since the ban
on broadcast advertising. Bill Melton, a marketing consultant
and a former executive at Pinkerton, figures UST's sales
force at about 400, as large as its two nearest competitors
combined, Conwood Co. and Pinkerton. "They hire people who
actually use the product," says another tobacco distributor.
   But public health officials worry that the tobacco
marketers have been so successful in crafting a macho aura
for their brands, that dipping has virtually become a right
of passage for boys in rural areas. "Dipping is seen as a
manly thing to do, and boys are experimenting with what it's
like to be a man," says Herb Severson, a research scientist
at the Oregon Research Institute. Mr. Severson, a
psychologist involved in smoking prevention, says junior high
kids in Oregon use smokeless tobacco at a higher rate than
cigarettes.
   Critics also say the frequent presence of snuff tins in
the back pockets of professional baseball players serves to
increase the product's appeal in the eyes of children. Free
sampling programs to major league and minor league teams have
been in place since the 1950s, though about one-third of all
professional teams have banished free samples from their
clubhouses. Still, about 34% of the players use some form of
smokeless tobacco regularly, according to a 1988 study
published in the New England Journal of Medicine.
   Despite the fact that his team has banned free samples of
smokeless tobacco, usage seems to be increasing, according to
Ron McClain, the trainer at the Montreal Expos. "The older
players do it, and the younger players coming up see them do
it, and then they start."
   Still, manufacturers claim they are doing what they can to
prevent the products from falling into the hands of children.
The Smokeless Tobacco Council Inc., a trade group, has urged
tobacco retailers to limit sales to consumers over 18. So
far, 43 states have established a minimum age for purchasing
smokeless tobacco, though in some states the legal age is
only 16.
   UST maintains that it focuses its marketing effort only on
adult males who already use some form of tobacco. "Smokeless
tobacco is an adult product," says a UST spokesman. "We
adhere to a strict code that prohibits us from advertising
and marketing efforts that appeal to youth."
   Bob Seidensticker, chairman of Pinkerton, says his company
takes pains never to hand out product samples to children at
events, and doesn't send any tobacco products through the
mail. "Every single sample clearly states the product is for
consumers over 18," he says. "We're acting in a very
responsible way."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush Aide Tied
   To 1985 HUD
   Funds Scandal
   ---
   House Panel Is Told Official
   Intervened for Project
   To Secure Federal Cash
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The staff of then-Vice President Bush
intervened to secure Department of Housing and Urban
Development funding for a project the agency had rejected in
1985 as ineligible, according to a former HUD official who
has admitted taking bribes.
   That intervention, according to DuBois Gilliam, a HUD
deputy assistant secretary during the Reagan administration,
led to a manipulation of federal monies to fund a $500,000
feasibility study on a trade center that was pushed by a
prominent supporter of the Reagan/Bush campaigns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to Mr. Gilliam, Mr. Barreto then said he would
talk with Mr. Bush. Later that same day, Mr. Gilliam said, a
member of the vice president's staff contacted the HUD
secretary's executive assistant, Deborah Dean, who asked Mr.
Gilliam about the project.
   "She indicated to me she got a call from the vice
president's office and that they wanted the project funded,"
Mr. Gilliam told the subcommittee.
   Mr. Gilliam said he told Ms. Dean he would try to arrange
funding and called Kansas City officials, who moved funds
from the city's federally funded community development block
grant to the trade center. Mr. Gilliam added that the Kansas
City cash was replenished with money from the secretary's
discretionary fund.
   Mr. Barreto said in a telephone interview that Mr.
Gilliam's account is "a lot of malarkey." Although he "had a
lot of meetings with the vice president," Mr. Barreto said he
doesn't remember ever discussing the trade center
specifically with him.
   Kansas City's assistant city manager, James Threatt, said
in a telephone interview that Mr. Gilliam told city officials
that the vice president supported the program. "The city
reviewed the fund request for the proposed feasibility study
and determined it was not only eligible, but clearly
meritorious," said Mr. Threatt. "The proposal was considered
in two hearings before the city council and approved."
   A White House spokesman said: "We don't know anything
about it."
   Ms. Dean's attorney declined to comment.
   Mr. Gilliam is serving an 18-month prison sentence for
accepting payoffs in connection with his HUD duties. He
testified before the House Government Operations subcommittee
on housing and employment, which is investigating favoritism,
corruption and mismanagement at the agency during the Reagan
years.
   During his second of three days of testimony, Mr. Gilliam
described how important it was for projects to have a sponsor
within HUD to gain approval. He told how he, Ms. Dean and
Thomas Demery, then the assistant secretary for housing,
would discuss the allocation of so-called
moderate-rehabilitation housing grants.
   "If you weren't sitting at the table that day, you didn't
eat," he said. "Somebody had to be pushing your project."
   To avoid being caught in what he knew were questionable
and illegal activities, Mr. Gilliam said he would tear up his
notes about projects and carry them from the HUD office
building in a medicine bag for disposal.
   Nonetheless, the department's inspector general began
investigating him, and when it got too "hot," Mr. Gilliam
said he decided to resign in 1987, after more than three
years at HUD. But before he left, he tried to arrange a
severance package that subcommittee Chairman Thomas Lantos
(D., Calif.) estimated would have been worth millions of
dollars.
   Mr. Gilliam said he asked Ms. Dean to ask then-HUD
Secretary Samuel Pierce to give Mr. Gilliam an allocation of
400 moderate-rehabilitation units, which Mr. Gilliam then
would develop. Mr. Pierce refused the 400 because he thought
"I was being greedy," Mr. Gilliam said, but the secretary did
approve 250 units.
   He never got any units, he added, because the inspector
general's investigation was getting too close to him.
   Mr. Pierce's attorney, Paul Perito, issued a statement
that "Mr. Pierce denies all allegations of wrongdoing and
improper conduct." The attorney added that it was
"inconceivable that the subcommittee has accepted, at face
value, the unsubstantiated testimony" of Mr. Gilliam.
   ---
   Katherine Walsh contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Are All Wall Street's New Warrants Really Warranted?
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SB
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Like Hollywood, Wall Street likes to clone
hits.
   Warrants on the Japanese stock market were quick successes
this year, so here come warrants on lots of other stock
indexes, too.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But after a year-long dearth of big new-product ideas on
Wall Street, efforts to make the most of investors' interest
in stock-index warrants are likely to produce lackluster
sequels, many market professionals say.
   The most popular warrants have all been linked to Japan's
Nikkei 225-stock index. These warrants have provided an easy
way for big and small U.S. investors to profit from the Tokyo
market's slump. The warrants entitle holders to a cash
payment that varies with stock indexes' performance after
several years.
   In total, at least seven Nikkei warrants issues have been
publicly underwritten in U.S. markets, and many more have
been privately placed here and abroad.
   Now, investment bankers are plugging new national markets
into their formula. Salomon Brothers Inc. in recent weeks has
underwritten two small warrant offerings tied to the London
stock market's FT-SE 100 index; it is also looking at Dutch
and German issues. And the American Stock Exchange is seeking
to list three-year warrants linked to the 20-stock Major
Market Index in the U.S.
   The European and U.S. warrants, however, aren't expected
to be nearly as popular with investors. Market professionals
point out that U.S. investors already have far more
alternatives available if they want to place a long-term bet
on the direction of those markets, or hedge their market
risk. In the U.S., the alternatives include stock-index
futures and options, all widely traded.
   More broadly, big investors are showing increased
skepticism toward Wall Street innovations these days.
   "Most new financial products just restructure income
streams from existing securities," says Jack Meyer, treasurer
of the Rockefeller Foundation. "There's always a haircut
built in so that the {Wall Street providers} make a little
money. Unless you have a very peculiar risk preference,
you're better off doing without."
   Without investor support, many of Wall Street's
brainstorms aren't making it into the wider world. "Getting
the first deal done is a lot tougher than it used to be,"
says Ron Gallatin, a Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. managing
director in charge of new products. Mr. Gallatin had led
Shearson's efforts last year to launch "unbundled stock
units," a way of creating three new securities from a single
share of common stock; Shearson eventually dropped the idea.
   "Institutional buyers are a lot more old-fashioned than
people realize," Mr. Gallatin observes. "There's a perception
that it's the new things that have caused problems. It's much
easier to justify something old and tried, than something new
that you can't understand -- or do understand, but can't
explain to your pension committee."
   The Nikkei warrants did well for two reasons. The first
was timing; many of the Nikkei warrants were launched just as
the Tokyo stock market began its swoon this past winter. The
put warrants, which represented a bet on a market drop,
soared 100% and more in value. That attracted plenty of
interest from U.S. investors large and small.
   The Nikkei warrants also had an edge because U.S.
investors had long grumbled that the Japanese market was
overpriced, but lacked any ready way to put money on that
proposition. Although U.S. investors in theory could have
sold Japanese stock-index futures, doing so would have
required setting up a yen trading account, meeting Japanese
margin rules and monitoring their position during Tokyo
market hours (nighttime in the U.S.). "That's a little
scary," one large U.S. investor said.
   In contrast, the Nikkei warrants are dollar denominated
and easily traded in the U.S. That appealed to small U.S.
investors -- as did the quick early profits.
   But unless European markets tumble or soar in coming
months, it's hard to see how U.S. investors are likely to be
drawn to warrants on those markets. Furthermore, underwriters
say that the Securities and Exchange Commission is asking
plenty of questions about European market disclosure before
it is willing to approve U.S.-traded warrants for certain
European stock markets.
   Investment bankers acknowledge that many of their new
products won't catch on, but they regard that as a bearable
cost of doing business. A successful product such as the
Nikkei warrants has already produced nearly $20 million in
underwriting fees alone in the U.S. and Canada. Since most
new products cost $1 million or less to develop, a success
ratio of one in 10 can still be profitable for Wall Street's
innovators.
   Experimentation seems to be the rule at the American Stock
Exchange, too, as it seeks to list a three-year warrant on
the Major Market Index. (This index closely tracks the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.) "Traditionally the Amex has tried
to be more flexible and innovative about its new products,"
says Amex President Ken Liebler. "Some of them are hits and
some aren't. If they aren't hits, we move on."
   Investment bankers predict that the Major Market Index
warrants may have some appeal for those individual investors
who prefer the warrants' three-year maturity to the much
shorter maturities of most stock-index futures and options.
"If you're an institution, you could probably simulate the
warrant yourself more cheaply with existing futures and
options," says one Wall Street new product specialist. "But
maybe it will have retail appeal."
   And if the Amex's warrants should succeed on any scale at
all, expect a sequel to the sequel. "I could see a warrant
based on the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index," another
new-products specialist says. "There's a tendency to have new
issues very similar to one another. People try to capture the
halo effect of a success."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Northeast Savings
   Posts 4th-Period Loss
   On Big Write-Down
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NSB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARTFORD, Conn. -- Northeast Savings F.A. reported a net
loss of $106.9 million, or $19.07 a share, for the fourth
quarter ended March 31 because of a write-down of good will
but said operations are showing "solid progress."
   A year earlier, it reported net income of $2.1 million, or
a net loss of four cents a share, after payment of preferred
dividends.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Northeast said that before the $110.3 million write-down
of good will, net was $3.4 million, or 22 cents a share.
   George P. Rutland, chairman and president, said the good
will represented the value of having a unique two-state
thrift business in Connecticut and Massachusetts at a time
when interstate banking was restricted in the region. Due to
the passage of liberalized interstate banking laws, "that
franchise doesn't have the value it used to have," he said.
   After the write-down, Northeast still has $90 million in
good will on its books. It previously filed a suit
challenging the Federal Office of Thrift Supervision's
requirement that good will can't be counted toward meeting
regulatory requirements.
   Mr. Rutland said Northeast has been successfully reducing
its size. At the end of fiscal 1990, assets were $4.97
billion, down 37% from $7.94 billion a year earlier. While
retail deposits are down only 3% to $3.4 million, brokered
deposits are down 69% to $304.4 million.
   Mr. Rutland said that over the past year Northeast sold
off all but $16.1 million of its $314.1 million junk-bond
portfolio, taking a $13 million loss.
   For the year, Northeast reported a loss of $107.1 million,
or $20.27 a share, after writing down the good will. In
fiscal 1989, it had a loss of $12.9 million, or $4.40 a
share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Brazil Lifts Price Controls
   On a Handful of Products
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   RIO DE JANEIRO -- The Brazilian government, in a limited
sign of confidence that its tough anti-inflation program is
working, lifted price controls on a handful of raw materials
and industrial goods.
   The government also said it wouldn't authorize increases
in May for products whose prices remain controlled.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a related move, President Fernando Collor de Mello
asked the government to speed up its studies on allowing
imports of foreign cars and letting more foreign auto makers
start up operations. The move is a step toward liberalizing
the sheltered Brazilian market and a sign of displeasure at
the domestic auto industry's production stoppages and high
prices since the anti-inflation plan went into effect in
March.
   In announcing the lifting of price controls, the
government didn't list specific products. Instead, it
specified which products would remain frozen, implying that
all others are now free. Prices that remain frozen include
all basic foodstuffs, pharmaceuticals, cars, trucks,
appliances, cigarettes, glass, cement, fertilizer, rents,
school bills, and electricity, telephone and water rates.
   Analysts said the step is a far cry from the near-total
lifting of price controls the government envisaged only days
ago. This indicates fretfulness that inflation is still a
threat, despite government insistence that it has been
snuffed out, a claim that many economists and unions contest.
The government slapped on price controls on March 16 as part
of its sweeping plan to rid Brazil of its runaway inflation,
which exceeded 4,800% in the preceding 12 months. The plan's
centerpiece is an 18-month freeze on about 70% of the money
in circulation in the Brazilian economy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Commodore Reports
   Earnings of $200,000
   For Its Third Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBU
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEST CHESTER, Pa. -- Commodore International Ltd. said
heavy marketing efforts essentially wiped out profit during
its fiscal third quarter. Still, the battered personal
computer maker showed some signs of life.
   Commodore reported a profit of $200,000, or one cent a
share, in its fiscal 1990 third period, which ended March 31.
That's a 98% drop from a $12.4 million profit, or 38 cents a
share, in the year-earlier period. Sales eked out a 1.4%
gain, rising to $213.2 million from $210.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most of the decline in profit was due to "substantial
marketing investments" in the company's stronghold market,
Europe, which drove up operating expenses 28%, to $62.5
million from $48.8 million, Commodore said.
   But the company noted that sales of its Amiga computer and
a group of machines compatible with International Business
Machines Corp.'s PC-AT computer increased "substantially"
during the period, more than offsetting a decline in the
ancient Commodore 64 family. Indeed, Commodore said the Amiga
accounted for almost 55% of its sales during the period. That
number should rise again during the coming months, as
Commodore rolls out the Amiga 3000, a much-hyped machine
aimed at the growing "multimedia" market.
   "There's some reason for optimism," said Charles Frumberg,
an analyst with Mabon, Nugent &amp; Co. in New York. "My sense is
that things are turning up." But Mr. Frumberg added that
"it's clear that the ball won't be going over the fence in
fiscal 1990."
   For the first nine months of fiscal 1990, Commodore said
profit fell 92% to $5 million, or 16 cents a share, from
$60.2 million, or $1.88 a share, in the year-earlier period.
Sales dropped 9% to $689.2 million from $759.4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inspiration Resources
   Loss in First Quarter
   Grew to $11.7 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IRC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Inspiration Resources Corp. reported its net
loss widened in the first quarter, to $11.7 million, or 18
cents a share, from $322,000 a year earlier.
   At the company's annual meeting here, Reuben F. Richards,
chairman, president and chief executive officer, blamed lower
base-metals prices at its Hudson Bay Mining &amp; Smelting Co.
subsidiary and a decline in volumes and fertilizer prices at
its agribusiness subsidiary, Terra International Inc. Mr.
Richards said he expects Terra to post second-quarter profit
higher than the $43 million of a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First-quarter revenue declined 8.7%, to $268.2 million
from $293.8 million.
   Mr. Richards said the company's coal operations were
profitable, reversing a year-earlier loss.
   Inspiration Resources authorized about $100 million for
capital spending this year, an increase from the year-earlier
$87 million, Mr. Richards said. He added that Inspiration
plans to commit "substantial funds" in the 1990s to
exploration at Hudson Bay Mining, and he expects work to
begin by year end on a more than $140 million project to
reduce sulfur dioxide emissions at its Flin Flon
metallurgical complex.
   The company plans to open a zinc and copper mine in
northern Manitoba, and to complete a shaft development
project at Hudson Bay's 44%-owned Trout Lake copper and zinc
mine, which are expected to increase overall copper and zinc
production for its own account about 10% this year.
   Mr. Richards said the company, which recently entered the
construction-materials business with the purchase of LTM Inc.
and Rogue Aggregates Inc., expects to expand that business
through acquisitions so that it eventually will account for
20% to 30% of annual pretax earnings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900503-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900503-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   C IGAM OMCM KAN EQT LNC KEM GEN AXXN SBL MTSC WPS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Chrysler Corp         $ .32    ...     ($ .13) (14)   ...
  Intl Game Tech          .58    ...        .47   (3)  23.40
  Omnicom Group Inc       .42    ...        .36   (5)  16.67
  Kansas Power &amp; Lt       .85    ...        .75   (4)  13.33
  Equitable Resources    1.22    ...       1.11   (4)   9.91
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Lincoln Natl          $ .54  $1.29 (4) $ 1.29   (8)  58.14
  Kemper Corp             .79   1.07 (3)   1.09   (7)  26.17
  Genrad Inc             (.20)   ...       (.08)  (6)   ...
  Action Auto Rental      .01    ...        .12   (4)  91.67
  Symbol Technologies     .01    ...        .08  (10)  87.50
  MTS Systems             .45    ...        .54   (3)  16.67
  Wisconsin Pub Svc       .59    ...        .66   (4)  10.61
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
