<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE JCP EUROP TOYOY F.CLC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of real
estate mortgage investment conduit securities is being
offered in six classes by First Boston Corp. The offering,
Series 167, is backed by Freddie Mac 9 1/2% securities with
an underlying weighted average coupon rate of 10.25% and
weighted average remaining term to maturity of 29.3 years.
Details on yields weren't immediately available.
                                                                                                       

                        ASSET-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   J.C. Penney Co. -- $375 million of securities backed by
credit-card loans with a 9 5/8% coupon rate at 99.299 to
yield 9.73% through First Boston. The issue, through J.C.
Penney Master Credit Card Trust, Series C, was priced at a
yield spread of 0.85 percentage point above the Treasury
10-year note. The issue has been structured to resemble a
corporate bond. All principal payments are scheduled to be
made on June 15, 2000, and interest payments will be made
semiannually. The securities are backed by credit-card
receivables generated from J.C. Penney's merchandise credit
cards. The issue is expected to carry triple-A ratings from
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
based on the quality of the underlying credit-card loans and
a letter of credit covering 12% of the deal from Credit
Suisse. There also is a maturity guarantee from Credit
Suisse. There is no guarantee from J.C. Penney on the issue.
A First Boston official said the securities have all been
sold.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   HMC Mortgage Note 5 PLC (vehicle) -- #150 million ($245.8
million) of floating-rate notes at an issue price of par via
Credit Suisse First Boston. Reoffered at 99.74. For first 10
years, interest floats 0.275 percentage point above
three-month Libor; thereafter at 0.50 percentage point above
Libor. Based on a prepayment assumption of 12 1/2%, the issue
is expected to have an average life of 7.9 years. Based on a
prepayment assumption of 15%, the average life is seen as 7.6
years. Callable from July 1993 at par.
   European Investment Bank (agency) -- 35 billion yen
($222.3 million) of floating-rate notes due May 2008 at an
issue price of par via JP Morgan Securities Ltd. Reoffered at
99.85. Interest floats 0.15 percentage point below the
six-month Libor. Callable at par after three years and
puttable at par after 10 years.
   Toyota Motor Credit Corp. (Japan parent) -- 15 billion yen
of 7 5/8% bonds due May 8, 1992, priced at 101 1/8 to yield 7
5/8% less full fees via Nomura International Ltd. Fees 1 1/8.
   Credit Lyonnais (France) -- 75 million Canadian dollars
($64.5 million) of 13 3/4% bonds due May 18, 1993, priced at
101.60 to yield 13.65%, via Credit Lyonnais Euro-Securities.
   Finnish Export Credit Ltd. (Finland) -- 200 million markka
($50.4 million) of 13% bonds due April 5, 1993, priced at 100
5/8 via Postipankki. Fungible with existing 200 million
markka issue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Unbalanced Attack on Vital Service
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Dr. E. Fuller Torrey's March 29 editorial-page article
"Community Mental Health Policy -- Tennis, Anyone?" makes
some daunting assertions. Conveniently ignoring the severe
federal budget cuts in community mental-health services in
the 1980s, Dr. Torrey states that the monumental and complex
problem of the homeless mentally ill can be laid on the
shoulders of community mental-health centers (CMHCs). On what
does he base this claim? He implies that among the 2,310
centers in the U.S. and its territories, there is widespread
failure to provide the services that were intended, and
points to the Construction Act grant program as an
illustration of the "fact."
   He fails to mention that of the 575 Construction Act
grantees, he has to date presented evidence of noncompliance
in exactly nine. Of these nine, all but one are, in fact,
hospitals. This a far cry from his claim that 95% of
Construction Act grantees are out of compliance. This past
March 22, Rep. Ted Weiss (D., N.Y.) requested an audit of the
Construction Grant program by the General Accounting Office.
The National Council of Community Mental Health Centers has
pledged its strong support for the GAO audit, as we are eager
to see any centers that may be out of compliance brought into
compliance and any funds misused redirected to the thousands
of CMHCs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Community mental-health providers struggle to serve an
increasing patient load with inadequate and shrinking
resources. Such inadequate resources have devastating effects
on the availability of services for low-income people. A 1988
survey by the National Council found that 74% of a typical
agency's funding comes from public programs (Medicaid, the
federal Alcohol and Drug Abuse Block Grant, and state and
local funds), while only 10% comes from third-party payers,
9% from those clients who can afford to pay fees for
services, and 7% from charitable contributions and other
sources.
   This fiscal picture is hardly indicative of a system that
is not working to provide "a reasonable volume of services to
persons unable to pay." In addition, federal regulations
concerning CMHC Construction Act grantees prohibit those
grantees from discriminating in service provision on the
basis of a client's diagnosis. By insisting that CMHCs give
those with serious mental illness priority over all other
patient groups, Dr. Torrey is suggesting that the providers
ignore the requirements of the many public programs that fund
them and discriminate against substance abusers, children
with emotional disturbances, the elderly, people with AIDS,
victims of domestic violence and violent crime, and other
people who desperately need mental-health services but would
not be diagnosed as seriously mentally ill.
   A CMHC that (primarily) served only the seriously mentally
ill while accepting several types of funding would be in
clear violation of a number of federal and state programs. In
responding to this very issue, Dr. Torrey told reporters at a
March 23 news conference, "None of us {Dr. Torrey, Public
Citizen and the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill} have
said that they {CMHCs} were only designed to service the
seriously mentally ill." That statement is in direct
contradiction to the implication of his Journal article.
   CMHCs fully support efforts to ensure that the limited
public funds allocated for mental-health services are used
properly. However, we object to Dr. Torrey's efforts to
tarnish the reputation of 2,310 community providers based on
evidence he collected concerning eight hospitals and one
center. Such a campaign will have its most devastating impact
on the mentally ill clients whom he claims to be
representing.
   Charles G. Ray
   Executive Director
   National Council of Community Mental Health Centers
   Rockville, Md.
   ---
   Having served on the board of the Kenneth W. Young Centers
for the past five years, including two years as chairman, I
protest Dr. Torrey's article. He presents only one piece of
his research, choosing not to comment on the hundreds of
community centers that are not only in compliance with all
federal and local regulations, but continuously provide
needed services to people within their catchment areas at
fees far below those charged by private practitioners.
   I concur with Dr. Torrey's conclusion that the federal
government at times is deficient in providing oversight for
programs it authorizes, but reporting on that problem by
seeming to condemn an entire service field is misleading,
unfair and unprofessional.
   William G. Dearhammer
   Arlington Heights, Ill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   When Ethnic Studies Are Un-American
   ----
   By Arthur Schlesinger Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   "What then is the American, this new man?" a French
immigrant asked two centuries ago. Hector St. John de
Crevecoeur gave the classic answer to his own question. "He
is an American, who, leaving behind him all his ancient
prejudices and manners, receives new ones from the new mode
of life he has embraced, the new government he obeys, and the
new rank he holds. . . . Here individuals of all nations are
melted into a new race of man."
   The conception of America as a transforming nation,
banishing old identities and creating a new one, prevailed
through most of American history. It was famously
reformulated by Israel Zangwill, an English writer of Russian
Jewish origin, when he called America "God's crucible, the
great melting pot where all the races of Europe are melting
and re-forming." Most people who came to America expected to
become Americans. They wanted to escape a horrid past and to
embrace a hopeful future. Their goals were deliverance and
assimilation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thus Crevecoeur wrote his "Letters from an American
Farmer" in his acquired English, not in his native French.
Thus immigrants reared in other tongues urged their children
to learn English as speedily as possible. German immigrants
tried for a moment to gain status for their language, but the
effort got nowhere. The dominant culture was Anglo-Saxon and,
with modification and enrichment, remained Anglo-Saxon.
   The melting pot was one of those metaphors that turned out
only to be partly true, and recent years have seen an
astonishing repudiation of the whole conception. Many
Americans today righteously reject the historic goal of "a
new race of man." The contemporary ideal is not assimilation
but ethnicity. The escape from origins has given way to the
search for "roots." "Ancient prejudices and manners" -- the
old-time religion, the old-time diet -- have made a
surprising comeback.
   These developments portend a new turn in American life.
Instead of a transformative nation with a new and distinctive
identity, America increasingly sees itself as preservative of
old identities. We used to say e pluribus unum. Now we
glorify pluribus and belittle unum. The melting pot yields to
the Tower of Babel.
   The new turn has had marked impact on the universities.
Very little agitates academia more these days than the
demands of passionate minorities for revision of the
curriculum: in history, the denunciation of Western
civilization courses as cultural imperialism; in literature,
the denunciation of the "canon," the list of essential books,
as an instrumentality of the existing power structure.
   A recent report by the New York State Commissioner of
Education's task force on "Minorities: Equity and Excellence"
luridly describes "African Americans, Asian Americans, Puerto
Ricans/Latinos and Native Americans" as "victims of an
intellectual and educational oppression." The "systematic
bias toward European culture and its derivatives," the report
claims, has "a terribly damaging effect on the psyche of
young people of African, Asian, Latino and Native American
descent" -- a doubtful assertion for which no proof is
vouchsafed.
   Of course teachers of history and literature should give
due recognition to women, black Americans, Indians, Hispanics
and other groups who were subordinated and ignored in the
high noon of male Anglo-Saxon dominance. In recent years they
have begun belatedly to do so. But the cult of ethnicity,
pressed too far, exacts costs -- as, for example, the current
pressure to teach history and literature not as intellectual
challenges but as psychological therapy.
   There is nothing new, of course, about the yearnings of
excluded group for affirmations of their own historical and
cultural dignity. When Irish-Americans were thought beyond
the pale, their spokesmen responded much as spokesmen for
blacks, Hispanics and others respond today. Professor John V.
Kelleher, for many years Harvard's distinguished Irish
scholar, once recalled his first exposure to Irish-American
history -- "turgid little essays on the fact that the
Continental Army was 76% Irish, or that many of George
Washington's closest friends were nuns and priests, or that
Lincoln got the major ideas for the Second Inaugural Address
from the Hon. Francis P. Mageghegan of Alpaca, New York, a
pioneer manufacturer of cast-iron rosary beads." John
Kelleher called this "the
there's-always-an-Irishman-at-the-bottom-of-it-doing-the-
real-work-approach to American history."
   Fortunately most Irish-Americans disregarded their
spokesmen and absorbed the American tradition. About 1930,
Kelleher said, those "turgid little essays began to vanish
from Irish-American papers. He added, "I wonder whose is the
major component in the Continental Army these days?" The
answer, one fears, is getting to be black, Jews and
Hispanics.
   There is often artificiality about the attempts to use
history to minister to psychological needs. When I encounter
black insistence on inserting Africa into mainstream
curricula, I recall the 1956 presidential campaign. Adlai
Stevenson, for whom I was working, had a weak record on civil
rights in America but was a champion of African nationalism.
I suggested to a group of sympathetic black leaders that
maybe if Stevenson talked to black audiences about Africa, he
could make up for his deficiencies on civil rights. My
friends laughed and said that American blacks couldn't care
less about Africa. That is no longer the case; but one can't
escape the feeling that present emotions are more
manufactured than organic.
   Let us by all means teach women's history, black history,
Hispanic history. But let us teach them as history, not as a
means of promoting group self-esteem. I don't often agree
with Gore Vidal, but I liked his remark the other day: "What
I hate is good citizenship history. That has wrecked every
history book. Now we're getting `The Hispanics are warm and
joyous and have brought such wonder into our lives,' you
know, and before them the Jews, and before them the blacks.
And the women. I mean, cut it out]"
   Novelists, moralists, politicians, fabulators can go
beyond the historical evidence to tell inspiring stories. But
historians are custodians of professional standards. Their
objective is critical analysis, accuracy and objectivity, not
making people feel better about themselves.
   Heaven knows how dismally historians fall short of their
ideals; how sadly our interpretations are dominated and
distorted by unconscious preconceptions; how obsessions of
race and nation blind us to our own bias. All historians may
in one way or another mythologize history. But the answer to
bad history is not "good citizenship history" -- more bad
history written from a different viewpoint. The answer to bad
history is better history.
   The ideological assault in English departments on the
"canon" as an instrument of political oppression implies the
existence of a monolithic body of work designed to enforce
the "hegemony" of a class or race or sex. In fact, most great
literature and much good history are deeply subversive in
their impact on orthodoxies. Consider the American canon:
Emerson, Whitman, Melville, Hawthorne, Thoreau, Mark Twain,
Henry Adams, William and Henry James, Holmes, Dreiser,
Faulkner. Lackeys of the ruling class? Agents of American
imperialism?
   Let us by all means learn about other continents and other
cultures. But, lamentable as some may think it, we inherit an
American experience, as America inherits a European
experience. To deny the essentially European origins of
American culture is to falsify history.
   We should take pride in our distinctive inheritance as
other nations take pride in their distinctive inheritances.
Certainly there is no need for Western civilization, the
source of the ideas of individual freedom and political
democracy to which most of the world now aspires, to
apologize to cultures based on despotism, superstition,
tribalism and fanaticism. Let us abjure what Bertrand Russell
called the fallacy of "the superior virtue of the oppressed."
   Of course we must teach the Western democratic tradition
in its true proportions-not as a fixed, final and complacent
orthodoxy, intolerant of deviation and dissent, but as an
ever-evolving creed fulfilling its ideals through debate,
self-criticism, protest, disrespect and irreverence, a
tradition in which all groups have rights of heterodoxy and
opportunities for self-assertion. It is a tradition that has
empowered people of all nations and races. Little can have a
more "terribly damaging effect on the psyche" than for
educators to tell young blacks and Hispanics and Asians that
it is not for them.
   Belief in one's own culture does not mean disdain for
other cultures. But one step at a time: No culture can hope
to ingest other cultures all at once, certainly not before it
ingests its own. After we have mastered our own culture, we
can explore the world.
   If we repudiate the quite marvelous inheritance that
history has bestowed on us, we invite the fragmentation of
our own culture into a quarrelsome spatter of enclaves,
ghettos and tribes. The bonds of cohesion in our society are
sufficiently fragile, or so it seems to me, that it makes no
sense to strain them by encouraging and exalting cultural and
linguistic apartheid. The rejection of the melting pot points
the republic in the direction of incoherence and chaos.
   In the 21st century, if present trends hold, non-whites in
the U.S. will begin to outnumber whites. This will bring
inevitable changes in the national ethos but not, one must
hope, at the expense of national cohesion. Let the new
Americans forswear the cult of ghettoization and agree with
Crevecoeur, as with most immigrants in the two centuries
since, that in America "individuals of all nations are melted
into a new race of man."
   ---
   Mr. Schlesinger is Albert Schweitzer professor of the
humanities at the City University of New York and a winner of
Pulitzer Prizes in history and biography.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Puttering Around
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ("Annual golf-course maintenance is at a record of $27,744
a hole. . . ." -- WSJ news item)
                                                                                                       

   It seems like a lot of money
   To take care of a piece of earth,
   But for the time spent on each hole
   I am getting my money's worth.
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   Working Mother
                                                                                                       

   Juggling two jobs isn't easy. This morning she got the
kids out of bed and before she knew it, she had dressed, fed,
collated and stapled them]
   -- Robert Orben.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Iraq Buying Spree
   On Arms Bodes Ill
   For Its Neighbors
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks and Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   For Iraq's Saddam Hussein, there's no such thing as a
"peace dividend."
   Although it is 20 months since Iraq concluded a ceasefire
with Iran, an estimated one million Iraqis remain in uniform,
and the khaki-clad president continues a weapons-buying spree
unmatched by any other world leader.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Iraq has been the world's largest importer of arms during
the past five years, accounting for more than 9% of
world-wide arms purchases. The shopping list ranges from
advanced combat aircraft to experimental missile technology
and an apparent attempt to join the ranks of nuclear-armed
nations. All this from a nation that still hasn't signed a
peace treaty with Iran, that remains technically at war with
Israel, and that is playing out a long-term feud with Syria
through proxies in Lebanon's civil war.
   "The lesson that Iraq learned as the {Gulf} war progressed
was that toughness paid," says a Western ambassador who
served in Baghdad during the fighting. "It didn't matter that
it used methods seen as ungentlemanly in the West -- it
didn't forfeit Western standing."
   Iraq used chemical weapons against Iran and its own
Kurdish citizens, raising little Western ire. It has a vast
stockpile of such weapons, which it has threatened to use on
Israel if that state launches a strike on Iraq's military
industries.
   "If an insect tries to advance towards Iraq or wage
aggression against it, we will cut its tail from the back,
its head from the front and leave only its middle," Mr.
Hussein recently declared, in an apparent reference to
Israel.
   Iraq lobbed long-range missiles on civilian targets in
Iran and says it is developing a missile with a range of
1,250 miles -- bringing all of its enemies within reach. It
also has more than 700 combat aircraft, including the
most-recent Soviet fighter planes, according to Zeev Eytan, a
specialist on the Middle East's military balance at the
Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies in Tel Aviv. It wants to
buy the Mirage 2000, a plane comparable to the U.S. F-16.
   In 1981, an Israeli air strike on an incomplete Iraqi
nuclear reactor stalled what may have been an early attempt
to acquire nuclear weapons. However, Iraq still has enriched
uranium supplied by France, and last month's British and
U.S.-coordinated seizure of krytrons -- possible nuclear
detonators -- indicates renewed efforts to build a nuclear
bomb.
   What a dictatorship on such a spree probably is trying to
do is skirt international weapons-sales restrictions, says
John Simpson, an arms-control expert at the University of
Southampton in England. "If you can't get X, well then, buy Y
and Z when it comes along," he says. Such an approach takes
advantage of sales competition among industrial countries,
who aren't collaborating to prevent a prohibited system being
pieced together from a range of scattered parts.
   Gerald Bull, an American ballistics expert with strong
ties to the arms trade, may have peddled his "supergun" to
the Iraqis as "a prestige weapon" -- the biggest, and
something the West doesn't have, says Mr. Simpson. (On March
22, Mr. Bull was shot five times outside his Brussels
apartment. His killer hasn't been found.)
   Such a sales pitch would be particularly appealing to
Hussein Kamil, the Iraqi president's son-in-law and minister
in charge of the country's vast military industrialization.
"The more exotic the technology, the more Kamil is
interested," says a former state department official who
follows Iraqi affairs. "If you take a character like {Gerald}
Bull with a fixation . . . and put him together with Hussein
Kamil who seems to share this fascination with exotic weapons
and has the funding for it, it makes sense that you come up
with something like this" enormous gun.
   Avraham Bar-David, project manager for the Israeli
artillery specialists, Soltam Ltd., says such a gun gets
around Israel's air superiority, is simpler than missile
technology and easier to protect.
   While such a gun clearly would be immobile, much of it
would be concealed below ground and wouldn't require the
cumbersome pre-launch preparation that gives a target nation
warning of an impending missile attack. Loaded with a
chemical or nuclear warhead, a single firing could do vast
damage.
   Asked how a country could defend against such a weapon,
Mr. Bar-David replies: "Prevent it being installed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nantucket Industries Expects to Report
   Profit Rose 7% in Fiscal Fourth Quarter
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   NAN
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Nantucket Industries Inc. indicated that it
expects to report fiscal fourth-quarter net income rose 7% on
4% higher sales.
   George J. Gold, chairman and chief executive officer, said
the manufacturer of undergarments and marketer of socks
attributes the improved operating results largely to its
switch of emphasis toward higher-margin apparel it markets
under licensed brand names and away from the Nantucket name.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On an operating basis, the fiscal fourth period "is
usually a loss quarter, and we've got black figures for this
one," Mr. Gold said.
   For the fourth quarter, ended Feb. 28, Mr. Gold indicated
in an interview that Nantucket will report net income grew to
around $109,000, or five cents a share, from $101,948, or
four cents a share, in the yearearlier period. Sales reached
between $7.6 million and $7.7 million from $7.4 million, he
estimated.
   Fiscal 1990 net fell to about $1.6 million, or 66 cents a
share, from $2.1 million, or 81 cents a share, in fiscal
1989. But excluding a $1.6 million special item a year
earlier -- stemming from the June 1988 sale of the hosiery
division to Jockey International Inc. -- earnings for the
year nearly tripled, Mr. Gold said. Sales climbed 15% to
$39.7 million from $34.5 million, he estimated.
   For fiscal 1991, Nantucket Industries is looking to boost
sales as much as 17% and net income by an even faster pace,
Mr. Gold said, adding that profit margins are expected to
grow to 5% from 4.6% in the just-ended fiscal year.
   Nantucket also maintains lean operations, Mr. Gold said,
noting that selling, general and administrative expenses
remained at around 17% of sales for the third consecutive
year.
   Nantucket sells underwear under a number of names,
including Brut and Brittania. Recently, the company added
three names to the roster: Thermos for thermal underwear,
Danskin for socks and McGregor for men's and boys'
undergarments.
   Prior to the emphasis on licensing, "we were purely a
ladies-undergarment business," Mr. Gold said. The licensing
"changed the whole complexion" of Nantucket's business: "It's
the same selling operations, except men's goods at a higher
margin."
   The big names in the undergarment industry include Fruit
of the Loom and Hanes. "We let them battle it out," Mr. Gold
said, adding, "The big retailers aren't too happy" with the
major manufacturers because price competition keeps profit
margins thin. "We don't attempt to fight on price with them.
We'd be a loser before we start."
   Mr. Gold said: "We're more flexible than the big guys. . .
. We move faster. That's a big advantage" as styles change.
   Nantucket sold the hosiery division because of differences
with its management and the high capital costs involved in
the business, Mr. Gold said. Daniel Hess, an executive Mr.
Gold hired for the hosiery operation, instead formed
Nantucket's sock-marketing lines.
   The sock operation won't require any capital investment
because Nantucket, like much of the industry, will buy the
socks it markets from contractors, Mr. Gold says. He
estimates fiscal 1991 sales from the unit at $6 million to $7
million.
   A little more than a year ago, Nantucket fought off a
hostile $8.50-a-share hostile takeover bid from Integrated
Resources Inc. Integrated "completely undervalued" Nantucket,
Mr. Gold said. "As soon as we made the deal with Jockey,"
Integrated "wanted to invade our cash position." Nantucket
bought back Integrated's stake "in the very low $6 {a share}
range," he said.
   In the past three years, Nantucket's shares have been as
low as $2.125 and as high as $10.25; they are now about
halfway between the two figures. Mr. Gold said that with
profitable growth -- he hopes to reach $100 million of sales
in the next four years, excluding acquisitions -- the stock
price should follow on.
   At the same time, he said, Nantucket is looking for an
acquisition valued at $15 million to $30 million.
   Long-term debt fell to $4 million in fiscal 1990 from $5
million a year earlier, and the company's ratio of current
assets to current liabilities is 5 to 1, the executive said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bairnco Stockholders
   File Lawsuits Related
   To Asbestos Liability
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   BZ
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bairnco Corp. shareholders have filed a number
of lawsuits, charging the company with violating securities
laws in connection with its announcement that its insurance
coverage against asbestos-related litigation may be in doubt.
   In January, New York-based Bairnco said it planned to spin
off its Keene Corp., New York, subsidiary to stockholders.
Earlier this month, Bairnco affirmed that plan, but it
disclosed in its annual report that almost all of the $143
million of insurance coverage available to Keene at March 31
"is subject to litigation or dispute."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lawsuits, seeking status as class actions, have been
filed in the past couple of weeks in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan. They name as defendants Bairnco and various
officers and directors and request damages. Bairnco declined
to comment on the litigation.
   The company's asbestos litigation stems from
Baldwin-Ehret-Hill, a company that Keene, a manufacturer of
heat-shielding devices, owned from 1968 to 1974. From 1968 to
1972, some of BEH's thermal insulation and acoustic products
contained asbestos.
   In one suit, shareholder William Steiner charges that in
its 1987 and 1988 financial statements, the company painted a
rosy picture of its outlook. The 1988 annual report
"reinforced the portrait of Bairnco as a successful, growing
company" with its "problems behind it," the suit says.
   The suit then charges that Bairnco failed to properly
disclose the financial impact of an October 1988 accident at
a production plant; the 1988 slowing of sales within its
shielding segment; and "the most devastating" problem: the
extent of its potential asbestos liability.
   Bairnco's actions "artificially" inflated and maintained
the company's stock price "to create the impression that the
company was healthy and continuing its growth. . . ." the
suit charges.
   Bairnco, which makes laminates and adhesives, shielding
systems, and cutting products, has said it expects to win the
fight for its asbestos-insurance coverage, but its stock
price has taken a hit. In New York Stock Exchange composite
trading Friday, Bairnco shares closed unchanged at $6.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Travel:
   Smokers Go Out of Their Way to Beat
   Restrictions on Lighting Up in Flight
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ken and Marcia Norgaard won't walk a mile for a Camel, but
they will fly 740 miles out of their way and pay an extra
$600 for their two-pack-a-day habit.
   Instead of flying from Phoenix, Ariz., to London by way of
New York on their next vacation -- and enduring four
smokeless hours on the first leg of the trip -- the couple
booked a much longer route. They will now head west to Los
Angeles, to catch a nonstop flight to London that permits
smoking. "I just won't go so long without smoking," says Mr.
Norgaard, a 67-year-old retiree from Scottsdale, Ariz.,
lighting up twice during a brief interview.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Norgaards are part of a rebellious underground of
angry smokers who are having the ultimate nicotine fit over
the government's new edict against smoking on most domestic
flights. Desperate to light up, they are rerouting trips,
taking oddball connecting flights or even forgoing air travel
altogether. Some hooked business people admit to cutting back
on travel -- even if that means lost revenue for their
companies. When all else fails, the truly desperate simply
flout the law.
   All this has turned the friendly skies downright hostile
at times. On a Pan American World Airways flight to San
Francisco, one passenger set off a smoke detector in a
bathroom, then defiantly lighted another cigarette when he
returned to his seat, airport police say. A few weeks ago, a
27-year-old United Airlines passenger vehemently denied
sneaking smokes during a New York-to-San Francisco flight --
though two flight attendants saw smoke seeping out of a
bathroom he had just used. Ordered to stay in his seat, San
Francisco police say, the passenger hurled a cigarette pack
at a flight attendant.
   Then he demanded it back.
   The ban has also created considerable ugliness on the
ground. With so many smokers stoking up before flights,
non-smoking fliers are fuming about the cigarette-smoke cloud
permeating some airports these days. One allergic traveler
collapsed from all the smoke at the Minneapolis-St. Paul
airport. And airport officials complain that rudeness is at
an all-time high. "I told one guy to stop, and he put it out
on the wall," says Tim Anderson, director of the Minneapolis
airport.
   The cause of the distress is a federal law that took
effect in February banning smoking on flights of less than
six hours. That eliminates it on 95% of all flights, up from
the 70% covered by the previous ban on flights of under two
hours. "Two hours was bearable," says Dave Brenton, president
of Smokers' Rights Alliance in Mesa, Ariz. "But six hours --
forget it."
   For the smoking community, these desperate times call for
desperate action. So Ronald Rizzo, a Los Angeles lawyer with
a three-pack-a-day habit, eschews nonstops and bumps across
the country on short, connecting flights -- to steal smoke
breaks between flights. Such scheming can backfire: A
one-hour layover he had planned in Chicago, for example,
turned into a hellish three hours because of bad weather.
   Nancy Percy, owner of the Travel Network travel agency in
Folsom, Calif., plans to fly to Baltimore via Mexico because
international flights are exempt. Her desire to smoke has
turned her itinerary into a traveler's nightmare: Leave San
Francisco 10:55 p.m., arrive Mexico City 5:10 a.m. Wait five
hours at the airport -- smoking and sightseeing -- and touch
down in Baltimore at 6:20 p.m. "It may look silly," she
allows, between drags of Carlton 120s. "But I want to enjoy
traveling."
   Not everyone can avail themselves of such creative
solutions. Consider the Hawaiian traveler, most of whose
flights to the U.S. fall tantalizingly short of six hours.
And unlike mainlanders, Hawaiians don't have the luxury of
opting for train travel on out-of-state trips. "I feel
trapped," says David Goris, an import-export business owner.
   His answer? Cancel a Las Vegas, Nev., vacation he had been
planning for a year, as well as two trips to Washington
state. Another Hawaiian, Floyd Cammack, has stopped making
business trips for his piano-repair company. That may cost
him $15,000 in lost revenue, he says, but he figures there's
a bright side -- he won't have to worry about lost bags.
After smoking for four decades, he says, "I find it a lot
easier to quit flying than smoking."
   Others who can't quit have resorted to breaking the law.
At Chicago's O'Hare airport, police say they've arrested five
people for smoking on planes since the ban took effect Feb.
25 -- a pace that would generate 50% more smoking arrests
than last year under the two-hour rule. Airport police in
Pittsburgh and San Francisco report similar increases.
(Violators face fines of up to $1,000, but the Federal
Aviation Administration generally moves slowly and presses
the issue only in flagrant cases.) And United says its crews
reported 14 violations in the first four weeks of the ban, up
from eight in January.
   Such desperation has sparked renewed concern about
bathroom fires, like the 1983 Air Canada blaze near
Cincinnati that killed 23 passengers. Though airlines have
installed smoke alarms in lavatories since then, some flight
attendants fear that nicotine desperadoes can disarm them.
"You do get a little nervous when someone's in the bathroom a
long time," says a USAir flight attendant.
   But forget the passengers. Pity the poor smoking flight
attendant who spends much of her waking hours on planes.
Though the law permits pilots to smoke in the cockpit, most
attendants can't even chew gum to still their nicotine
craving because of airline policies. Some airlines also
forbid flight attendants from smoking in public areas of
airports. Which is why Karen Cassady, a 37-year-old
attendant, dashes for the airport bathrooms the moment she
steps off the plane.
   "Do you know what it's like hiding in a bathroom stall
next to a mother changing her baby's diaper?" she asks. "I
feel subhuman or something."
   Unfortunately for Ms. Cassady and her fellow smokers,
airports also are becoming more inhospitable to smokers. More
than 50 U.S. airports prohibit smoking in most areas, or plan
to in the near future, generally exiling smokers to remote
corners of gate sections. "It's like a double whammy," Ms.
Cassady says, lighting up at a public telephone -- in yet
another nonsmoking area.
   Despite the anger of smokers, the law isn't likely to
change anytime soon. Tobacco lobbyists say they have too many
other anti-smoking bills to contend with these days. And most
carriers say 80% of their customers are nonsmokers delighted
with the law. "The public wants this," says a Northwest
Airlines spokesman.
   One USAir smoker found out just how strongly the public
feels. According to police in Pittsburgh, the woman lighted
up while the plane was still boarding in Pittsburgh. As
uniformed police arrived on board, she pleaded with her
fellow passengers. "Shouldn't I be able to smoke?" she asked.
"No]" the passengers shot back in unison, miffed at being
held up 20 minutes by the woman's tantrum.
   "When we led her away," recalls Lt. Nobert Kowalski of the
airport police in Pittsburgh, "everybody was cheering."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kellogg Co. Profit
   Fell in First Period,
   Third Drop in a Row
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   K
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   BATTLE CREEK, Mich. -- Kellogg Co.'s earnings declined for
the third straight quarter, but the company said it expects
full-year profit to exceed 1989's disappointing results.
   The company also announced it could make a decision soon
on a joint-venture cereal plant in the Soviet Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kellogg's earnings are being hampered by heavy promotional
spending efforts to regain U.S. market share. Last year,
Kellogg's share slipped to below 40% -- and earnings fell for
the first time in 37 years -- partly because competitors were
better able to cash in on oat bran's popularity.
   For the first quarter, Kellogg reported earnings of $96.3
million, or 79 cents a share, compared with $111.4 million,
or 91 cents, before an accounting change that made last
year's final net $159.5 million, or $1.30. Sales for the
latest period rose 6.6%, to $1.2 billion, from $1.13 billion.
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William E. LaMothe
said the current quarter would be one of "very heavy
investment" on marketing as well as product development.
Thus, results may not match last year's earnings of $129.7
million, or $1.06 a share.
   The company decided to forgo short-term gains in favor of
long-term recovery, Mr. LaMothe said. He said he would be
pleased if Kellogg finished the year with a 40% market share;
now it's about 39.7%.
   Mr. LaMothe acknowledged that rival General Mills Inc.,
with its Cheerios line, was better able to capitalize on
oat-based cereals last year. Private-label cereals, which
sell at a discount, also hurt Kellogg, he said.
   Kellogg's psyllium-based Heartwise cereal, designed to
appeal to cholesterol-conscious consumers, is selling
"reasonably well," although the company reduced promotional
spending, pending Food and Drug Administration approval.
   The company also will seek to increase dominance overseas,
the chairman said. "The opportunity is about right" for a
plant in the Soviet Union, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Education
   Posts $8.4 Million Loss
   For the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NEC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- National Education Corp. posted a
first-quarter net loss of $8.4 million, or 28 cents a share,
reflecting continued problems at its Applied Learning
subsidiary, which has had troubles with customer credits.
   The company indicated that the loss for the quarter could
be even greater once it finalizes a wrongful-termination
settlement with its former chief executive officer, David
Bright. That settlement would be charged against latest
first-quarter earnings, which will be restated. A recent
arbitration decision found that the termination of Mr. Bright
wasn't "for cause" as defined by his contract. National
Education declined to estimate the amount of the settlement,
but said it could be "material." The exact amount will be
determined at an arbitration hearing next month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-earlier first quarter, the vocational training
company had net income of $7 million, or 24 cents share.
   Revenue fell 14% to $85.4 million from $99.5 million.
   Separately, National Education said it elected J.W.
Cwiertnia, its 48-year-old president and chief operating
officer, to the additional post of chief executive officer,
succeeding David C. Jones, 68, who remains chairman. Mr.
Cwiertnia resigned as president of National Education in
March 1989 to become chief operating officer of another
company, but returned in July after Mr. Bright left.
   The company also said its lenders agreed in principle to
grant it a 90-day extension on a requirement that it raise
$10 million in additional capital by April 30. National
Education said the lenders agreed to the extension because it
had positive cash flow in the latest first quarter. Mr.
Cwiertnia said the company is exploring "several options" to
raise the capital.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
National Education shares closed at $4.625, off 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Theater:
   A `Lesson' in Pulitzer Perversity
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- "The Piano Lesson" opened at the Yale
Repertory Theater in the fall of 1987. In reviewing the
production in December of that year, I praised both the play
and its author, August Wilson. "The Piano Lesson," I wrote,
"shows a sure instinct for drama. Mr. Wilson's ear for the
speech of black Americans is unfailing: his rhythms,
inflections and vocabulary capture perfectly not only the
regionalisms but the rich verbal lore of his characters. He
also has his own special brand of humor." Referring to his
other plays, "Ma Rainey's Black Bottom," "Fences" and "Joe
Turner's Come and Gone," I concluded that "The Piano Lesson"
would "take its place alongside his other works in this
remarkable series of plays about the black experience in
20th-century America."
   Now, 2 1/2 years later, "The Piano Lesson" has been
declared the winner of the 1990 Pulitzer Prize for drama;
four days after the Pulitzer announcement, the play opened on
Broadway. The two events, coming so long after the play's
initial production, underscore the bizarre nature of the
Pulitzer drama award, especially as it affects regional
theaters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the late 1970s and early '80s, I served several times
on the Pulitzer committee that recommended a best play of the
year. In two of those years, when I was chairman of the
committee, officials of the Pulitzer Prize came under intense
pressure from regional theaters and from critics on
newspapers outside New York City to make plays produced in
regional theaters eligible for the prize. (In the past, the
award had been given to the best play opening in New York
City during the year.) While I was very sympathetic to the
argument, I pointed out the impracticality of putting it into
effect. It's true that the Pulitzer is a national award, but
theatrical productions, unlike music, which can be heard on
tape, must be seen to be judged properly. To be fair to the
many new plays produced at professional theaters across the
country the three-person drama committee would have to spend
365 days a year on the road, making certain it saw every play
that was eligible.
   The problem went deeper than that, however. The prize is
not actually awarded by the various committees in the arts,
but by the Pulitzer Prize Board, which consists of 16 voting
members, most of them publishers, editors and the like, who
do not feel obliged to follow the recommendations of their
committees. To be scrupulously honest, these 16 men and women
also would have to crisscross the country to see every single
production of a new play mounted by a regional theater.
   My conclusion was that though it smacked of provincialism,
the least unfair way of judging the best play was to stick
with those produced in a given year in New York City. While
it was admittedly not an ideal solution, it was at least a
forthright one, not leading to the hypocrisy of suggesting
that both the three-person panel and 16-member board had
actually given a full and fair hearing to each new play that
opened in the U.S. My argument did not prevail, and ever
since there has been the pretense that productions nationwide
are given equal consideration.
   Now comes this year's award. I hasten to say that I am not
for one moment questioning the choice of "The Piano Lesson"
as a play worthy of the prize; after all, I saw great merit
in it in 1987. But in which year should it have been eligible
for the award? According to the Pulitzer board's policy of
including regional-theater productions, it should have been
1988. Or has it decided to make this a floating contest,
making a play eligible in whatever year the board whimsically
chooses? And is this fair to plays actually opening that
year?
   After its initial production at Yale, "The Piano Lesson"
was given professional productions in Boston, Chicago, San
Diego, Washington, D.C., and Los Angeles. It could have been
eligible, therefore, not only in 1988, but in 1989; for that
matter, if it had not won this year, why not in future years
when it is produced in other regional theaters across the
country? The arrangement whereby the Pulitzer board asks
experts in the arts to make recommendations and then reserves
the right to ignore them has always been a bit supercilious,
but with this latest development in drama, the process enters
the realm of the absurd.
   As for "The Piano Lesson," through more than two years and
six major productions it has remained much the same, with its
many strengths as well as a few weaknesses. The theme of the
play is beautifully dramatized. Boy Willie and Berniece are a
brother and sister whose forbears were slaves in Mississippi.
At one point in the family history, a mother and her son were
traded by their owners to another family in exchange for a
piano, but a later ancestor, a woodcarver, reclaimed the
piano as an important reminder of the family heritage. To
create a lasting memorial, he carved the faces and figures of
family members into the front panels and legs of the piano.
   The play takes place many years later, in 1936 in
Pittsburgh, where Berniece has moved to live with her uncle
Doaker (Carl Gordon), a railroad conductor who owns a house
there. With her, Berniece has brought her daughter, Meretha
(Apryl R. Foster), and the piano. Berniece's brother, Boy
Willie, has remained in Mississippi as a farmer, but now he
has a chance to buy a farm of his own -- from the family on
whose land his ancestors have always worked. Boy Willie has
come North with his friend Lymon (Rocky Carroll) to sell the
piano and take his half share so that he can buy the farm,
but Berniece refuses to sell: The piano is an icon, a family
emblem.
   It is a classic dilemma: Boy Willie, portrayed with
super-charged energy and mesmerizing charm by Charles S.
Dutton, is certain his father would want him to sell the
piano to look to the future; Berniece, played with calm
determination and assurance by S. Epatha Merkerson, is
convinced it would be desecration against the past to do so.
No playwright working today can create confrontations such as
those between Boy Willie and Berniece, or such tender love
scenes as one between Berniece and Lymon, or such comical
love scenes as one involving Boy Willie and a lady of the
evening (Lisa Gay Hamilton) with more authority and stage
magic than Mr. Wilson. As with his previous plays, the actors
are expertly guided by director Lloyd Richards.
   As to its weak points, the play still is too long, and a
ghost that appears at the top of the stairs remains a
problem.
   A final note: "The Piano Lesson" is the first occupant of
the former Ritz theater, now grandly restored and renamed
after Walter Kerr, the well-known drama critic. Its owners,
the Jujamcyn Organization, say they are dedicating it to new
American plays. The policy has made an auspicious debut with
"The Piano Lesson."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fed Aide Sees
   Signs of Pickup
   In the Economy
   ---
   Vice Chairman Says Threat
   Of Inflation Continues
   Both in U.S. and Abroad
   ----
   By David Wessel and Peter Truell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The vice chairman of the Federal Reserve
Board, Manuel Johnson, said he see signs that economic
activity is "beginning to pick back up."
   "There are not any signs -- other than this hysteria about
the credit crunch -- of weakness," Mr. Johnson said in an
interview. At the same time, he said, inflation remains a
threat both in the U.S. and abroad. He termed "disappointing"
last week's report that consumer prices shot up 0.5% in
March. And he said that easier credit conditions in Western
Europe outside Germany may stimulate demand for U.S. exports,
possibly resulting in inflationary pressure from overseas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He gave no clue on the crucial question of timing, noting
that the warm weather earlier this year makes it difficult to
get an accurate reading of the underlying pace of the economy
and that the consumer price report may have been distorted by
a surge in apparel prices. "This is a period to be cautious,"
he said.
   Mr. Johnson's views are important because he is a crucial
swing vote in Fed decisions at the moment. The financial
market indicators that Mr. Johnson and others watch
intensively don't appear to signal any urgency. Long-term
interest rates in the bond market are up, but the dollar is
relatively stable when viewed against currencies of all U.S.
trading partners -- not just Japan -- and commodity prices
are mixed.
   Mr. Johnson also said he and other Fed officials don't
object to international intervention in currency markets to
support the yen so long as such efforts don't turn into a
world-wide campaign against the dollar.
   After gradually pushing down short-term interest rates for
six months, the Fed paused at the end of December and has
been resisting pressure from the administration and others to
lower them further. Fed officials say the behavior of the
economy in the past four months vindicates their stance. The
economy has bounced back from its fourth-quarter languor.
Inflation hasn't abated. Bond yields, seen by some as a
measure of inflation expectations, have risen.
   In a separate interview last week, Robert Parry, president
of the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank, said the current
pace of the U.S. economy is too rapid to make much dent in
the inflation rate. He put the annual growth pace at slightly
above 2%, after inflation.
   Although Mr. Parry expects prices to rise more slowly in
the coming months than they did in the first quarter, he
still predicts inflation will be higher this year than last
year. "That's uncomfortable and unacceptable," he said. But
Mr. Parry, who is among the Fed's staunchest foes of
inflation, added, "At this point, I am not willing to say we
ought to aim for a recession to produce faster adjustment" in
the inflation rate.
   In recent months, the Fed and the Treasury have clashed
over the Treasury's eagerness to intervene in currency
markets to push down the dollar. But Mr. Johnson said the Fed
is prepared to support intervention to support the weak yen
provided other countries use their own currencies -- not just
the dollar -- to buy yen. "I've never objected to
intervention to support the yen, but that has been translated
into general dollar sales," he stated.
   At the recent meeting of finance ministers and central
bankers from the seven largest industrial countries, West
Germany reportedly resisted Japanese entreaties that it spend
marks to support the yen. As a result, the U.S. was unwilling
to agree to stepped-up intervention.
   Mr. Johnson emphasized the importance of coordinating
economic policies internationally, and he expressed
reservations about the current state of the coordination
process. "I worry that it could flounder; I think it needs
some energy," he said. The formal coordination mechanism is
the Group of Seven, which includes finance ministers and
central bankers from the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France,
Britain, Canada and Italy.
   ---
   Hilary Stout contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   FIRST UNION Corp. said its commercial real-estate
portfolio in Florida totals about $2.59 billion. In Friday's
edition, the amount was misstated.
   (See: "Vacant Towers: Florida, Long a Center of
Real-Estate Booms, Suffers Glut of Offices --- Spate of
Overbuilding Forces Developers to Cut Rents; Housing Also Is
in Trouble --- Where's the Bottom, All Ask" -- WSJ April 20,
1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Iran's Revenge: The Lockerbie Bombing
   ----
   By William M. Carley
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   For many years the U.S. government has lavished foreign
aid and military hardware on Israel. A good deal of that
hardware has been used against Arab Palestinians. On July 3,
1988, the U.S. did something else. U.S. Navy Capt. Will
Rogers ordered his ship to fire missiles at what turned out
to be an Iranian airliner on a routine passenger flight. The
missiles blew the plane apart, killing 290 men, women and
children aboard.
   One result, not surprisingly, was an act of revenge: the
downing of Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, on Dec. 21,
1988. It is the investigation of this terrorist act that is
the subject of "The Fall of Pan Am 103: Inside the Lockerbie
Investigation" (Putnam, 304 pages, $21.95), by Steven Emerson
and Brian Duffy. Mr. Emerson has written books and articles
dealing with national-security issues; Mr. Duffy is an editor
at U.S. News &amp; World Report.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As chronicled by the authors, the Iranians contracted out
their revenge to a hit squad, also known as the Popular Front
for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command. Based in
Damascus, this group has long fought Israel, and apparently
was more than happy to attack Israel's major ally and arms
supplier, the U.S. The man who played the pivotal role in
arranging the retaliatory bombing was Hafez Dalkamouni, a
one-legged veteran of attacks aimed at Israel. It was
Dalkamouni's European network, say the authors, that
concealed the bomb in a Toshiba radio and put it aboard Pan
Am 103 in Frankfurt.
   The investigation of the resulting explosion turned out to
be a combination of basic police work by Scottish police, the
FBI and West German authorities, supported by esoteric
intelligence analyses done at a variety of agencies. As the
authors put it, to solve this one "the cops needed the spies,
and the spies needed the cops." The book chronicles how both
cops and spies have moved around Europe during the past year,
chasing bits of clothes and matching up batches of plastic
explosives, all with the aim of unraveling Dalkamouni's
organization and accumulating enough evidence to prosecute
the bombers. Dalkamouni himself, now jailed in West Germany
on other charges -- conspiring to blow up U.S. troop trains
-- almost surely will be indicted for the bombing.
   Though the basic facts in the case have been printed in
various publications and aired on some TV documentaries, the
authors provide a greater depth of detail as they skillfully
weave together a massive collection of facts and theories.
Unfortunately, the book also shows some signs of haste. On
page 106 Mohammed Rashid, a terrorist who placed a bomb
aboard another Pan Am jet in 1982, is killed off; on page 272
we find he is still alive, residing in a Greek jail. In
another instance, the sequence in which bombs were placed on
two Pan Am jets in 1982 is reversed, disrupting the
chronology of these incidents.
   The most controversial aspect of the book is likely to
stem from the charge that West German authorities botched an
investigation of the PFLP-GC in fall 1988, unwittingly
allowing the bomb and the bomber to slip through their
clutches. The West Germans did arrest Dalkamouni and another
terrorist, but a West German judge freed others in the gang
for lack of evidence. The West Germans then tried to cover up
their mistakes by refusing to cooperate with the FBI, the
authors say. There is even a suggestion, attributed to
unnamed Israeli and Western officials, that the West Germans
were more or less willing to tolerate PFLP-GC terrorism so
long as the group didn't strike West German targets.
   But if the West Germans did botch some aspects of the
investigation, that surely was not by intent -- one of their
own men was killed trying to disarm another bomb secreted
inside one of Dalkamouni's radio tuners. Were the West
Germans misled by some of their own informants? Did the West
German law enforcement and intelligence apparatus fail to
coordinate sufficiently, as U.S. agencies often fail to do?
Did personalities play a part in West German reluctance to
cooperate with the FBI? (The irascible FBI man who
effectively ran the agency's investigation of Pan Am 103 has
antagonized more than one official in recent years.) Is there
some other explanation for flaws in the West Germans' work?
   The answer is, we don't know. The authors, who seem to
have gotten much of their story from the angry FBI official
(and almost none of it from the West Germans), don't seem to
know either. The West Germans may well be getting hit with
some unfair criticism.
   There is another piece of unfinished business in this
affair. When Capt. Rogers shot the Iranian airliner down, the
jet was on a scheduled flight, it was flying in the proper
civilian air corridor and its radio was squawking its
identity on the correct civilian frequency (despite stories
to the contrary initially put out by Washington). On the face
of it, Capt. Rogers negligently failed to take proper care in
identifying his target, and so wrongly concluded it was a
military jet trying to bomb his ship. The question is whether
he should be court-martialed. Would there be a court-martial
if that jet had been a Pan Am plane full of Americans?
   ---
   Mr. Carley is an investigative reporter for the Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Aon's Patrick Ryan Adds Post
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AOC
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Aon Corp. said Patrick G. Ryan, president and
chief executive officer, was named to the additional post of
chairman.
   As chairman, the 51-year-old Mr. Ryan succeeds W. Clement
Stone, the 87-year-old founder of Aon's predecessor company.
Mr. Stone announced in February that he would step down from
his position with the insurance holding company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Ingot Output
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel ingot production totaled 272,819
metric tons in the week ended last Saturday, up 7.1% from
254,665 tons in the previous week but down 14% from 317,551
tons a year earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency,
said.
   A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.6 pounds. For this
year through last Saturday, production fell 14% to 4,029,954
metric tons from 4,660,494 tons a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Sears Will End Furniture Departments
   In Most Stores, Open Separate Outlets
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. plans to yank furniture
out of most of its department stores and open more than 200
free-standing furniture outlets in an effort to revive its
unprofitable business.
   "We will be pulling out of the vast majority" of Sears
stores over the next several years, said Jerry A. Hand, the
company's vice president of home fashions. The company will
offer an expanded furniture selection in the remaining Sears
stores, he added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The nation's largest retailer is counting on the new
format, which features a wider selection of mostly name-brand
goods at higher prices than Sears charges for its traditional
private-label lineup, to revive its stagnant, $1
billion-a-year furniture business. Sears currently commands
the leading share of the fragmented U.S. furniture business
-- roughly 4% of the $28 billion market. But Mr. Hand said
Sears sells furniture through too many small departments to
compete effectively.
   By moving furniture out of its big stores, Sears also will
free up space to expand such other departments as women's,
men's and children's clothing, and tools and lawn equipment.
Sears is attempting to broaden its appeal to shoppers and
improve its financial results with more eye-catching displays
and more name-brand goods that it is selling alongside its
house brands.
   But shipping furniture off to free-standing stores is
risky because the stores can no longer count on shoppers to
wander in from other Sears departments. "In a free-standing
store, you have to be able to drive your own traffic with a
good merchandise assortment and good promotion to get people
to come to your store," said Norman McMillan, a retail
consultant in Chicago. "It isn't automatic anymore."
   Mr. Hand said results of a prototype Homelife store that
opened in Madison, Wis., last September indicate the new
free-standing format can operate profitably. "We're currently
doubling our market share," he said.
   The new Homelife stores range in size from 20,000 to
40,000 square feet, or as much as five times as large as the
typical, cluttered Sears furniture department. That means
Sears now has enough space to arrange its living room, dining
room and bedroom items in attractive room settings, separated
by fake walls and arches that resemble a decorator showroom.
Mr. Hand hopes the displays will spur multiple purchases.
   The goods themselves are more fashionable too. Much of the
new merchandise is contemporary or traditional in style,
rather than the "country" look that dominates Sears furniture
departments today.
   The new national brands -- including American Drew,
Barcalounger, Broyhill, Sauder and Schnadig -- also are
priced 20% to 25% higher than the private-label Sears items.
   "The taste level of our customer and the non-Sears
customer is higher than what we've been selling," Mr. Hand
said. "The customer wants to buy better goods."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   IRA Terrorism Dramatized
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Shortly after eight o'clock on the evening of Nov. 21,
1974, as patrons chatted comfortably in the warm, smoky
interiors of the Tavern in the Town and the Mulberry Bush,
the two Birmingham pubs were ripped apart by IRA bombs. It
was the largest mass murder in British history, killing 21
and wounding 162. Within hours, six men had been caught,
Irish nationals who soon were dubbed the Birmingham Six. As
the public howled for blood, the six were quickly sentenced
to life in prison, where they remain to this day.
   According to "The Investigation: Inside a Terrorist
Bombing" (HBO, April 25, 11 p.m. EDT, or April 30, 10:15 p.m.
EDT), they were the wrong men. This docudrama tells the story
of a team of reporters (two from "World in Action," Britain's
"60 Minutes," and free-lance journalist Chris Mullin, who
later became a Labor MP) as they set out to track down what
really happened that November night.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The Investigation" travels in familiar Woodward and
Bernstein/"All the President's Men" territory -- and
compelling territory it is, too. Crusading reporters
encounter indifference, skepticism and outright lies as they
try to uncover a web of conspiracy. In this docudrama, as in
real life, the reporters interviewed the accused, the
eyewitnesses and the police; Mullin even ventured into
Dublin's IRA underground to hunt for the "real" bombers.
   Along the way, they discovered that the proof against the
Birmingham Six was flimsy at best, relying on shaky
scientific tests, police harrassment and forced confessions.
And they also stumbled on a real scandal, a cover-up
throughout the ranks of the British police, who allegedly
insisted on keeping the Birmingham Six in jail, even when
they knew that others were guilty.
   This evidence, presented in part in two Granada TV "World
in Action" shows (1985 and 1986) and in Mr. Mullin's book,
"Error in Judgment," eventually brought about an appeal trial
for the Birmingham Six in 1988. But the judge, citing
witnesses "not worthy of belief," laughed off the idea of a
"conspiracy unprecedented in the annals of criminal history"
and dismissed the appeal. Granada decided to strike back with
a docudrama.
   This, then, is not only lively, entertaining television.
It's also propaganda -- admittedly, propaganda with the
finest muckraking journalistic impulses -- but propaganda all
the same. When this film aired in Britain and Ireland a few
weeks ago (under the title "Who Bombed Birmingham?"), it
stirred a major controversy. At issue was the old docudrama
question: What's fact and what's fiction, and how do you tell
the difference? But the debate was all the more fierce
because this film has such a strong point of view, because it
ends with a list of the names of the alleged "real" IRA
bombers. Pundits and legislators screamed about a "gross
abuse of media power" and "trial by television."
   Across the Atlantic, away from the heated emotions, it's
interesting to dissect "The Investigation." This film has an
ax to grind, and it grinds it hard. There's nothing even
remotely balanced about the docudrama, no sense of why the
police or anyone in authority acted the way they did. "The
Investigation" is manipulation of the most powerful kind -- a
cry of outrage in the form of an exciting story, as with
Costa-Gavras's "Z" or "Missing," a morality play with
underdogs fighting a callous, suspect system.
   Ethical considerations aside, I found it impossible not to
get swept up in "The Investigation." It sets off at a
breakneck pace and never stops. From bombing to investigation
to trial and beyond, it has the relentless energy, the
page-turning drive of any good thriller.
   Of course, in the breathless rush, not everything makes
sense. Cutting from 1974 to 1985 to the present, the story
can be extremely disorienting. Sources pop up from out of the
blue. Timings (of bombings, of phone calls, of police
interrogations) play a major role, but it's hard to
understand exactly what that role is. And there are out and
out logical inconsistencies, devices thrown in to drive the
story that don't make sense. Right at the outset, for
example, a Granada producer is looking at footage saying,
"Anybody want to tell me what's going on?" Which is a fine
device to start the docudrama, except the producer is looking
at his own segment. He doesn't understand what's going on?
   Characters also get sacrificed. There may be real people
here -- the reporters, the Birmingham Six -- but we never get
to know them. There may be some good actors here too -- John
Hurt, Martin Shaw -- but there isn't much room for acting.
   Story is everything. The crusade is everything. As the
pale, emaciated Mr. Hurt conducts his investigation, we have
almost no sense of what drives him, who he is. How much
stronger "The Investigation" would have been if we had a
sense of Mullin as an appealing hero, not a stick figure in a
morality play.
   In the end, "The Investigation" is more than a little
slapdash. It raises more than its share of troubling ethical
issues. But it tries so hard to correct an injustice, its
crusade is so noble, so heartfelt, I'm prepared to give it
the benefit of the doubt.
   And it moves like a breakneck car ride out of Belfast.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, April 20, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 1/8% near
closing bid, 8 3/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4% . The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.225% 30 to 59 days; 8.20% 60 to 89 days;
8.15% 90 to 119 days; 8.125% 120 to 149 days; 8.10% 150 to
179 days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.28%
30 days; 8.28% 60 days; 8.27% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.79% one month; 7.84% two
months; 7.88% three months; 7.95% six months; 8.11% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.35% one month; 8.45% three months;
8.60% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.20% 30 days; 8.18% 60 days; 8.18%
90 days; 8.20% 120 days; 8.20% 150 days; 8.19% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 7/16% to 8 5/16% one month; 8
1/2% to 8 3/8% two months; 8 9/16% to 8 7/16% three months; 8
5/8% to 8 1/2% four months; 8 11/16% to 8 9/16% five months;
8 3/4% to 8 5/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 7/16% one month;
8 9/16% three months; 8 3/4% six months; 9 1/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11.25%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 16, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.71% 13 weeks; 7.75% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.48%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.40%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9.10%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.83%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Perrier Sets U.S. Relaunch of Its Water;
   Analysts Become Cautiously Optimistic
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   F.PRR
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Michael Whiteman is angry with Source Perrier
S.A. But he says he nevertheless will be offering its water
again this week at the Rainbow Room, a New York dinner and
dancing spot his company manages.
   Mr. Whiteman's ambivalence reflects a deeper dilemma
facing Perrier this week as it begins its long-awaited
relaunch in the crucial U.S. market, its biggest market
outside France. A few bottles will be available in New York
as early as today, although Perrier says it will be the end
of May before it is present again in 90% of the U.S., and
then in limited volumes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The good news for Perrier is that beverage analysts, many
of them bearish about the company's U.S. future when it
recalled its water two months ago, now are turning cautiously
optimistic. They say most consumers are surprisingly relaxed
about the benzene contamination of Perrier's mineral water
shipments world-wide, disclosed early in March.
   Tom Pirko, president of Los Angeles-based beverage
consulting firm BevMark Inc., at first expected Perrier to
lose 15% of its gross sales. Now, he says that if the
relaunch goes smoothly sales should fall no more than 5% and
may eventually even surpass previous performances.
   The bad news for Perrier is that things may not go
smoothly. Perrier's handling of the crisis has deeply
disturbed a small number of its most wealthy and influential
former fans. They feel Perrier betrayed a trust by failing to
explain properly how small amounts of benzene, a suspected
carcinogen, got into its high-priced water.
   Some, such as Charles Fisher, a New York caterer for big
banks, law firms and securities houses, say they'll never
sell or drink the stuff again. John Dingell, the powerful
Democratic congressman from Michigan, is threatening to hold
hearings next autumn on accusations that bottled water makers
in general, and Perrier in particular, mislead consumers in
their labels and advertising. The Food &amp; Drug Administration
required Perrier to modify its label before allowing it back
in the U.S., in order to remove suggestions that Perrier's
bubbles occur naturally. (Most of the bubbles, which Perrier
says come from a natural source, are added to the water at
Perrier's bottling plant.)
   "If that kind of news hits TV and radio, that stops
Perrier dead in its tracks," maintains Mr. Pirko.
   The U.S. relaunch will be the company's biggest and most
complex since it began offering its water again in France.
The water now is available in most of Europe, although
supplies remain limited. But the U.S. relaunch is complicated
by sheer geographic size and by health and quality issues.
   Perrier, for example, has become the object of a dozen
class-action lawsuits in the U.S. Because of that kind of
worry, the Paris brokerage firm, Sellier S.A., which follows
Perrier closely, published a study last month urging clients
to sell Perrier shares.
   Officials at Perrier Group of America Inc., Perrier's U.S.
subsidiary, say they intend to "aggressively relaunch Perrier
throughout the country," as Kim Jeffery, sales and marketing
senior vice president, puts it. The aim is to regain
Perrier's former U.S. market share of 14% of all sparkling
waters, and 6% of all bottled waters. Perrier is tripling its
U.S. ad budget to $18 million this year, and will spend an
additional $7 million on promotions. That is far more than
any competitor will spend.
   Mr. Jeffery says he believes Perrier ads and labels have
been fair and accurate. Perrier officials insist that any
health hazard from the benzene contamination, which appears
to have lasted from May of last year until this March, was
minuscule.
   Perrier attributes the contamination to improper
filtration of its carbon dioxide gas, which naturally
contains small amounts of benzene. The filters apparently
became overloaded after Perrier switched to a new gas source
that had different levels of impurities. Perrier has improved
its filtration process and Food and Drug Administration
officials say tests show Perrier no longer is contaminated by
benzene.
   After a New York ceremony on Thursday, Perrier plans a
series of giveaways, television ads and talk-show appearances
around the country.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norton Co. Says
   Bidder May Top
   Offer By BTR
   ----
   By John R. Wilke and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   NRT U.BTR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Norton Co. said an unidentified bidder has expressed
interest in topping a $75-a-share, $1.64 billion offer by BTR
PLC.
   The disclosure adds a new twist to BTR's effort to gain
control of the Worcester, Mass., abrasives maker just before
Norton's annual meeting Thursday. It triggered a surge in
Norton's stock price Friday, which rose $2 a share to $77.50
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BTR is waging a proxy fight to try to force Norton to
accept its bid, but only three of Norton's 11 directors are
up for re-election as a result of a new Massachusetts law
allowing companies in that state to create staggered boards
without shareholder approval. BTR is trying to oust those
directors as a first step toward gaining control.
   Norton said the new suitor was one of a number of third
parties that had expressed interest in acquiring a friendly
minority interest in Norton or in acquiring pieces of Norton.
Although Norton said it has held talks about such a
"white-squire" transaction, it said it hasn't held any talks
with the bidder about an acquisition because it wants to
remain independent.
   Some Wall Street sources said the late-inning disclosure
might represent an attempt by Norton to win votes at the
annual meeting or to have the meeting postponed.
   Takeover stock traders believe BTR is favored in the proxy
vote because holders of more than 62% of Norton's stock have
tendered their shares to BTR. Norton might hope that the
chance of a higher bid could undercut shareholder enthusiasm
for BTR in the contest.
   In response to the Norton announcement, a BTR spokesman
said: "Is the Norton Co. finally for sale after all the
statements to the contrary?"
   Meanwhile, BTR filed a motion in federal court in Boston
to dismiss Norton's claim that Norton shareholders who
accepted BTR's offer shouldn't be able to vote at Norton's
annual meeting.
   As previously reported, Norton argues that BTR has already
acquired the shares under a 1988 Massachusetts anti-takeover
law without complying with other provisions of that law.
   BTR, in its motion, said it "has yet to purchase {nor has
it accepted for purchase} a single share of Norton stock
pursuant to the offer. Indeed, all shares tendered in the
offer are subject to withdrawal rights under federal law
until the offer expires and the shares are accepted for
payment. Accordingly, until the offer is completed, the
tendered shares are beneficially owned exclusively by those
who have tendered them -- for purposes of {the anti-takeover
law}, federal law and otherwise."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   The Japan That Can Say, `Who Knows?'
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- For an insight into Japan's unique brand of
capitalism and culture, you can do worse than a visit to the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. Its landscaped entrance on a quiet side
street and the stylish lobby with its minimalist design are a
far cry from that noisy, bustling trading factory at Broad
and Wall, the New York Stock Exchange. Schoolchildren troop
through a mini-science museum on the gallery floor where
professorial robots and an animated holograph indoctrinate
them into the marvels of Japanese capitalism.
   Down in the pit, clerks in member-firm stalls clap for
attention and wave frantic hand signals to floor clerks. A
clerk holding his nose is saying he is trading Tokyo Gas. He
signals buy or sell and the price with his palm outward or
inward and with finger counts. This tense and vigorous ballet
is a young man's game and some of the clerks seem not much
older than the watching students. When a big buy order comes
in or the electronic display shows the Nikkei stock or TOPIX
futures index edging upward, the clapping becomes applause.
Through this giant pantomime, the pit and a related computer
trading center handle volumes far in excess of those on the
NYSE.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But, as most of the world knows by now, this great heart
of Japanese capitalism has been fibrillating lately. The
Nikkei has dropped sharply from its December peak, the most
since the 1973-1974 oil shock. It didn't slump as badly even
during the world-wide stock crash of October 1987. Late last
week there were some signs of a rally. But what has already
transpired, plus worries about Tokyo's spectacular
real-estate bubble, has stirred the anxiety that lurks just
beneath Japan's self-confidence and maybe accounts for its
enormous success drive. But then, market volatility at the
level Japan has been experiencing would shake confidence
anywhere.
   At a dinner high in one of the new skyscrapers of Tokyo's
Shinjuku district, Yoshiji Fukushima, executive vice
president of Nomura Securities Co. Ltd., asks a visitor's
opinion of where the Nikkei is headed. This is Japanese
politeness. Nomura didn't get to be a world securities giant
by soliciting stock-market advice from journalists. But the
question reflects the general concern over the Nikkei's
plunge.
   One answer to why the Nikkei slumped is that old,
pre-space-age saying, "What goes up must come down." As
measured by price-earnings ratios, Japanese stocks had soared
to phenomenal heights by the end of last year. A correction
was due. Also, the Tokyo exchange had had some experience
with volatility even before this last year. Even though it
has high trading volumes -- partly attributable to the low
average price of stocks -- the market is relatively thin.
That's because a large portion of the outstanding stock of
most major companies is seldom traded. It sits quietly in the
hands of major institutional holders, who wield large
influence over Japanese industry and the economy. Japanese
commercial banks, for example, hold 20% of the outstanding
stock of firms listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, according
to a Ministry of Finance estimate. Hostile takeovers are well
-- nigh impossible.
   But there is a larger problem reflected in Japan's
roller-coaster ride. It can be blamed heavily on efforts by
finance ministers and central bankers of the Group of Seven
(G-7) industrial countries to artificially rig currency
exchange rates so as to alter world trade flows. Aside from
the fact that the desired purposes are seldom achieved, this
distorts capital markets.
   The movement of stock prices world-wide is heavily
influenced by expectations of traders about whether a
nation's currency is likely to rise or fall relative to other
currencies. If they think it will rise, they have an
incentive to buy securities denominated in that currency. So
the Nikkei climbed sharply on the strength of the rising yen.
The reverse is equally true. The Nikkei slumped after the
world's monetary officials were unable to hold the yen at its
artificially high level.
   Worried Japanese monetary officials want to stop the yen's
decline. They said so at the Paris G-7 meeting two weekends
ago. Other members were sympathetic but told the Japanese
they would have to do most of the fixing. For that reason,
U.S. traders reacted nervously last week to a rumor that the
Japanese Ministry of Finance, referred to here by the
nickname "MOF," was encouraging Japanese institutions to
unload some of their huge holdings of U.S. Treasury bonds.
MOF denies that it plays such games, but that rumor, though
most likely false, had plausibility because dumping U.S.
bonds would be consistent with MOF's desire to improve the
dollar value of the yen. Of course, the institutions also
have a market reason for selling, the strong dollar, so maybe
MOF didn't have to urge them. Yet MOF officials are not above
bragging at times, in good old mercantilist fashion, about
what they could do with Japan's huge dollar reserves. Maybe
less than they think, since bucking market trends by
liquidating reserves is an uncertain business. But further
boosting interest rates -- which have been jacked up four
times in the past year -- also has risks. For one thing,
there is the danger of pricking that real-estate bubble and
doing real damage to banks.
   Even now, however, it can be argued that the yen is
overvalued. By measuring the relative purchasing power of the
yen and dollar, some analysts think the dollar should cost
200 yen instead of the current 160. By and large, the yen's
excessive value has been a result of dubious G-7 efforts to
balance world trade. The dollar was devalued and the yen
valued upward in an attempt to make U.S. goods relatively
more attractive in world markets, thereby reducing the U.S.
trade deficit and the Japanese trade surplus.
   Maybe this finally is making a dent in the surplus and
deficit, both of which have fallen, but it's hard to credit
something that began five years ago for such results. Indeed,
a strong yen-weak dollar combination initially raises the
dollar value of U.S. imports, heading the deficit higher.
More important, a weak-currency country tends to lose
efficiency, in part because of inflation, whereas a
strong-currency country gains efficiency, because producers
have to become more efficient to compete. Most important of
all is the way artificial exchange rates distort capital
flows, which are vastly larger and in some ways more
economically significant than trade flows.
   Because of the huge inflow of dollars into Japan after
dollar devaluation, the Japanese developed an unrealistic
belief that they suddenly had become rich, not unlike Texas
during the S&amp;L boom. With the help of American doomsayers
they attributed it mainly to their superior talents. The
Japanese are good but not that good. They have done nothing
that would have caused the dollar value of the yen to double
in three years. Indeed, their productivity remains well below
that of the U.S., as does their standard of living.
   The political consequences of these distorted perceptions
have included a rising resentment of the Japanese in the U.S.
Since the trade deficit didn't go away, the Japanese must be
cheating Americans out of their wealth, goes the argument.
Those schoolchildren at the Tokyo exchange don't know what
really happened, but then neither do a lot of important
people on both sides of the Pacific. Maybe they should try to
find out before some really serious damage occurs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bogert Oil Agrees to Be Bought
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8A
</SO>
<CO>
   BOGO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   OKLAHOMA CITY, Okla. -- Bogert Oil Co. said it agreed to
be acquired by a unit of Louis Dreyfus Energy Corp. of
Wilton, Conn., for about $29 million, or $13.20 a share.
   A shareholders' meeting to vote on the acquisition hasn't
been scheduled.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Richard D. Bogert, who owns slightly more than half of the
shares outstanding of this oil and gas concern, said he gave
Louis Dreyfus Energy a proxy to vote in favor of the merger,
which would be through LDEC Acquisition Corp., a unit.
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, Bogert Oil
shares closed at $12.25, up 50 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rospatch Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RPCH WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROSPATCH Corp. (Grand Rapids, Mich.) -- Joseph J. Miglore,
44 years old, was named president and chief executive officer
of this maker of defense products and furniture. He succeeds
Joseph A. Parini, who resigned March 30. Mr. Miglore recently
served as vice president, finance and administration, of
Haworth Inc., an office-furniture maker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France's Industrial Production
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's seasonally adjusted industrial
production index in February fell 1.8% from January but rose
1.1% from a year earlier, the National Statistics Institute
said.
   The February drop follows a revised January advance of
1.3%, initially recorded as a 1.1% rise. The February result
was far short of Paris economists' estimates of no change or
a rise of as much as 0.5% from January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The index, in which the year 1980 equals 100, was 111.7 in
February, compared with 113.8 in January and 110.5 in
February 1989. It covers output in all sectors of the economy
except construction.
   Separately, the Bank of France said that its regular
monthly survey of business leaders suggests industrial
production recorded a small rise for March, and that capacity
utilization rates remained high.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greyhound Lays Off
   Maintenance Workers
   In Garages Nationwide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Strikebound Greyhound Lines Inc., a unit of GLI
Holding Co., said Friday that it had laid off 275 maintenance
workers in various garages around the country.
   Company spokesman George Gravley said layoffs of office
personnel "could happen," but no layoffs of drivers are
anticipated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition to mechanics and their helpers, those laid off
included parts clerks, truck drivers and other service
workers, the company said. "Obviously, we have a reduced work
load because of the strike," Mr. Gravley said.
   The action came as an often violent strike by 9,400
Greyhound employees represented by the Amalgamated Transit
Union entered its eighth week. No resumption of negotiations
on a new contract have been scheduled.
   Mr. Gravley said hundreds of union maintenance workers
crossed the picket lines when the strike began March 2. In
addition to 690 maintenance workers represented by the
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers, which is not on strike against the company, 695 of
the 1,475 ATU-represented maintenance workers also returned
to work.
   The layoffs included 155 ATU members and 120 members of
the machinists' union, said Mr. Gravley, who added that
Greyhound hoped to eventually call them back.
   Since the strike began March 2, Greyhound has struggled to
operate with replacement drivers and union crossovers. The
company is running about 72% of the scheduled routes it
operated before the strike. Ridership has been hovering
between 50% and 60% of pre-strike levels, according to the
company, which says it is approaching the "break even" point
in terms of revenue.
   Union officials dispute that claim. "Every indicator
points to financial disaster for Greyhound Lines Inc.," ATU
President James La Sala said Friday. "Greyhound management is
now at a crossroads. It can either negotiate a settlement to
this contract dispute or allow this country's only national
bus system to slide into financial ruin."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shiite Radicals Free U.S. Hostage;
   Release of Others Is Still in Doubt
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Shiite radicals in Lebanon freed one of
their American hostages, but U.S. officials said that doesn't
necessarily open the door for rapid release of the seven
others.
   Nor does the release necessarily pave the way for warmer
U.S. relations with Iran, whose Islamic government inspires
the Lebanese Shiites holding Western hostages. President Bush
indicated he won't make substantial gestures of gratitude
until all the American hostages are freed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robert Polhill, 55 years old, a teacher at Beirut
University College, was turned over to Syrian officials in
Beirut yesterday afternoon and driven to Damascus. Mr.
Polhill had been in captivity since a Shiite group called
Islamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine kidnapped him
and two other educators on Jan. 24, 1987.
   U.S. officials insisted that they didn't do any bargaining
or make any concessions to win freedom for Mr. Polhill. A
senior State Department official called it an "unconditional
release."
   Iran, which seems to want to remove the hostage issue as
an obstacle to winning more economic cooperation from the
West, paved the way for the release by sending a series of
public and private signals to the hostage holders during the
past few months that it finally wanted to end the issue. But
Syria, which is working to improve its relations with the
West as its backing from the Soviet Union wanes, played the
major role in arranging details of the release, senior U.S.
officials said.
   In fact, there was a last-minute debate among U.S.
officials about whether the White House should publicly thank
Iran at all for its role or simply thank Syria. In the end,
the White House composed a statement thanking both Syria and
Iran for their roles, but in remarks to reporters, Mr. Bush
said, "I can't tell you I honestly know" what Iran's role was
in the release.
   The problem for the U.S. now is that the release of one
hostage will raise public expectations about freedom for all.
And the release of just one captive may make the rest of the
hostage problem even tougher for the Bush administration to
handle.
   Specifically, both the Lebanese captors and Iran's leaders
may look for some gesture of gratitude from the U.S. before
freeing other hostages. But American officials said Mr.
Bush's offer to show "good will" toward those who help free
hostages doesn't apply until all U.S. hostages are out.
Doling out rewards -- such as moving faster to settling
disputes over frozen Iranian assets -- after just one hostage
release would smack of paying off the captors, U.S. officials
fear.
   President Bush signaled as much yesterday. "I'm not
looking for gestures," he told a group of reporters. "I'm
looking for the release of our hostages -- and by our
hostages I mean all of them."
   But freeing the others won't be easily accomplished
because it requires working with a labyrinth of terrorist
groups and demands. Though all the groups holding hostages
are believed to be loosely affiliated with Hezbollah, a
pro-Iranian Lebanese Shiite organization, they have a variety
of demands.
   The group that freed Mr. Polhill, the Islamic Jihad for
the Liberation of Palestine, still holds two more Americans.
It has demanded the release of hundreds of Shiite prisoners
held in Israel, particularly the release of a leading Shiite
cleric, Shiek Abdel Karim Obeid, kidnapped by Israel last
year.
   Other groups have held Americans even longer and made
tougher demands. Two Americans -- including the hostage held
longest, journalist Terry Anderson -- are held by a group
called Islamic Jihad. Its main demand has been that Kuwait
free a group of Shiite extremists it arrested for a series of
terrorist bombings. The Kuwaiti government hasn't shown any
interest in releasing extremists, and the U.S. has refused to
pressure Kuwait, arguing that it would amount to knuckling
under to terrorist demands.
   Another group holding Americans is the so-called
Revolutionary Justice Organization. It has held hostages
mostly in hopes of trading them for guarantees that Hezbollah
militiamen will be allowed to operate freely in southern
Lebanon -- guarantees that can't be provided by the U.S. but
only by Syria, whose army controls much of Lebanon.
   The big factor working to the administration's advantage
is the apparent cooperation of Syria and Iran in ending the
hostage crisis. Syria seems to be accommodating in part
because its economy is in the doldrums and its longtime
patron, the Soviet Union, has ceased being a reliable
supplier of arms. Moreover, Syrian President Hafez al Assad
also may see an opportunity to win favor with the U.S. and
become the dominant figure in the Arab world at a time when
his arch-enemy, Iraq, has been caught trying to illegally
import nuclear technology and weapons from the U.S. and
Britain.
   Iran also appears interested in economics. Its president,
Hashemi Rafsanjani, apparently wants greater Western
cooperation in rebuilding the Iranian economy, torn apart by
the long war with Iraq.
   Specifically, Mr. Rafsanjani probably is hoping for
greater British and German help in rebuilding important oil
facilities damaged by the war. Also, an end to the hostage
crisis might speed a settlement of billions of dollars in
claims that have been outstanding between Iran and the U.S.
since the 1979 Iranian revolution.
   Iran still has hundreds of millions of dollars deposited
in escrow accounts set up to provide funds for settling
claims by U.S. companies and individuals who lost property in
the revolution. In addition, Iran has claimed it is owed $11
billion for undelivered or defective military equipment from
the U.S. -- a figure that American officials consider wildly
exaggerated.
   ---
   Michel McQueen in Islamorada, Fla., contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dow Jones to Launch
   Business Data Service
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Dow Jones &amp; Co. said it will launch a new
information service, DowVision, that will deliver business
news and information through corporate computer systems
directly to desktops.
   The information package will include news from the Dow
Jones News Service (the "Broadtape"), Professional Investor
Report, Capital Markets Report, Dow Jones International News
Services and Federal Filings. Additional information will
come from PR Newswire and Business Wire, which carry
corporate news releases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   DowVision is a product of Information Services, an
operating group of Dow Jones, which is publisher of The Wall
Street Journal.
   Software companies, so-called alliance developers, have
developed software at the user end that will receive the
material and manage it to customers' specifications. The
software will select the data the customers have specified
they want.
   The companies that will make up the alliance developers
include: American RealTime Services Inc., New York; Desktop
Data Inc., Waltham, Mass.; GESCAN International Inc.,
Research Triangle Park, N.C.; and Verity Inc., Mountain View,
Calif.
   In the future, DowVision will provide customers with
access to News/Retrieval's archive of business and financial
data bases -- but without the need to dial into the system
using a modem. DowVision's flat-fee pricing will eliminate
per-minute charges on all Dow Jones-proprietary information,
reducing a significant barrier to usage.
   Dow Jones also publishes Barron's magazine and other
magazines, community newspapers, and provides financial
market information through its Telerate Inc. subsidiary.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merrill Shareholders
   Are a Skeptical Lot
   About Cost-Cutting
   ---
   Luxury of Meeting Site Makes
   Austerity Plan Hard Sell;
   California Pirates Picket
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MER
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PLAINSBORO, N.J. -- In the country-club atmosphere of its
sprawling conference center here, Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. tried
to convince 223 skeptical stockholders that it's serious
about cutting costs.
   Merrill annual meetings are usually fairly routine. But
the nation's biggest brokerage firm on Friday held what
longtime employees called one of its most eventful meetings
in years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A swarm of Californians in pirate garb picketed the event,
complaining about Merrill's treatment of residents of a
mobile home park it owns in Laguna Beach. Inside,
stockholders peppered Merrill management about the luxury of
their surroundings and the mediocrity of Merrill's earnings.
With all the questions, the firm's president and chairman
decided to save time by skipping their prepared speeches.
   Merrill is coming off a fourth quarter in which it took a
record $470 million pretax charge to pay for a massive
retrenchment plan including at least 3,000 layoffs. For 1989,
the firm recorded a net loss of $213.4 million. Its stock is
down 11.4% this year.
   First, the serious business: Merrill officials said that
because of its ongoing retrenchment, it plans an absolute
reduction in fixed expenses in its 1990 budget of 3% below
1989, "and we're working to achieve an even greater
reduction."
   Merrill projected savings of more than $150 million in
expenses in 1990, and "continuing" savings after that. That
forecast was more specific than previous projections that
annual savings would be more than $100 million; however, it's
lower than the expense-reduction projection of nearly $200
million that Merrill had talked about shortly after it took
its fourth-quarter charge.
   "We believe that this represents a substantial return
against the charge," said Merrill President Daniel P. Tully.
Analysts had sniped about Merrill's logic in taking a $470
million charge to garner only $100 million in savings.
   Still, it was a tough sell convincing shareholders that
Merrill, with its free-spending reputation, will do a good
job of penny-pinching.
   An investor opined that the manicured Plainsboro
conference center was a "nice place to play golf in." The
defensive Merrill officials said the facility saves them
money by allowing them to train their swarms of brokers
outside New York City. William A. Schreyer, Merrill chairman,
called it "one of our superior decisions as far as
real-estate strategy."
   The pirates, from Treasure Island Mobile Home Park, were
complaining about a Merrill partnership's plan to relocate
them and to develop condominiums on their island. Mr.
Schreyer seemed rushed at the meeting, but said he wasn't
nervous about the pirates. "I just got through `Barbarians at
the Gate,' and now there are pirates at the gate," he joked.
John L. Steffens, head of Merrill's consumer markets sector,
said "some sort of agreement" with the mobile-home residents
should be worked out soon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   German Auto Output
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- West German car production surged 11% in
March from a year earlier, the German Automobile Industry
Association said.
   Output rose to 452,500 cars in March, which had 22 work
days, from 409,455 in March 1989, which had only 21 days, the
association said. On a calendar-adjusted basis, production
was still up 6% from a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first quarter, car production climbed 6% to
1,272,000 from 1,195,000 a year earlier.
   Output of all vehicles, including trucks and buses,
climbed 11% to 480,800 in March from 434,597 a year earlier,
and was up 7% to 1,355,000 in the first quarter from
1,269,000 a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Portugal Begins Slashing Its Budget
   In an Attempt to Control High Inflation
   ----
   By Paulo Lopes
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9H
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LISBON -- Portugal's center-right government has changed
its mind.
   After four years of boosting state spending to fuel fast
growth in one of Western Europe's poorest economies,
officials have decided it's better to be cautious than to
overspend.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So they have begun to slash the nation's huge budget
deficit in an effort to curb inflation fast -- a move
prompted largely by pressures from the European Community's
steady move toward financial and monetary integration.
   Miguel Beleza, just four months at the helm of the Finance
Ministry, said Wednesday that as a first step he would cut 40
billion escudos ($270 million) from state spending budgeted
for this year -- and he warned there could be more cuts to
come. "It's time to demand some sacrifices from the public
sector in the name of the fight against inflation and of
European integration," said Mr. Beleza.
   The move comes amid growing concern that inflation of
nearly 13%, fueled by runaway public spending, might cause
Portugal to be left behind in a unified Europe.
   Although small, the cuts signal a strengthened commitment
on the part of the government of Prime Minister Anibal Cavaco
Silva to curb the weight of the state in the Portuguese
economy.
   "This is a tiny but encouraging step," Pedro Ferraz da
Costa, president of the Portuguese Confederation of Industry,
said about the dent in the budget deficit, which is projected
to hit 600 billion escudos this year. That is equal to 7.4%
of the nation's gross domestic product, or total amount of
goods and services minus income from abroad.
   Mr. Beleza, a staunch free-market advocate and former
central banker, also vowed to accelerate Portugal's
privatization drive launched last year.
   He detailed plans for the next five sell-offs: 51% of
shipping company Transinsular S.A.; 51% of the brewer Unicer
S.A. and bank Banco Totta &amp; Acores S.A., both partially
privatized last year; all of brewer Centralcer EP; and
one-third of Portugal's largest commercial bank, Banco
Portugues do Atlantico EP.
   He said insurance firms Tranquilidade S.A. and Alianca
S.A. and cement company Cimpor EP would follow.
   "Privatizations will be carried out as fast as possible,
but safely," said Mr. Beleza. He stressed the government's
wish to let Portuguese investors retain control of the
companies. Bankers expect the first five concerns to go on
the block before the end of the year. They predict the state
might set a minimum bid price of about 200 billion escudos
for all eight sales, but the final price is likely to be much
higher.
   Economists welcomed the announcements. They said that by
delaying privatizations and economic liberalization in the
past, the government had jeopardized Portugal's
competitiveness.
   "Unless state intervention is reduced, Portuguese firms
will have greater trouble preparing for the single market,"
Jorge Braga de Macedo, director of national economics at the
EC Commission, wrote recently.
   Yet at first sight, the Portuguese economy seems healthier
than ever. Official data show the economy grew 5.4% last
year, boosted by EC aid totaling about 4% of GDP.
Unemployment stands at 4.9%, one of the lowest rates in the
EC.
   The current-account deficit was $550 million last year.
That was more than offset by direct foreign investment, which
multiplied sevenfold since 1986 to 219 billion escudos. The
current account is made up of trade in goods and services and
certain unilateral transfers.
   But analysts say the elation over rapid growth is blinding
the country to dangers looming ahead.
   They say that without price stability, allowing full
freedom of capital flows -- a cornerstone of the European
single market -- is a highly risky proposition; inflation hit
12.8% last month, about seven percentage points above the EC
average. Mr. Cavaco Silva repeatedly has said that high
inflation will make it difficult for Portugal to join the
European Monetary System of fixed exchange rates before the
end of 1991.
   Local economists consider EMS membership crucial for
attracting foreign investors and trading partners because of
the expectations of economic stability it carries. "Portugal
cannot afford to remain outside the EMS," says Alfredo de
Sousa, head of a credit-rating agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MCA Sells Unit to Acclaim
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA AKLM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif. -- MCA Inc., an entertainment
concern, said it completed the sale of LJN Toys Ltd. to
Acclaim Entertainment Inc., an Oyster Bay, N.Y., computer
software company, for cash and 1.2 million shares of Acclaim
stock. Terms weren't disclosed, but a person close to the
transaction valued it at $20 million to $25 million.
   The deal was valued at $30 million when the sale agreement
was announced last month. The value declined because some of
LJN's receivables were liquidated before the sale closed, MCA
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Nigeria Will Cut
   Interest Payments;
   Coup Bid Fails
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Nigerian government, which yesterday put
down a military coup attempt, told its bank creditors Friday
that it will unilaterally cut interest payments on $5.4
billion of foreign debt from May 1.
   The payments move and the military revolt aren't directly
related, but growing internal unrest and the decision to
slash interest expenses come after recent drops of more than
10% in international prices for oil, which accounts for about
90% of Nigeria's export revenues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The attempted coup, which began early yesterday, was
apparently put down after several hours of fighting for
control of the capital, Lagos. Troops loyal to the president,
Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, fought with renegade soldiers seeking
to break up Nigeria's federation of states and end Moslem
domination.
   The coup attempt only adds uncertainty to Nigeria's
troubled financial situation. While bankers now know Nigeria
intends to cut interest payments, they aren't sure what rate
it is prepared to pay. The Nigerian central bank, which
telexed the country's intentions to banks last week, didn't
specify what rate it would use to determine "the reduced
rate" at which interest payments will be made.
   In talks in London last month with foreign creditor banks,
Nigerian officials apparently requested that interest
payments be set at 3% annually for 30 years on $5.4 billion
of foreign bank debt. Bankers rejected this request. Nigeria
pays about 10% on its foreign bank debt.
   According to news agency reports, the debt immediately
affected by the move is $2.4 billion in trade credits that
require monthly interest payments. Nigeria also makes
quarterly payments on $3 billion of medium-term commercial
bank credit, which won't be affected until early July.
   Although Nigeria hasn't specifically said so, many
analysts say the recent fall in oil prices is an important
reason for the country's interest-payment cut. The price drop
"is a very important factor if Nigeria is going to pay its
overseas debts," said Avinash Persaud, monetary economist at
UBS Phillips &amp; Drew in London
   Nigeria's main crude-oil export, so-called Bonny Light, is
selling for about $16.15 a barrel, down almost $2 from a
month ago. Its current crude production is estimated around
1.8 million barrels a day, about 200,000 barrels a day higher
than the quota set by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.
   According to the World Bank, Nigeria had $29.42 billion of
foreign debt at the end of 1988. Of this, $11.4 billion is
owed to private creditors, with the balance owed to
governments and multilateral agencies such as the World Bank.
About half of the private debt is owed to banks, with the
balance consisting of suppliers' credits.
   European and Mideast banks are the biggest private lenders
to Nigeria, while U.S. banks account for less than one-tenth
of private bank lending.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Avon Talks to Sell Unit to Japan Firm
   Hit Impasse Ahead of Friday Deadline
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AVP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- An agreement negotiated by Avon Products Inc.
to sell its 60% stake in Avon Japan for $450 million has
apparently collapsed.
   The proposed sale, to Friends of Freesia Co., Tokyo, and
Veji Sasaki, president of Freesia, was to have originally
closed on March 30. Mr. Sasaki later asked to extend the
closing to Friday and last week requested that the closing be
postponed until June.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Avon declined, and executives of the direct-marketing
company now believe the transaction won't go through. If
talks aren't completed by Friday, Mr. Sasaki and his company
will forfeit $6.3 million in an escrow account.
   In trading on the New York Stock Exchange Friday, Avon's
stock fell 12.5 cents a share to $35.875.
   Avon Products sold a 40% stake in its Japanese subsidiary
to the public in December 1987. Avon Japan has 2,000
employees, 350,000 independent sales representatives and
boasts a significant directmail business. The company sells
the traditional Avon product line of gifts, fashion
accessories and cosmetics.
   "We aren't sure what went wrong," said a spokesman for
Avon. "It doesn't appear to have anything to do with the
value of Avon Japan's stock, which has remained strong. There
are a number of other Japanese companies interested in buying
the business, and after the 27th we'll start talking to
them."
   The Japanese press speculated, however, that with the
recent rise in interest rates and the falling of the stock
market, Friends of Freesia was facing problems raising the
capital for the purchase.
   A spokesman for Friends of Freesia denied that the company
was having problems financing the purchase, but said it was
concerned about the recent instability within Avon
management. "We want to watch the condition of Avon in the
U.S. for the time being," the spokesman said.
   Avon told shareholders it would use the proceeds from the
sale of Avon Japan to pay down its debt. Total debt is
currently $695.9 million, compared with $1.13 billion at the
same time last year.
   Wall Street analysts said that the failed sale was a
reversal for Avon management, which is currently under
pressure from its largest shareholder, Chartwell Associates
L.P.
   "This sale was going to generate a huge amount of cash,"
said Alice Beebe Longley, an analyst with Donaldson Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette Securities Corp. "There's a good chance they'll
eventually find a buyer, but probably at a lower price."
   "It's a disappointment," added Diana Temple, an analyst
with Salomon Brothers. "They are under pressure to find a
buyer. They have to reduce their interest payments, and Avon
Japan is their largest remaining asset that they can sell."
   Robert L. Renck Jr., managing partner in the brokerage
company R. L. Renck &amp; Co., said the $450 million price
represented an outstanding value for Avon.
   "Considering what is going on in Japan today, I think they
will have to work real hard to get that price again," said
Mr. Renck. "I'm not thrilled. I'm also unhappy with
management's suit seeking to prevent Chartwell from acquiring
{more Avon stock}. I don't see how that suit enhances
shareholder value."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Analysts See a Stock Slide, but a Muted One
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- As last week's 55.85-point slide in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average made clear, rising interest rates
and weak earnings are troubling the stock market again.
   Question is, will these familiar worries cause a market
correction like the 267-point, 9.5% dive the industrial
average took in about one month during the first quarter?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A correction, yes, but not as bad, analysts predict. The
reason is that investors now are more interested in some
second-tier stocks of companies whose fortunes are tied to
the economy's growth. Last week, for example, PPG Industries
climbed 5.8% while the market sank, partly because the
company raised its dividend. With such stocks in favor, the
market's correction will be muted, they say.
   There's little chance of avoiding one, though, analysts
believe. The yield on the benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasury
bond has climbed to just under 9% from about 8% since
December. Higher interest rates both threaten to slow the
economy and to make bonds more attractive investments than
stocks.
   Meanwhile, first-quarter earnings disappointments are in
full parade: Of 734 companies that have reported quarterly
earnings so far, out of more than 4,000 tracked by Zacks
Investment Research Inc., 52% announced disappointing results
and only 39% had better-than-expected results. At that rate,
aggregate earnings of the 500 companies in Standard &amp; Poor's
index will be down 9% this year, says Ben Zacks, executive
vice president of the research firm.
   The next question is, will a correction most hurt the
blue-chip stocks that have resisted this year's market
decline, or the secondary and tertiary issues that so far
have borne the brunt of investor selling?
   The divergence between these two groups of stocks is
glaring, and many analysts think this correction will somehow
bring them back into line. As of Friday, the industrial
average was down 2.1% this year, while the S&amp;P 500 was off
5.2% and the Nasdaq composite index had lost 6.4%.
   Another measure of the gap between the biggest stocks and
the broad market is the increase in declining New York Stock
Exchange issues relative to advancing ones. Subtracting Big
Board losers from winners each day and charting the
cumulative difference produces an advance-decline line that
has been sagging since late August -- even as the Dow
industrials kept climbing, eventually hitting a record high
of 2810.15 on Jan 2.
   Some investing buffs say this split reminds them of the
stock market of 1972-1973. That divergence was resolved in
the bear market of 1974, during which the industrials dropped
a colossal 48%.
   But a bear market isn't necessarily in the cards for 1990,
says Alfred Goldman, director of market analysis at A.G.
Edwards &amp; Sons. He declares, "The current divergence between
the Dow industrial average and the broader measures is a sign
that the market is operating intelligently."
   Mr. Goldman elaborates: "The outlook for the market is
uncertain, and therefore we should have a selective market
where you pay a premium for companies that have definable
earnings prospects." Neither bull nor bear, the market is in
a trading range between 2500 and 2850 in the industrial
average, Mr. Goldman asserts. Investors will make money by
picking stocks, not by catching a ride on the market's
overall direction.
   The Dow shot higher in the early 1970s because investors
flocked to a small cadre of growth stocks. Then, as now, the
economic outlook was uncertain, and growth stocks -- shares
of companies with unique products and a proven record of
earnings growth -- are again a favorite investment theme.
   Among the "nifty 50" stocks of the early 1970s were
Eastman Kodak, International Business Machines, Procter &amp;
Gamble, Minnesota Mining &amp; Manufacturing, Schlumberger,
Polaroid and Xerox, to name a few. All but Polaroid,
Schlumberger and Xerox are in the industrial average.
   The attraction of these big stocks 15 years ago is the
same as now, namely enough size to weather economic storms
and the benefit of multinational operations. "One reason
people are buying big stocks today is that multinationals are
doing relatively well," says Michael Cosgrove, principal of
the Dallas-based economic research firm, The Econoclast.
"Growth in Europe and Japan is faster than in the U.S."
   What sent the stock market into the soup in 1974 was a
series of inflation shocks. Oil prices skyrocketed; labor and
food costs soared; the dollar tumbled, making imports more
expensive. Investors owning big stocks were partially
protected, but eventually even large companies couldn't
withstand the poisonous combination of slow economic growth
and high inflation. By late 1974, the industrial average
closed at a low of 577.60. Xerox was trading around $50, down
from about $150 a year or so before; Polaroid tumbled to
under $8 from $74 in the nifty-50 days.
   Inflation isn't a minor threat today, Mr. Cosgrove warns.
Stubborn inflation pressures are being caused by factories
running full tilt and by low unemployment. And that's another
argument for owning big stocks today, he thinks. "Big
companies can pass along price increases; a smaller company
isn't able to do that," Mr. Cosgrove says.
   With many investors seeking safety and earnings
predictability, big stocks may continue to outperform the
broad market for months, says Gail Dudack, market analyst at
S.G. Warburg Securities. She considers the divergence between
the big stocks and the broad market ominous, however. Sooner
or later, she says, some of the Dow stocks will hit the
skids.
   "This market has hurt you, but the Dow doesn't reflect
that," says Ms. Dudack. Secondary issues will continue to lag
behind big stocks for a while, she believes. "Secondary
stocks will fall harder but bounce better" when the eventual
turnaround materializes, Ms. Dudack says.
   Meanwhile, the higher the climb of consumer nondurable
stocks -- such as Coca Cola Co., Procter &amp; Gamble, and Philip
Morris -- in the Dow average, the harder they'll fall later,
Ms. Dudack predicts. Investors will dump these stocks, which,
together with financial issues that are out of favor already
because of rising interest rates, constitute about 45% of the
industrial average. Investors will buy cyclical stocks, she
says, but they make up only 39% of the average.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices tumbled Friday for the third consecutive
session as nervousness about the banking sector added to the
market's woes.
   Bank issues fell across the board in the wake of Moody's
Investors Service's decision to place the debt ratings of
Citicorp, the largest U.S. bank holding company, under review
for a possible downgrade.
   Further weakness in the bond market and worries about the
inflation outlook -- stemming from last week's disappointing
news of a 0.5% rise in March consumer prices -- also kept
stocks under pressure.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 15.99 to 2695.95
Friday. For the week, the average of 30 blue-chip stocks fell
55.85 points, or 2%. Broader averages took a harder fall for
the week: Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.7%, while
the New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 2.5%. The
Dow Jones Equity Market index finished the week off 3.1%.
   Late buying related to the expiration of April stock-index
futures and options helped stocks close well above session
lows, traders said. The industrial average was off as much as
39 points during the session. Declining issues swamped
advancers on the New York Stock Exchange by 1079 to 401. Big
Board volume reached its highest level since March 22 as
174,260,000 shares changed hands.
   Citicorp fell 1/2 to 23 3/8 on 1.6 million shares. The
possible Moody's downgrading would affect $31 billion of the
company's securities, increase its short-term cost of funds
and dent its prestige.
   Among issues of other major banks, Chase Manhattan fell
5/8 to 27 on 1.3 million shares, Manufacturers Hanover
dropped 1 3/8 to 32, Chemical Banking lost 5/8 to 23 1/4 and
J.P. Morgan slid 3/8 to 33 5/8. First Chicago, which reported
first-quarter earnings about 45% below the previous year's
quarter, slipped 1/2 to 30 3/4.
   MNC Financial dropped 3/4 to 16 3/8 after reporting that
its first-quarter earnings were down 89% from a year earlier.
Other regional bank issues that posted sharp losses included
Bank of Boston, which went down 1 to 11 3/8 on 1.1 million
shares; Shawmut National, down 3/8 to 13 3/8; Wells Fargo,
down 1 1/4 to 68 3/4; Sovran Financial, down 1 1/8 to 30 1/2
and Citizens &amp; Southern, down 1/2 to 23 7/8.
   Insurance stocks also were weak, including Marsh &amp;
McLennan, which dropped 1 3/8 to 70 1/8 after its
first-quarter earnings failed to meet analysts' expectations.
Its net income for the period was about 7% higher than a year
ago.
   Elsewhere in the group, Cigna lost 5/8 to 48 3/8; Aetna
Life &amp; Casualty dropped 1 1/2 to 46 7/8; Lincoln National
fell 1 3/4 to 52 3/4 and General Re dropped 2 to 83 1/8.
American General eased 1/2 to 37 1/4; the company noted that
insurance regulators in Texas and two other states have ruled
that Torchmark's solicitation of proxies in its fight for
board seats violates state law.
   General Motors, a standout performer amid last week's
market decline, added 1/8 to 46 3/4 on 2.1 million shares. GM
has boosted prices for options, which could increase the cost
of some of its cars and trucks by as much as $100, despite
sluggish consumer demand.
   Commonwealth Edison lost 1/2 to 31 5/8 on 1.4 million
shares and traded as low as 30 3/8, a 52-week low, after
reporting that its earnings dropped 38% in the first quarter
from a year earlier. Recent analyst projections had called
for stronger earnings.
   Texas Utilities gained 3/8 to 33 1/2 as 1.6 million shares
changed hands. The staff of the Texas Public Utility
Commission recommended an annual rise of $422 million, or
9.78%, in the company's revenue.
   Caterpillar added 5/8 to 60 1/2. Although the company's
first-quarter net income dropped nearly 30% from a year
earlier, the results were better than most analysts had
expected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Business Computers
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ABCC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- American Business Computers Corp. said it
intends to file a shelf registration with the Securities
Exchange Commission for a secondary offering of its common
shares at one cent par value.
   The 7.5 million shares to be registered consist of those
currently held by certain directors and purchasers from
various private placements. The food service products
concern, which is not placing any shares in the offering,
said it expects to file the registration in June or July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Roberts Pharmaceutical Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   RPCX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROBERTS PHARMACEUTICAL Corp. (Eatontown, N.J.) -- Yale
Brozen and A. James Sederis were elected directors of this
drug maker, increasing board membership to seven. Mr. Brozen,
a business and economics consultant, is an adjunct scholar at
the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research
and a professor of business economics emeritus at the
University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business. Mr.
Sederis owns and operates a pharmaceuticals-consulting firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   How the King Maintains His Edge
   ----
   By Jack Falvey
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   GS
</CO>
<IN>
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   When King Camp Gillette founded a company in his name in
1903, he changed forever the way men shaved. In the 1930s,
long before quality became a global buzz word, Gillette
manufactured it into its blades. But Gillette's quality and
dominance in the market is no guarantee of success for
product introduction. It has fallen on its face more than
once. That's why Gillette's latest entry into the
marketplace, the Sensor, is fast becoming a classic
management and marketing success story.
   When Sensor was announced last fall, many business writers
labeled it a "you-bet-your-company" gamble. It was not. In
actual fact, the risk was minimal because Gillette had done
its homework. Since the 1950s, when it temporarily lost
considerable market share to an import stainless steel blade,
it has made a continuous substantial commitment to research
and development. The secret to its reduced risk new product
introductions is close contact with the consumer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is estimated that Gillette spoke with upward of 10,000
men during the design phase of the Sensor. Further, it shave
tested the product in-house for years on a panel of 500
employees who dutifully (voluntarily) came to work each day
unshaven. When the testing of its Sensor system produced a
rating of roughly 20% or better increased superiority over
both its existing products (which hold a 62% market share)
and all competitors, Gillette then made the decision to
launch the product as its latest leap forward.
   Once technological performance and superiority were
achieved and verified, it was then necessary to bring the
product to the marketplace in such a way as to take full
advantage of all the work done thus far. What was needed was
a person to lead that effort.
   Unfortunately, Gillette's management team was not known
for its leadership talent. It barely survived two hostile
takeovers which hinged on this perceived deficiency. Profits
had eroded in the U.S. market because of an aggressive move
by Bic in the late 1970s to change the rules of the
competition to a contest of disposable, bulk packed, low cost
shavers. Even though Gillette had preemptively brought out
its Good News disposable in anticipation of Bic's U.S.
introduction, it had failed to decisively beat back the
French companies' challenge.
   There was one marketplace where Gillette successfully
maintained profits against Bic, and that, paradoxically
enough, was Europe. There, for some reason, Gillette systems
(non-disposables) were holding market share. Gillette
determined that the reason was most likely the actions of its
man in London, John Simons. A 20-year company veteran, he was
virtually unknown in Boston (world headquarters) -- except by
his results.
   Mr. Simons took his tested European marketing strategy and
applied it immediately upon arrival in the U.S. to Gillette's
products, well prior to the Sensor introduction. He shifted
all advertising to one theme and one product. He concentrated
on Gillette's Atra Plus system and on the theme of it being
"the best there is."
   When Sensor was ready, he did not change the advertising,
just the product. The message that had won him the market in
Europe was now being sent around the world, literally. The
commercials were all done with voice-over narrations so that
they could be done in any language. Sensor is advertised in
Japan with the same visuals and dialogue used in the U.S. and
Europe. It has gained market share there as it has everywhere
else. It is proving itself (and its marketing strategy) to be
a global success.
   The first U.S. commercials ran on the Super Bowl in
January. Four million razors were sold into the trade and
were in the stores when the campaign broke. Launch quantities
were gone in record time. The factory in South Boston,
already working three shifts, further increased personnel and
accelerated orders for additional equipment. The European
facility in Berlin made similar upward adjustments as planned
product introductions in several additional countries were
temporarily delayed and advertising was rescheduled
accordingly.
   Because the Sensor has so many moving parts, design
patents, plus manufacturing complexities requiring an
extensive investment in custom capital equipment and such a
head start in global marketing, it is anticipated that it
will take competitors like Schick (a traditional follower
behind Gillette) some time to come up with anything in the
same league as Sensor. Bic, its disposable nemesis, has never
shown any indication of wanting to compete in any product
where it has not established itself as a technologically
comparable or superior manufacturer. It remains to be seen if
they attempt to rise to Gillette's challenge or remain
content with their disposable shaver market niche.
   The management lessons to be learned, even at this early
stage, are many. Long-term research and development programs
do pay off. Big companies can come up with meaningful
innovations, even on well-established products. There is no
substitute for leadership -- there must be a "man on the
ground" to inspire the troops and get things done. Going far
afield to find the right person who has proven himself is a
strong strategy. Global marketing works. A consistent,
powerful advertising message delivered in sufficient
"tonnage" backed by a product of the highest quality always
has been a basic of marketing and is proving its validity
once again on a grand scale. A quality product can be
manufactured anywhere in the world, even in economically
underdeveloped regions of the world, like South Boston.
   Sensor appears to be a classic example of all of the
above. Some say that it will take another six months or year
to determine if the product is a success, but stock price
already has increased 10% since introduction. If history is
indeed prologue, the next chapter should be a consumer
product barn burner.
   ---
   Mr. Falvey is a speaker and writer living in Londonerry,
N.H., and was sales personnel development manager for
Gillette from 1973-78.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Chicago Posts 45% Earnings Drop,
   Denies Any Improper Disclosure of Data
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FNB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- First Chicago Corp.'s first-quarter profit, as
expected, fell sharply, mostly because of an increase in
troubled real estate loans, and the company denied that it
improperly told analysts about the problems before broadly
disclosing the information.
   The parent company of First National Bank of Chicago, with
$49.99 billion in assets, said net income for the quarter
tumbled 45% to $68.6 million, or 93 cents a share, from
$124.7 million, or $1.85 a share, a year earlier. Both
periods include a small amount of tax benefits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, Barry F. Sullivan, chairman and chief executive
officer, denied in a meeting with reporters before the
company's annual meeting that First Chicago had informed Wall
Street analysts about its looming first-quarter problems
before publicly disclosing the information. "Our people
categorically deny it," Mr. Sullivan said.
   Analysts on Wall Street have said they were told during
the middle of March about prospects for a first-quarter
profit decline. Increased real estate problems and
lower-than-expected trading and venture capital gains were
the reasons analysts have said they were given. Analysts'
profit estimates were trimmed, and First Chicago's stock came
under heavy selling pressure during that period.
   Friday, First Chicago shares dropped 50 cents to close at
$30.75 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. On March
29, First Chicago publicly disclosed that its profit for the
period would be cut by about half, citing those reasons. This
forecast was more specific than anything the analysts said
they were given.
   Since then, two lawsuits have been filed on behalf of
First Chicago shareholders, accusing management of failing to
promptly and fully disclose the problems. Mr. Sullivan
asserted Friday that the suits are without merit.
   Some analysts were contacted by staff members of the
Securities and Exchange Commission after the stock decline
and news accounts of the briefing of analysts by First
Chicago. James J. McDermott Jr., head of stock research at
Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc. in New York, said he got such a
call from an SEC staff member in Chicago asking about his
discussion with First Chicago -- "a series of what looked
like form questions."
   Mr. McDermott said a First Chicago official volunteered to
him in mid-March that an increase in problem real estate
loans was coming, and further that "a big credit was going to
go on" nonperforming status, and that it was in Southern
California.
   Mr. McDermott said he was told by someone outside the bank
that the loan was on Los Angeles-area projects of VMS Realty
Partners, a troubled real estate concern. A bank official
confirmed the name for him, he said, and when he asked
whether it was $150 million or $250 million, "they
sympathized with the higher amount."
   Other analysts had similarly specific information.
   Mr. Sullivan said First Chicago hasn't heard from the SEC
on the matter. He wouldn't comment on VMS. Responding to a
question on the briefing of analysts, he added: "All your
observations are incorrect."
   Anita Nagler, associate regional director in the SEC's
Chicago office, wouldn't comment.
   The first-quarter figures would have been worse but for a
$52 million pretax gain from the partial settlement of a bank
unit's pension obligations.
   The first-quarter results included a $160 million
provision for loan losses, more than double the
fourth-quarter's $75 million provision. First Chicago charged
off $374 million of loans in the quarter, mostly loans to
lesser-developed countries on which reserves had been set up
in previous periods.
   Nonperforming loans rose 10% to $1.05 billion. The real
estate portion of that is $375 million, up from $172 million
at year end. Also, First Chicago has $217 million of real
estate assets it has repossessed or otherwise taken ownership
of.
   Mr. Sullivan said he expects the loss provision to return
to more normal levels in the remaining quarters of 1990,
calling the first period "an interruption."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Borden Says Net Rose
   6.9% in First Quarter
   On 4.1% Sales Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BN
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Borden Inc.'s first-quarter profit rose 6.9%
on 4.1% sales growth, with strong results in grocery and
specialty products more than offsetting lower profit in
snacks and international products.
   Also, Borden directors declared a 10.4% dividend increase
to 26.5 cents a share, payable June 1 to stock of record May
11.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the quarter, Borden reported net income of $63.1
million, or 43 cents a share, up from the year-earlier $59
million, or 40 cents a share. Sales climbed to $1.89 billion
from $1.82 billion.
   In the grocery and specialty products division, operating
profit improved 38%, led by the North American pasta
operations and such niche grocery products as Borden,
Lite-Line and Fisher cheeses, Cremora non-dairy creamer and
food-service products.
   Operating profit for snacks and international consumer
products fell 18% on an 11% sales increase to $454 million.
The company said profit was better in the European sweet,
baked snacks group, and in the Wise Foods and Humpty Dumpty
North American salty snack units.
   The dairy division posted a 12% drop in profit on a 7.2%
decline in sales to $490 million. The sales decline reflected
the absence of results from the company's former butter
business, which was shed in December. Borden said it expects
improved profit in the dairy division, citing declining costs
for milk.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Borden closed at $31.875 a share, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Moves Toward Economic Sanctions
   In Bid to Cut Soviet Pressure on Lithuania
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9E
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   ISLAMORADA, Fla. -- The Bush administration is moving to
curtail an array of planned investment and trade assistance
to the Soviet Union in the wake of Moscow's efforts to crush
the Lithuanian independence drive.
   Although the administration hasn't specified what steps it
is prepared to take, officials traveling with President Bush
here over the weekend said the likely course will be to
backtrack on an extensive list of trade and economic
concessions urgently sought by Moscow to repair the faltering
Soviet economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the U.S., such minimal punitive measures could help
assuage mounting pressure, especially from U.S.
conservatives, for a harder line against Moscow, while
preserving the momentum toward arms-control agreements
important to both sides. The administration is eager to stay
on track with wide-ranging arms-control talks scheduled for
May, as well as to sign a conventional-forces reduction
agreement later in the year.
   Mr. Bush had proposed several trade measures in his
meeting with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev last December,
including extensive technical assistance and an end to
certain legal restrictions on U.S.-Soviet trade, in an effort
to help the Soviet leader calm domestic discontent and show
concrete results from his aggressive moves on arms control.
   While increased trade with the Soviets would have little
initial impact on the U.S. economy, officials said the
measures are eagerly sought by Moscow after five years of
economic restructuring has failed to improve the average
Soviet's standard of living.
   The administration signaled its decision Friday after days
of noncommittal reaction to Moscow's campaign of intimidation
against the Baltic republic, a campaign that included the
cutting off of oil and gas supplies last week, the takeover
of a printing plant and reports of a halt of some food
supplies.
   After initially saying the White House would have no
comment on Lithuania, administration spokeman Marlin
Fitzwater issued a statement at midday Friday saying the
president is "increasingly concerned by news reports of an
economic crackdown" in the republic. "Although our
information is sketchy, we are disturbed that this signals
another unfortunate step in the pressure being brought to
bear on Lithuania by the Soviet Union."
   Mr. Fitzwater said the president has stepped up
consultations with the allies and expects to conclude them
early this week, when he will advise Congress of his
intentions. An administration spokesman said later that the
administration began sending cables to the allies as early as
Wednesday.
   Mr. Fitzwater also said that Mr. Bush wasn't planning to
coordinate a multilateral response to the crackdown, but was
merely advising the allies of his intentions. And he was
careful to reiterate that the U.S. wasn't planning to take
any military action in the region.
   Among the likely courses of action would be to withhold
U.S. support for observer status for the Soviet Union at the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the West's primary
trade-regulatory body. Mr. Bush could also withhold
cooperation on a broad agreement to liberalize trade, which
both sides had hoped to sign by the time the two leaders meet
for an arms-control summit May 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Tektronix's President,
   Chief Officer Resigns
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TEK
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Ailing Tektronix Inc. said its
president and chief executive officer, David P. Friedley,
resigned.
   Robert Lundeen, chairman, will serve as interim chief
executive officer, and William Walker, a director, will serve
as interim president, until a permanent successor to Mr.
Friedley can be named, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tektronix didn't elaborate on Mr. Friedley's departure.
The maker of electronic measurement instruments has seen
earnings flag during the past four years owing to slow growth
and poor acceptance of new products.
   For its third fiscal quarter ended March 3, Tektronix
reported a net loss of $25.5 million, or 88 cents a share, on
revenue of $421.9 million. It had a profit of $6.4 million,
or 22 cents a share, on revenue of $434.1 million the year
earlier.
   The company has eliminated as many as 1,400 positions
since the beginning of the current fiscal year. Mr. Friedley,
who became president and chief executive in 1987, recently
said that he had hoped product introductions would provide
the company with renewed earnings growth but conceded that
results have continued to be disappointing. He said the
company's woes stemmed in part from a downturn in the defense
industry, a major Tektronix customer.
   On Friday, Tektronix shares closed at $13.375, up 50 cents
a share, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harold Simmons, NL
   Agree to Sell Stakes
   In Georgia Gulf Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   NL GGC VHI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Investor Harold Simmons and NL Industries Inc.
agreed to sell the stub stock and debt they will receive from
Georgia Gulf Corp.'s recapitalization for the equivalent of
$14 a share, Michael A. Snetzer, a top Simmons aide, said.
   Through NL, Mr. Simmons owns 2,300,200 shares of Georgia
Gulf, or a 9.6% stake, purchased at an average price of about
$37 a share. Under Georgia Gulf's planned recapitalization,
approved last week by its shareholders, holders will receive
$30 cash, a share of stub stock and some debt for each share
outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Simmons's transaction would give him $44 cash for each
of his shares, or a profit of $16.1 million on his Georgia
Gulf investment. The sale of securities is on a when-issued
basis, meaning it is contingent on Georgia Gulf completing
its recapitalization.
   Georgia Gulf has said that it hopes to complete the
recapitalization soon. Georgia Gulf, an Atlanta chemicals
concern, proposed the transaction after Mr. Simmons offered
to acquire the company or help it recapitalize last year.
   Mr. Simmons made several offers for Georgia Gulf,
including a $45 a share, or $1 billion, tender offer, before
agreeing to support Georgia Gulf's proposal. Mr. Simmons said
he withdrew his tender offer because he estimated that the
recapitalization had a value of at least $45 a share.
   Mr. Snetzer, who is president of Valhi Inc., Mr. Simmons'
holding company, said he doesn't know the buyer or buyers of
the stub stock and debt, but said the transaction will be
handled by Jefferies &amp; Co. NL is a Houston-based specialty
chemicals company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manville Corp.'s Net
   Fell in 1st Quarter;
   Major Charge Is Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7C
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL CHV
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Manville Corp. reported lower first-quarter
earnings, largely because of a charge to reflect tax changes
in Brazil, on a 2% increase in sales.
   The building products concern reported net income of $24.9
million, or 18 cents a share, compared with $34.3 million, or
26 cents a share, the year earlier. The company said flat
year-to-year pretax earnings were offset by an $8.5 million,
or seven-cents-a-share charge, to adjust for tax legislation
recently enacted in Brazil, where the company has
forest-products operations. Sales increased to $517.9
million, from $508.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Expenses from plant start-ups and expansions, in addition
to a fall-off in automotive sales, cut income in the
company's fiber glass business. But strength in the company's
international forest products operation offset weaknesses in
domestic construction sales, the company said.
   In an unrelated matter, Manville said it is considering
the sale of its 50% interest in the Stillwater platinum and
palladium mining operations in southwest Montana. Manville
and Chevron Resources Co. are partners in the mine, which is
the only platinum mine in the U.S. and one of the few in the
world.
   Salomon Brothers has been retained to solicit bids for the
property about which, Manville said, it has recently received
several unsolicited inquiries. The company has stated it is
seeking to focus its efforts on its core businesses of
filtration, forest and glass-fiber products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International
   Recovery to Report
   Earnings Doubled
   ----
   By Rick Christie
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8B
</SO>
<CO>
   INT
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- International Recovery Corp. expects to report
that net income more than doubled in the fourth quarter ended
March 31.
   Ralph R. Weiser, chairman, said the company estimates net
climbed to $1.4 million, or 30 cents a share, from $615,000,
or 17 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue more than
doubled to about $50 million from $19.9 millin.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the fiscal year, the environmental and
aviation-services company expects to post net of about $4
million, or 87 cents a share, up 82% from $2.2 million, or 62
cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $140 million
from $64.5 million.
   Mr. Weiser said the increases in per-share earnings came
on top of the company's issue of about 900,000 additional
common shares last spring.
   Two strategic acquisitions that the company made last year
have fueled the growth. To expand its aviation fueling
operations at foreign airports, the company in October
acquired certain assets of JCo Energy Partners Ltd. of
Houston for about $5.5 million. The acquisition places
International Recovery's Advance Petroleum subsidiary, which
services commercial aircraft, at 300 airports outside the
U.S.
   The company also acquired Cherokee Group Inc. of
Hollywood, Fla., to bolster its underground storage-tank
business. "It was a natural fit with our other environmental
services businesses," Mr. Weiser said. The company is also
involved in soil clean-up, and storage and disposal of used
oil and hazardous waste.
   Together, the acquisitions added about $55 million to
revenue for fiscal 1990.
   Mr. Weiser said International Recovery now plans to expand
its aviation business internally. The company diversified
into aviation fueling services, which now contribute about
50% of profits, to insulate its oil-recovery business from
the uncertainties of the oil market.
   The company is still in the market for further
acquisitions to integrate into its slower-growing
environmental business, Mr. Weiser said. "We're fortunate to
be involved in two growth businesses," he said, adding that
every major purchase of new aircraft by an airline puts more
used aircraft into the markets International Recovery serves
-- such as the fast-growing air-cargo industry.
   He said, however, that the company still has no plans to
declare a dividend, as long as it is in a "growth mode."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   First Union Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   FTU WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   FIRST UNION Corp. (Charlotte, N.C.) -- John A. Mitchell
and G. Kennedy Thompson, formerly executive vice presidents
at the First Union National Bank of Florida unit of this
bank-holding company, were named to the new posts of vice
chairmen at the Jacksonville, Fla., unit. Larry J. Wertz,
formerly a senior vice president at the Florida unit, was
named an executive vice president there and remains its chief
financial officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sri Lanka Undergoing Economic Revival
   Amid Scars of 7-Year Ethnic Uprisings
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLOMBO, Sri Lanka -- Tourists are returning to Sri
Lanka's palm-fringed beaches and foreign investment is rising
as this island nation cautiously climbs out of seven years of
ethnic violence.
   The foreign investment, bedrock of the island economy, is
on the upswing with the apparent end of armed rebellions by
Sinhalese nationalists and Tamil separatists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And the return of the tourists to its Indian Ocean resorts
has triggered hope of a rebound in the largest foreign
exchange earning industry, which has been slumping after
seasons of empty hotel rooms.
   "There has been an economic turnaround," said Neelan
Tiruchelvam, a lawyer and respected political analyst. "The
balance of payments has improved considerably and the stock
market is buoyant."
   The Colombo Stock Exchange reported April 12 that its
all-share index had reached 326, its highest level ever. The
index has risen 154.5 points since the beginning of the year.
   There were no official figures for the country's balance
of payments, which reached a staggering 5.8 billion-rupee
($146.2 million) deficit for the first six months of 1989.
   But analysts say the deficit had been curtailed by
increased remittances from Sri Lankans working abroad, better
trade and an increase in the prices of tea, one of the
country's principal exports.
   Last year, an uprising by Sinhalese extremists derailed
the country's economy. Officials and diplomats agree
privately that the government of President Ranasinghe
Premadasa was close to being overthrown before a wave of
reprisal killings crushed the militants.
   The government said strikes and attacks on economic
targets by militants of the pro-Sinhalese People's Liberation
Front cost Sri Lanka at least 14 billion rupees, or 5.5% of
its gross domestic product.
   The north and east of the nation, dominated by the Tamil
minority, appears to be shrugging off the effects of a
seven-year war for independence by Tamil rebels.
   The militants and the government agreed to a cease-fire
last summer, and the guerrillas almost immediately began
speaking of plans to put the region's mostly agricultural
economy back on its feet.
   Revenue was lost because the rebellions frightened off
tourists and investors.
   "We were beginning to worry," said Terrence S. Coldham,
managing director of Nunan Sapphire Ltd., an Australian
mining firm that is setting up a sapphire processing plant
with an investment of $455,000.
   "Our commitment in Sri Lanka hadn't changed either way,
but we were afraid we wouldn't succeed," he said.
   But now, Mr. Coldham said, the situation on the island has
undergone a vast change. "The improvement in the whole
country is fantastic," he said. "It's in the air. Even the
streets are cleaner."
   "We get about 20 inquiries a day," said Bandula Fernando,
a senior executive in the Greater Colombo Economic
Commission, the regulatory body for foreign investment in Sri
Lanka. "Of course, very few translate into projects, but the
interest is tremendous."
   Mr. Fernando said the major attractions for a foreign
investor were the low cost of labor, the wide use of English
and Sri Lanka's location on major sea routes linking
Southeast Asia with the West.
   "Ultimately the investor decides on his balance sheet, so
we are trying to give him all the incentives we can," he
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Posts Trade Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan posted a trade deficit of $182 million for
the first 10 days of April, compared with a $2.52 billion
surplus a year earlier.
   Imports rose 43% to $7.04 billion from $4.91 billion,
while exports fell 7.8% to $6.86 billion from $7.44 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In March, Japan's trade surplus widened to $7.09 billion
from $6.61 billion a year earlier. For the fiscal year March
31, Japan's trade surplus narrowed to $59.7 billion from
$78.9 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inland Steel Earnings
   In 1st Quarter Fell 62%
   Due to Lower Volume
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3F
</SO>
<CO>
   IAD
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Inland Steel Industries Inc. reported a 62%
drop in first-quarter earnings as a result of lower volume
and prices.
   In the quarter, the steelmaker earned $18.7 million, or 37
cents a share on revenue of $992.5 million, compared with
$49.4 million, or $1.38 a share, on revenue of $1.1 billion
in the year-ago quarter. Steel shipments dropped 10% to
1,153,000 tons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest quarter includes operating profit of $30.6
million, including a one-time $8.7 million utility rate
refund from the company's steel segment and $9.8 million from
the service center segment.
   While disappointing, the company noted that first-quarter
results were higher than the fourth quarter of 1989, when the
company earned only nine cents a share. The company
attributed the recent improvement to higher shipments and
reduced operating costs. However, it also noted that volume
remained disappointing, indicating continued inventory
reductions in automotive and service center sectors.
Moreover, steel prices seem to have stabilized slightly below
the fourth quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Bunny Capers
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   So Michael Milken has agreed to plead guilty to crimes
carrying a $600 million fine and a jail sentence of perhaps
five or six years. Ivan Boesky got three years and $100
million for trading suitcases of cash and bribing fiduciaries
to forsake their duty. We will be fascinated to learn
precisely what were Mr. Milken's transgressions.
   In preparation, let us puzzle over the crimes of Robert
Freeman, sentenced to four months and $1 million for being on
the other end of the phone line when someone said "your Bunny
has a good nose." With Richard Wigton and Timothy Tabor, Mr.
Freeman was one of the Giuliani Three, arrested spectacularly
and released to seemingly perpetual limbo. In the end Mr.
Freeman agreed to a plea bargain confessing only the "Bunny"
count. Prosecutors' attempts to sentence him for other crimes
with no conviction or even indictment were dispatched by
Judge Pierre Leval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the sentencing, Judge Leval expressed some sympathy for
Mr. Freeman's situation. But he said a jail sentence was
needed as a warning to other players in the market. He said,
"It has astonished me to read in the press that conduct,
illegal conduct, criminal conduct, of the nature that is
before me now should be condoned or accepted as a trifle
because it is done every day, because this is how the market
for arbitrage functions."
   The facts were these: Mr. Freeman, chief arbitrager for
Goldman Sachs, had acquired Beatrice stock and options,
betting that Kohlberg Kravis Roberts would complete its
leveraged buy-out. In his job of keeping up on the news, Mr.
Freeman called Henry Kravis, who he recalls didn't say much
but was "very abrupt and appeared anxious." Thinking this
over, Mr. Freeman began to unload his Beatrice position the
next morning.
   Then he got a call from another arb, Bernard Lasker, known
as Bunny, who said he'd heard rumors about problems with the
deal. Mr. Freeman made other calls, including one to KKR
investment banker Martin Siegel to ask about the rumors. At
one point Mr. Siegel said, "Your Bunny has a good nose." By
the time this conversation took place, Mr. Freeman had
already sold two-thirds of the Beatrice stock he sold that
day.
   We confess, Judge Leval, that to us it looks a lot more
like "the way the market for arbitrage functions" than it
looks like "criminal behavior." No one alleges that the
conversation with Mr. Kravis was criminal, since he was a
principal and not a fiduciary. The case turns on the meaning
of Mr. Siegel's "Bunny" remark.
   Just what did this mean? Prosecutors hoped to prove it
meant, "Good guess, make a bundle, and you owe me a good tip
on the next transaction where you're an insider." This would
indeed be a serious matter, but prosecutors could not prove
it. To us, the remark means, "We're both adults, and
obviously we can't talk much about this, but there's no point
in my lying to you about what you already know." Is this a
crime?
   Upon hearing the "Bunny" remark, the theory apparently
goes, a bell should have gone off in Mr. Freeman's head that
his initial intuition had crossed the line into "inside
information," and that he should therefore cancel his selling
program. While this seems a stretch, maybe the SEC should
send him a letter saying don't do it again. But if it's a
reason to jail someone, or even put him out of the securities
business, legitimate information-seeking will become a
dangerous game, and the efficient pricing in markets will
suffer.
   As Judge Leval said, it was "a matter of a temptation, an
indiscretion, all of which took place so far as I can see in
a manner of minutes." In other words, there was no
premeditated intent, no bags of cash or quid pro quo. Mr.
Freeman was not Mr. Boesky. Indeed, we find it doubtful his
confessed transgressions would have been of any interest to
prosecutors had they not bungled the initial case and tried
to save face through maximum pressure.
   Mr. Milken's confessed crimes, we're told, include neither
the maximum-pressure RICO counts nor "insider trading." So we
wait to see whether they're like Mr. Boesky's bribes or like
Mr. Freeman's hypertechnical transgressions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Columbia S&amp;L Sues
   Home Insurance Unit
   For Ending Coverage
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CSV ABC
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association sued
Home Insurance Co. of Illinois for rescinding liability
coverage for its officers and directors on April 5, four days
after the thrift announced it was insolvent.
   According to a complaint filed in state court here,
Columbia alleges that the unit of New York-based Home
Insurance Co. acted in "bad faith" by refusing to provide a
defense or coverage for five lawsuits against Columbia and
its officers relating to Columbia's financial problems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   George T. Scharffenberger, president and chief executive
officer of Ambase Corp., parent of Home Insurance, said he
"didn't know of the suit" and wasn't aware of any details.
   Columbia alleges that Home began "a series of improper
efforts" to avoid its obligations "almost immediately" after
Columbia announced substantial losses last October. The $10
million policy was to cover the period from June 30, 1989,
through April 21, 1990, the complaint says; and Columbia paid
premiums of $121,000.
   Among the alleged reasons given by Home for rejecting
coverage were that a lawsuit had not been disclosed to it in
time, and that another complaint was based on "pending
litigation" in another court, Columbia said. At one point,
Columbia allegedly was told that one of Home's underwriters
made an "error of judgment" in binding the policy. That, the
complaint charges, was not a proper basis for denying
coverage either.
   Columbia seeks unspecified damages for "significant
financial and emotional damage" resulting from the coverage
denials. It also wants a court declaration that cancellation
of the policy was improper and an order barring Home from
denying coverage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Apache Corp. Says
   First-Quarter Profit
   Jumped to $11 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   APA
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Apache Corp. expects to report that its net
income doubled for the first quarter to about $11 million, or
25 cents a share, from last year's $5.4 million, or 16 cents
a share, Raymond Plank, chairman and chief executive officer,
said.
   Mr. Plank said in an interview that those expectations
primarily were the result of unusually strong natural gas
prices in January; he said earnings may exceed estimates by
10% to 20%. The company had about 44.6 million shares
outstanding at March 31, up from about 33 million a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue for the quarter is expected to be around $68
million, up from $60.7 million last year; cash flow for the
period is expected to exceed $40 million.
   However, Mr. Plank warned that "the first quarter is not
going to be indicative of the results for the year ahead,"
primarily because natural gas prices have fallen sharply
since January. But, he said, "with higher volumes and higher
earnings from marketing-related operations, we should see a
continuing reasonably favorable comparison to last year."
   Earlier this month, Apache sold half its interest in its
Nagasco Inc. gas-gathering system and its marketing
operations to Natural Gas Clearinghouse, a venture in which
Apache owns 31.5%. Mr. Plank said that about 20% of the
company's profit, or roughly $2.2 million, came from its
natural-gas marketing business during the first quarter. That
business contributed profit of $4.3 million in all of 1989.
   The quarterly results also were aided by increased
natural-gas sales from six new platforms in the Gulf of
Mexico. Oil production for the quarter, however, was down 4%
because of a weather-related shutdown at one platform.
   Mr. Plank said that Apache currently plans to drill about
200 wells this year, although it may re-evaluate its plans if
gas prices remain depressed. The present plan calls for the
company to spend about $80 million to $90 million on drilling
and production this year, up from $73 million last year.
   The company plans a total exploration and production
budget of $140 million to $150 million, up from $126.6
million last year. Mr. Plank said Apache is actively
investing in prospects overseas. Currently, all of Apache's
production is domestic.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Caterpillar Net Fell
   30% in First Period
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CAT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
FARM EQUIPMENT (FAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PEORIA, Ill. -- Caterpillar Inc. said first-quarter net
income fell 30% to $99 million, or 97 cents a share, from
$141 million, or $1.39 a share, a year earlier.
   Sales rose 9% to $2.87 billion from $2.63 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The maker of heavy equipment said the decline in profit
reflected higher costs because of wage and benefit increases
for payrolls, including higher costs for health care, product
development, factory modernization and other company
programs. The company also cited higher material costs and
depreciation expenses. The effects of the weaker U.S dollar
also had an unfavorable effect on costs in Europe, the
company said.
   Caterpillar said its first-quarter sales were "somewhat
stronger than anticipated." The company attributed the
increase in sales to higher prices but only slightly higher
volume.
   Sales outside of the U.S. rose 12%, reflecting higher
machines sales in developing countries, particularly the
Pacific Rim region. The company also said demand rose in a
number of Latin American countries. In the U.S., Caterpillar
said machine demand was strong in petroleum and coal-mining
applications, but declined in the construction and forest
products, metals and nonmetals mining industries.
   The company said U.S. sales of engines were "well-below"
year-earlier because of continued weakness in demand from
truck makers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Taiwan Export Orders Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI -- Export orders for Taiwanese products increased
to $5.93 billion in March, up 18% from February but down 5.2%
from March 1989, the Economics Ministry said.
   The ministry said the higher number of working days in
March contributed to the monthly gain. Furthermore, March
usually is a big month for export orders, it said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among the biggest gains, orders for electronic goods
jumped to $1.43 billion in March from $1.12 billion in
February, while orders for shoes rose to $417 million from
$333 million.
   For the quarter ended March 31, export orders fell to
$15.88 billion from $16.35 billion a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Jonathan Kandell
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LATAM LABOR FREST SANYY AFRIC JAPAN J.NIW J.TYE
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   EXCHANGE RATE FEARS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a telephone survey carried out during a lengthy
television interview with West German central bank President
Karl Otto Poehl, a startling 86% of respondents opposed a
one-to-one exchange rate for East German marks into West
German marks.
   The East German government has demanded parity between the
two currencies because of fears by its citizens that their
purchasing power will plummet if their country unites with
West Germany and accepts a lower exchange rate. But West
Germans are concerned that the one-to-one rate would
destabilize their currency and lead to rapid inflation.
   More than 202,000 responses were recorded in last week's
survey by the television station ZDF, smashing a previous
record of 86,000. The station warned that the survey was a
random sampling that shouldn't be considered representative.
   But a central bank spokesman said that "the fact that such
a huge number of people responded gives the result a more
representative quality."
                                                                                                       

   MEXICAN NEWSPRINT
                                                                                                       

   The Mexican government lifted its control over newsprint,
a monopoly often criticized as an obstacle to press freedom.
In announcing the move at a gathering of newspaper editors
and publishers, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari said
newsprint could now be freely imported, though a 15% tariff
would be levied. In past years, there were frequent
allegations that the government withheld newsprint supplies
to opposition newspapers and periodicals.
                                                                                                       

   JOBLESS POLES

   Unemployment in Poland reached nearly a third of a million
in mid-April, or about 2.4% of the work force, the Labor
Ministry said. Many state companies are slashing their labor
forces in order to survive as the government cuts subsidies
and attempts to inject competition into the stagnant economy.
                                                                                                       

   FREEZING OUT LITHUANIA
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet Union has asked a Japanese consortium to change
its plans to build a refrigerator compressor plant in
Lithuania and instead locate it elsewhere in the Soviet
Union. The request was reported by Sanyo Electric Co., a
member of the consortium, which also includes trading concern
Nissho Iwai and Toyo Engineering Corp. Moscow is currently
applying economic sanctions against Lithuania to force it to
withdraw its declaration of independence from the Soviet
Union. Officials of the Japanese consortium say they haven't
decided whether to accept the Soviet request.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH AFRICAN DIPLOMACY
                                                                                                       

   South Africa opened a permanent mission in Budapest in a
move that could herald full diplomatic ties with Hungary. The
mission, short of a formal embassy, gives South Africa its
first diplomatic foothold in Eastern Europe. Hungary's state
news agency MTI said Budapest would open a similar office in
Pretoria within a month.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE GROWTH
                                                                                                       

   Despite the recent decline in the yen as well as in stock
and bond prices, the Japanese economy will expand at a still
respectable, inflation-adjusted 4.3% pace in the fiscal year
ending March 31, 1991, predicts a leading think tank. The
Wako Research Institute of Economics said strong personal
consumption and corporate investment in plant and equipment
will compensate for weaknesses elsewhere in the economy.
                                                                                                       

   BRAZILIAN COUCH BOOM
                                                                                                       

   President Fernando Collor de Mello's drastic economic plan
has Brazilian psychiatrists laboring overtime to give solace
to the nation's wealthy.
   "I've been working 14 hours a day since the plan was
announced. The rich feel a mixture of panic, astonishment,
anger and depression, and they want to talk about it," said
Flavio Gikovate, director of the Institute of Psychotherapy.
Other psychiatrists in Sao Paulo and Rio, the largest cities,
report sharp increases in the number of patients, most of
them affluent.
   Mr. Collor's plan, in effect since March 16, set an
18-month freeze on savings accounts of more than $1,200;
limited withdrawals from money market funds to $600, or 20%
of an account, whichever is greater; and froze about $115
billion -- 80% of all bank deposits.
   Most of Brazil's poor majority weren't directly hit
because few had savings. And with inflation drastically
reduced during the past month, many of the worst-off say
their salaries buy more.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   After months of protests against his government, Gabon's
President Omar Bongo agreed to end single-party rule and
permit democracy in the West African country. Opposition
parties will be allowed to form immediately to contest
legislative elections this year. . . . Beginning in June,
residents everywhere in the U.S. will be able to listen
round-the-clock to Japanese-language radio service. Most of
the programs will be from Radio 1 of NHK, the Japan
Broadcasting Corp., via a communications satellite.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FAA Certifies Boeing Jets
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Boeing Co. said the Federal Aviation
Administration certified its 757 and 767 twin-jets for
additional extended-range services.
   The approvals allow the Boeing jetliners to fly more
direct routes on long overwater trips or over undeveloped
land areas, saving on fuel and flight times. The
certifications are for the 757-200 and 767-200 and -300
jetliners, with specific engine combinations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Salamander Draws Fire From Developers
   ---
   Endangered `Tigers'
   Block New York Projects
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOUTHAMPTON, N.Y. -- On a rainy night in early spring,
Andrew Sabin, chest high in icy-cold water in a kettle hole
formed by glaciers 10,000 years ago, trains his flashlight on
something moving.
   "I don't think it's a tiger, though," he says, inspecting
it more closely. Mr. Sabin, by day a precious-metals trader
and refiner, often spends his nights out hunting for the
Eastern tiger salamander, a striped amphibian that has roused
a fierce conflict between environmentalists and developers in
the posh East End of Long Island.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In most parts of the country, the tiger salamander, or
Ambystoma Tigrinum, is very elusive, emerging from its
underground habitat only once during the year to breed in
shallow ponds for a couple of weeks. Even then the
salamander, about the size of a hand, is difficult to spot.
   But in the Hamptons, where the ocean beckons and land with
a view costs as much as $1 million an acre, some cynics say
the heavier the building permit applications, the greater the
number of salamander sightings.
   "The joke around the planning department is that if it's
such an endangered species, then somebody must be carrying it
around from site to site," says Doug Love, a reporter for the
Southampton Press.
   Discovery of the salamander on land scheduled for
development is no laughing matter. Protected by state and
local environmental laws, the creature's presence can cost a
developer millions of dollars, sometimes delaying building
several years while an impact study is done. State law bars
development within a 100-foot radius around a breeding pond.
"If you want to develop a piece of property, it's clearly in
your interest not to have a tiger salamander there," says
John Bennett, Southampton town attorney.
   Edwin M. Schwenk, executive director of the Long Island
Builders Institute, a trade group, declares: "Unfortunately
in many instances, one of our people buys a property, goes in
fat, dumb and happy, and lo and behold, six months later
somebody comes up with a tiger salamander." A sighting of a
tiger salamander in a manmade pond in Nassau County cost
developer Gerald Monter two years, $9 million, and one
building.
   The little tiger salamander has figured into even larger
issues. In November, the Long Island Pine Barrens Society
filed a lawsuit to halt about $11.2 billion of proposed
development on more than 100,000 acres in the pine barrens.
The environmental group wants a study done of the cumulative
effects of development on drinking water and the habitat of
rare and endangered species, such as the tiger salamander.
   The salamanders, which can grow as long as 13 inches, were
believed to have largely disappeared from Long Island -- the
only place they are found in New York State -- for 30 or 40
years before John Cryan, a state biologist, identified
breeding sites in the late '70s and early '80s.
   Mr. Sabin, a self-described naturalist, discovered 10 or
11 previously unknown populations on the South Fork in the
mid- to late '80s. Because the creatures' reappearance
coincided with a drive toward greater development, some
suspect they are being used as a convenient tool by
environmentalists, and by wealthy landowners who don't want
their views obscured.
   "Some people will use an environmental argument not merely
to save a species but also to stop a development totally,"
contends Lee Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island
Regional Planning Board. Says Mr. Schwenk: "We have a
syndrome out here that the last one who moves in here wants
to be the last one that's allowed."
   "If nothing else works they bring out the salamander" says
Paul Council, Southampton's director of community
development. "They wait until the eleventh hour to find these
things. Compared to people, trees, birds and bunnies are now
getting priority."
   Word around town is that getting hold of a tiger
salamander isn't too hard. Tiger salamanders aren't
endangered in some Southern states, where they are bred and
used in the larval stage for fish bait, says Alvin Breisch,
of the endangered species unit in New York's Department of
Environmental Conservation. "I'm told you can mail order them
from Louisiana," says Mr. Schwenk, a Southampton native. But
Mr. Cryan, the biologist, notes that these Southern tigers
are a subspecies that is slightly different from the ones
found on Long Island.
   When the salamanders first began disrupting development,
"there were a lot of accusations . . . about people having
tiger salamanders in their pockets," says Larry Penny,
director of natural resources in East Hampton. But he notes
that only a few non-state employees, including Mr. Sabin,
have licenses allowing them to handle the creatures.
   To avoid "planting" of salamanders, state officials must
verify a breeding site. "We like to see egg masses or larvae,
some proof of reproduction at the site," says Steven J.
Sanford, an official in the Long Island regional office of
the state's Department of Environmental Conservation.
   Mr. Sabin scoffs at suggestions he may have planted
salamanders to delay development. "The first one I found
wasn't even near a subdivision," says the 44-year-old former
vice chairman of the Commodity Exchange who runs nature walks
for children and sits on the board of the local chapter of
the Nature Conservancy, a conservation group.
   "It's virtually impossible" to plant a salamander, says
Mr. Cryan. "Salamanders would be very disoriented and most
likely wouldn't breed in a pond they were dumped in."
   Although some conservationists say Southampton town
officials were slow to embrace the preservation effort, the
town appears to have come around. "We're friends of the
salamander," says Roy Wines, chairman of the Southampton
Planning Board. The town requires as much as a 500-foot
radius of protected area near any wetlands where the tigers
are found, and has revised some zoning to allow for greater
open space areas.
   Evidence of the tiger salamander has had an impact on the
development of 10 or 12 sites in the past six or seven years.
And it isn't only the developers and wealthy homeowners who
have been touched by the critter. Southampton's plans to
build affordable housing in an area called Tuckahoe were
scuttled after salamanders were discovered.
   In March 1988, just before the Southampton Planning Board
was expected to approve a plan for Bridgewood, a 102-acre
subdivision in Bridgehampton that included nine affordable
units, Mr. Sabin turned up a tiger salamander on the
property.
   There was only one small problem. No one was there to
witness the find, so Mr. Sabin put the salamander in his
refrigerator overnight before calling a news conference the
next day to announce his find. Town officials who had combed
the site and found no evidence of the salamanders were not
amused; the plan was delayed more than a year until the
developer agreed not to build near the pond where the
salamander was found, and the number of affordable units were
cut by half.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   Showdown Is Looming Between Bush,
   Congress Over Salvadoran Aid Package
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- El Salvador, site of one of the few
remaining guerrilla wars in this hemisphere, is also one of
the only foreign policy issues that still provokes partisan
bickering between Congress and the Bush administration.
   Since six Jesuit priests were killed last November by
right-wing death squads believed to be linked to the
Salvadoran military, pressure has been building in Congress
to cut aid to the Central American country. The White House,
fearing that could undermine the government of Salvadoran
President Alfredo Cristiani, opposes the idea. It is
especially eager to avoid a confrontation with Congress over
the issue because that might reduce bipartisan support for
the aid it has promised to Panama and Nicaragua.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But a showdown is coming. Some Democrats want to attach
their proposal to the same supplemental spending bill that
includes the proposed assistance for Panama and Nicaragua.
While the administration frets that Congress is dragging its
heels on that aid package, these legislators suspect
Secretary of State James Baker is stalling to keep any cut in
Salvadoran assistance off the bill.
   Their suspicions were aroused at a recent private session
with Mr. Baker. The secretary of state never goes into a
meeting unprepared. But when Rep. Gerry Studds (D., Mass.)
asked him what he thought of a proposal the Democrats sent
him two weeks earlier to withhold some U.S. aid to spur
human-rights reforms, Mr. Baker said he had been too busy
tending to pressing Soviet affairs to study the proposal.
   He did say he generally opposes cutting aid, and he
expressed hopes of forging a bipartisan approach to El
Salvador. But the lawmakers were annoyed at his refusal to
discuss specifics. "The administration is running out of
time," warns Rep. Sam Gejdenson (D., Conn.), who attended the
session. "Democrats are losing patience over this."
   Although Democrats want to use U.S. military aid as
leverage to prod the Salvador government to curb human-rights
abuses and negotiate with Marxist rebels, they don't want to
be blamed for abandoning the country's government. So their
plan would permit half the $85 million in this year's
military aid to go forward so long as the Salvador government
engages in serious negotiations. If the leftist rebels refuse
to bargain in good faith or launch another military
offensive, the balance of the aid would be released
immediately.
   The pressure to curtail aid is expected to increase. A
Democratic task force appointed last December by House
Speaker Thomas Foley is slated to issue its report within a
few weeks on the Salvador government's handling of the Jesuit
murders, as well as its human-rights record and judicial
procedures.
   According to a House aide, the report will praise efforts
by President Cristiani to investigate the crime, but will
state that he has only limited control over the military. It
also is expected to express doubts that the colonel accused
of supervising the soldiers who committed the murders -- or
any other senior officers who might be involved -- will ever
come to trial. Moreover, the report will note that
prosecution is difficult because under El Salvador's judicial
system, accused co-conspirators don't have to testify against
one another.
   "I think this will mean more pressure on Congress to put
conditions on any aid for El Salvador," predicts the House
aide.
   Mr. Baker maintains that this is the wrong time for the
U.S. to withhold aid. Negotiations between the Salvadoran
government and the rebels are set for next month, and putting
conditions on aid now might derail the process, his aides
warn. "As long as the threat of violent overthrow exists,
military aid makes sense," insists a senior U.S. official.
   But the argument that reform should take the back seat to
fighting communism doesn't carry as much weight in Congress
as it did "before the Berlin Wall fell" and communism began
to crumble, notes Robert Kurz, a Central America analyst at
the Brookings Institution and a former congressional aide.
   As a result, Mr. Baker may have to accept the Democrats'
approach to El Salvador, and over the next few weeks the
bargaining may switch from whether aid should be held back to
how much should be withheld.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kemper's Reserve
   Of $19.7 Million Is
   Weather Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   KEM
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONG GROVE, Ill. -- Kemper Corp. said it established $19.7
million in first-quarter reserves to cover weather-related
losses in its reinsurance and property-casualty insurance
segments.
   The reserves will result in an after-tax charge to net
income of $13 million, or 27 cents a share. In the year-ago
period, the insurance and investment services concern had net
income of $80.8 million, or $1.37 a share, including $10.6
million in profit from discontinued operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Recent violent wind and rainstorms in Europe will affect
the company's reinsurance segment. And winter-related storms
in the Midwest had an impact on Kemper's property-casualty
operation, the company said.
   Kemper also said that a restructuring under way at its
brokerage firms will contribute to an anticipated loss from
that operation, which is also plagued by trading losses and
lower volume. Business "improved in March," however, and the
company said its securities brokers "will have a
substantially smaller loss in the first quarter of 1990" than
they suffered in the fourth quarter of 1988.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   KEMPER CORP. expects to report that its securities
operations had a "substantially smaller" loss in the first
quarter of 1990 than the operations incurred in the fourth
quarter of 1989. In yesterday's edition, the comparison was
misstated.
   (WSJ April 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Im Bank Approves Loan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Export-Import Bank said it approved
a $13.1 million direct loan to finance equipment for a pulp
and paper mill project in Thailand.
   In 1987, the Ex-Im Bank approved a $62 million loan for
the same project.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new loan will cover 85% of the cost of paper-handling
equipment to be supplied to Panjapol Paper Industry Co., by
Black Clawson Co., Middletown, Ohio, and other U.S.
companies. The $226 million paper mill project is being
engineered by Beloit Corp., of Beloit, Wis. The plant is
slated for completion in December 1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Africa's Trade Surplus
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -- South Africa's trade surplus
narrowed to 1.17 billion rand ($442.8 million) in March from
surpluses of 1.79 billion rand a year earlier and 1.77
billion rand in February, the Customs and Excise office said.
   The figures aren't seasonally adjusted, but export and
import data are adjusted to bring them in line with
requirements for compiling the nation's balance of payments.
Exports in March fell to 4.49 billion rand from 5.22 billion
rand a year earlier, and imports declined to 3.33 billion
rand from 3.44 billion rand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first quarter, exports grew to 14.42 billion rand
from 12.92 billion rand a year earlier, and imports increased
to 10.38 billion rand from 9.99 billion rand.
   The trade figures include South Africa's exports of gold
bullion, its principal source of foreign exchange earnings.
Imports include the country's purchases of oil and other
petroleum products, despite the longstanding embargo of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Grumman Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   GQ WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GRUMMAN Corp. (Bethpage, N.Y.) -- John E. Harrison was
appointed president of this defense contractor's Electronics
Systems Division. He succeeds Robert A. Nafis, 61 years old,
who is retiring. Mr. Harrison, 54, previously was president
of Grumman's Space Systems Division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Judge George III
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Supreme Court decision that a federal judge can order
tax increases is probably the most important decision that
will be issued this term. As a matter of constitutional law,
the result is simply too preposterous to survive long as a
precedent for other cases. The decision should be viewed,
rather, as another byway in the court's and the nation's
tortured but valiant struggle with the issue of race.
   Missouri v. Jenkins is not likely to mean we have a new
rule of law that unelected federal judges may order tax
levies by local officials to pay for judicially preferred
social programs -- housing, welfare, environmentalism, higher
salaries for judges. Americans long ago gave a lesson in
Boston Harbor about what we think about taxation without
representation. Most federal judges will understand that
accepting an invitation to order tax increases risks the
nobility of the law and ultimately the independence of the
judiciary. In any event, with Chief Justice Rehnquist and the
three young Reagan Justices joining in an outraged dissent,
any Bush Justice is likely to be the swing vote back on the
next test case.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What, then, to make of this opinion? As Justice Anthony
Kennedy noted in the dissent (excerpts nearby), this case
cannot be understood outside its facts. Federal District
Court Judge Russell Clark has spent a decade deciding how to
integrate the public schools in Kansas City, Missouri. The
frustrations of this kind of litigation invite blinkered,
prime-directive reasoning. Here, the directive was to create
racial balance in the schools, regardless of cost.
   When white flight left too few whites to make integration
possible, Judge Clark decided he had to lure whites back with
a magnet-school program. He demanded an estimated $500
million to $700 million to make the schools the best-endowed
public schools in the country. The voters disagreed,
repeatedly voting down taxes to fund the enticement of white
students with natatoriums, model U.N.s, aesthetically
pleasing carpets and 15 computers per classroom. Voters
dumped tea bags on Judge Clark's courthouse steps.
   The Missouri Constitution required a two-thirds vote to
raise property taxes, but over the half-dozen tax-levy
propositions, voters never went beyond a bare majority. The
local school board, which wanted the huge new budget, didn't
have the power to get around this limitation. So in 1987,
Judge Clark simply ordered that the local property tax be
doubled. By a 9-0 vote, the Justices agreed that he went too
far by directly ordering this tax.
   But by a 5-4 vote, they said Judge Clark could order the
tax indirectly by "authorizing and directing" -- that is,
ordering -- local officials to raise the tax, despite the
state Constitution saying they don't have the power. In any
case, if it was unconstitutional for Judge Clark to levy the
tax in the open, how can it be constitutional to do the same
thing behind a mask?
   In the final section of his dissent, Justice Kennedy
disclosed the most important single fact about the majority
opinion. He said it can be understood only as a special case
because the subject matter is race. "The historical record of
voluntary compliance with the decree of Brown v. Board of
Education is not a proud chapter in our constitutional
history," he wrote. "The judges of the district courts and
courts of appeals have been courageous and skillful in
implementing its mandate." But "while few ends are more
important than enforcing the guarantee of equal educational
opportunity," he wrote, good ends cannot justify
unconstitutional means.
   This nation can by and large be proud of its efforts to
deal with the racial issue; we can count considerable if
incomplete progress in an area where most societies have
failed or feared to tread. The courts have played an
especially important role; with other political institutions
unable to move, the judicial activism of Brown v. Board of
Education surely had a moral justification. But it
nonetheless carried a legal risk, inviting judges to try to
remove every blot on the body politic.
   Even on the issue of race, public sentiments have changed,
and the legislative and executive branches pass and enforce
civil-rights laws. It has become increasingly evident that
judicial fiat, not given to dealing with social complexities,
is not going to solve the remaining problems. This is
ironically illustrated in the Kansas City schools under Judge
Clark's jurisdiction.
   Black parents in Kansas City have sued because their
children have been denied admission to the local magnet
school. They were excluded because they would have upset the
court-ordered racial statistics. In other words, black
parents have decided that the best hope for their children is
quality education, not the company of white children. Yet
they are told they cannot attend the school of their choice
because they have black skins.
   If this is where we have arrived, surely it is time for
judges to back off from their activism. Certainly they should
not be rushing in to claim, of all things, the power of
taxation. Kings did not ultimately succeed in taxing
Americans without their consent, and neither will judges.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Abbott Laboratories
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ABT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ABBOTT LABORATORIES (North Chicago, Ill.) -- Gary P.
Coughlan, formerly senior vice president, finance, at the
Kraft General Foods unit of Philip Morris Cos., was named
senior vice president and chief financial officer of this
maker of pharmaceuticals and hospital products. In the new
posts, Mr. Coughlan, 46 years old, fills the vacancy created
when Duane L. Burnham was named Abbott's chief executive
officer in December. Mr. Burnham, 48, has since additionally
been named chairman. Separately, John R. Walter, chairman,
president and chief executive officer of R.R. Donnelley &amp;
Sons Co., was named to Abbott's board, filling a vacancy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fourth Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FRTH WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   FOURTH FINANCIAL Corp. (Wichita, Kan.) -- Lawrence M.
Jones, president and chief executive officer of Coleman Co.,
was named to the board of this bank holding company,
succeeding Sterling Varner, who didn't stand for re-election.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hitachi Venture Says
   It Would Weigh Sale
   Of Dataproducts Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   J.HTK J.NIE DPC HIT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   A joint venture owned by Hitachi Koki Co. and Nissei
Sangyo Co. of Japan said it plans to explore the sale of
Dataproducts New England Inc. if the venture's $10-a-share
tender offer for Dataproducts Corp. succeeds.
   The two companies, which are affiliates of Hitachi Ltd.,
the Tokyo electronic-equipment maker, launched a $160 million
offer for the parent company on Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the venture, HND Corp., said it may also seek the sale of
Dataproducts' properties in Milford, N.H., and Austin, Texas.
Those properties are currently listed for sale.
   In Woodland Hills, Calif., a Dataproducts spokesman said
the filing was expected. "Hitachi is interested in our
printer and supply business; the New England operations don't
fit with that strategy." Dataproducts New England makes
certain security-sensitive printers and data communications
equipment for the U.S. military; the products might cause
complications for a foreign buyer, the spokesman said.
   Should it acquire control of Dataproducts, HND also said
it plans to continue the company's restructuring and to
review carefully the company's assets, corporate structure
and capitalization to determine what additional changes, if
any, would be desirable.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Two of Epitope Inc.'s
   Founders, Its Chairman
   And President, Resign
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS EPT
</CO>
<LP>
   BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Epitope Inc. said two of its three
founders, Denis R. Burger, chairman, and Michael C. Hubbard,
president and chief executive officer, resigned to pursue
other business interests.
   The biotechnology concern said it named Roger Pringle
chairman and Adolph J. Ferro president and chief executive
officer. Mr. Pringle was an Epitope director; Mr. Ferro was
formerly president of the company's Agritope Inc. unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Burger left to pursue full-time operation of Yamhill
Valley Vineyard and his related wine-distribution business.
He will remain a member of the board, and will serve as a
consultant. Mr. Hubbard will pursue other unspecified
business interests, the company said. He also will remain as
a consultant.
   A third founder, Andrew Goldstein, remains with the
company as vice president, product development.
   Epitope is developing diagnostic tests for AIDS as well as
therapeutic drugs for protozoan diseases. The company also is
developing genetically engineered plant varieties through its
Agritope subsidiary.
   In its fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31, the company
posted a net loss of $541,000, or eight cents a share, on
revenue of about $1 million. It had a loss of $870,000, or 18
cents a share, on revenue of $544,000 the year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PacifiCare Makes
   Acquisition Offer
   To Ailing Maxicare
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8A
</SO>
<CO>
   MAXQC PHSY
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Maxicare Health Plans Inc., a Los Angeles-based health
maintenance organization that has been operating under
bankruptcy-law protection for 13 months, said it received an
unsolicited acquisition offer from rival PacifiCare Health
Systems Inc.
   "The offer is complex; it's about 15 pages and includes a
number of components, including cash," said a Maxicare
spokesman. Members of Maxicare and PacifiCare management and
their advisers will meet next week to discuss it, he said.
However, the offer formally expires at the close of business
today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The offer had been expected after PacifiCare said Thursday
that it was preparing an acquisition proposal. Maxicare,
which issued a statement Thursday saying that the company
wasn't for sale, moderated its response after the offer
arrived the next day.
   "We will seek to determine if this offer is in the best
interests of our enrollees, our health-care providers, the
creditors and shareholders, and our employees and
management," said Peter J. Ratican, chairman and chief
executive officer.
   Maxicare said it plans to proceed with a scheduled public
hearing set for today in bankruptcy court in Santa Ana,
Calif., to discuss the company's previously filed
reorganization plan. Under terms of the plan, shareholders
would receive $102 million in cash, $67 million in notes and
newly issued common shares and warrants.
   Wayne Lowell, PacifiCare chief financial officer, said on
Thursday that the Cypress, Calif.-based company would submit
a "serious" offer and that the company believes Maxicare
would make an "excellent strategic addition." Roughly 40% of
Maxicare's 320,000 members are in California, where
PacifiCare has a strong presence. Maxicare also has
operations in six other states, including Indiana, Illinois
and Wisconsin.
   At its peak a few years ago, Maxicare was the nation's
largest publicly traded HMO with more than two million
members. The company fell on hard times after it went deeply
into debt to acquire two other HMOs. In the nine months ended
Sept. 30, 1989, Maxicare had a $22.3 million loss on revenue
of $412.3 million. Maxicare shares are traded in the pink
sheets.
   PacifiCare said that 70% of its 636,000 members are in
California. The HMO also owns and operates HMOs in Oregon,
Oklahoma, Texas and Washington and an insurance subsidiary
licensed in 33 states. In the year ended Sept. 30, PacifiCare
posted net income of $10.9 million on revenue of $650.2
million.
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, PacifiCare
shares closed unchanged at $19.75. The acquisition proposal
was announced after the end of trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Nasdaq Launches
   Advertising Blitz
   To Boost Its Image
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Nasdaq is ready for prime time.
   The National Association of Securities Dealers is
launching an advertising blitz, seeking to give its Nasdaq
automated stock-quote system the same cachet as the stock
exchanges that compete with it for listings. The ads are
running in national business magazines and on television in
the New York area.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Without exactly saying so, the NASD also wants to
establish a separate identity for itself now that the term
"over-the-counter" has taken on seamy overtones in many
investors' minds because of pennystock frauds.
   "Nasdaq is a stock market, separate from the OTC," says
Brian Holland who, as senior vice president of marketing for
NASD, is coordinating the new ad campaign.
   "They're really trying to make the Nasdaq stock market
distinct from OTC," says Robert Flaherty, editor of the OTC
Review, a magazine that covers the OTC market. Mr. Flaherty
was recently turned down when he sought permission to change
the name of the magazine to Nasdaq Review. "I think they're
afraid the name Nasdaq will get sullied," he said, referring
to the board that controls the Nasdaq market and its
copyrighted name.
   Companies must meet minimum networth and other
requirements to be eligible for Nasdaq trading. Trading of
their shares is monitored through a surveillance system
designed to detect fraud. No such surveillance system is
available for non-Nasdaq stocks, which have involved more
than a few cases of fraud. Many non-Nasdaq stocks are known
as "pink sheets" stocks because their prices are listed on
pink paper by the National Quotation Bureau.
   New Yorkers watching the late news tonight will be among
the first to see the latest of this month's ads by the NASD,
the self-styled self-regulatory body for the OTC market. In a
30-second commercial, they will see slow-motion images of
frenzied, messy trading on a stock exchange as a voice asks:
"Is there a rational alternative to the traditional trading
floor?" Naturally, there is: "Nasdaq. The stock market for
the next 100 years."
   The ad budget is "several million" dollars. And the target
audience? "MEPS," says Mr. Holland, referring to "managers,
executives and professionals," the kind of people who watch
the news, business shows and golf tournaments. For example,
New York area viewers of the Masters golf tournament saw a
Nasdaq ad April 8.
   One goal of Nasdaq, the nation's second largest securities
market, is to make itself as familiar to corporate America
and the investing public as the New York Stock Exchange.
Nasdaq is always striving to gain new companies and to keep
its larger and higher-quality OTC companies from defecting to
the New York and American exchanges.
   First, however, the public has to know what Nasdaq is. The
50-year-old NASD both operates and polices the market for the
4,264 companies that meet its standards. Yet Nasdaq is far
from a household word. It stands for National Association of
Securities Dealers Automated Quotations system.
   "It's not so much that the image is bad, it's just there's
no image at all," says Ron Berger, the advertising executive
hired to start a television and magazine ad campaign earlier
this month by the NASD.
   In surveys taken before the current ad campaign, a number
of people didn't realize that Apple Computer, MCI
Communications and Intel trade on Nasdaq. A major NASD goal
"is to get chief executives to keep their listing on Nasdaq
and gain a larger share of new listings," says Mr. Berger, a
partner with Messner Vetere Berger Carey Schmetterer, a New
York ad agency.
   On Nasdaq, brokers compete to get the best share prices
for their clients using telephones and an integrated system
of computer screens -- the 19-year-old Nasdaq network --
rather than competing on an exchange floor. Over-the-counter
stocks were generally traded through pink sheets until 1971,
when computerized trading became available through Nasdaq.
Thousands of companies are still confined to the pink sheets,
where their prices and the brokerage companies that make a
market in the stocks are printed each trading day but aren't
available during intraday trading.
   Although Nasdaq may not be the sexiest name to hit TV
screens, it has caught on overseas. Next year Japan will
initiate Jasdaq (Japan Securities Dealers Automated
Quotations system), an automated version of that country's
over-the-counter market that is modeled after the American
system. And while the London Stock Exchange didn't imitate
the name, in 1986 it converted to a trading system also
modeled after Nasdaq.
   Two of Nasdaq's three television ads focus on the systems
adopted by the Japanese and British and suggest that the
Nasdaq system will be the standard of the future.
   But some skeptics say that if NASD wants to erase any
negative connotations of the OTC market from the public's
mind, it must eventually encourage every trading department,
every mutual fund and every publication that now uses the
term OTC to also change their names.
   "OTC is in common use," says John L. Watson III, president
of the Security Traders Association. "It will be a long time
before the word disappears, even if you work at it."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The over-the-counter market sank again Friday, ending the
week 2.4% below where it started.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index slid 3.21 Friday, or 0.75%, to
425.79. OTC advancers trailed decliners, 764 to 1,138, on
150.3 million shares, up from 145.6 million.
   Richard H. Holden, a principal of Alex. Brown, said
volatility in the over-the-counter market increased in recent
weeks, leaving stocks vulnerable to disappointing news. Mr.
Holden added that he expects the mood to persist next week.
   Granite Construction, a road-building company, got a warm
reception from Wall Street. The company went public in a 2.5
million-share initial public offering priced at 17 and closed
at 18. Volume was more than 2.1 million shares.
   Paul Meuller added 3 to 29 after reporting first-quarter
earnings, while SynOptics Communications added 2 1/2 to 39
1/8 on the strength of its earnings report.
   Nesb fell 1/2 to 2 5/8. The troubled bank holding company,
based in New London, Conn., reported that it had a loss of
$1.80 a share after a provision for loan losses in the latest
first quarter. Nesb also said it is in technical default of
covenants on $50 million of long-term debt.
   Stocks that fell on earnings reports were Chambers
Development Class A shares, off 1 1/4 to 39, Cadence Design
Systems, down 5/8 to 23 3/4, and Oregon Metallurgical, off 1
1/2 to 18.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Coca-Cola Appoints
   Senior Vice President
   For U.S. Marketing
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS KO
</CO>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Coca-Cola Co., as expected, named Theodore J.
Host, president of Boyle-Midway Household Products Inc., as
senior vice president, marketing, for Coke's domestic
division.
   The appointment of the 44-year-old Mr. Host fills a
two-year vacancy in the job. Mr. Host, who joins Coke May 1,
will report to Ira C. Herbert, president of CocaCola USA, the
soft-drink company's domestic marketing arm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Boyle-Midway, Mr. Host oversaw products including
Woolite, Black Flag and Easy Off. Last month, American Home
Products Corp. agreed to sell its BoyleMidway division for
$1.25 billion to Reckitt &amp; Colman PLC, a London-based
consumer products maker. Mr. Host was also an executive with
American Home's food division, whose products include Chef
Boyardee.
   Mr. Host declined to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Southeast Banking Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SOUTHEAST BANKING Corp. (Miami) -- Robert E. White,
formerly senior vice president, corporate banking, of the
Southeast Bank unit of this bank holding company, was named
executive vice president of the unit and the holding company,
a new post.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Darman, on Optimistic Note, Predicts
   Deficit Talks Will Start Within Month
   ----
   By David Wessel and Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- White House Budget Director Richard Darman,
sounding more optimistic about the political climate than he
has for some time, said it is "highly likely" that
deficit-reduction talks with Congress will begin within a
month.
   The Bush administration hasn't yet initiated negotiations
because "the mood wasn't right" and talks would have been
counterproductive, Mr. Darman told reporters. "The mood is
moving," he said. "It's moving slowly, but it's getting
there."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sticking points in any talks are likely to be how much
to cut the defense budget beyond what President Bush has
proposed, how to restrain growth in entitlement programs such
as Medicare, and what taxes to raise.
   House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta (D., Calif.)
said he favors a prompt start to negotiations only if all
sides display willingness to work toward a significant
package. "There's concern that a lot of hope could be raised,
but that talks only lead to another slide-by budget," he
said. He said the president's continued public opposition to
tax increases is an obstacle.
   Even before talks begin, the White House appears to be
losing control over the size and shape of cuts in defense
spending. Without a revised, long-term blueprint from the
Pentagon, lawmakers already are drafting plans for the most
fundamental changes in military spending in more than two
generations.
   Not only does the House Budget Committee seek to slash
Pentagon spending authority $24 billion below the
administration's fiscal 1991 request, but the Chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee, Sen. Sam Nunn (D., Ga.), is
now leading the fight to postpone or cut substantially some
of the military's most prized high-tech programs, including
the MX nuclear-tipped missile and the Trident submarine.
   In a long-awaited speech, Sen. Nunn, usually a strong ally
of the military, said he wants to keep actual Pentagon
outlays in fiscal 1991, which starts Oct. 1, at $297 billion,
only $1.5 billion higher than the House committee proposed
and $6 billion below the Bush budget.
   Mr. Darman insists that congressional appropriations
committees are unlikely to agree to such deep cuts, and he
predicted that many House members will object once they
realize how their own districts would be affected.
   Over five years, Sen. Nunn seeks to cut as much as $255
billion in budget authority from the Pentagon's wish list. He
envisions withdrawing nearly all front-line Army troops from
Western Europe by 1996 and eliminating most of the service's
heavy-tank forces; retiring hundreds of older helicopters and
surveillance planes; and mothballing dozens of ships and
reducing the Navy's traditional presence in every hemisphere.
   In sharp contrast to Pentagon plans to exempt most
training and maintenance accounts from deep cuts, Sen. Nunn
said the services could save billions by scaling back
training maneuvers and relying more heavily on simulators to
train aircraft and tank crews.
   Sen. Nunn, intent on increasing competition between the
services for funds, said the Navy could save $15 billion over
the next five years by modestly trimming the amount of time
its ships are at sea. More than twice that much could be
saved by slower replacement of U.S. long-range nuclear
forces, the Georgia lawmaker said, and cutting the
administration's ambitious plans to expand spending to deploy
a space-based antimissile system. He didn't specifically
detail the production cuts he intends to propose for the Air
Force's controversial B-2 Stealth bomber.
   Meeting with reporters Friday, Mr. Darman reiterated
warnings that the current economic slowdown is increasing the
amount of deficit reduction that must be achieved to avoid
across-the-board spending cuts under the Gramm-Rudman law.
   He now figures negotiators will need to find at least $45
billion -- about $8.5 billion more than the administration
originally calculated -- in lower spending or higher revenue
to meet the Gramm-Rudman target of $64 billion. If the
economy returns only gradually to the path that the
administration forecast in January, an additional $12 billion
in deficit reduction may be needed, he said. The precise
figure will be set by the revised economic forecast the
administration is to issue in July.
   Mr. Darman dismissed the budget plan approved last week by
the House Budget Committee as one that doesn't even meet the
standards set by Chairman Panetta. "It's a slide-by budget of
just the type that he has criticized and lamented," Mr.
Darman said.
   Rep. Panetta said all sides are now staking out bargaining
positions. Despite controversy over the defense budget
recommended by his committee, he expects the full House to
approve the panel's plan this week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Banks Lift
   Prime to 14.75%,
   A 7-Year High
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian commercial banks raised their prime
lending rates half a percentage point to 14.75%, the highest
level in 7 1/2 years.
   The move on Friday heightened recession fears in some
industries. Canada's high interest rates have already pushed
the residential building industry into a recession, said Gord
Thompson, president of the Canadian Home Builders'
Association. He said builders are being forced to take back
properties in the Toronto area and elsewhere. Some buyers, in
unloading their properties, are giving up large deposits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The interest rate rise also hit stock prices. The Toronto
Stock Exchange composite index fell 54.99 points Friday, for
a total decrease for the week of 205.6 points. The index has
fallen 7.6% since the recent series of declines began April
9.
   Financial analysts said rising interest rates would hit
communication and media companies especially hard, as
advertising revenues declined in response to a slowdown in
the economy.
   The interest rate rise has been prompted by concern about
Canadian inflation. Canadian short-term interest rates are
more than 5 1/4 percentage points higher than comparable U.S.
rates.
   Canada's consumer price index in March rose a seasonally
adjusted 0.3% from February and 5.3% from a year earlier,
Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   Economists warned that the inflation outlook remains
ominous, in view of current wage demands and the government's
plan to introduce a 7% consumption tax on Jan. 1.
   Canada's high interest rates have pushed up the Canadian
dollar, squeezing Canadian exporters. The Canadian dollar's
rise has led to "declining profits, plummeting orders and
significant layoffs" in the manufacturing industry, said Todd
Rutley, senior economist with the Canadian Manufacturers'
Association, an industry group.
   The Canadian dollar closed Friday in Toronto at 86 U.S.
cents, down from 86.06 cents Thursday but up 1.5 cents from
mid-March.
   Rezmi Markar, associate economist with Data Resources of
Canada, said he expects the prime rate to drop by less than
one percentage point by the end of the year. But he forecast
a new upswing in interest rates in early 1991, because of the
inflationary effect of the planned consumption tax. The
proposed value-added tax, which will replace a more narrowly
based manufacturers sales tax, has been passed by the House
of Commons but still needs approval by the Senate.
   Ernie Stokes, a research director with WEFA Group Ltd.,
warned that a recession could occur this year if interest
rates persist at current levels.
   As well as inflation concerns, Canadian financial markets
are unsettled by proposed constitutional revisions that would
give Quebec, a largely French-speaking province, "distinct
society" status in the constitution.
   The prime rate rise followed an increase Thursday in the
Bank of Canada's bank rate to 13.77%, its highest level in
more than seven years, from 13.61%. The rate is the levy the
central bank charges on its loans to financial institutions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Time Warner Buys
   19.5% of Six Flags
   For $19.5 Million
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Time Warner Inc. purchased a 19.5% stake in
Six Flags Corp., which owns and operates seven amusement
parks in the U.S.
   The purchase, valued at $19.5 million, makes Time Warner a
player in a part of the entertainment business in which two
of its competitors, Walt Disney Co. and MCA Inc.'s Universal
unit, already enjoy success.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With its established stable of Warner Bros. cartoon
characters, such as Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck, Time Warner
could reposition Six Flags' theme parks to emphasize the
animated cadre. The Six Flags purchase is the first made by
Time Warner's recently formed venture unit Time Warner
Enterprises, headed by former MTV Networks president Robert
W. Pittman.
   The investment by Time Warner was a natural fit because
Six Flags parks have been licensed by Warner Bros., a unit of
Time Warner, for the exclusive use of the Looney Tunes
characters for the past six years. "We think there is a lot
of growth to be had in the merchandising of the Looney Tunes
characters," said a spokeswoman for Time Warner.
   In the future, said James Prager, executive vice president
at Six Flags, the "intent" would be to have even more
interaction with Time Warner properties, such as characters
from the Warner Bros. movie "Batman."
   The agreement also gives Time Warner options to increase
its stake to as much as 50% in Six Flags. And analysts expect
Time Warner to do just that. "Time Warner is tiptoeing into
the theme park business, but I wouldn't be surprised to see a
whole transformation of the Six Flags chain," said Richard
MacDonald, a media analyst with the firm MacDonald Grippo
Riely Inc.
   Six Flags, based in Arlington, Texas, and owned by an
investor group associated with Wesray Capital Corp. and Six
Flags management, is in need of an influx of cash. Six of its
seven locations need upgrading. New roller coasters will be
added, for example, at a total cost of $27 million, said Mr.
Prager.
   Industry officials, who declined to be identified, said
MCA and Paramount Communications Inc. both explored the
possibility of purchasing a stake in Six Flags.
   The Time Warner spokeswoman said that Time Magazine Co., a
subsidiary of Time Warner, and Warner Bros.' worldwide
merchandising unit will have an active role with the parks.
   Last year, Six Flags had revenue of $394 million, Mr.
Prager said. Total annual attendance for the seven parks is
about 17 million. By comparison, Disney's Magic Kingdom,
EPCOT Center, and the new Disney-MGM Studios, all in the
Orlando, Fla., area, had attendance of more than 23 million
in 1989.
   The potential for Time Warner if the theme parks are hits
is enormous. In 1989, Disney's three parks world-wide
registered $2.6 billion in revenue. Analysts say that it
wouldn't be unlikely for Time Warner to expand Six Flags'
reach beyond the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thai Plan Would Boost Trade, Industry
   ---
   `Southern Seaboard'
   Would Cost $10 Billion
   ----
   By John Berthelsen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9G
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
</IN>
<LP>
   SURAT THANI, Thailand -- For more than a year, Thai
officials have been pursuing a plan to create an
international trade route across the country's isthmus -- a
plan that is remarkable for both the scope of its ambition
and the degree of skepticism it has aroused.
   The Southern Seaboard Development Program, approved by the
Thai cabinet in early 1989, would involve building a
180-kilometer "land bridge" of high-speed rail and highway
links, pipelines and ports to transport crude oil and
containers across the isthmus. Industrial estates on either
side of the isthmus would produce and assemble goods for
domestic and international trade. Offshore pipelines from
wells in the Gulf of Thailand would be used for gas-related
industries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The land bridge would run from Krabi on the Andaman Sea to
Khanom on the Gulf of Thailand and is meant to cut hundreds
of kilometers off shipping routes between Middle Eastern and
Far Eastern ports. Planners speculate that the Southern
Seaboard would cost $10 billion and probably take through the
end of the century to complete.
   Government officials, who decline to comment on the cost,
think the project will further Thailand's aspirations to over
take Singapore as a regional center for oil refining, trade
and industry, as well as draw traffic from Indonesian sea
lanes.
   "This project means the internationalization of Thailand,"
says Savit Bhotiwihok, the director of a cabinet-level
committee overseeing the proposal. "We can't afford not to do
this kind of planning. It is engineerable, it is
financeable."
   There have been signs in recent weeks that the proposal is
shifting out of the abstract planning stage. But some
observers argue that even if the Southern Seaboard starts to
attract solid private-sector commitments, it could still fall
victim to the bureaucratic delays, confusion and infighting
that have plagued other Thai projects.
   Moreover, Mr. Savit says that the government expects
private enterprise to bear a good deal of the infrastructural
cost. "This is not like having the government provide
infrastructure, then waiting around for people to use it," he
says.
   But some observers in the shipping, oil and construction
industries believe the project represents the triumph of
political fancy over commercial reality. The lukewarm
response makes it questionable how many companies will join
the project.
   "I think most of us feel the money and resources should be
spent on the Eastern Seaboard," says a container-shipping
executive.
   The Eastern Seaboard Development Program has been under
way for seven years and involves natural-gas plants,
industrial estates, telecommunications facilities and a
deep-sea port about 120 kilometers southeast of Bangkok. The
complex is close to completion, much nearer to Thailand's
urban areas, and, businessmen say, much more practical as a
site for multinational assembly plants.
   Skeptics note that the Southern Seaboard project would
require carving two entirely new cities out of what is now
undeveloped rural terrain at a time when the money would be
better spent by both government and private enterprise on
fixing infrastructure problems, affecting highways,
telecommunications, rail lines and ports, that are close to
strangling Bangkok.
   Some businessmen also question how much time or money
would be saved by shortening the sea lanes for shipping
concerns and the goods they haul. A Bangkok-based
oil-industry executive whose company studied the feasibility
of the project says that as far as transporting crude, any
savings in time and money attributable to shortening the sea
route from the Middle East to Japan would be largely offset
by the extra handling costs of unloading and reloading the
oil on either side of the isthmus and by the pumping time
required to move crude through a 180-kilometer pipeline.
   In addition, a company using the pipeline would have to
contribute toward its construction costs, which the executive
estimates at $60 million.
   "It's not attractive to go in as an investor on a
pipeline," the executive says.
   Nor do container-shipping executives see any additional
benefit. The land bridge and container ports would run up
against the efficiency of the Port of Singapore Authority,
which in 10 hours can unload a ship hauling 1,000 containers.
Singapore expects to expand to a new, second container port
with five full berths and four feeder berths by 1992, a Port
Authority spokeswoman says, giving the Thais tough
competition long before the land bridge is even begun.
   "It is probably more attractive to continue to move cargo
via the Malacca Strait," says the Bangkok-based managing
director of a Western container-shipping line. "You're not
cutting a large amount of voyage time {by crossing Thailand's
land bridge}, and you would need significant additional
capital investment. I would be surprised if cutting off that
much time or mileage saved anything at all."
   Environmentalists and tourism executives also are
concerned that the project, with its harbors, oil tankers and
assembly plants, could befoul some of Asia's most popular
tourism destinations -- the islands of Phuket, Phi Phi and
Samui and the beach at Krabi. Tourism, the country's largest
single source of foreign exchange, brought in an estimated 95
billion baht ($3.7 billion) in 1989, according to Bangkok
Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Professional
   Bancorp Says Net
   Fell in First Period
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8B
</SO>
<CO>
   MDBK
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Professional Bancorp Inc. expects first-quarter net income
of about $100,000, or 10 cents a share, compared with
$267,000, or 32 cents a share, a year earlier, said Joel W.
Kovner, chairman and chief executive officer of the Santa
Monica, Calif., company.
   Mr. Kovner blamed the more than 60% drop on a
significantly higher tax rate, a lower prime rate and an
increase in the bank holding company's Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. assessment. Professional Bancorp's number of
shares outstanding rose to 965,000 after a 25% stock dividend
that took effect last month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the full year, Mr. Kovner predicts that the company
will earn roughly $800,000, or 82 cents a share, assuming
that the prime rate remains at the current rate of 10%.
Professional Bancorp posted 1989 net income of about $1
million, or $1.13 a share.
   Professional Bancorp's only subsidiary, First Professional
Bank, has four offices in California whose customers are
mainly physicians. "We're basically a medical bank," Mr.
Kovner said. "Clients have our officers' home phone numbers
and can call day or night."
   Couriers are dispatched to pick up deposits from
physicians' offices at no charge. To arrange a loan, a bank
officer will go to the physician's office. "We've assisted in
buying hospitals and locating land because we know the
medical market," Mr. Kovner said.
   Mr. Kovner said the company's tax rate in the first
quarter was about 42.5%, compared with 11% a year earlier
when the company paid only state taxes and no federal taxes.
"We've run out of tax credits and any type of net operating
losses," Mr. Kovner said. The 42.5% rate is anticipated for
the full year.
   The prime rate is down about 150 basis points from the
year-earlier quarter, Mr. Kovner said. A basis point is
1/100th of a percentage point. "Each 50 basis points is worth
about $300,000 to us in {annual} earnings, or $75,000 a
quarter." The company's FDIC assessment has increased by
$15,000 a quarter, Mr. Kovner said.
   Despite the anticipated net income decline, the company
continues to grow. At the end of last month, assets stood at
about $128 million, up 16% from $110 million at the end of
the 1989 first quarter. Deposits grew 17.5% to $120 million
from $102 million.
   Professional Bancorp expects to open a new bank office
near Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif., later
this year. Also planned this year or early next year is one
or two new California offices in Loma Linda and/or the
Pomona-Ontario area. Within the next few years, the company
may also establish offices in Long Beach, Calif., Sacramento
and Boston or New York, Mr. Kovner said.
   "Our planned growth might include a public offering in the
next year or so if capital markets are appropriate," Mr.
Kovner said. In February, the company eliminated all its
long-term debt and has no short-term debt. "I think debt is
bad unless absolutely necessary. This bank is very
conservatively run on a financial basis and it would be
foolish to bring on debt."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CrossLand Savings
   Had Loss in Period
   Of $136.5 Million
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CRL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- CrossLand Savings reported a $136.5 million
first-quarter net loss and a doubling of problem assets,
increasing its already severe capital problems.
   The results reflect a $100 million provision for possible
losses on problem loans. The bank said it felt the provision
was appropriate "after management's regular evaluation of
CrossLand's loan portfolio and after preliminary discussions
with the {Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.} relating to its
ongoing examination" of the bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To alleviate its capital shortage, which could lead to
regulatory sanctions, CrossLand proposed a recapitalization
plan that asks preferred shareholders for a major concession.
Under terms of the plan, the bank's total $363 million of
Series A and Series B preferred stock would be converted to
common stock. Unlike the preferred, the common stock doesn't
pay a dividend and would reduce the preferred holders'
standing as creditors.
   With $13.2 billion of assets, CrossLand is the largest
savings bank in New York and one of the largest in the U.S.
CrossLand said it hasn't yet determined the conversion ratios
for each of the two series. But it said that the move is
aimed at qualifying the equity that is tied up in the
preferred as core capital and tangible capital, two critical
measures of the health of a savings bank.
   CrossLand said that the plan wouldn't help it meet,
however, the FDIC's requirements for leverage capital. These
require a bank to maintain tangible capital -- capital
excluding good will -- of at least 4% of its assets as they
are adjusted for risk.
   Late last month, a plan to recapitalize CrossLand Savings
collapsed when the Pritzker family of Chicago, which with a
partner would have taken a controlling stake in the bank in
return for a capital infusion, decided to withdraw from the
transaction. The Pritzkers didn't say why they withdrew; the
bank said, however, that it would propose a new plan as
quickly as possible.
   CrossLand's problem is that under the thrift-reform
legislation Congress passed last August, its two series of
cumulative preferred don't qualify as core capital. Because
the preferred shares are cumulative -- if dividends are
missed, they accumulate and must be paid before any dividends
on common are paid -- the preferred is viewed by regulators
as debt rather than equity.
   CrossLand's first-period loss equaled $10.61 a share,
compared with net income of $11.8 million, or 11 cents a
share, in the year-earlier period. The loan-loss provision a
year earlier was $7.9 million.
   "During this quarter, CrossLand experienced a sharp
increase in loan delinquencies and adversely classified
assets," the bank said.
   Delinquent loans -- those 90 or more days past due -- plus
real estate on which the bank has foreclosed, climbed to
$455.5 million as of March 31 from $218.4 million on March
31, 1989, and from $288 million at year's end. These loans
and real estate as a percentage of total assets grew to 3.44%
from 1.40% a year earlier and 2.04% at year's end.
   Income from interest on loans before provision for
possible loan losses fell 24% to $31.7 million from $41.8
million in 1989's fourth quarter for three reasons: CrossLand
has pared interest-earning assets by $2.1 billion in the past
nine months in keeping with its business plan; the bank has
seen a substantial increase in nonperforming assets; and its
real-estate investments have risen.
   Income from real-estate investments is recorded under
other operating income, which rose 49% in the first quarter
to $34.1 million from $22.8 million in the year-earlier
period, CrossLand reported.
   The bank's interest-rate spread -- the difference between
what it pays for funds and what it takes in on loans --
narrowed to 1.77% on March 31, 1990, from 2.00% on March 31,
1989, but widened from 1.67% at the end of 1989.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
CrossLand common shares fell 12.5 cents to $1.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   La Quinta to Report First-Quarter Loss
   Near Same Level of Year-Earlier Period
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8A
</SO>
<CO>
   LQM
</CO>
<IN>
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- La Quinta Motor Inns Inc. expects to
report that its net loss for the first quarter was "about the
same" as the net loss of $673,000, or five cents a share, in
the year-earlier quarter, Chairman Sam Barshop said.
   Still, Mr. Barshop in an interview described the overall
picture for the motel chain's first quarter as "excellent,"
citing significant increases in revenue, operating profit and
occupancy and room rates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   La Quinta's first-quarter revenue rose to around $52
million, a 15% increase from $45.2 million in the
year-earlier period, said Fran Bissaillon, La Quinta senior
vice president, administration and treasurer.
   He noted that the net loss recorded for the first quarter
in 1989 included a $1.8 million capital gain from the sale of
inns to a master limited partnership. In the just concluded
quarter, the company "replaced that $1.8 million of capital
gains with operating profit which is much superior," he said.
   Mr. Bissaillon also said the company expects to report an
increase in operating profit of "between 40% and 45%" from
the $6.6 million recorded in the year-ago quarter. He said
operating profit was wiped out by non-operating expenses,
which rose more than 12% from the $9.4 million recorded in
the year-ago quarter.
   Mr. Bissaillon said non-operating expenses had risen
because funds, which had been drawing interest that offset
interest payments on debt, had been used to build three new
motels. The company's improved operating results also led to
increased payments to minority interests "in the $1 million
range," Mr. Bissaillon said.
   "But all of our costs have been increasing at a rate much
less than our revenues have been increasing," said Mr.
Bissaillon, who noted that occupancy rates had increased to
64% from 60% during the quarter and average room rates rose
5%, to $39.84 from $37.91.
   The first quarter is traditionally a slow time in the
hospitality industry, said Mr. Barshop, who called La
Quinta's results "a pleasant surprise." He attributed them to
an improving Texas economy, a newly computerized reservation
system and the remodeling of more than 180 La Quinta
properties over the past three years.
   La Quinta operates 207 motels, about half of them in Texas
and surrounding states.
   "We felt that the Texas turnaround would come," said Mr.
Barshop, who estimated that La Quinta occupancy rates within
Texas have risen to about 69% from 63% a year ago.
   Mr. Barshop said the new computer system links La Quinta's
own reservation system directly with travel agents and
airline reservation desks. Largely because of it, both call
volume and the number of confirmed reservations increased by
about 25% during the quarter, Mr. Barshop said.
   In addition, Mr. Barshop said the chain, which has
traditionally focused on the budget-minded business traveler,
has also begun marketing its services to tour groups, bus
companies and auto clubs.
   "We're marketing to different groups than before," Mr.
Barshop said. "We're seeing more and more tourists discover
us."
   As previously reported, La Quinta and AEW Partners L.P., a
Boston-based investment fund, have established a $150 million
acquisition fund to be used to purchase as many as 50
distressed hotel properties for conversion into La Quinta
motels.
   Although the new partnership already has made bids on 10
properties, Mr. Barshop said he didn't expect the new
partnership's activities to have a substantial impact on La
Quinta's operating results for the remainder of 1990.
   While declining to provide an estimate on earnings for the
rest of 1990, Mr. Barshop said he expected La Quinta's
results for the next three quarters to reflect what he sees
as the "continued strong improvement" of the Texas economy.
   "I think tourism in Texas is going to be very strong this
summer and I think lodging is going to be very strong," Mr.
Barshop said. "And I think we will be leading the pack as far
as lodging occupancy goes in this state."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ameritech Is Planning to Concentrate
   On Developing International Markets
   ----
   By Julie Amparano Lopez
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3F
</SO>
<CO>
   AIT
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ameritech, emerging from a recent restructuring program,
plans to concentrate on developing international markets and
expanding non-telephone operations.
   "We've been looking for growth opportunities . . . and
domestically, current restrictions limit us," said William L.
Weiss, chairman and chief executive officer. "We're looking
carefully in all parts of the world to take our skills and
find opportunities to grow."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Chicago-based Bell company is getting a late start.
The six other regional Bell companies already have developed
substantial business operations overseas.
   "It wasn't that we were afraid to move out," explained Mr.
Weiss in an interview. "But, we stayed because the core
business is very good."
   Ameritech now views foreign countries as untapped markets
for all its services, particularly telephone, cellular and
information service. The company currently is concentrating
on the Eastern Bloc countries, Europe and Latin America for
various telecommunications opportunities.
   Recently, Ameritech competed for a cellular franchise in
West Germany and a Mexican system, although unsuccessfully.
"We competed very aggressively for the German cellular system
and we came within a hair's breadth. We will continue to
compete as various opportunities come up," Mr. Weiss said,
adding that Ameritech's cash flow is in a very "good
position."
   At the end of last year, Ameritech had $520.2 million in
cash and temporary cash investments. Total assets were $2.8
billion and cash flow totaled $3.1 billion.
   Ameritech's cellular and telephone units are "very active"
in looking for opportunites in international markets. Bruce
DeMaeyer, president of Ameritech Mobile Communications Inc.,
said the unit is discussing the possibility of cellular in
New Zealand and Australia.
   On the domestic front, Ameritech is launching aggressive
plans to build rings of fiber-optic cable in major
metropolitan areas in its five-state territory.
   Robert L. Barnett, president of the Ameritech Bell Group,
said the company initially plans to invest $100 million to
build the rings in Chicago, Cleveland, Milwaukee,
Indianapolis, Detroit, Grand Rapids, Mich., and Columbus,
Ohio. To date, Ameritech has installed more than 230,000
miles of fiber.
   "Fiber rings should be set within the next 12 months,"
said Mr. Barnett, conceding that "part of our plan to build
these fiber rings is in response to competition."
   Ameritech and other regional telephone companies have been
losing important chunks of corporate business to fiber-optic
upstart companies, which are building optical-fiber networks
in almost every major U.S. urban hub.
   Mr. Barnett said the company's telephone business is
growing overall at a healthy rate. He said television and
radio campaigns marketing additional phone lines are believed
to have resulted in increased customer-line growth. Phone
lines had been growing in the 2% range, but last year
increased 2.9%.
   He expects the marketing campaign and other factors to
increase phone lines at least 2.9% this year. At the end of
1989, the company had 15.8 million customer lines.
   Minutes of access use are expected to increase at least
5%. Minutes of use last year totaled 43.6 billion. Toll
messages, which numbered 1.4 billion, should grow between 6%
and 10%.
   Telephone operations also should begin to benefit from new
regulatory programs and cost-cutting measures. Illinois and
Michigan have adopted "incentive" regulatory plans that
should give the company greater earnings flexibility.
Wisconsin, Ohio and Indiana are looking at similar
arrangements.
   In addition, the company is paring its telephone work
force and consolidating operations. At the end of 1989, about
850 manager positions were eliminated in Michigan. The
company this year has cut 1,300 slots in Illinois and
Michigan and will be slashing an additional 700 positions
when it consolidates 14 data centers, which house mainframe
computers, to four regional branches.
   "We expect to see some substantial savings in labor
costs," Mr. Barnett said.
   Separately, revenue from non-telephone operations is
expected to grow about 10% to 15% over the next few years.
Last year, non-telephone revenue was $1.1 billion, or 10% of
total revenue.
   Cellular operations, one of the largest contributors in
the group, continue to grow at a robust pace. New cellular
customers, which numbered 242,000 in 1989, are expected to
increase 50% this year. In addition, William P. Vititoe,
president of the Ameritech Enterprise Group, said Ameritech
is shopping for acquisitions to bolster the cellular division
in the five-state territory.
   Ameritech's Tigon unit, which provides voice-messaging
services to corporations, is experiencing 40% growth in new
customers and now is looking into opportunities in the
residential and small-business markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   John White Seeks to Position Kodak
   For `Next Information Revolution'
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   EK
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCHESTER N.Y. -- John P. White, head of Eastman Kodak
Co.'s newest and most ambitious business venture, isn't
easily daunted.
   Take the time he was giving a speech on electronic imaging
at a recent computer trade show in New York. A power outage
suddenly left the room pitch-black, but Mr. White continued
speaking, interjecting humorous anecdotes where slides were
supposed to be shown.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That unflappable style, picked up during his days as a
Marine lieutenant, should help him as he faces one of his
most challenging tasks: turning Kodak's disjointed and poorly
performing electronic imaging business into a moneymaker. Mr.
White was brought in as vice president, integration systems,
late last year to integrate Kodak's computerbased products,
such as scanners and printers, which were marketed separately
by individual units.
   If Mr. White is successful, the payoff could be enormous.
By 2000, the electronic imaging industry is expected to
generate as much as $20 billion in annual sales. Moreover,
the company's revenue from the imaging market is expected to
surpass Kodak's traditional business in photographic film and
paper.
   The new marketing thrust is already paying off. Last
month, Kodak signed an agreement to provide International
Business Machines Corp. with imaging application software for
IBM's PS-2 computer system. Industry observers termed the
agreement a breakthrough for Kodak's electronic imaging
business.
   Unlike chemical imaging -- such as photographic film and
paper, which are based mostly on silver-halide technology --
electronic imaging uses electronic technology to store,
retrieve and send images; it will be used in a number of
fields, from medicine to education and office management.
   For the affable, 52-year-old Mr. White, a history buff who
seems more comfortable in jogging sweats than a business
suit, the task of opening new markets for an emerging field
comes after a long stint in government.
   As an assistant secretary of defense during the Carter
administration, Mr. White managed policies of the new
all-volunteer army, playing a key role transforming the
military from a draft system to a volunteer force. Also under
President Carter, he served in the Office of Management and
Budget as deputy director responsible for the Defense, State,
Treasury and Labor departments' budgets. Mr. White was
eventually awarded the Distinguished Public Service medal, an
annual award given by the president.
   He joined Kodak in 1988 after it acquired a Santa Monica,
Calif., computer firm he headed, Interactive Systems. "The
stakes are big in electronic imaging and that's another
challenge," he adds.
   To illustrate the emerging technology, Mr. White likes to
describe a future hospital in which a New York patient's
medical history, X-rays and charts are stored in a computer
electronically. They can be called up instantly on a display
screen and then transmitted to a Los Angeles hospital over
the telephone. "It's the next information revolution," Mr.
White asserts.
   But putting together an electronic system won't be an easy
task in tradition-bound Kodak, where departments and experts
in different areas were isolated from each other. "This
requires a lot more cooperation among business units than
they're used to," says Mr. White.
   Moreover, Mr. White is one of the few outsiders among
veteran Kodak executives. "It would have been harder if I
came in saying I understand photography," Mr. White says.
"But I came here with a computer industry view which Kodak
doesn't have much in the way of."
   Until now, "we've never had a central organization to
integrate these products," says Lawrence J. Matteson, general
manager of Kodak's imaging information systems. Jacques
Kauffmann, president of Imaging Management &amp; Consulting Inc.,
puts it more bluntly: "They were going all over the place."
   Although the photographic giant has developed some
innovative products in electronic imaging, such as a device
for digitizing microfilm and the world's biggest capacity
optical disk, it hasn't been able to put together a complete
system.
   That has contributed to the financial woes of the segment,
which has yet to show a profit. Kodak, noting that electronic
imaging is a "business opportunity for the 1990s and beyond,"
admits to letting individual units become too independent.
Counters Jack Ennis, who follows Kodak technology for Arthur
D. Little Co., "From a sales viewpoint, it's much more
attractive to market packages."
   Mr. White says Kodak, like other computer companies, is
learning that "the future is going to require a lot of
integration."
   The biggest hurdle in his new job will be explaining
electronic imaging to the average person, he believes.
"People don't quite know what it is," he says. "The exciting
aspect of it is the possibilities."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coors First-Period Net of $7.7 Million
   Is Tied to 30% Boost in Beer Shipments
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7B
</SO>
<CO>
   ACCOB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   GOLDEN, Colo. -- Spurred by an increase of nearly 30% in
beer shipments, Adolph Coors Co. posted its highest
first-quarter earnings since 1983, despite a large charge in
its non-brewing businesses.
   For the 12-week period ended March 25, the nation's third
largest brewer reported net income of $7.7 million, or 21
cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $4.8
million, or 13 cents a share. The latest earnings include a
charge of $7 million, or 12 cents a share, for costs relating
to staff reductions at the company's ceramics unit. Sales
totaled $394.3 million, up 22% from $324.1 million a year
ago. Coors Brewing Co., the company's brewing unit, shipped a
first-quarter record of 3,980,000 barrels, up 30% from the
year-earlier period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said gains were paced by its Coors Light
brand, which continued to show double-digit increases, and by
hefty sales of Keystone, the popular-priced brand introduced
in the fall. "Coors is on a roll," said Emanuel Goldman,
analyst for PaineWebber Inc., San Francisco.
   The generous increase in sales indicates a turnaround for
the company, which ran into tough times during the 1980s. It
was nearly disastrously slow to pick up on the marketing
slugfest initiated by Miller Brewing Co. and Anheuser-Busch
Cos. In addition, the company's flagship Coors brand lost its
marketing niche and its mystique as the company rolled it out
nationally, expanding its market from 11 Western states.
Increased shipping costs and marketing costs eroded margins.
   The first quarter generated a host of good news for Coors.
The best news, Mr. Goldman said, is that Keystone apparently
isn't cannibalizing sales of Coors or Coors Light, as some
had feared. While the flagship Coors beer continued to
decline, the drop has apparently slowed, according to
analysts and a company spokesman.
   The large increase in a virtually flat market means that
Coors's growing brands are stealing drinkers from other beer
companies. G. Heileman Brewing Co. and Stroh Brewery Co. have
both been losing market share in recent years and much of the
increases may be coming at the expense of those brewers. But
recent extremely competitive price cutting by Anheuser-Busch
may indicate that even the tough No. 1 brewer sees the
possibility of erosion of its market share.
   In addition, Coors's significantly higher sales volume
cuts the company's fixed costs per barrel, which has been
higher than the industry average because it brews its beer
longer than other brewers. The increased sales volume will
help fund the big marketing expenses required to compete in
the highly competitive beer market, especially at a time
Coors is engaged in the price-cutting war in many major
markets with Anheuser-Busch, the nation's largest brewer, and
the second-largest beer maker, Miller Brewing Co., a unit of
Philip Morris Cos.
   But the gains also raise concerns. The huge increase in
shipments, for example, is straining the company's capacity
at its single brewery in Golden. Last year, the brewery came
up against its capacity constraints of 20 million barrels a
year when it shipped 17.7 million barrels. This year, the
company may have trouble producing enough beer to meet
traditionally heavy second quarter demand.
   "We're stretching, let's put it that way," said a company
spokesman. Coors attempted to buy Stroh late last year, which
would have given the company some additional plants, but the
deal fell apart when the companies apparently disagreed on
price.
   The company said all of its businesses, including the
brewery, Coors Technology Cos. and Coors Ceramics Co.,
started picking up in the second half of last year, and
continued in the first quarter. Golden Aluminum Co. and
Graphic Packaging Corp., units of Coors Technology, posted
"particularly strong results for the quarter," the company
said. Segment results aren't available. Coors Ceramics
reported record sales, but the unit posted a loss because of
the charge for early retirement and voluntary severance
incentive programs intended to shrink its payroll.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Merck Plans
   Medicaid
   Price Cut
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MRK
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Merck &amp; Co. proposed to make its prescription drugs
available at lower prices to Medicaid patients, but it isn't
clear that the plan will deflect federal and state pressure
to force the pharmaceutical industry to bring down drug
costs.
   Drug companies generally have refused to give price breaks
to Medicaid programs even while granting discounts to other
volume buyers. In the face of budget deficits and rising
prescription prices, legislators and health-care officials
are taking steps to control Medicaid spending on drugs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Merck plan could be both a political and marketing
coup for the nation's leading drug company, and it could save
Medicaid programs nationwide a total of $30 million a year,
based on Merck's current sales. "Merck has taken an important
step away from the policies of greed and unfairness that
unfortunately characterize today's drug companies," said Sen.
David Pryor (D., Ark.), who is drafting legislation aimed at
reducing drug costs for Medicaid and Medicare recipients.
   But it is far from certain that Merck's proposal will
placate regulators or lead other companies to offer similar
plans. For one thing, in a number of states, the offer would
be good only if certain restrictions on Merck drugs are
removed.
   In addition, for the proposal to fend off federal and
state efforts to lower drug prices for the poor, other
companies would have to offer similar discount plans -- and
these would be more costly to competitors because they offer
steeper discounts to bulk purchasers than Merck does. Other
drug companies were studying the plan and hadn't any comment.
   The U.S. and the 50 states share the $50 billion annual
cost of providing medical care to the nation's 23 million
eligible poor. About 7% of Medicaid budgets, or $3.5 billion,
pays for prescription drugs, according to Merck. To control
costs, a dozen states, including California, which accounts
for about 10% of the U.S. prescription drug market, have
adopted formularies, or lists of approved drugs that qualify
for Medicaid payment. Doctors treating poor patients must
prescribe medicines from the formularies, or in some states,
seek special authorization to deviate from the list. Such
policies deny the poor access to many medicines available to
the rest of the country, Merck says.
   With Merck's plan, physicians can "prescribe what they
think is best for their poor patients, just as they do for
patients in the general public," said John L. Zabriskie,
president of Merck Sharpe &amp; Dohme, the Rahway, N.J.,
company's U.S. prescription drug unit. Medicaid currently
accounts for 8% to 10% of Merck's estimated $3 billion of
U.S. sales.
   Under the program, states will get the best price Merck
offers to any customeras long as the state doesn't restrict
access to any Merck drugs. "If they limit access to any of
our products, they won't get the best price on any of our
products," Dr. Zabriskie said.
   Merck's biggest discounts, currently offered only to the
Veterans Administration and a few other federal agencies, are
about 7% to 13% less than Merck's regular wholesale prices,
according to industry estimates. That difference is one of
the lowest in the industry, thus savings from the discount
will be modest at best.
   Sanford Lugar, a pharmacist with New Jersey's Medicaid
program, said it was too early to tell how much Merck's plan
would save his state, but it is "a positive step," he said.
   "We're studying it," said Richard Iniguez, a top official
for MediCal, California's Medicaid program. "But of all
companies to present this {type of} proposal, Merck would
have the least to lose. If, for instance, Pfizer were making
this proposal, we'd have a little more interest."
   Many companies give 30% to 50% discounts on some drugs to
the VA, hospitals, health maintenance organizations and other
bulk pharmaceutical buyers, Mr. Iniguez said. For instance,
MediCal pays $27.83 for 30 tablets of Merck's Pepcid, an
ulcer drug, while the VA pays $24.26, about 13% less, says
Victor Walker, a MediCal pharmacist. By contrast, MediCal
pays $54.77 for 100 of SmithKline Beecham PLC's Tagamet ulcer
pills while the VA pays $27.65, a difference of nearly 50%.
   Drug companies haven't extended discounts to the poverty
programs in part because unlike the VA or big hospitals,
Medicaid doesn't take delivery of the medicines. Generally,
the programs reimburse pharmacists who order and dispense the
products. "Most Medicaid programs pay top dollar for their
drugs," says Mr. Iniguez.
   The California Legislature begins hearings this week on
several bills that would change the state's formulary. One
bill has points similar to those in the Merck proposal;
others would strengthen the hand of state officials in
negotiating prices and adding or removing drugs from the
formulary.
   Mr. Iniguez said that while the state uses its formulary
to control costs, drug companies consider the formulary an
important marketing tool for patented drugs and include the
notation "Approved by MediCal" in ads in medical journals.
"The competition to get your product on the formulary can be
quite intense," he said. "It opens up a market well beyond
MediCal."
   Merck's Pepcid is on California's formulary; Mevacor, a
cholesterol-lowering drug, isn't. Under Merck's plan, the
state would get a discount on both drugs as long as it lifted
restrictions against all Merck products. That would mean
California's poor would have easier access to Mevacor and it
probably would boost sales of the drug as well. The plan, Dr.
Zabriskie asserts, "is fair to the patient, to the states and
to us."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Insurers Are Cutting Back or Halting
   Sales of Personal Insurance Policies
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX AET AIG CI TIC
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Stricter state regulation, heightened competition and
mounting expenses have turned the once-mediocre returns from
selling personal insurance, such as for autos and homes, into
a flood of red ink for many insurers.
   Insurance companies are reassessing their strategies for
this sector of the market. Some are deciding it's best to cut
back, especially on auto insurance, which many insurers see
as their biggest moneyloser. Other companies are deserting
the personal insurance market entirely.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Friday, Xerox Corp.'s Crum &amp; Forster Inc. unit became
the latest company to drop out. It announced that it was
terminating its personal insurance business nationwide.
Robert Vairo, Crum &amp; Forster's president and chief executive
officer, said the decision was based on market conditions and
a belief that the business wasn't going to be profitable any
time soon.
   Last year, Crum &amp; Forster paid out $1.29 in claims and
expenses for every dollar of premium collected in all its
personal lines. That's far worse than the industry average.
Three-quarters of Crum &amp; Forster's personal insurance
business was done in such states as California, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Florida, Texas and Connecticut, where insurance
regulation is in the midst of being revamped.
   "The public and the regulators can't ask us to pay for
insurance that has been mandated by the state and not be able
to recover those costs and make a reasonable profit," Mr.
Vairo said.
   In recent months, other insurers have taken action.
   Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co. plans to cut back its auto
insurance business 15% to 20% in states where it's
unprofitable. It will trim agents' auto insurance commissions
to 10% from 15% starting in July, and it has let go some
agents in California. For now, the Hartford, Conn., insurer
said its cutbacks are limited to individual auto insurance.
   Last month, Philadelphia-based Cigna Corp. told agents it
will no longer accept new auto and personal excess liability
policies after May 1 and asked agents to place renewals with
other carriers.
   New Hampshire Insurance Co., a unit of New York-based
American International Group Inc., has accelerated its
withdrawal from the personal lines market and expects to be
out almost entirely by year end.
   Travelers Corp., also based in Hartford, no longer sells
auto insurance in California, where it had a significant
share of the market, and it's selectively cutting back on its
personal lines business in other states. The company is also
streamlining its entire personal insurance operations,
eliminating 500 to 600 jobs in over 90 field offices
throughout the country.
   Analysts believe more companies will take similar steps.
For consumers, such moves mean they will find fewer companies
willing to insure their cars or homes, especially in states
where insurance reforms have been passed or where new
regulation is on the ballot.
   William Yankus at Conning &amp; Co., a research firm, believes
the beginning of a major structural change is taking place in
the personal insurance market. First, the standard companies
drop out of the market. Then, the substandard insurers expand
their business.
   These companies are willing to insure most motorists,
regardless of their driving records, but they charge dearly
for the service. Regulators could be forced to provide
alternatives, such as state-run pools. Mr. Yankus believes it
could be 10 to 15 years before the market corrects as tort
reform and good no-fault laws come into place.
   Besides what insurers consider an unfavorable regulatory
environment, the very nature of the personal insurance
business leaves little room for fat profit margins. Insurers
are offering generally homogenous products in a highly
competitive market. The direct writers, insurers such as
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., Nationwide Mutual
Insurance Co. and B.A.T Industries PLC's Farmers Group Inc.
unit, which employ their own platoons of agents, have lower
commission costs and thus have an edge over the agency
companies, such as Aetna, Cigna and Travelers, which rely on
independent agents. The agency companies have been slowly
losing market share to the direct writers in the last decade.
   Although Crum &amp; Forster's action was spurred by market
forces, analysts believe a recent management change also
might have played a role in the company's move.
   Alan Henderson of Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
believes Stuart B. Ross, the newly appointed head of Xerox's
financial-services group, has been asked by top management to
improve the cash flow and profitability of his unit. Dropping
some unprofitable insurance lines and shrinking the entire
financial-services operations are likely moves, Mr. Henderson
said. But despite recent speculation, he doesn't believe
Stamford, Conn.-based Xerox will sell its financial-services
businesses.
   ---
   Laurence Hooper contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Torchmark Gets
   Texas Warning
   On Proxy Fight
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   AGC TMK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Texas State Board of Insurance staff informed
Torchmark Corp. that its proxy fight against American General
Corp. may violate state law, but Torchmark vowed to proceed,
anyway.
   In a letter, the deputy commissioner of the board's legal
and compliance section warned Torchmark that the board will
consider the Birmingham, Ala., insurer to have obtained
"control" of American General if it acquires at American
General's annual meeting on May 2, proxies representing 10%
or more of the power to vote.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under Texas state law, a company must obtain permission
from the insurance commissioner before acquiring control of a
Texas insurance company. Torchmark hasn't sought such
permission.
   Torchmark, which launched its proxy battle after dropping
an unsolicited $50-a-share, or $6.3 billion, offer for its
much-bigger rival, had argued that the vote solicitation
wouldn't lead to control because it was merely attempting to
place five "independent" directors on American General's
15-member board.
   Noting that it has the right to appeal the decision to the
Texas insurance commissioner under two sections of state law,
Torchmark said it intends to pursue, if necessary, one of
those alternatives "at the appropriate time."
   "We believe that it is wrong for American General to spend
time and money in an attempt to deny their shareholders the
opportunity to vote for the independent nominees," Torchmark
said. "We, however, fully intend to continue with our proxy
solicitation."
   The Houston insurer, meanwhile, criticized Torchmark for
failing to clear its nomination with state regulators, who
are charged with protecting the interests of policyholders.
"We believe that the process that the state regulators are
pursuing in order to determine whether to grant approval will
also provide both regulators and policyholders an opportunity
to understand Torchmark's intentions," American General said.
   The Texas decision represents the latest round in a
bruising regulatory fight being waged in almost a dozen
states where American General has subsidiaries. So far,
regulators in California and Virginia have declined to block
the proxy solicitation, while authorities in Tennessee and
New York have warned Torchmark that they consider the
solicitation an attempt to obtain control of American General
without obtaining required approvals.
   The two insurance companies have also battled in federal
court. A U.S. district judge in Houston initially blocked
Torchmark from nominating its five directors, but the
decision was overturned by a federal appeals court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hillsdown to Buy
   Controlling Stake
   In Canada Packers
   ----
   By Lynne Kilpatrick
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   U.HLD T.CK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Hillsdown Holdings PLC said it plans to acquire
a controlling stake in a food-processing company, Canada
Packers Inc., for a combination of cash and assets with an
indicated value of about 606 million Canadian dollars (US$521
million).
   The combined company will be a formidable force in the
Canadian food industry with annual revenue of about C$4
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the proposal, Hillsdown said its Canadian operation,
Maple Leaf Mills, will be transferred to Canada Packers in
exchange for about 29.5 million shares of newly issued Canada
Packers shares.
   Hillsdown will also offer to acquire about 7.2 million
Canada Packers shares, or about 20% of the existing shares,
at C$16.50 a share.
   Following the transaction, Hillsdown, a major British
food-processing company, would hold 56% of the new, larger
company, which would continue to trade and operate under the
Canada Packers name.
   Canada Packers is Canada's largest food processor, with
annual sales of about C$3.3 billion. The company put itself
on the block last October when the principal shareholder, the
MacLean family of Toronto, said it would be interested in
selling its 30% stake in the company if a bid was made for
all the company's shares.
   The company's stock languished from C$20.50 -- after the
company announced it was looking for a buyer -- to a low of
C$13.25 Thursday as no interested bidders appeared. On the
Toronto Stock Exchange Friday, the stock gained 50 Canadian
cents to close at C$13.75.
   Analysts said the lukewarm reaction by investors reflects
the fact that only 20% of the outstanding shares will be
accepted under Hillsdown's offer.
   Adam Zimmerman, chairman and chief executive officer of
Noranda Forest Inc. and a director of Canada Packers,
attributed the small stock increase to weak market
conditions. (The Toronto Composite 300 Index fell 55 points
Friday.)
   Mr. Zimmerman, who heads an independent directors'
committee established to solicit bids, said he is pleased
with the proposal. "We've worked at it for six months," he
said. "It was the one complete offer and it was certainly the
best."
   John Jackson, vice chairman of Hillsdown, said the company
has been considering for some years having a subsidiary
traded on a North American stock exchange. "We very much see
this as a base for expansion into North America generally,"
he said.
   "On the basis of {Canada Packers'} current earning
numbers, it's a good offer," said William Chisholm, a
consumer products analyst with Loewen Ondaatje McCutcheon &amp;
Company Ltd. "Shareholders are ending up with a company
that's going to be more interesting than it is right now."
   Mr. Chisholm said he expects the shares to appreciate in
value following the transaction. He said the deal represents
good value for shareholders and said the resulting company
will be less reliant on its red-meat operations.
   Declining demand and falling prices for beef have been
hurting the company's profit level.
   For the nine months ended Dec. 23, Canada Packers reported
a 48% decline in net income to C$12.7 million, or 35 Canadian
cents a share, from C$24.5 million or 67 Canadian cents.
Revenue declined by 4% to C$2.37 billion from C$2.47 billion.
   Hillsdown's Maple Leaf Mills unit is the largest
flour-milling company in Canada and reported 1989 revenue of
C$741 million.
   The transaction is subject to approval by Canada Packers
and Hillsdown shareholders, as well by regulatory
authorities.
   The MacLean family said it will vote its 10.2 million
shares in favor of the transaction and tender its shares to
the cash bid. Any shares tendered will be bought up on a
pro-rata basis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Judge Expands Liability of Owners
   And Operators of Ships in Oil Spills
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   BP WPM MYG WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge in Anchorage expanded the liability of
ship owners and operators in Alaskan pipeline oil spills. The
ruling is the first to interpret whether the Trans-Alaska
Pipeline Act of 1973 superseded a 19th century law that
limited a shipper's exposure to the cost of a vessel and its
cargo.
   U.S. District Court Judge H. Russel Holland dismissed a
claim brought by Trinidad Corp., a St. Louis shipper that
hired the S.S. Glacier Bay, which struck a rock and spilled
almost 150,000 gallons of oil into the Cook Inlet Bay in
Alaska on July 2, 1987. Commercial fishermen and fish
processors filed suit in federal court asking for more than
$104.8 million from Trinidad Corp. and British Petroleum PLC,
which had hired Trinidad to ship its oil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Trans-Alaska Pipeline Act provides that the owner or
operator of a vessel involved in an oil spill must pay
plaintiffs the first $14 million in damages. After that, the
Trans-Alaskan Pipeline Liability Fund, which is funded by oil
companies, is obligated to pay the next $86 million in
damages. Both the shipper and the fund are liable for the
damages.
   But it was unclear whether a negligent shipper would be
liable to plaintiffs for additional damages or whether the
fund could recoup the $86 million from a negligent shipper.
   Trinidad filed a complaint with the court arguing that the
19th century law limited its liability under a negligence
claim to no more than $6.55 million, the cost of the vessel
and the cargo.
   In a rare partnership, the plaintiffs and the oil
companies filed to have Trinidad's complaint dismissed.
   "Judge Holland's order is the pivotal ruling in the
Glacier Bay litigation," says plaintiffs' attorney Gerard M.
Nolting of Faegre &amp; Benson in Minneapolis. "The shipping
industry will have great difficulty in the future in limiting
its liability in oil spill litigation in cases arising out of
Trans-Alaskan oil spills and others governed by statutes
similar to the Trans-Alaskan Pipeline Act."
   Trinidad declined to comment.
   ---
   JUDGE RULES that actuaries' relationships with their
clients aren't privileged.
   The decision means that information from a partner at
Kwasha Lipton, an actuarial firm in Fort Lee, N.J., can be
used in a suit against West Point-Pepperell Inc., owned by
investor William Farley. Fruit of the Loom Inc., also owned
by Mr. Farley, is a big client of Kwasha. Kwasha had argued
that use of the information posed a conflict of interest for
the firm. In the case, a former official of a company
acquired by Mr. Farley is suing for compensation.
   In what U.S. District Judge Kenneth Conboy in Manhattan
called an "extraordinary proposition," the Kwasha partner
asked to withdraw an affidavit he had voluntarily submitted
in the case. The actuary said he didn't know at the time that
the case was against a company related to one of his firm's
clients.
   Kwasha claimed that actuaries have a confidential
relationship with their client that must be protected just as
attorney-client relationships are protected. Actuaries
provide services such as calculating statistics for insurance
and pension plans.
   But Judge Conboy rejected the request. "It is clear that
the New York courts and legislators have not thought that the
benefits of protecting the confidences between an actuary and
a client or an accountant and a client are great enough to
create a statutory or common law privilege," the judge said
in his ruling. The judge said that if New York law recognized
a privilege between accountants and their clients, it would
be feasible that the same protection could be extended to
actuaries.
   Kwasha officials declined to comment. Attorneys for West
Point-Pepperell couldn't be reached for comment.
   Robert Krumme, the former official who filed the suit,
worked at Cluett Peabody &amp; Co. from 1969 to 1986, when it was
acquired by West Point-Pepperell.
   ---
   SURVEY SAYS 1989 legal fees rose sharply in directors' and
officers' liability cases.
   Wyatt Co., a consulting firm, studied 1,333 corporations
and found that the cost of defending D&amp;O suits last year
averaged $541,000, up 61% from $336,000 in 1988 and more than
three times the 1980 figure of $162,000.
   "That's the largest percentage increase we've ever shown,"
said Kenneth S. Wollner, a consultant in Wyatt's Chicago
office.
   Not surprisingly, litigation was the highest expense, with
1989 legal expenses averaging more than $818,000 per claim,
compared with an average of $514,000 spent on claims that
were settled. Even claims that were dropped cost an average
of $203,000, the annual survey reported.
   More increases are coming, the study said. It projects
that defense costs for D&amp;O claims brought in 1989 will
average $1.3 million by the time they are completed. "There's
a tremendous escalation in the cost of defending D&amp;O claims,"
said Mr. Wollner.
   He attributed the climb to increasingly complex D&amp;O suits
brought by shareholders, noting in particular a surge in the
cases that arise out of corporate mergers or reorganizations.
About 50% of the claims reported in the Wyatt survey involved
a shareholder action. Employee suits accounted for about 20%
and customer claims about 17%. Directors and officers of
companies involved in mergers, acquisitions or divestitures
are twice as likely to get sued as other executives, Wyatt
reported.
   Among the survey's other findings: recently adopted state
statutes designed to narrow the potential liability of
executives are having mixed results. They apparently are
discouraging some types of D&amp;O claims, particularly against
private companies.
   But the statutes are having little impact on suits brought
by shareholders and government agencies against executives of
public concerns.
   ---
   MAYTAG IS SUED for deceptive trade practices involving
microwave ovens.
   The Alabama attorney general filed suit in federal court
in Montgomery, Ala., alleging Maytag secretly reconditioned
defective microwave ovens at its Magic Chef Co. division
plant in Anniston, Ala., altered their serial numbers and
sold them as new.
   In Newton, Iowa, Janis Cooper, vice president of corporate
communications for Maytag Corp., said the company is
reviewing its procedures at the plant, where all Magic Chef
microwaves are made. "We take a great deal of pride in our
products and our name -- both Maytag and Magic Chef -- and we
consider the trust of our customers very important," she
said.
   The suit seeks to halt the practice, which it claims has
been going on for several years. It also asks for a recall of
all units involved and a fine of up to $2,000 for each
violation.
   ---
   FIRST WOMAN DEAN of Ivy League law school to step down.
   Barbara A. Black, dean of the Columbia University School
of Law, will leave her post at the end of the 1990-1991
academic year after 5 1/2 years. She says her term was
scheduled to end six months later but that she didn't want to
bring in a new dean in the middle of an academic year. Ms.
Black, 56 years old, supervised an overhaul of the school's
first-year curriculum and introduced new courses in legal
thought and economics and law.
   She said she plans to return to several legal history
books she is writing about 17th century Massachusetts
colonial law and to teaching at Columbia. A successor hasn't
been appointed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Long-Run Forces Aid
   In Low Jobless Rate
   ----
   By David Wessel
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The best piece of evidence for the case that
the economic glass is half full, rather than half empty, is
the unemployment rate. At last tally, the jobless rate was
5.2%, near a 15-year low. And it has been at about that level
for more than a year. Yet, manufacturers have let nearly
250,000 workers go in the past year and enough retailers are
in trouble to hold a spring convention in bankruptcy court.
What goes on?
   Sure, the economy has escaped a recession so far, but its
growth has slowed enough to cause computers at the
forecasting firm of DRI/McGraw-Hill to predict an upturn in
the jobless rate by now. Likewise, Federal Reserve Chairman
Alan Greenspan has been anticipating greater unemployment
with the sluggish economic growth.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The low jobless rate partly reflects the economy's
continuing expansion, of course. But the unexpectedly low
level may also reflect long-term forces at work within the
economy. Unrelated to the business cycle's periodic ups and
downs, these forces include slowing labor-force growth, a
shrinking economic role for manufacturers and harder
productivity gains -- along with skill or luck at the Fed.
                                                                                                       

   The impact of demographics on the labor force can be seen
in a few statistics. With the youngest baby boomers turning
26 this year, fewer young people are looking for their first
adult jobs. In the past 12 months, the labor force -- those
working or looking for work -- grew only 1.3%, down from 1.7%
a year in the 1980s and 2.4% in the 1970s.
   "We don't have to create so many jobs just to stand
still," says Janet Norwood, U.S. commissioner of labor
statistics.
   Remember candidate George Bush's pledge to create 30
million jobs during his presidency? He doesn't talk about it
any more. The latest Economic Report of the President instead
calls for more immigration to ease an anticipated labor
shortage.
   The jobless rate could edge up a few tenths of a percent
at any time, of course -- or more if a bona fide recession
develops. But if the economy continues at its current
plodding pace, as most forecasters expect, the jobless rate
is likely to remain low.
   Roger Brinner of DRI/McGraw-Hill figures the economy need
grow only 2.5% a year to keep the rate steady. "Back in the
'60s, you needed 4 1/4% growth," he says.
                                                                                                       

   Not only is the labor force growing more slowly, but
productivity growth is lagging, in part because productivity
gains normally come hardest in service jobs, whose
labor-force role keeps expanding. If productivity were to
grow faster, employers could get by with fewer workers -- and
unemployment would be higher.
                                                                                                       

   The low unemployment rate seems especially strange when
headlines tell of manufacturing layoffs. But manufacturing
may get more attention than it warrants nowadays. In large
measure, this is because the numbers spinning from
Washington's statistics mills are overweighted with data
about the factory economy, whose role on the business scene
has diminished over the years.
   A glance at Pittsburgh is instructive. Like much of
manufacturing, steel is in a slump. Yet, the Pittsburgh
area's unemployment rate is below the national average and
has risen only slightly in recent months. The explanation is
that only 3% of the area's jobs are still tied to steel. In
fact, manufacturing of all kinds accounts for less than 14%
of the area's jobs, down from 25% a decade ago.
   While factories across the country have cut payrolls, the
rest of the economy has created more than 2.7 million jobs in
the past year. The ups and downs of interest rates or the
dollar may trouble many manufacturers, but such movements
generally mean less to hospitals or fast-food outlets.
   As an indicator of overall economic conditions, the
unemployment rate is far from perfect. It counts only people
looking for jobs and ignores those who have lost hope of ever
finding work or have been forced to retire early.
                                                                                                       

   Right now, moreover, the numbers are unusually muddled.
The Labor Department's monthly survey of households, from
which the jobless rate is calculated, found 1.25 million more
people with jobs in March 1990 than in March 1989. But
employers report that they added almost twice as many in the
same 12 months. Even allowing for a big increase in
moonlighting -- which swells the employers' tallies without
boosting the count from the household survey -- the
discrepancy is a mystery.
                                                                                                       

   The national unemployment rate is, in addition, an average
that masks high joblessness in some regions. But as long as
weakness in New England, say, is offset by improvement in
Texas, the overall jobless rate may not change, and the Fed's
stated strategy is to achieve just such a balance.
   A low rate of unemployment, it should be added, can make
the Fed's job somewhat easier, since if joblessness is low,
the Fed is usually under less political pressure to push down
interest rates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reichmanns Propose to Reshuffle Assets,
   Merge Gulf Canada With Interhome Unit
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   GWT GOU IHEIF IMOA XON
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Toronto's Reichmann family proposed, through its various
holdings, a complex reshuffling of energy assets that would
create Canada's biggest domestically owned oil producer, and
establish Canada's main oil pipeline as a separate public
company.
   The proposed transactions, announced by Reichmann-owned
Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd., 89.3%-owned GW Utilities
Ltd., and 74.3%-owned Gulf Canada Resources Ltd., would
result in the merger of Gulf Canada and Home Oil Co.,
creating a company with oil output of about 132,000 barrels a
day, and assets of five billion Canadian dollars (US$4.3
billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Home Oil is a wholly owned unit of Calgary, Alberta-based
Interhome Energy Inc. The Reichmanns are in the process of
effectively gaining control of Interhome Energy.
   Interhome's other main asset, 100%-owned Interprovincial
Pipe Line Ltd., would form a separate public company under
the proposals. Interprovincial, with assets of about C$1.5
billion, owns a 2,300-mile oil pipeline extending from
Alberta to the U.S. Midwest and eastern Canada.
   Terms of the proposed transactions, which the Reichmanns
plan to present over the next few weeks to the boards of Gulf
Canada and Interhome, weren't disclosed.
   Pending shareholder and other approvals, a spokesman for
Olympia &amp; York said it hopes a merger of Gulf Canada and Home
Oil could be completed this summer, with the proposed spinoff
of Interprovincial to Interhome's shareholders to follow late
this year.
   The first step of the complicated corporate realignment
involves an agreement, also announced Friday by Gulf Canada,
that would effectively cement control of Interhome in the
Reichmanns' hands.
   Under its terms, Gulf Canada said it agreed, subject to
regulatory approval, to acquire Imperial Oil Ltd.'s 22.8%
interest in Interhome for C$54.50 a share, or a total of
C$492.4 million. Gulf Canada said it plans subsequently to
resell the Interhome stake for C$250 million to GW Utilities,
thereby increasing GW Utilities' stake in Interhome to 63.5%
from the current 40.7%.
   Toronto-based GW Utilities is itself expected to be taken
public later this year by the Reichmanns, who offered through
Olympia &amp; York in January to acquire the company's remaining,
minority-held shares.
   Imperial Oil, 70%-owned by Exxon Corp., said it plans to
use proceeds from the sale of its Interhome stake to help
reduce debt, which swelled with its recent C$4.96 billion
purchase of Texaco Canada Inc. Imperial Oil plans to shrink
debt to about C$2.5 billion by the end of 1991 from C$3.82
billion at Dec. 31, a spokesman said, partly through the sale
of some C$1.5 billion of assets. Imperial Oil doesn't see
Interhome as a "core" holding, he said.
   The planned sale of the Interhome stake is expected to
generate a net gain to Imperial Oil of about C$195 million,
or C$1.03 a share, the company said.
   Gulf Canada said it will fund the initial purchase of
Imperial Oil's Interhome stake by drawing on existing bank
credit lines. It said it will also immediately pursue asset
sales totaling as much as C$300 million, using proceeds to
cut debt from the Interhome purchase.
   Gulf Canada, which on April 12 had most of its debt
downgraded by Moody's Investors Service Inc., said the asset
sales will mainly involve nonproducing properties, including
its stake in Alberta's big Caroline gas field. It is also
expected to announce soon a buyer for its Asamera Minerals
Inc. unit, which owns 51% of a gold mine in Washington state.
   As reported, Moody's attributed its downgrade to what it
described as Gulf Canada's "weak" earnings outlook, its
dwindling production from low-cost conventional oil fields,
its heavy capital costs linked to frontier developments in
Canada's Beaufort Sea and elsewhere, and its hefty dividend
requirements.
   The criticisms echoed those of at least some analysts, who
for months have ruminated about a possible marriage of Gulf
Canada and Home Oil, whose steady oil output and C$188.3
million 1989 cash flow was generated mainly from low-cost
conventional fields in western Canada. Interhome, with its
ill-fitting oil, gas and pipeline legs, was also regarded as
an odd hybrid.
   "This is a good move for everybody," said Denis Mote, an
analyst with Toronto's Maison Placements Inc. "It's basically
a rationalization of Olympia &amp; York's oil and gas assets. And
if Gulf sells assets" as planned to fund its Interhome
purchase, he said, "they may not end up with any more debt
than they started with."
   Moody's confirmed its ratings on Gulf Canada Friday,
saying it would monitor, among other things, the amount of
debt the company ultimately absorbs from Interhome. Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp., meanwhile, placed about C$1.2 billion of Gulf
Canada and Interhome debt on credit watch surveillance, with
negative implications.
   As part of their proposed transaction, Gulf Canada and GW
Utilities said they would grant one another rights of first
refusal on any sale of their interests in Interhome. The
companies also said Interhome's 15-member board, which along
with Gulf Canada's will consider the Reichmanns' proposals,
will include eight inside nominees, and seven outsiders.
   In Toronto Stock Exchange trading Friday, Toronto-based GW
Utilities closed at C$34 a share, up 25 Canadian cents;
Interhome closed unchanged, at C$47.50; Imperial Oil's Class
A shares closed at C$56.875, unchanged; and Gulf Canada's
shares fell 12.5 Canadian cents, to C$13.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Gephardt and Quayle Spearhead Parties' Efforts
   To Address Concerns About U.S. Competitiveness
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt wants
the U.S. government to help develop some promising commercial
technologies. Vice President Dan Quayle says he would rather
cut back on "unnecessary" regulations.
   Mr. Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, wants the government's
top economic officials to sit on the National Security
Council; the Republican Mr. Quayle would rather think about
changing antitrust laws. And while Mr. Gephardt wants more
federal support for U.S. exports, Mr. Quayle wants to clamp
down on liability suits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two fair-haired men of their respective parties agree
that the U.S. faces a big problem with something called
"competitiveness," and they both want to do something about
it. But they have been charting very different approaches to
the nation's economic challenges.
   Competitiveness is a topic that will continue to be
debated as the U.S. increasingly moves away from
preoccupation with Cold War issues to concern about economic
strength and foreign competition. While the two men certainly
aren't the only participants in this debate, they have become
important spokesmen for their respective parties and
ideologies: Vice President Quayle through his chairmanship of
the Bush administration's Council on Competitiveness, Rep.
Gephardt through his leadership post in the House and his
continued outspokenness on the trade issues that he stressed
in his 1988 presidential bid.
   Not surprisingly, there's an important political dimension
to the debate between the ambitious young Midwesterners with
presidential aspirations. "It's a very good issue for
Gephardt," says Brookings Institution analyst Stephen Hess.
"It may be at the cutting edge of the issues the Democrats
need to insinuate themselves back into the White House: more
protectionism, playing to union `Buy America' support and
concern about the Japanese."
   On the other hand, Mr. Hess adds, competitiveness is more
of a defensive issue for the Republicans. "They're in power
and have got to be more restrained. Whatever Quayle does is
either going to have to be very modest or very circumspect
and very responsible."
   But there could be dangers for Democrats, too. An overt
protectionist message "runs counter to some basic American
instincts," cautions Democratic political consultant Greg
Schneiders. Noting the failure of Mr. Gephardt's presidential
bid, Mr. Schneiders says that if a program "begins to look or
sound like any kind of management of the economy, I think
people will shy away from it."
   The two sides begin by framing the issue in similar terms:
The country isn't in a crisis, progress is being made on the
trade deficit and other problems, but some serious policy
questions remain nonetheless.
   "Some of the concerns {about competitiveness} are
overstated," stemming from Americans' anxieties about
recession, the dollar and the burgeoning trade and budget
deficits of the last decade, says Burton Pines, a vice
president of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think
tank here. "What isn't overstated is the potential threat.
Are we competitive? Yes, we are. But could we do more to
enhance our ability to compete? Yes, we could."
   In some ways, the vice president's task is more
challenging than Rep. Gephardt's: How to articulate a
positive strategy without violating his president's longtime
abhorrence of government intervention in the private sector.
"My role," Mr. Quayle says, "is to look at the question of
how do we take the burdens off our private sector, the
burdens we impose ourselves," as well as keeping up the
president's drumbeat on cutting the capital-gains tax. "What
we have to do is get consistency and continuity within our
own playing field."
   So far, the Competitiveness Council's main project has
been supporting a bill by Sens. Robert Kasten (R., Wis.) and
John Rockefeller (D., W.Va.) to impose some federal limits on
liability lawsuits and to curb some big product-liability
judgments, a major complaint of businesses in the wake of
escalating insurance and litigation costs. Strongly opposed
by trial lawyers and some consumer groups, such legislation
has been stalled for a decade.
   But the sponsors hope the added push from the
administration's support will enable the bill at least to
clear the Senate by year end. By then, the council hopes to
have proposals on two other issues: advancing the
commercialization of biotechnology research and modifying
antitrust laws to allow more corporate mergers.
   Ironically, some of the vice president's natural allies in
the business community and the conservative movement are
disappointed in his performance on the competitiveness issue.
"Quayle's got to do more on that. That's an area where he
could really do something," says the Heritage Foundation's
Mr. Pines.
   Among his suggestions: Mr. Quayle and the council should
develop a "nice, easy" definition of competitiveness that
stresses certain conservative principles, such as freedom of
choice. A Heritage working group also has suggested that
proponents of new regulations be required to come up with a
"competitiveness impact statement" that would detail the
economic consequences of their proposals. Heritage also calls
for a stronger push on areas such as antitrust, saying the
laws are outmoded in an era of strong foreign competition and
substantial cooperation between Japanese and European
companies.
   Others say that while the projects undertaken by the
council are fine as far as they go, the scope remains too
small. "Overall, I wouldn't give them {council members} very
high grades," says Paul Huard, a vice president with the
National Association of Manufacturers. "They're not really
serious, as near as we can tell, about doing something about
the high cost of capital. They talk about doing something
about research and development, about depreciation. They talk
about it, they're studying it, but basically there isn't much
forward motion."
   Mr. Quayle's staffers defend his approach, saying he's
limited in part by his role, since other departments have
specific responsibilities for issues such as addressing the
budget deficit. They also point to Bush
administration-sponsored increases in the research and
education budgets as evidence of serious commitment. But even
more important, according to Mr. Quayle's chief of staff,
William Kristol, "our first task has been to knock down all
the bad ideas by Democrats on the Hill."
   Some of those "bad ideas" he refers to come from Rep.
Gephardt, whose comprehensive legislation -- a Trade and
Technology Promotion Act introduced last fall -- will be
closely reviewed by several committees in the next few weeks.
Among Mr. Gephardt's key proposals: to require that the
president's commerce, Treasury and trade advisers be given
seats on the National Security Council, a move he says is
necessary to raise the profile of economic issues and give
them parity with foreign policy and national security. He
also wants to develop a new agency that would help foster
research and application of so-called "emerging
technologies."
   "The Republican view, the conservative view, is that the
government has no role -- that the government simply
deregulates and the private sector will take care of the
rest," says the St. Louis Democrat, whose district includes
suppliers to the Big Three auto makers, a leading aircraft
manufacturer and numerous other manufacturing concerns.
   "I think the better view is that we're up against
competition, which in some cases benefits from close
cooperation with the government. While we can't emulate that
entirely," Rep. Gephardt says, "government needs to create a
better environment in which our private sector can develop
and market its products."
   To criticisms from conservatives that his approach would
be too interventionist, Mr. Gephardt responds that he doesn't
see that at all, noting that the government has previously
aided the development of some defense-related technologies.
He also contends that better coordination is needed among the
different agencies. What good does it do, he asks, for the
U.S. trade representative to push to open markets that don't
offer the largest long-term opportunities for U.S.
businesses? And while product-liability and antitrust
measures may "have merit," he argues they aren't aggressive
enough steps to aid U.S. companies.
   Neither the vice president's nor the House majority
leader's approach is likely to be adopted in the near term,
but advocates for both men say they look forward to
opportunities to explain their differences. "The issue of how
to keep America strong is a major issue," says Mr. Kristol.
"I think we'll increasingly help to define the differences
between the administration and the Democrats," especially, he
added, "as the fall campaign heats up."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   AIO BAT PEF VX PESC SULL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange, the American
Stock Exchange and the National Market System of the
over-the-counter market each announced two new stock
listings.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Allstate Municipal Income Opportunities Trust III joined
the Big Board under the symbol AIO in an initial public
offering. The New York closed-end investment company works
primarily with a diversified portfolio of non-rated municipal
obligations.
                                                                                                       

   Blackstone Advantage Term Trust Inc. began an initial
public offering under the symbol BAT. The New York closed-end
investment company specializes in mortgage-backed securities
and zero coupon securities.
                                                                                                       

   On the American Stock Exchange, Pacific-European Growth
Fund Inc. began an initial public offering under the symbol
PEF. The Minneapolis closed-end investment company works with
securities of companies based in the Pacific Basin and
Europe.
                                                                                                       

   Veronex Resources Ltd., Los Angeles, began trading under
the symbol VX. The natural resource company has holdings in
oil and gas, gold and forest products. The company previously
traded over the counter.
                                                                                                       

   In the over-the-counter market, Pool Energy Services Co.,
a Houston oil-well servicing company, began trading under the
symbol PESC.
                                                                                                       

   Sullivan Dental Products Inc., West Allis, Wis., started
trading under SULL. The company markets and distributes
dental supplies and equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   GTE to Expand
   Cellular Stake
   In the Southeast
   ---
   Providence Journal Will Sell
   Properties in Four States
   For $710 Million in Cash
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GTE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- GTE Corp., tightening the phone industry's
grip on cellular communications, agreed to buy Providence
Journal Co.'s cellular properties in the Southeast U.S. for
$710 million in cash.
   GTE is the nation's fifth-largest cellular operator, with
licenses covering 23 million potential subscribers -- POPs in
industry jargon -- in 34 metropolitan markets. The Providence
Journal's operations will add 3.5 million POPs in 12 markets
in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Virginia and
about 40,000 actual subscribers to GTE's current base of
263,000 customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This will add a nicely clustered, nice demographic region
in the Southeast" to GTE's Southeast operations in Florida,
said Terry S. Parker, president of GTE Mobile Communications
Group, which runs GTE Mobilnet, the cellular company, and
AirFone, an operator of phone service on airliners. GTE's
other regions of coverage are the Midwest, Southwest and
West.
   At the Providence Journal, Jack C. Clifford, vice
president of the company's broadcast and cable television
properties, said the company decided to sell the Southeast
cellular properties, "primarily because we're a media-based
company . . . and feel more comfortable in those businesses."
The proceeds, he said, will probably be used to expand the
Providence Journal's already considerable newspaper and cable
TV operations and perhaps buy new ones.
   GTE's purchase marks the first time it has purchased
another company to expand its operations. It probably won't
be the last time, either, said Mr. Parker. "We're not
committed to anything else yet, but if anything comes up we
might do it," he said.
   The takeover also strengthens the role of local phone
companies in the cellular business. While McCaw Cellular
Communications, an independent cellular operator, is the
nation's largest, with 53.9 million POPs, local phone
companies dominate the business in terms of total licenses.
In fact, with this acquisition, local phone companies now
hold slightly more than two-thirds of the cellular licenses
in the U.S.
   Mr. Parker said the purchase will be financed by
short-term borrowings and won't have any impact on GTE's
earnings this year and probably only about a 3% dilution in
1991. The corporation posted net income of $1.4 billion on
revenue of $17.4 billion in 1989.
   "We're so big that this is kind of a little hump for our
finance people," said Mr. Parker.
   That says a lot about the state of cellular industry
takeover action and property values. The market for creative
financing such as junk bonds -- which many smaller players
used to get their start and expand in the business -- has
grown tight. And, as GTE's all-cash agreement indicates, the
tight credit market enables big players such as GTE and the
regional Bell companies to flex their financial muscle and
pick up potentially lucrative properties without overpaying.
   "The industry fundamentals remain spectacular . . . {but}
prices for properties have stalled because of the {current}
bank environment," said Dennis H. Leibowitz, analyst at
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette.
   Nonetheless, GTE paid about $207 per POP for the
Providence Journal's business, including $57 million in
network facilities. That's almost as much as Contel Corp., a
midsized regional, paid per POP for potentially more
lucrative properties in the Southeast owned by McCaw Cellular
Communications in a $1.3 billion deal last February.
   "The industry should feel very good about this deal.
You're getting better-financed, stronger players," said
Haynes Griffin, president of Vanguard Cellular Systems Inc.,
Greensboro, N.C., a rival bidder for the Providence Journal
business and an owner of cellular licenses from New England
to Florida.
   While Mr. Clifford declined to comment, industry sources
said other bidders for the Providence Journal properties
included BellSouth Corp., the Atlanta-based Baby Bell;
Philadelphia-based Comcast, a cable TV operator; and Metro
Mobile CTS Inc., a Manhattan-based independent cellular
company.
   Mr. Clifford did say that the Providence Journal's
cellular properties "overall weren't profitable," but he
declined to provide revenues and income figures.
   GTE Mobilnet had revenue of $224.3 million in 1989, a 39%
increase from 1988's $161.6 million. The company doesn't
break out profit numbers, but Mr. Parker said it has been
profitable since 1988. A GTE spokesman said that if sales of
cellular phones are subtracted, service revenue grew 64% last
year, about in line with the industry. And GTE's subscriber
base, excluding the customers it serves as a reseller in some
markets, hit 232,000 in 1989, an 82% increase, almost 20%
better than the industry average compiled by the Cellular
Telecommunications Industry Association.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fog Shrouds Death of an Arms Salesman
   ---
   Killer's Pistol Ends Gerald
   Bull's `Supergun' Dream
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- As a specialist in bailing out problem
companies, David James is used to looking for trouble. On the
morning of March 27, he knew he'd found it.
   Mr. James, chairman of U.K. conglomerate Eagle Trust PLC,
phoned Peter Mitchell, the manager of his company's
engineering unit. "He sounded odd," recalls Mr. James. "I
said, `Are you all right, Peter?'" His employee replied: "A
chap called Gerald Bull has been murdered. His company is
handling our orders to Iraq."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Jesus Christ]" Mr. James responded.
   Mr. James knew from media reports that Mr. Bull was an
American ballistics expert with strong ties to the arms trade
-- a man described by colleagues as both a dark genius in the
mold of Dr. Strangelove and a meek, rumpled theorist with
space-age dreams. For 30 years, he had collaborated on
advanced weapons research with the U.S., South Africa,
Israel, China and most recently, Iraq.
   What Mr. James says he hadn't realized was that his own
company had become an unwitting player in Mr. Bull's global
arms game. British officials confirmed Mr. James's fears last
week, announcing that huge steel tubes supplied by British
manufacturers -- ostensibly for an Iraqi petrochemical
project -- were in fact pieces of the world's biggest gun.
   Police are still searching for the professional killer who
used a silenced pistol to shoot Mr. Bull five times outside
his Brussels apartment. Robbery has been ruled out as a
motive; the scientist was found carrying $20,000. Seizing
steel pipes still on British docks and stopping trucks in
Greece and near Turkey's border with Iraq, British officials
appear to have stymied Mr. Bull's grand project.
   But while the scientist and his "supergun" dream are gone,
Mr. Bull's death leaves a trail of mystery and military
debris stretching from an abandoned missile range in Vermont
to the arid hills of Iraq. Arms experts are baffled by the
precise purpose and workings of Mr. Bull's "Doomsday Gun."
Strong evidence suggests that Margaret Thatcher's government
winked at the gun's manufacture, breaking its own rules on
weapons shipments. And there is widespread suspicion that
agents for Israel, or possibly Iran, killed Mr. Bull.
   "The only man with the answers was last seen with five
bullets in his head and his pockets stuffed with cash," says
Christopher Foss, a U.K. weapons expert and military editor
of Jane's Defense Weekly.
   The strange career of Mr. Bull was as fast and high-flying
as the weapons he created. Born in Ontario in 1928, he became
at the age of 20 one of Canada's youngest-ever Ph.D.
graduates. Four years later, Maclean's magazine dubbed him
Canada's "Boy Rocket Scientist." In 1966, Mr. Bull's work on
a joint U.S.-Canadian ballistics project lofted him into the
Guinness Book of World Records, which cites the High Altitude
Research Project (HARP) for "the greatest range ever attained
by a gun." The 112 mile-high firing hasn't been surpassed.
Mr. Bull's work was considered so vital that Sen. Barry
Goldwater helped push through a special act of Congress to
grant U.S. citizenship to the Canadian.
   "He was a very intense, very charismatic, very charming
person," says Charles Murphy, who worked with Mr. Bull on
HARP and is now chief of the launch and flight division of
the U.S. Army's ballistic research laboratory at Aberdeen,
Md. He was a "von Braun type, who would work for anybody,"
says Mr. Murphy, noting that Wernher von Braun worked on
rocket programs for the Germans during World War II and later
for the Americans to achieve his goal of sending a rocket to
the moon. Mr. Bull's dream was to use guns rather than
rockets to launch payloads cheaply into space.
   The stocky, temperamental scientist's obsession with his
space gun -- and his willingness to work with anybody --
eventually got him into trouble. The U.S. and Canada cut
funding for HARP in the late 1960s, in part because of a
decision to pursue conventional rocketry. Embittered, Mr.
Bull continued testing at a missile range straddling the
Vermont-Quebec border, with venture capital provided by
Toronto financiers Peter and Edward Bronfman, and the
Boston-based research and consulting firm Arthur D. Little.
The occasional cannon blasts "sounded like a little
roadwork," recalls Harold Haynes, a real-estate agent in
North Troy, Vt.
   To the South Africans and Israelis, it sounded like a
promising way to boost the range and accuracy of their field
artillery. In the 1970s, the Israelis integrated his research
into their own designs, which had proved inferior in the 1973
Yom Kippur War. South Africa brought Mr. Bull to Pretoria to
help develop a new cannon. The G5 howitzer is still
considered the world's best and proved decisive during
fighting in Angola, as well as becoming a major export earner
for South Africa.
   "Bull was a man who could carry around all these intricate
calculations in his brain -- just the man we were after,"
says Piet Marais, who met often with Mr. Bull as head of the
Armaments Corp. of South Africa, a government agency. He
remembers the scientist as an "absent-minded professor" who
had "absolutely no ability at managing a business or actually
putting his theories into practice."
   Mr. Marais says the South Africans often advanced Mr. Bull
money to overcome personal financial problems. They also
listened politely to "his endless fantasies about big guns.
You could only use 25% of what he said. The rest was dreams."
His biggest vision: a giant gun that could destroy satellites
by exploding projectiles in their path. From what he's heard
of the Iraqi supergun, Mr. Marais says, "it sounds like Gerry
Bull never let go of his dream."
   In 1980, Mr. Bull pleaded guilty in a federal court in
Vermont to smuggling arms, shells and testing equipment to
South Africa between 1976 and 1978. The material was acquired
from the U.S. Army under the authority of a letter from the
State Department's Office of Munitions Control, and
intermediaries in the deal included an agent of the Central
Intelligence Agency and a state-owned Israeli weapons
producer. From congressional inquiries and the accounts of
Mr. Bull's colleagues, it appears that the scientist was
trying to finance his research through arms deals that he
thought had the tacit approval of the U.S.
   Before serving four months in a Pennsylvania prison, Mr.
Bull spent eight weeks in a Connecticut psychiatric facility.
"His world just collapsed on him," says Mr. Murphy, his HARP
colleague. "He had four or five companies that went down the
tubes."
   Mr. Bull's imprisonment intensified the disillusionment he
experienced after the abandonment of his HARP research.
Colleagues say the mild-mannered professor emerged from jail
an enraged man who felt he had been betrayed and made a
scapegoat. "I would call him two different people," says a
Montreal scientist who worked closely with Mr. Bull for many
years. "In the 60s his goal was scientific and technical. In
the later years it's hard to tell what was driving him --
revenge, bitterness."
   Released from prison, Mr. Bull set up shop in Belgium and
began peddling his expertise to anyone willing to bankroll
research and buy arms. He became scathingly critical of the
U.S., believing that it was on the wrong side in most of its
foreign policy, which he once reportedly termed "gutless and
confused." And increasingly, he turned to Third World clients
such as China and Iraq.
   Although the details of Mr. Bull's work with Baghdad
remain murky, he is believed to have helped Iraq develop
long-range artillery in the closing stages of its war with
Iran -- work which may have culminated in the launch last
December of a missile with a range of 1,200 miles. Iraqi
President Saddam Hussein recently hailed Mr. Bull as a
scientist "sympathetic to Arab causes," adding cryptically
that he had "helped Iraq in one thing or another."
   The two men's interests meshed perfectly; Mr. Bull, with
his lifetime dream of a big gun, and Mr. Hussein, a dictator
with big bucks, a Babylon-sized ego and enemies on three
flanks: Iran, Israel and Syria. The world's biggest gun --
immobile, easy to spot and difficult to fire -- would
nonetheless represent another impressive arrow in Iraq's
bulging quiver.
   "If you're looking for a logical rationale here, I don't
think you're going to find it," says Martin Navias, an expert
in missile proliferation at King's College in London. He
says, though, that the development of such a weapon fits
"Iraq's shotgun approach to arming itself -- an `I'll try
anything' attitude."
   April 1988 was the turning point for Iraq in the long
Persian Gulf war, as Baghdad began to push the Iranians back
from territory they had earlier overrun. Meanwhile, far away
in the British midlands, independent steel companies such as
Eagle Trust's Walter Somers Ltd. unit were fighting battles
just to stay in business. It was also in April 1988, while
trying to drum up new contracts, that the company put an
advertisment in a trade magazine, Metals and Materials,
showing off its high-pressure presses.
   A response came almost immediately from a Brussels-based
businessman then working for Mr. Bull's Space Research Corp.
He told Somers that he wanted heavy-duty steel tubes for an
Iraqi petrochemicals plant. Somers didn't have the capacity
to fill the large order, so another plant, Sheffield
Forgemasters, took on the lion's share.
   In June, specifications for the tubes arrived, and Rex
Bayliss, then Somers's managing director, didn't like what he
saw. An expert metallurgist who had served in the Royal Navy
and filled numerous contracts for the British Ministry of
Defence, he felt that the toughness required in the steel
jibed more with military jobs than with a standard
oil-industry specification. British law bans arms sales to
Iraq and Iran and requires licensing for any "large calibre
armament" export.
   Mr. Bayliss called a local member of Parliament, Sir Hal
Miller, who immediately alerted the Department of Trade and
Industry, the Ministry of Defence and a third party, which he
identifies only as "a security agency." The company offered
three options: It would withdraw from the order, undertake it
and allow the pipes to be traced, or simply carry on. The
government said to go ahead.
   In 1989, the company received orders for hydraulic
equipment, supposedly destined for the same petrochemicals
plant. "No use was identified for it, but that isn't
unusual," says Mr. James, the Eagle Trust chairman.
"Engineers just work from specifications. If you gave them a
specification for a monster garden gnome, they'd fill the
spec," he says. Now, Mr. James thinks the equipment may have
been part of a gun's recoil mechanism.
   Late in 1989, Somers received inquiries about a metal
device capable of swinging a pipe through a wide arc. The
week of Mr. Bull's murder, the company got an urgent
communication from the Iraqis saying they wanted the new
device manufactured as soon as possible.
   In the wake of the killing, an alarmed Mr. James once
again outlined the company's concerns to the British
government. Two days later, customs officers raided the
premises of Somers and Sheffield Forgemasters, as part of
"Operation Bertha," named for the huge World War I guns used
by the Germans to shell Paris. British officials say 44 of
the 52 pipes ordered by Iraq already have been delivered. A
smaller-bore prototype of the supergun may have been
test-fired in Iraq, though officials are unsure which
countries have provided the breech and other parts.
   Sheffield Forgemasters never seems to have been troubled
by the doubts that beset Somers. The company continues to
assert that to the best of its knowledge, the pipes for Iraq
were to be used in making polyethylene. It even made a
15-minute promotional video entitled "Technology in Tube
Making" to show off its work on the giant pipes.
   Parliamentarians are now questioning whether Mrs.
Thatcher's government knowingly broke its own arms embargo.
Just as the U.S. government tilted toward Iraq in the final
stages of the war to fend off an Iranian victory, the British
government may have allowed the shipments to proceed as a
back-door way of helping Iraq's war effort. Now, with an
increasingly belligerent Mr. Hussein threatening to "scorch
half of Israel," shoring up Iraq's military with a giant gun
might not seem such a good idea.
   "There is no artillery piece in the world like this.
Period," says Mr. Foss at Jane's Defense Weekly. The
completed weapon would be 130 feet long with a barrel
diameter of 39 inches -- four to five times the size of any
gun in the arsenal of either NATO or the Warsaw Pact. It
could deliver conventional, chemical or nuclear warheads over
a distance of 1,000 miles, or possibly launch a satellite or
anti-satellite device into space.
   Mr. Foss, like most arms experts, isn't exactly sure how
the gun would be used, or whether it would work at all. But,
he adds: "Gerry Bull was a pioneer, and he came up with very
few losers."
   As it turned out, Mr. Bull never got the chance to see if
his supergun would have been a winner. On March 22, an
assassin shot him as he stood at the door of his apartment in
a fancy Brussels suburb. Neighbors heard nothing, and the
police don't appear to have any strong leads. Agents for
Israel, Iran or possibly Syria -- all foes of Iraq -- are the
leading suspects.
   Avraham Bar-David, an Israeli artillery specialist who met
several times with Mr. Bull while Israel was assessing the
scientist's work, expressed sadness but no surprise at news
of his death. "This is the way this business works," he says
of the scientist's turn to arms-dealing with the Arabs and
eventual assassination. He added that the murder was
undoubtedly "correlated to the Iraqi gun." As to allegations
by Mr. Bull's son that Israeli intelligence carried out the
killing, Mr. Bar-David responds: "Maybe he knows what he's
talking about. I don't know."
   Whoever the killer may be, the murder achieved its
apparent purpose of ending Mr. Bull's work. Last Thursday,
Space Research Corp. closed its doors, citing the death of
Mr. Bull and "security reasons." Company sources say every
engineer at the Brussels-based firm has received death
threats in recent weeks.
   Michael Bull, the scientist's son and a managing director
of the company, continues to deny any link to the Iraqi gun,
adding that the British are using the company as an "alibi"
in its anti-Iraq campaign. "We're just a little pawn in that
game," he fumed. "Our reputation has been tarnished by the
British in a disgusting way. They are the worst scum that
ever existed on earth."
   Iraq also continues to deny the existence of the supergun.
But by comparing calculations made by British officials with
those of Mr. Bull, the mysterious weapon bears a striking
resemblance to the one he began developing almost 30 years
ago.
   A piece of that dream can still be found in North Troy,
Vt., hard by the Canadian border, on the site of the missile
range Mr. Bull abandoned in 1980. A 106-foot-long cylinder
lies beside a snow-fed brook. Six smaller gun barrels are
strewn nearby, amid alder and scrub maple trees. All that
remains as evidence of its potentially deadly use is a faded
red sign warning: "Danger Explosif."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Seagram Taking
   `Light' Whiskey
   To All of U.S.
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   VO WPPGY MCD U.GME PEP SAA WNEWS J.SAP
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hard liquor is going soft.
   Seagram Co. is beginning a national rollout of a "light"
whiskey product that has been in test markets since last
fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mount Royal Light, the first effort by a major beverage
company to transfer the "light" concept to hard liquor, has
one-third less alcohol and one-third fewer calories than
standard 80-proof whiskey. The 54-proof product, is
classified as a specialty liquor by federal regulators, but
Seagram has been advertising it as a whiskey product.
   While three of the top-10-selling beer brands are light
beers, some industry experts question whether the concept
makes much sense for hard liquor. Since most liquor is served
with water or mixers, consumers can easily control on their
own how much alcohol they get.
   "If you want less alcohol, you just add a little more
mixer," says Tom Pirko, president of Bev-Mark Inc., a Los
Angeles beverage consulting firm. "This is a concept that
just doesn't make a lot of sense. Nobody's going to get the
Nobel Prize for having concocted `light' spirits."
   Mr. Pirko says also playing against Seagram is the fact
that "light" claims in general have lost their punch. The
American public, he says, has become skeptical as marketers
slapped the label on a multitude of products ranging from
potato chips to cupcakes. "Seagram is entering the 1990s
playing with a 1980s marketing gimmick," he says.
   Seagram, however, is so confident that the product will be
a success that it is expanding distribution. It recently
received approval to sell Mount Royal Light in Wisconsin,
Colorado and Tennessee, and the company plans to enter other
states shortly. The light whiskey has been sold in
Massachusetts and upstate New York since last September. A
750-milliliter bottle of Mount Royal Light sells for about
$8.
   "We are obviously delighted with the response that Mount
Royal Light has had," a Seagram spokesman says. "It's pretty
clear to us that this is a product that has a place" in the
alcohol market.
   Seagram insists the product isn't simply a watered-down
version of a traditional whiskey. A special production
process, the company says, gives Mount Royal Light the flavor
and full-bodied style of a standard whiskey.
   Seagram says the product was well received in test markets
by drinkers of Canadian and American whiskeys, who are
principally men. While Mount Royal Light is aimed at
traditional whiskey drinkers, Seagram says it also attracted
more younger drinkers and women than traditional whiskey
products.
   But Seagram admits it has a serious marketing challenge on
its hands. The spokesman says the ad campaign for the
product, developed by WPP Group agency Ogilvy &amp; Mather, goes
to great lengths to underscore that the full flavor is what
makes the product different. Ads tout the product as "history
in the making."
   "It's very difficult in the beverage alcohol business to
introduce a new product, especially one that takes a bit of
doing to communicate its advantages," the Seagram spokesman
says.
   ---
   WPP Stock Falls
                                                                                                       

   WPP Group's shares tumbled sharply Friday, with its
American depositary receipts falling $1.75 to $19.375 in
national over-the-counter trading.
   Analysts attributed the drop partly to fallout from
problems at FKB Group, a similarly structured British
advertising and communications company, whose shares Friday
were halted from trading in London because of a credit
crunch. FKB, like WPP, bought a number of companies on an
earn-out basis, in which it makes payments based on earnings
over a number of years. FKB apparently is facing problems
meeting the payments. Julie Mackee, chief financial officer
of the company's U.S. operations, said FKB is "in the process
of negotiating a refinancing package with our bankers" and
trading "won't resume until we're in a position to announce a
detailed refinancing proposal."
   WPP is far larger than FKB, and analysts said it isn't
facing troubles like those at FKB. But because of
well-publicized problems caused by softness in the ad
business, particularly at Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Co., "anything in
that sector that implies bad news really seems to affect
everyone else" disproportionately, Ms. Mackee noted. WPP
executives couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   AD SPENDING: Restaurants and fast-food chains increased TV
ad spending 11% in 1989 over the year before, to $1.5
billion, according to the Television Bureau of Advertising.
McDonald's was the largest spender, at $412 million, up 7%
from 1988; Burger King came in second, spending $161.6
million, up 8%; and Kentucky Fried Chicken, the third-largest
TV advertiser, spent $115.7 million, up 17% from 1988.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Bill Croasdale and Jerry Bonsaing were named
executive vice presidents at Backer Spielvogel Bates, a unit
of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi. . . . Randall D. Schroeder was named
executive vice president and management director of media at
Saatchi's Campbell-Mithun-Esty, Detroit.
                                                                                                       

   KOREY KAY: American Safety Razor Co., Staunton, Va., named
Korey, Kay &amp; Partners, New York, to handle its $4 million ad
account. Korey Kay will create ads for American Safety brands
Personna, Flicker and LegMate.
                                                                                                       

   TEAM ONE: Sapporo U.S.A., Los Angeles, awarded its $1
million draft beer account to Saatchi &amp; Saatchi's Team One
Advertising, El Segundo, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Report Criticizes
   Texas Utilities Unit
   On Nuclear Plant
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TXU
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Texas Public Utility Commission in a much-awaited
report concluded that a Texas Utilities Co. unit
"imprudently" spent $713 million on the long-troubled
Comanche Peak nuclear power plant.
   While the figure is sizable, it's several times smaller
than what many experts were anticipating. As a result, Texas
Utilities' stock price rose on the news, closing at $33.50,
up 37.5 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
Friday. More than 1,569,000 shares changed hands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I am very shocked," said Edward Tirello Jr., a securities
analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton in New York. "Wall
Street's expectations were somewhere between $1 billion and
$4 billion."
   Nonetheless, Texas Utilities said it considers the figure
high and will object. "Even though Wall Street estimates had
been more, $713 million is a lot of money," a company
spokesman said. "Anybody who says it's not needs a talking
to."
   The report came from an auditor, D. Nielsen-Wurster Group
Inc., Belmeade, N.J., that was hired by the state utility
commission to perform a "prudence review" of the Comanche
Peak project, run by the Texas Utilities Electric Co. unit.
The report is a preliminary opinion. A final draft is due May
25, after which public hearings will be held where Texas
Utilities said it plans to seek to have the sum reduced to
zero.
   Comanche Peak, about 75 miles southwest of Dallas, has
been dealt a series of setbacks that have pushed its costs to
about $9 billion. The project's licensing process was
suspended in early 1985, and only last week did it receive
approval from the Nuclear Regulatory Agency to operate one
unit at full power.
   The company said it expects to operate Comanche Peak Unit
1 at full power by late summer. It said Unit 2, still under
construction, is scheduled to begin full-power operations in
1993.
   The uncertainty of how much of the cost overrun would be
viewed as "imprudent" has depressed the stock price of
Dallas-based Texas Utilities. Friday's announcement of the
auditor's report, though still an early stage in the
regulatory process, removes much of the uncertainty,
according to analysts.
   Ultimately, any expense deemed "imprudent" would have to
be written down against earnings by Texas Utilities, the
company spokesman said.
   The audit covered all of Texas Utilities' expenditures on
Unit 1 and on facilities in common with Unit 2 through last
Feb. 19. It also reviewed all spending on Unit 2 through June
30, 1989.
   Meanwhile, the utility commission's staff recommended that
the company receive a 9.78%, or $422 million, increase in
annual revenue. Texas Utilities had sought a 10.2%, or $442
million, increase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bergen Brunswig Unit
   Names Martini Chief
   During Interim Period
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BBC CMR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WEST DES MOINES, Iowa -- Bergen Brunswig Corp.'s Commtron
Corp. subsidiary said Robert Martini, vice chairman, will
take on the post of president until a new chief executive is
named.
   Mr. Martini will assume the additional position May 1. He
succeeds Gary Rockhold, 47 years old, who resigned to become
president of PolyGram Group Distribution, a unit of N.V.
Philips's PolyGram N.V. subsidiary. Mr. Martini, 57, is
president of Bergen Brunswig, which owns 80% of Commtron.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Commtron is a distributor of pre-recorded videocassettes
and consumer electronics. Bergen Brunswig, Orange, Calif.,
has interests in health services and consumer-electronics
products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PBCT
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PEOPLE'S BANK (Bridgeport, Conn.) -- Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp. lowered the rating on the bank's commercial paper to
single-A-3 from single-A-2 and on its certificates of
deposit. The ratings concern cited the continuing rise in the
bank's nonperforming assets, primarily commercial real-estate
loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Periodic Payment Fund's Fees Draw Fire
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   How's this for a sales pitch? You invest $50 a month for
15 years. You pay sales commissions, plus custodial and
maintenance fees, of 51.5% on your first 13 installment
payments and 7.2% on each monthly payment after that. In
return, you get to invest with one of the industry's
worst-rated mutual fund groups.
   Not impressed? Nor was Maine's Securities Division, which
has just completed a study of the "periodic payment" mutual
fund plans sold in the state by First Investors Corp., New
York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Maine didn't like what it saw: Unsophisticated investors
paying fat commissions to become holders of First Investors'
junk bond funds.
   "We were in disbelief that these things could actually be
legal," says Stephen Diamond, Maine's securities
administrator. Maine hasn't yet banned any periodic payment
plans. But it looks as if those plans that charge hefty
upfront commissions will no longer be welcome in the state.
Other states may join the crackdown.
   Contractual plans for mutual funds have been around for
decades. They typically lock investors into making monthly
payments for 10 or 15 years. The idea is that the hefty
commissions paid on early installments act as an incentive so
that ill-disciplined investors stick with their plans.
   Concerned that investors were unaware of the charges
involved, Congress amended the Investment Company Act in
1970, making it easier for investors to get out of
contractual plans while avoiding exorbitant commissions.
Following the 1970 amendment, the fund industry soured on
contractual plans.
   Today, only a handful of fund companies still offer them.
Fidelity Investments is the biggest player, and First
Investors is probably the second largest plan sponsor. Like
First Investors, Fidelity charges hefty fees on early
installment payments. Fidelity's contractual plan business
consists of just two stock funds, Destiny I and Destiny II,
with combined assets of $1.9 billion. Both are run by star
fund manager George Vanderheiden.
   First Investors earlier this year withdrew an application
with Maine's securities division to renew its registration in
the state. But First Investors President David Grayson says
the firm will reapply.
   "We have letters from people saying `thank you for putting
me into this program,' " Mr. Grayson says. "There are people
who drop out, certainly. But that happens in all walks of
life. There's nothing wrong with a concept that allows people
to build up a nest egg for later on."
   Maine's Mr. Diamond wasn't just alarmed by the huge
upfront fees charged by contractual plans. He was also
concerned with the way First Investors was aggressively
hiring inexperienced salesmen in Maine, quickly training them
and then sending them out to sell mutual funds.
   The Maine study looked at 447 plans set up in the state in
1986.
   Under the 1970 amendment, investors get two chances to
withdraw from a contractual plan within the first 18 months.
Those who do so can get back all or part of the commission
they paid. Maine's study found that only 15% of investors
took that route.
   The study labeled another 40% of plans as still active,
taking the view that a plan was active even if an investor
was as many as 12 installment payments behind schedule. If
these investors persist with their payments until the plan's
termination in 10 or 15 years, the top sales charge paid
would be 9% of the total amount invested -- the legal maximum
sales charge.
   But because investors pay a disproportionate amount of
that sales charge during the first year, the sales charge can
turn out to be a lot more than 9%, if an investor doesn't
complete his contractual plan.
   Maine found that a lot of investors fell into that
category. By early 1990, 44% of the original 447 investors
had stopped making regular investments. Some of this group
had redeemed their investment, but hadn't used the two escape
clauses authorized by Congress.
   The average number of monthly installments paid by this
group was 19. For somebody using the $100-a-month plan that
lasts 15 years, that means they lost 37% of their investment
to commissions and other charges -- with no chance of a
rebate. Because of a low persistence rate, many investors had
ended up paying commissions much higher than 9%.
   Even First Investors' salesmen seemed none too keen on the
plans. Salesmen set up 17 plans for themselves in 1986, but
only two of these plans were still active by early 1990.
   So where did Maine's investors choose to put their money?
More than 70% ended up in First Investors Fund for Income or
First Investors High Yield Fund, two of the poorer-performing
junk bond funds. (First Investors also offered three other
funds to Maine's investors; a better-than-average global
stock fund and two mediocre bond funds, a government mortgage
fund and an insured tax-exempt fund.)
   Overall, First Investors' funds are lousy performers.
Boston-based mutual fund analysts Kanon Bloch Carre &amp; Co.
rates fund groups by looking at the performance of each of
their funds over four time horizons and then comparing that
performance with comparable funds. First Investors gets Kanon
Bloch's second-lowest rating, putting it in the bottom 10% of
all fund groups.
   First Investors has total mutual fund assets of $4
billion, but only $410 million of that comes from contractual
plans. The firm employs 2,500 salesmen nationwide, who
receive an average of more than two months' training before
they start selling the firm's mutual funds. Mr. Grayson
concedes that the salesmen may be inexperienced when hired,
but says 90% are college graduates.
   Mr. Grayson says his salesmen make sure that investors are
well aware of the costs involved in a contractual plan, and
that there is no particular incentive for a salesman to push
one of the firm's junk bond funds.
   "It doesn't matter to a sales representative whether he
sells a high-yield fund or a tax-exempt fund or a growth fund
or a global fund," says Mr. Grayson. "If somebody comes into
our funds and doesn't make payments, that doesn't do us any
good. We're trying to accumulate assets."
   According to Mr. Grayson, two-thirds of the sales
commissions go to the sales force. First Investors gets the
other third, but Mr. Grayson says the money doesn't cover its
sales costs.
   Maine's Mr. Diamond says his office will look closely at
other contractual plans when they file their annual renewal
applications. "We can deny a registration statement for
excessive seller's compensation or because the offering is
being offered on terms that are unjust, unfair or
inequitable," he says.
   Maine's report has caught the attention of other state
securities officials. "After reading about First Investors,
we're looking at all mutual fund periodic payment plans,"
says Andrea Bennett, the Montana state auditor and
commissioner of securities. "I know it's going to be a big
issue here in Montana. What we're going to require is that
the commission paid by investors is less than 9%."
   A committee of the North American Securities
Administrators Association is going to study Maine's report,
and may draft a model rule that limits the amount of
commission levied on early installment payments. That rule
could then be adopted by state securities regulators.
California and Wisconsin already have rules effectively
barring periodic payment plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan Acts to Show Progress on Trade
   ---
   Tokyo Seeks to Avoid Being
   Labeled `Unfair' by U.S.
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger and Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- For nearly three years, Jason Berman has been
pleading with the Japanese government to enhance its
copyright protection for certain American records. But every
time, "all I've gotten is a polite nod," says the president
of the Recording Industry Association of America.
   Until last week. Foreign Ministry officials, hearing Mr.
Berman was in town on other business, tracked him down and
asked him for a meeting. They talked for an hour on Friday,
and "it was the first time there was some recognition that
there's a problem and they're going to address it," says Mr.
Berman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In fact, the Japanese have appeared quite accommodating on
a lot of contentious matters lately. Next week, the Bush
administration must decide whether to finger Japan as an
unfair trader in specific markets under the so-called Super
301 provision of the U.S. trade law. Japan would like to
avoid being labeled an unfair trader, and is scrambling to
show progress on each of the four or five issues reportedly
on the short list, although it isn't clear whether real trade
benefits to the U.S. will result.
   Just as Mr. Berman's meeting began Friday afternoon,
another session was breaking up across the street at the
Ministry of International Trade and Industry, at which
bureaucrats urged officials from 150 companies to increase
their purchases of foreign-made semiconductors. Earlier in
the month, Japanese automobile companies met with American
auto-parts suppliers in Las Vegas, Nev., to negotiate
additional imports, and this past Thursday, MITI asked
Japanese auto makers to designate engineers who can go to the
U.S. to work with American suppliers. The Ministry of Health
and Welfare recently pledged to work closely with U.S.
medical suppliers, who have been upset by changes in
insurance payment policies.
   That two-step has already succeeded in staving off threats
in one case. This past Wednesday, U.S. Trade Representative
Carla Hills announced that Allied-Signal Inc. had withdrawn
its formal complaint about Japanese utilities refusing to buy
its advanced electrical transformers. The Japanese government
will try to work out the matter with the company privately.
   Such activity has become common in recent years, each time
a new U.S. trade threat looms. Last year, in the weeks
preceeding the U.S. government's Super 301 decision, the
Japanese announced a series of new import promotion plans.
That didn't persuade the Americans, however, who slapped
Japan for its practices in super computers, satellites, and
wood products. Under the statute, which was implemented for
the first time last year, the accused country has a year to
satisfy the U.S. that it will change the offending practices.
If not, the U.S. will retaliate.
   But the Japanese think this year is different, mainly
because they have worked to please the U.S. on so many fronts
in recent weeks. They have already reached agreements on
super computers and satellites, even though the official
deadline isn't until mid-June. U.S. negotiators are coming to
Tokyo this week, and hope to wrap up talks over wood products
by Friday. Earlier this month, Japan agreed to a vague but
potentially sweeping package of reforms under the so-called
Structural Impediments Initiative, talks aimed at wiping out
the underlying causes of the $49 billion bilateral trade
imbalance.
   Some factions in the Bush administration think Japan has
already given enough, and are arguing for a reprieve on
Monday. Mr. Bush himself is reportedly leaning that way.
Japan is trying to strengthen its position by saying it wants
a fundamental change in the current confrontational trading
relationship, where the U.S. issues a threat, Japan initially
denies the problem, then caves in under intense pressure at
the last minute.
   `Undesirable feelings have spread on both ends," says a
senior Foreign Ministry official. "We'd like to improve our
economic relations." And the Japanese are hinting that this
burst of flexibility of late may disappear if the Americans
knock them again. "If Japan will be named again at the end of
this month, that will be a turning point," the official adds.
"That will certainly restrict the willingness on the part of
the Japanese government to work with the American side."
   But, it isn't clear whether the Japanese are actually
promising anything of substance. U.S. auto-parts makers say
they are unfairly shut out of the Japanese market because of
the long-term close relationship between Japanese assemblers
and suppliers. "We admit the high possibility of auto parts
being targeted under Super 301. We are now trying to avoid
that," a Toyota Motor Corp. official said last week. His
company recently said it would nearly triple imported parts
by 1992. Other makers, such as Nissan Motor Co. and Mazda
Motor Corp., have also announced import "action plans."
   But U.S. skeptics say such promises are vague, without
clearly specifying how much of the increase will come from
the U.S. They also wonder whether the imports will simply
come from rapidly expanding Japanese parts companies in the
U.S. and other countries. And they say the Japanese may try
to import only the simpler, low-value parts from U.S.
companies.
   Japanese semiconductor makers are also rushing with
pledges to increase foreign purchases. In the past two weeks,
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. and Sony Corp. have
confirmed plans to buy 20% of their semiconductors from
foreign makers by the middle of next year, compared with
about 15% now. The announcements are significant because so
far, consumer electronics companies have been the hardest for
foreign companies to supply. But the U.S. government says
Japan has been promising Americans a 20% market share by 1991
since 1986, and the figure currently stands at only 13.9% --
well below the expected path.
   The recording industry is also waiting for something more
concrete before expressing satisfaction with Japan, although
Japanese press reports said the government was preparing to
introduce legislation to meet all of the U.S. demands.
Americans are complaining that among other things, Japan's
copyright law doesn't protect foreign recordings made before
1978, the year Japan joined the Geneva convention. "That's
the heart of rock and roll," says Mr. Berman of the
unprotected recordings. "We estimate losses of at least $200
million a year in revenue."
   Mr. Berman said just after his meeting with the Foreign
Ministry that he was happy the Japanese government is now
willing to address the problem, "Unfortunately, we're not
sure what `we're going to address it' means," Mr. Berman
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Loss Disclosed
   By Far West
   Financial for '89
   ---
   Main Thrift Unit Falls Short
   Of Capital Requirements
   And Risks Being Seized
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FWF
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Far West Financial Corp. joined the parade of big,
once-staid California savings and loans that have run up huge
losses and endangered their own survival by diversifying out
of California residential real estate.
   Far West, a thrift holding company with assets totaling
$4.35 billion, disclosed a 1989 net loss of $46.1 million, or
about $5.90 a share. In 1988, Far West had a profit of $8.6
million, or $1.09 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 1989 results, including an indicated net loss of $39.5
million, or $5.05 a share, for the quarter ended Dec. 31,
leave the company's main Far West Savings &amp; Loan Association
unit in violation of at least two of the government's three
thrift capital requirements. Now, the company must raise at
least $117 million in capital or risk being seized by federal
regulators.
   Other crippled California thrifts include Imperial Savings
of San Diego and Mercury Savings of Huntington Beach, both of
which failed recently. Valley Federal Savings of Van Nuys,
Santa Barbara Savings, and Columbia Savings of Beverly Hills
are currently insolvent and seeking to develop survival plans
against long odds. And Southwest loans have badly hurt Great
American Bank, a giant San Diego thrift, which now must raise
more than $300 million of capital to stave off regulators.
   Far West attributed the 1989 loss to a $105.9 million
charge to write down junk-bond holdings to market prices, a
requirement stemming from last year's thrift bailout law, as
well as $45.1 million of reserves against problem loans. Far
West has one of the largest junk-bond portfolios in the
thrift industry, reflecting in part its past close ties to
Michael Milken and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. Officials of
Far West, based in Los Angeles, couldn't be reached for
comment.
   The plummeting junk-bond market, a provision of the
bailout law that requires thrifts to eventually divest their
junk bonds, and the interim "mark-to-market" accounting
requirement have devastated junk bond laden thrifts as a
group. Seven of the top 15 thrift holders of such bonds have
failed in recent months, and the biggest, Columbia Savings,
although still in business, is expected to be taken over by
regulators.
   Far West made junk-bond bets as long as it could,
according to government data collected by Miami thrift
analyst Kenneth Thomas. The data show that Far West boosted
its junk-bond holdings by $170 million in the 40 days
preceding Congressional adoption of the junk-bond ban last
August, leaving it with a total of $667 million in such bonds
at Sept. 30. More recent data, according to Mr. Thomas,
indicate that the company turned around and sold $274 million
in the fourth quarter and held $393 million in junk at year
end. Other thrifts that made similar purchases just before
the ban have complained that Congress blindsided them.
   As precarious as the year-end results appear, analysts
said that, based on further erosion in the junk-bond market
in January and February, Far West may have incurred
additional large losses in the first quarter. Mr. Thomas, for
one, estimated that Far West in the first quarter incurred
junk-bond losses equal to another 10% of its portfolio, or
roughly $39 million. That amount of loss would be enough to
sink the company's key tangible capital to about half of the
federal minimum requirement. The company's "core" and
"risk-based" capital already violate federal standards.
   In a news release, Far West indicated that a plan to solve
its capital problems is being revised at the request of
regulators.
   Far West does have one thing going for it that many other
troubled thrifts don't these days -- a deep pocket. Canada's
Belzberg family is the company's controlling shareholder;
William Belzberg is its chairman. The family's purchase of
stock in the thrift in the 1970s was one of its first
investments south of the border. But whether the family is
willing to commit substantial further funds at this time
isn't clear.
   "It will not look good if they walk away," said Allan
Bortel, a San Francisco thrift analyst. "On the other hand,
it is going to be a very poor return on investment if they do
heal it without government help."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Far
West stock closed at $2.50 a share, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Omnicare Inc. Reports
   $2.2 Million Net Loss,
   Plans Sale of Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7C
</SO>
<CO>
   OCR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Omnicare Inc. said it has decided to sell
its disappointing medical and industrial oxygen business,
resulting in a first-quarter charge of $2.5 million, or 28
cents a share.
   The health care company said it's negotiating to sell a
major portion of the assets of its Bunn/Xorbox Group, which
had an operating loss in the first quarter of $341,000, or
four cents a share. Those operations were classified as
discontinued in the latest quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company reported a net loss of $2.2 million, or 25
cents a share, including the charge and loss from
discontinued operations. Profit from continuing operations
totaled $624,000 in the latest quarter.
   In the year-ago first quarter, the company earned
$973,000, or 10 cents a share. Last year's results include
profit from discontinued operations of $410,000, from the
company's hospital pharmacy management business, which was
sold in August 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                       U.S. TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $16.4 billion of three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   $10.5 billion of two-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   BE Avionics Inc. -- initial 3.4 million common shares, via
PaineWebber Inc.
   Europe Fund Inc. -- initial 13.5 million common shares,
via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   50-OFF Stores Inc. -- 2.5 million common shares, via
Eppler Guerin &amp; Turner Inc.
   Fingerhut Cos. -- initial six million common shares, via
Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   IG Laboratories Inc. -- initial 1.875 million common
shares, via Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
   Orbital Sciences Corp. -- initial 2.4 million common
shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Co.
   Morrison Knudsen Corp. -- $375 million (face amount) of
Liquid Yield Option Notes, via Merrill Lynch.
   Republic New York Corp. -- 5.1 million subscription
shares, via Merrill Lynch.
   Safeway Stores Inc. -- initial 10 million common shares,
via Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   Stor Furnishings International Inc. -- initial 2.25
million common shares, via Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
   Telebit Corp. -- initial 2.09 million common shares, via
Cowen &amp; Co.
   Value Merchants Inc. -- 1.8 million common shares, via
William Blair &amp; Co.
   Wahlco Environmental Systems Inc. -- initial 3.1 million
common shares, via Prudential-Bache Capital Funding.
   Weatherford International Inc. -- three million common
shares, via Salomon Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   East Bay Municipal Utility District, Calif. -- $120
million of water system subordinated revenue bonds, Series
1990, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Florida -- $50 million of pooled revenue bonds, via a
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. group.
   Michigan Higher Education Student Loan Authority -- $50
million of revenue bonds Series XII-C (Alternative Minimum
Tax), via a Smith Barney group.
   New Jersey Health Care Facilities Finance Authority -- $50
million of hospital revenue bonds, Kimball Medical Center,
via a Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. group.
   Ohio Water Development Authority -- $81.5 million of state
of Ohio water development revenue bonds, pure water 1990
Series I, via a Smith Barney group.
   Puerto Rico Public Buildings Authority -- $59.8 million of
revenue refunding bonds, Series I, with capital appreciation
bonds, via a First Boston Corp. group.
   State Environmental Improvement and Energy Resource
Authority, Missouri -- $60 million of environmental
improvement revenue bonds, Union Electric Co. Project, 1990
Series A, via a Goldman Sachs group.
   Transmission Agency of Northern California -- $270 million
of California-Oregon Transmission Project revenue bonds, 1990
Series A, via a Shearson Lehman group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Will Idle Plant
   For One Week, Cuts
   Orders From Mazda
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   F J.MZD
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Ford Motor Co. said it will idle its Lorain,
Ohio, assembly plant for a week starting next Monday, citing
a shortage of orders for the Thunderbird and Mercury Cougar
cars built there.
   The auto maker said it already had factored the temporary
closing into its previously announced, second-quarter
production schedules. A Ford spokesman said the market for
midsized, sporty two-door coupes, such as those built in the
Lorain plant, has been weaker than the car market in general
this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Lorain plant has about 2,700 hourly employees and
produces 5,600 cars a week, using two shifts.
   Separately, Mazda Motor Corp. of Japan confirmed that Ford
reduced by 6,000 the number of cars it will order from
Mazda's U.S. assembly plant, in Flat Rock, Mich., in May.
Mazda builds the Probe model there for Ford, as well as Mazda
MX-6s and 626s. The plant produced 19,344 cars last month,
down 8% from a year earlier.
   Mazda said the reduction won't result in layoffs for any
of the 2,900 hourly employees at the plant. But the company
said it is uncertain whether it will continue to employ
temporary workers there. Mazda won't specify how many
temporary employees it has, but union officials have put the
number at about 100.
   Mazda said it plans to meet the production cut by
operating the line fewer hours. While the assembly line is
idled, the Mazda workers will participate in additional
training programs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lingering War:
   The Black Market Is
   Only Thing Thriving
   In Today's Afghanistan
   ---
   Smugglers Prosper as Violence
   Drains a Nation Enmeshed
   In a Factional Conflict
   ---
   Issue for Bush and Gorbachev
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   KABUL, Afghanistan -- The two brothers, aged 12 and 10,
were walking to buy bread when the rocket hit. The older boy
got down, but the 10-year-old ran in fright -- and was caught
in a secondary explosion from scores of mines clustered in
the weapon.
   Wounded in the face, chest, and legs, he lost blood and
died that evening. When an official went to his family's home
to inquire about the incident, the distraught father, a
laborer who had been driven from his village by Soviet
troops, sought to hammer the man with a rock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Across Kabul, Afghanistan's long civil war has been kinder
to Basir Omarzay. The 46-year-old broker has made a fortune
in the open black market, supplying hard currency to the
government and building his own private banking empire from
Peshawar to Moscow and New York. Mr. Omarzay now lives in an
old German villa amid handsome pine trees. Soviet allies of
the Kabul regime come and go from his high-walled compound.
   Pain and profit -- like the dead boy and the banker -- are
old neighbors in Kabul. The Soviet troop convoys are long
gone. The closed U.S. Embassy is a symbol of Washington's
isolation. But a year after many predicted this capital would
fall, the government -- and the war -- remain. The mujahedeen
resistance, backed by the U.S., Pakistan and Saudi Arabia,
hold much of the countryside. The cities belong to the
government, and caught in between are hundreds of thousands
of displaced families and a network of roads that is the last
lifeline of a desperate economy.
   The crowded agenda for next month's U.S.-Soviet summit in
Washington includes new options to end this, the bloodiest
and most costly of the regional conflicts of the 1980s.
Diplomatic formulas are being devised for an interim
government and free elections. But Afghanistan is so
fragmented that even a superpower settlement is no guarantee
of peace.
   Throughout its history, Afghanistan has been foremost a
tribal confederation. Today it is a heavily armed tribal
confederation. Belts in the market come with or without
holsters. The army, which engineered the pro-Marxist takeover
in 1978, finds itself outnumbered now by a multitude of
Interior Ministry forces, secret security police, and tribal
militias.
   A Red Cross official tells of having to deal with as many
as four different guerrilla factions over whether to set up a
clinic in a single village in northeastern Afghanistan. When
a reconciliation ceremony was staged near Herat this month,
it became an ambush in which mujahedeen and security-force
leaders were killed.
   The guerrilla attacks on Kabul provoke anger toward the
U.S., but when anti-Americanism is expressed, it is more from
a sense of abandonment than hatred. "Why did they close their
embassy?" demands Deputy Prime Minister Mohammad Hakim of the
Americans. "They don't know us," says the former military
officer, who was trained at Fort Bragg in North Carolina.
"They don't sit with us."
   What the superpowers have left behind are weapons and
random violence. The cluster rockets, like the one that
killed the 10-year-old on his way to buy bread, were first
used by the guerrillas last summer, and are financed by the
U.S. Weapons the Soviets supply the government are more
powerful. In a crowded hospital ward, a 40-year-old farmer
from Ghorband describes working in his field when a single
army missile killed livestock and his two sons while wounding
his parents and himself.
   The timing and targets of guerrilla attacks on Kabul
suggest little military purpose. On the first day of Ramadan,
the Moslem period of fasting, shrapnel wounded several people
at a market along the river even as another rocket ripped
apart a crowded red Mercedes mini-bus, killing and maiming
its passengers.
   It is a war fought from great distances, more often heard
than seen. The roar of Soviet-made SCUD missiles has earned
them the nickname "subways in the sky." Smaller Frog-7's
punch the air as they break the sound barrier seconds after
being fired. Skittish dogs are often the best harbingers of
danger; in a long night of fighting in early March, their
barking awoke the roosters.
   After more than a decade of fighting, this isn't a
struggle of clear ideologies or regional divisions. "The
mujahedeen are our brothers," says Col. Hassan Hemat at a
Kabul outpost. Vice President Abdul Hamid Mohtat tells of
crossing enemy lines to go home to the Panjsher Valley in
December 1988 for a family event. Once there, he talked and
ate with the celebrated guerrilla leader Ahman Shah Massoud.
"I was born in the valley. That is my valley," says the vice
president, who comes from the same Tajik ethnic group as Mr.
Massoud. "We have family connections and relatives."
   Like the city itself, the Kabul Hotel is beaten down but
defiant. Band music from nonstop weddings blares in the
lobby. Disaffected mujahedeen, housed by the government
upstairs, watch Soviet television and the British "Miss
Marple" -- dubbed in a male Afghan voice. Manning the
switchboard is a geology professor who moonlights to make
ends meet. "How is the life?" he asks each morning in broken
English.
   The life is hard. Rationing and an improved distribution
system have helped avoid last year's shortages, but prices
are prohibitively high and corruption in the government
remains an embarrassment to the regime. A week's wages at
least are needed to buy a single live chicken. The poor line
up at bakeries where subsidized flour cuts the cost of bread.
A clinic run by the private International Assistance Mission
distributes its own mix of grains and fruit to counter
malnutrition in children.
   Soldiers, taking a page from the Soviets before them,
siphon off military fuel to earn cash in the black market.
Government filling stations are abandoned, and the dusty
smell of the city is heavy with gasoline, as old men carry
their ration home from leaky trucks. Batteries are a major
commodity, for only half of Kabul gets power on any given
day. To compensate, all of President Najibullah's speeches
are televised on two successive nights.
   Lack of opportunity drives many men to re-enlist in the
military. Government jobs are valued less for their meager
salaries than for their subsidies. When bombs began to fall
on government buildings in last month's coup attempt, few
workers were hurt because so many skip out after noon to take
second jobs.
   Children -- and education -- are the greatest casualties
of the war. Classes are erratic because of the violence.
Shopkeepers keep their families in for safety, and, among the
poor, children are pressed into work even more than in the
past. As scores of soldiers stand idly by, young boys in
Kabul dig a ditch to help repair a torn cable. "We have a
whole generation that doesn't know what to do if peace came
tomorrow," says Alfredo Witchi Cestari, head of the United
Nations' refugee commission here.
   What survives is the marketplace and a smuggling network
that prospers as a last source of income in a desperate
economy. Afghanistan's low customs fees attract a flood of
goods, which are shipped legally to Kabul and then smuggled
across the border to avoid the high tariffs erected by
Pakistan, Iran and India.
   In the city's bazaars, amid sheep heads, tea and oranges,
men push wooden carts weighed down with towering boxes of
television sets and appliances from the Far East. Indian
tires, Soviet tractors and European auto parts move through
mud-walled warehouses. China courts businessmen with colored
brochures of machine tools made in Shanghai. The old,
long-nosed Bedford trucks of the British empire are shipped
in from Nottingham.
   Lighter goods and food come to Kabul from Dubai by air.
Heavier items travel by train from Europe, Leningrad and the
Black Sea or from Pacific ports across the trans-Siberian
rail line. Trucks take over at the Afghanistan border, ablaze
with Pushtun tribal streamers and patterned quilts to block
the mountain cold. Runs, once measured in hours, can stretch
into a week, but the rewards are great. The trip from the
Soviet border to Kabul can earn for a driver a sum equal to
twice a month's salary and subsidies for many government
workers.
   It is a network almost everyone uses. The U.N. relies on
it to move relief assistance. Drug smugglers exploit it to
convey contraband into the Soviet Union. Guerrilla factions
have their own stake in the trade -- and therefore in letting
some traffic pass. And the Kabul government takes its cut in
the form of customs and license fees.
   The richness of the commerce is a reminder of how much the
nation has come to depend on forces outside its borders.
Afghani bank notes are minted in the Soviet Union. Kabul bus
tickets come from Czechoslovakia. In Kabul, industry has
declined with the loss of raw materials. Until several years
ago, Abdul Azim exported cotton and sesame seeds and employed
150 people at a mill on the outskirts of the city. Today,
cotton production is estimated to be an eighth of what it
once was, and the 56-year-old trader lives on commissions as
an agent for Japan-based Bridgestone Tires, whose product he
sells for re-export outside Afghanistan.
   In less than two years, the value of the Afghan currency
has fallen more than 60% against the dollar, leaving the
nation so desperate for hard money that it may reopen its
natural-gas pipeline to the Soviet Union. Without a strong
central bank, a handful of well-connected speculators set the
values in the unofficial exchange. Mr. Omarzay denies his
spectacular rise owes anything to politics -- but then again
he denied his own name in three interviews before admitting
on a fourth try that he wasn't his younger brother from
Dubai.
   For his part, President Najibullah barters in loyalties.
The son of a trade agent, he rises on the failures of his
rivals and parcels out money and power to buy time for
himself and a divided ruling party. Merchants and militia
commanders, tribal leaders and newly minted four-star
generals are part of a mix that preserves the government but
that creates a set of fiefdoms, much like the old cantons of
China.
   Greater power sharing is promised by the ruling People's
Democratic Party of Afghanistan, but Mr. Najibullah appears
bent on remaking not only the party but himself. Once a
middle-class medical student with Marxist leanings, he now
flees the Communist label and seeks to be a populist leader,
appealing to tribal and religious elders.
   He gives a clever but often hollow performance. He outdid
himself recently when he claimed that God had instructed him
to travel to a Shi'a shrine in Mozar Sharif, where he pledged
20 million afghanis to finance improvements to the holy
building. The donation struck a false note at a time of
poverty.
   In a clumsy, almost comic manner, he used the coup to
bolster his slim military credentials. To dramatize the
event, the government ushered reporters to bomb craters --
ostensibly the product of the coup -- located near a building
the president uses. "Napalm bombs" said officials. When
challenged, a guide mumbled that he meant "Nepal" bombs.
Although the bombs came dangerously close to Mr. Najibullah,
a guard stationed outside the stone building escaped without
injury. "Special defense tactics," the government guide
explained proudly. In fact, the soldier said he saw the jets
coming and lay down.
   The Bush administration is hoping that elections may bring
an anti-Marxist victory in Afghanistan similar to that in
Nicaragua. But the history of the last decade has done little
to encourage Afghans to accept either political parties or
any strong central government. The PDPA succeeded years of
rule by kings and their relatives, and the party then sought
to impose wholesale change from the top, without building any
alliances first in the tribal structure or working class.
Today, fear of the secret police is still widespread and
little or no press exists to disseminate ideas.
   One voice of dissent is the National Salvation Society,
though the group depends more on the respect accorded its
small membership of old royalist ministers than on any real
activism. Led by Prof. Mohammad Asghar, a former mayor of
Kabul, it is seeking private financial assistance from the
West and could yet play a role in setting up any interim
government. The 74-year-old Mr. Asghar, for example, served
as Justice minister in the 1960s. A second member, Gen. Abdul
Hakim Katawazi, 66, is a Pashtun with ties to tribal leaders
and a background in the Interior Ministry. In an interview,
Mr. Najibullah says he respects the Society and promises to
protect it. Left unsaid is the fact that the secret police
have a station across the street from the Society offices.
   Mohammad Ghofran is himself a non-PDPA man and laughs a
lot for an agriculture minister whose government controls
mostly cities. He remembers when he traveled the land years
ago overseeing a farm extension service that employed 3,200
people. Today, the number is about one-tenth that. He still
frets over fertilizer and seed as he did in the old days, but
now there are also the tense encounters with wary villagers
to contend with.
   Mr. Ghofran has kept a copy of his degree in pomology from
the University of California at Davis -- signed by then-Gov.
Ronald Reagan. He lost most of his orchards to the
mujahedeen, who angrily cut down the trees when he agreed to
serve in the government again. He laughs.
   "There is no choice," he says. "Should I cry?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Yen Reaches
   Bottom Finally,
   Many Believe
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Has the yen finally bottomed out?
   Yes, believe many analysts and traders. But there's one
big caveat: Any rebound in Japan's currency could fall victim
to an official round of interest-rate increases in West
Germany and the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   From mid-February to last Tuesday, when it fell to an
intraday low of 160.15 to the dollar, the yen had plunged
roughly 10% against the dollar and most major Continental
European currencies. Then last week, the yen bounced back
1.1% against the dollar and 1.7% against the mark. That may
not seem overly impressive, but it was enough to spur a
reappraisal of the outlook for the Japanese currency.
   The new optimism is based on recent stability in the Tokyo
stock and bond markets, fading apprehension over rising
Japanese inflation, forecasts of a higher Japanese trade
surplus and a growing belief that -- despite some past snubs
-- Washington would like to see a stable Japanese currency.
   Still, the yen's recovery is far from guaranteed.
   "I prefer the idea that the yen has bottomed out," says
Keiichi Udagawa, chief trader at Bank of Tokyo in New York.
"But the psychology of the market won't change that quickly.
Some people are still obsessed with a weak yen; it's not a
one-way market."
   The dollar/yen exchange rate is an especially important
one because of the persistently large U.S. trade deficit with
Japan. A weak yen contributes to that deficit by lowering the
cost of Japanese goods to American consumers while raising
the price of U.S. exports in world markets.
   Late on Friday, the dollar stood at 157.45 yen and 1.6875
marks, up from 157.20 yen and 1.6784 marks late Thursday. The
British pound fell to $1.6388 from $1.6455 the day before.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was quoted at
157.25 yen, down fron Friday's Tokyo close of 157.60 yen.
Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at 1.6925 marks.
   On Friday, after weakening in Far Eastern trading, the
dollar rebounded in late European activity on short-covering
by dealers who earlier sold the U.S. currency, betting that
it would keep falling. The dollar also received some support
-- especially against the mark -- on news that the Soviet
Union was tightening its economic embargo against Lithuania.
   But in afternoon New York trading, the U.S. currency fell
in reaction to a sell-off in the U.S. Treasury market, which
was prompted by reports of a much-larger-than-expected U.S.
budget deficit for March.
   Earlier in the week, the yen began recovering as traders
took profits from previous dollar advances. Profit-taking
took hold in earnest after the dollar failed to rally
following Wednesday's Commerce Department report that the
U.S. trade deficit for February had shrunk to $6.49 billion
from $9.32 billion in January. It was the smallest monthly
trade gap since December 1983.
   The dollar fell on rumors -- which were exaggerated,
analysts say -- that Japanese institutional investors were
dumping U.S. bonds. That, in turn, raised doubts about their
participation in the $30 billion Treasury refunding expected
next month.
   In addition, dealers and investors began selling marks and
buying yen, a move that tends to boost the dollar against the
West German currency and weaken it against Japan's. That's
because some traders initially sell marks for dollars and
then sell the dollars for yen.
   Since mid-February, the yen had been plagued by plummeting
Japanese stock and bond markets, fears of higher inflation
and deteriorating confidence in Japanese monetary authorities
because of a rare public dispute between the Ministry of
Finance and the central bank over whether to raise interest
rates.
   But now, "a lot of the negative elements that gave rise to
the attack on the yen are being reappraised," particularly
the anxiety over accelerating inflation, says John Lipsky, an
international economist at Salomon Brothers International
Ltd. in London.
   He contends that while Japanese wages will increase at a
faster rate this year than last, total employee compensation
won't rise as quickly because weaker growth in corporate
profits will translate into less overtime and smaller growth
in bonuses. In addition, there are early indications of
reduced inflation in the new fiscal year that began April 1,
following the one-time higher inflationary effect caused last
year by introduction of a 3% consumption tax. "The domestic
component of inflation has been stable," says Mr. Lipsky.
   At the same time, analysts note that inflationary
expectations in the U.S. are rising, particularly after last
week's report that consumer prices in March surged 0.5%.
   "The worst-case scenarios for {inflation in} Japan haven't
come to pass, and the best-case scenarios for the U.S. aren't
coming to pass," says David H. Resler, chief economist for
Nomura Securities Co. in New York.
   He sees the dollar trading range at 155-160 yen for the
short term before widening to 150-160 yen. "We've established
the near-term peak for the dollar," says Mr. Resler.
   The yen should also get a boost from a larger surplus in
Japan's current account, a broad measure of trade in goods
and services plus financial transfers, analysts say. Salomon
Brothers estimates that the current-account surplus for the
year ended in March fell to $47 billion from $78 billion in
the previous year. But the company expects the surplus to
rise moderately this fiscal year.
   Noting that the current account surplus grew in March for
the first time in 12 months, to $7.1 billion from $6.6
billion a year earlier, Mr. Lipsky said: "That suggests that
the reduction in Japan's overall surplus has stopped."
Contributing to that surplus is the yen's 23% fall over the
past 16 months.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Lipsky and others concede that the big
question in the stronger-yen scenario is whether the Federal
Reserve and West German Bundesbank raise their respective
discount rates to battle domestic inflation. Signs of higher
U.S. inflation sent U.S. bond prices tumbling last week.
Meanwhile, the German central bank is concerned about the
inflationary effects of the unification of East and West
Germany, particularly the proposed monetary union.
   Rate increases in both countries could weaken the yen by
boosting the dollar's and mark's appeal to international
investors. That, in turn, would pressure the Bank of Japan to
defend its currency with a rate increase of its own.
   But "Japan won't respond with an increase in their
discount rate because they don't want to contribute to a
global interest rate war which could destabilize financial
markets," argues Mr. Lipsky. Instead, he says that Tokyo
could nudge money-market rates higher. But traders doubt such
maneuvering would be sufficient to keep the yen from falling
back below 160 to the dollar.
   Geoffrey Dennis, chief international economist at James
Capel &amp; Co. in London, believes the Japanese have little
choice. "We suspect the yen hasn't yet bottomed and that we
probably need one more increase in Japanese official interest
rates, which we probably won't see till the yen falls below
160 {to the dollar} again," he says. "Another percentage
point increase in Japanese rates will eliminate the interest
rate differential between the U.S. and Japan. That would make
it much more dangerous to keep selling the yen."
   Even so, Mr. Dennis isn't pessimistic about the yen's
long-term prospects. A year from now, he sees Japan's
currency at 145 yen to the dollar, nearly 9% above current
levels.
   Last week, "we for the first time began to wonder whether
the capital flows were turning around and going the other way
back to Japan," says Mr. Dennis. "Evidence of that was the
improved performance of the Japanese stock and bonds markets
and the fact that both the Treasury bond market and the Dow
{Jones Industrial Average} were down."
   One of the causes, he adds, was the rumor that the Finance
Ministry had requested Japanese institutions to repatriate
some funds back to Japan to support local markets.
   In addition, says Mr. Udagawa of Bank of Tokyo,
"foreigners have stopped selling Japanese stock." For the
last four trading days of last week, the Nikkei average of
225 leading stocks that trade on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
bounced back 4.8%, after falling 26.9% since year end.
   And referring to statements last week by senior U.S.
Treasury officials that a weak yen posed risks to the world's
economy, Mr. Dennis says: "The political pressure is in the
direction of trying to help the Japanese out by getting the
yen up."
   If there is a wild card in these scenarios, it's
Lithuania. To date, the Soviet Union's economic embargo has
helped to underpin the dollar -- especially against the mark
-- but not as much as many analysts had expected. Normally,
international stress -- particularly that involving Moscow --
raises the dollar's appeal as a "safe haven" currency.
   But Mr. Dennis of James Capel warns: "If Lithuania is
resolved by the Russians moving the tanks in, the dollar will
go sharply higher to 1.75 marks and the yen will rise to 165
to the dollar."
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $376.60 an ounce, down 70 cents.
Estimated volume was a moderate 2.7 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at
$376.75 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Armco Sets Venture
   With Spain's Acerinox
   To Make Steel Goods
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   AS EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARSIPPANY, N.J. -- Armco Inc. said it reached a final
agreement with Spanish steelmaker, Acerinox S.A. of Madrid,
to form two joint ventures to produce and market stainless
steel products.
   The U.S. joint venture, called North American Stainless,
will consist of a $222 million stainless steel finishing
plant to produce 48-inch and 60-inch-wide chrome nickel
stainless sheet and strip for the chemical, pulp and paper,
construction and food and beverage industries. The plant will
have initial capacity of more than 170,000 tons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The European venture, named Acerinox-Armco Europa S.A.,
will process and market chrome stainless grades for use in
European automotive exhaust systems. Steel for this venture
will be produced at Acerinox's plant in Algeciras, Spain, and
processed in its service centers at various European
locations. The products will be marketed by the joint venture
company.
   Existing operations of Armco and Acerinox will not be part
of the joint ventures.
   Armco and Acerinox had announced an agreement in principle
to form the joint ventures in November 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- British &amp; Commonwealth PLC:
   Executive Says Firm Knew
   Of Atlantic Computer Woes
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BCO U.ATC
</CO>
<LP>
   British &amp; Commonwealth PLC officials were aware of the
full extent of the financial troubles at its computer leasing
subsidiary more than a year before the London-based company
made them public, the chief executive of the subsidiary said.
   The brief statement issued Friday by Atlantic Computer
Ltd.'s David McCormick contradicts remarks by B&amp;C officials
Tuesday that they had only learned of the depths of
Atlantic's problems a few days before announcing the
write-off of the division's assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The write-off of B&amp;C's #550 million ($912 million)
investment in Atlantic led the company Tuesday to request
that its shares be suspended indefinitely and to the
indefinite postponement of its results for the year ended
Dec. 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Amgen Says Kirin,
   Its Partner in Venture,
   To Sell Drug in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3F
</SO>
<CO>
   AMGN KNBWY JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. -- Amgen Inc. said that a
joint-venture partner received commercial approval from the
Japanese government to market a gene-spliced drug developed
by Amgen for the treatment of anemia related to kidney
disease.
   Kirin Brewery Co. will market the drug, erythropoietin,
under the trade name Espo in Japan. Amgen obtained Food and
Drug Administration approval last June and sells the drug in
the U.S. under the trade name Epogen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under terms of their 1984 agreement, Amgen and Kirin split
profits from their venture on a 50-50 basis, Amgen said. Espo
was approved for sale at about double the U.S. price of $10
per 1,000 units. About 80,000 Japanese suffer from anemia due
to kidney failure, Amgen said.
   Epogen costs the average U.S. patient $5,700 to $6,000 a
year, Amgen said. But the company cautioned against doubling
this amount to estimate costs for Japanese patients, who may
require lower doses of the drug because of generally lower
body weight.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Ouster of Defense Aide Craig Fields
   Sparks Discord, Congressional Criticism
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration removed its leading
proponent of a strong federal role in commercial research,
signaling the end of its internal debate over industrial
policy.
   Craig Fields, the head of the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, was told Friday by the Pentagon that he
would be fired if he didn't resign or accept a demotion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The action immediately provoked strong criticism from
Congress, where Mr. Fields's agency, commonly known as Darpa,
has enjoyed strong support in recent years. Robert Costello,
a former senior Pentagon official under President Reagan,
predicted a major row between the administration and Capitol
Hill. "It will be like a shootout in the OK Corral," he said.
   Mr. Fields's ouster is already causing friction within the
administration, particularly at the Commerce Department,
which has strongly backed the former Darpa chief and has
argued unsuccessfully for a greater government role in
ensuring the U.S. stays abreast of leading technologies. A
Commerce Department official criticized the move and said,
"he's getting canned because he was doing the right thing."
   The immediate cause of Mr. Fields's removal, congressional
staff members and Pentagon officials said, was Darpa's
decision earlier this month to invest $4 million in a small,
closely held company, Gazelle Microcircuits Inc., Santa
Clara, Calif. The officials said that Deputy Defense
Secretary Donald Atwood took offense at the investment,
claiming that it represented the type of intervention in the
economy that the Bush administration shuns. Mr. Atwood
couldn't be reached for comment.
   Underlying that dispute is a long-running debate within
the administration over how the government ought to invest
billions of dollars in research funds. Proponents of a strong
federal role say the money should go into areas that will
help commercial industry. Opponents say that if a technology
holds commercial potential, then it should be attractive to
industry without government intervention.
   In that debate, Darpa has been the odd man out in the
Reagan and Bush administrations. The Pentagon research
agency's $1 billion budget doesn't even rate a separate line
in the federal budget, but it has a big say in U.S.
technological development. It picks technologies it thinks
will be winners, and invests millions in the firms pioneering
those fields. While the investments are supposed to be
defense-oriented, even Darpa's supporters say the defense
rationale behind the agency's decisions sometimes is
strained.
   Mr. Fields has rankled the White House and some Pentagon
officials by leading the government in promoting a federal
role in the development of high-definition television,
advanced semiconductor manufacturing and a host of other
technologies with potentially big commercial payoffs.
   "There's an ideological battle going on that says it's OK
to drop $8 billion in a superconducting supercollider -- the
epitome of basic research," said Rep. Don Ritter (R., Pa.), a
former Lehigh University engineering professor who is a
member of the House Committee on Science, Space and
Technology. "But you can't touch anything that has to do with
American industrial competitiveness, because that's
considered industrial policy."
   According to Pentagon officials and congressional aides,
an official reporting to the Defense Department's Mr. Atwood
delivered an ultimatum to Mr. Fields Friday: resign, accept a
new job studying the Pentagon's laboratories, or be fired
soon for "insubordination." The Atwood aide then handed a
paper describing the new job to a stunned Mr. Fields. When
Mr. Fields asked if his deputy, Victor Reis, could replace
him, he was told "no", the officials said.
   Mr. Fields declined to comment. Colleagues said he spent
the weekend considering his situation, and is expected to
resign or take the new job briefly to wait and see if the
Pentagon changes its mind.
   Mr. Fields's removal could devastate Darpa, which, like a
high-tech company, must keep its specialized personnel in
order to explore emerging technologies. Two of the agency's
60 managers told friends over the weekend that they plan to
resign, and more departures are expected. "This has crushed a
lot of us," said one military technologist.
   For its part, the Pentagon put out a statement denying
that Mr. Fields is "being fired." Instead, it said it plans
to transfer him to the position of deputy director of defense
research and engineering, with responsibility for helping
streamline the Pentagon's labs. The Pentagon said Friday he
has 15 days to report to his new job.
   Mr. Fields's many admirers in Congress and industry say
they will press the Pentagon to reconsider. George Keyworth,
formerly President Reagan's science adviser, said he has been
calling officials within the Bush administration to push for
a reversal. Sen. Albert Gore, the Tennesee Democrat who
chairs the Senate science subcommittee, praised Mr. Fields as
a "farsighted, strategic" thinker, and castigated his
opponents as "narrow, shortsighted and driven by ideology."
   By all accounts, Mr. Fields is very independent. He has
pushed Darpa into a host of new fields, including super-fast
computers, lightweight satellites, and small rockets. The
43-year-old computer scientist took over as director last
year after working at the agency for 15 years. A driven man
who routinely works 80-hour weeks, he is married to a
language specialist at the Central Intelligence Agency. He
has been a master at balancing the sometimes opposing
interests of the administration and Congress. In the current
fiscal year, Congress approved 12% more for Darpa than the
administration requested, while cutting the total Defense
Department budget by 1%.
   But Mr. Fields appears to have pushed the administration
too far with the investment in Gazelle. That investment
represented the first time the agency had made use of a new
venture capital fund approved for Darpa last year by Congress
at the behest of Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam
Nunn (D., Ga.). Under the terms of the deal, Darpa won't take
a stake in Gazelle, which is designing computer chips out of
gallium arsenide, but it may collect royalty and cash
payments.
   Congressional staffers said that Darpa had worked with Mr.
Nunn's staff to write the legislation setting up the fund,
even though the idea hadn't been approved by the White
House's Office of Management and Budget. Then, Mr. Fields
awarded the contract without informing his superiors. "It was
like raising a red flag before a bull," a congressional
staffer said.
   ---
   Peter Truell contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Seeks Nominations
   For Beaufort Sea Oil Rights
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government invited the oil industry
to submit by Sept. 29 nominations for oil and gas rights in
the western part of the Beaufort Sea.
   Nominations are expressions of interest in particular
areas. The Beaufort Sea is part of the Arctic Ocean.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Indian and Northern Affairs Department said bids for
exploration rights in the western Beaufort Sea will be called
after the nominations are assessed. Several oil and gas finds
have been made in the Beaufort Sea, but none of the
discoveries has been brought into production because of the
high costs of transporting the oil and gas to markets.
   The government last month awarded exploration licences in
the Beaufort Sea's central region. They were the first new
licences to be issued for the region in 20 years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   A U.S. HOSTAGE WAS RELEASED by pro-Iranian kidnappers in
Lebanon.
   After nearly 39 months in captivity, educator Robert
Polhill was freed in Beirut by Islamic Jihad for the
Liberation of Palestine, a group that holds at least two
other Americans. Polhill, who was taken to Syria before
heading to West Germany, was the first American captive to be
released in almost three-and-a-half years. The 55-year-old
New Yorker said he was "happy and grateful" about his
release, but expressed concern about those still held. Bush
thanked Syria and Iran for their roles in winning Polhill's
freedom, and called for the release of all hostages.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The terms of Polhill's release, which followed a series of
communiques from the extremists, weren't known. At least 17
foreigners are missing in Lebanon.
   ---
   MILLIONS OF PEOPLE MARKED Earth Day with rallies around
the globe.
   An estimated 200 million people in 140 nations on all
seven continents joined events dedicated to preserving the
environment. More than 3,600 U.S. communities staged programs
to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Earth Day
anti-pollution movement, cleaning beaches and planting trees.
About 100,000 people gathered in Washington to hear
environmental activists, and thousands watched a balloon
decorated as the Earth rise in New York City.
   Bush expressed support for a tanker-free zone off
Florida's coast and indicated that a decision on offshore oil
drilling would be made "very soon."
   ---
   A Communist official in Moscow warned that Lithuania's
independence drive is leading the Baltic republic to
catastrophe, but denied that the Kremlin had imposed a total
economic blockade. In Vilnius, officials reaffirmed their
secessionist stand and sent the Soviet premier a list of
items that Lithuania may cease supplying to Soviet industry.
                                                                                                       

   The White House is moving to curtail planned investment
and trade assistance to the Soviet Union in the wake of
Moscow's efforts to crush Lithuania's independence bid, Bush
administration officials said.
   ---
   Voters in Croatia cast ballots in the Yugoslav republic's
first free multiparty elections since before World War II.
The Communists, who have ruled for 45 years, were facing a
challenge from a center-right coalition and a nationalist
party with separatist leanings. Neighboring Slovenians also
voted in elections to choose a regional president.
   ---
   Pope John Paul II announced plans to convene an
unprecedented meeting of Europe's bishops to discuss the
Roman Catholic Church's role on the Continent after the
collapse of Communist governments. The pontiff, who also
intends to visit Cuba in December, made his remarks at the
conclusion of a two-day visit to Czechoslovakia.
   ---
   Nigeria's military government said it crushed a coup
attempt after heavy fighting against rebel troops in Lagos.
The rebellion was launched by junior officers seeking the
breakup of the African country's federation of 19 states in
an effort to end Moslem domination. Casualty figures weren't
disclosed.
   ---
   Mandela called for an intensified armed struggle against
South Africa's white minority government to spur talks to end
apartheid. Speaking in Transkei, the black nationalist also
said he would appeal for tougher anti-apartheid curbs when he
meets with Britain's Thatcher, probably July 6.
   ---
   Israel acknowledged that it had secretly co-financed a
Jewish settlement in the Christian quarter of Jerusalem's
walled Old City, leasing a building owned by the Greek
Orthodox Church through a Panamanian company. Israel said it
paid $1.8 million toward the settlement of 150 Jews, which
sparked strikes and violent protests.
   ---
   Solidarity urged Poland to accelerate the pace of
political and economic restructuring. In a resolution,
approved at a national congress in Gdansk, the trade union
also demanded new elections by early 1991 to remove Communist
holdovers from office.
   ---
   China's Premier Li is scheduled to travel today to the
Soviet Union for talks aimed at solidifying recently restored
ties between the two Communist nations. Moscow and Beijing
are expected to reach agreement on troop withdrawals along
the Sino-Soviet border during the trip by Li, the most senior
Chinese official to visit Moscow since 1964.
   ---
   India's Prime Minister Singh warned Pakistan against
fomenting trouble on the border. He made his statements
following a clash Saturday between Indian and Pakistani
troops in the disputed region of Kashmir, where Moslem
separatists have been waging a pro-independence campaign.
   ---
   Died: Erte, 97, Russian-born artist known for his art deco
painting, sculpture and theatrical design, Saturday, in
Paris.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc.:
   Parent Will Pursue Merger
   With Yugoslavian Company
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ICN SPI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc., Costa Mesa, Calif., said a
proposed merger with Galenika, a Yugoslavian drug maker, will
be pursued by ICN rather than its 89%-owned marketing
subsidiary, SPI Pharmaceuticals Inc.
   Terms of the transaction, which was first announced in
February, haven't been disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ICN said a merger with SPI could restrict SPI's ability to
raise capital in the U.S. public markets because of
Securities and Exchange Commission rules that would require
audited financial statements of Galenika for the past three
years, documents that SPI may be "unable" to get, an ICN
spokesman said.
   Although the same SEC requirements would apply to ICN, ICN
said it has "greater financing flexibility" than does SPI,
particularly in terms of access to foreign capital.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NESB Reports Loss
   For Quarter, Resulting
   In Technical Default
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7B
</SO>
<CO>
   NESB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW LONDON, Conn. -- NESB Corp. reported a first-quarter
loss vs. year-ago profit and, as a result, is in technical
default of certain loan covenants related to its 1988
acquisition of OmniBank of Connecticut Inc.
   The loss was $13.9 million, or $1.80 a share, compared
with net income of $2.5 million, or 32 cents a share, a year
earlier. The results include a $14 million provision for
potential loan losses and a $2 million provision for possible
losses related to real estate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank said the loss put it in default of covenants of a
$50 million long-term debt agreement with a group of
insurance companies. The money was used to finance the NESB's
$48 million acquisition of OmniBank. In February, OmniBank
was merged with New England Savings Banks, NESB's only
subsidiary.
   NESB said it has been negotiating with the insurance
companies about arranging waivers of the covenants, and
discussions are continuing.
   Robin Honiss, president and chief executive officer, said
the provisions reflected "escalating weakness" in the
southeastern Connecticut real estate market throughout the
first quarter. He said the bank expects further deterioration
in the real estate market in 1990 at "a more serious pace
than previously anticipated."
   The company's total assets declined to $1.35 billion as of
March 31, from $1.5 billion a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, April 20, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                              Stock   N.A.   Stock     %
   Fund Name                  Exch.  Value   Price    Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express              NYSE   17.64   15 7/8  - 10.01
   Baker Fentress             NYSE   23.56   19 3/8  - 17.76
   Blue Chip Value            NYSE    7.09    6 3/4  -  4.80
   Clemente Global Gro        NYSE  b11.35    9 1/8  - 19.60
   Gemini II Capital          NYSE   15.22   12 3/4  - 16.23
   Gemini II Income           NYSE    9.55   13 1/8  + 37.43
   General Amer Invest        NYSE   21.71   18 3/8  - 15.36
   Growth Stock Outlook       NYSE   10.12    9 1/4  -  8.60
   Lehman Corp.               NYSE   14.58   12 5/8  - 13.41
   Liberty All-Star Eqty      NYSE    9.08    7 3/4  - 14.65
   Niagara Share Corp.        NYSE   16.70   14 1/4  - 14.67
   Nicholas-Applegate         NYSE   10.79   10 1/4  -  5.00
   Royce Value Trust          NYSE   10.19    9 1/8  - 10.45
   Schafer Value Trust        NYSE   10.49   10      -  4.67
   Source Capital             NYSE   39.71   40 7/8  +  2.93
   Tri-Continental Corp.      NYSE   26.56   22 3/4  - 14.34
   Worldwide Value            NYSE   17.79   16 1/4  -  8.66
   Zweig Fund                 NYSE   10.53   11 1/2  +  9.21
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs        AMEX    6.88    5 7/8  - 14.61
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr       NYSE   b8.03    9 1/4  + 15.19
   Franklin Universal Tr      NYSE   b7.69    7 1/4  -  5.72
   Municipal High Inco        NYSE    9.45    9 3/8  -  0.79
   Zenix Income Fund          NYSE    6.27    6 1/4  -  0.32
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       

   America's All Seasn        OTC     5.78    4 1/2  - 22.15
   Franklin M-M Inco          NYSE   b8.60    8 3/8  -  2.62
   Zweig Total Return Fd      NYSE    9.04    9 3/8  +  3.71
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance New Europe Fd     NYSE   11.10   10 1/2  -  5.41
   American Capital Conv      NYSE  a21.35   19      - 11.01
   ASA Ltd                    NYSE bc65.86   51 3/4  - 21.42
   Asia Pacific               NYSE   15.15   12      - 20.79
   Austria Fund               NYSE   15.94   13 5/8  - 14.52
   Bancroft Convertible       AMEX   20.40   17 1/2  - 14.22
   Bergstrom Capital          AMEX   58.18   57 7/8  -  0.52
   BGR Precious Metals        TOR  be11.56    9 3/4  - 15.66
   Brazil                     NYSE   g9.80   10 1/8  +  3.32
   Castle Convertible         AMEX   21.33   18 1/4  - 14.44
   Central Fund Canada        AMEX   b5.04    5 3/8  +  6.65
   Central Securities         AMEX   11.18    9 1/8  - 18.38
   Chile Fund                 NYSE   16.66   18 3/4  + 12.55
   Couns Tandem Secs          NYSE   11.34   10 5/8  -  6.31
   Cypress Fund               AMEX    9.46    9 1/8  -  3.54
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils    NYSE    8.03    8 1/8  +  1.18
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc        AMEX    8.32    7 1/4  - 12.86
   Emerging Ger Fd            NYSE   11.05   10 3/8  -  6.11
   Engex                      AMEX   11.37  8 15/16  - 21.39
   1st Australia              AMEX    9.52    8 3/8  - 12.03
   First Financial Fund       NYSE    6.84    6 1/4  -  8.63
   First Iberian              AMEX   10.42   12 3/8  + 18.76
   First Philippine Fund      NYSE   11.19    9 1/4  - 17.34
   Future Germany Fund        NYSE   17.13   14 3/4  - 13.89
   Gabelli Equity Trust       NYSE   11.84   11 3/4  -  0.76
   Germany Fund               NYSE   13.28   13 7/8  +  4.48
   Global Utilities Fund      NYSE   10.62    9 3/8  - 11.72
   Growth Fund Spain          NYSE   11.60   10 3/8  - 10.56
   GT Greater Europe Fd       NYSE   14.09   15      +  6.46
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv         NYSE   10.77    9 3/8  - 12.95
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap       AMEX  b11.48    9 3/4  - 15.07
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref      AMEX  b48.91   48 7/8  -  0.07
   Helvetia Fd (Swiss)        NYSE   12.57   12 1/2  -  0.56
   India Growth Fund          NYSE  f12.58   14 1/4  + 13.28
   Indonesia Fund             NYSE   14.12   16 1/8  + 14.20
   Inefficient Market Fund    AMEX   10.92   11      +  0.73
   Irish Investment Fd        NYSE   10.94    9 1/2  - 13.16
   Italy Fund                 NYSE  b14.10   13 1/2  -  4.26
   Jakarta Growth Fd          NYSE   11.00   11 3/8  +  3.41
   Japan OTC Equity Fund      NYSE  b11.27   13 7/8  + 23.11
   Korea Fund                 NYSE   15.60   21 1/4  + 36.22
   Malaysia Fund              NYSE   13.17   13 5/8  +  3.45
   Mexico Fund                NYSE  b13.84   13 3/8  -  3.36
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap        NYSE   10.56    9 1/2  - 10.04
   New Germany Fund           NYSE   14.52   12 1/2  - 13.91
   Patriot Prem Div Fd        NYSE    8.71   10 3/8  + 19.12
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II     NYSE   10.12   11      +  8.70
   Petrol &amp; Resources         NYSE   29.51   26 3/4  -  9.35
   Pilgrim Regional           NYSE    9.14    8 5/8  -  5.63
   Putnam Dividend Inco       NYSE   10.26   11 1/4  +  9.65
   Portugal Fund              NYSE   12.90   12 3/8  -  4.07

   ROC Taiwan Fund            NYSE   14.24   10 1/8  - 28.90
   Scudder New Asia           NYSE   16.18   12 7/8  - 20.43
   Scudder New Europe         NYSE   11.59   10      - 13.72
   SE Savings Inst Fd         OTC    b8.27    7 3/4  -  6.29
   Spain Fund                 NYSE   13.67   18 1/8  + 32.59
   Taiwan Fund                NYSE fb23.30   21 3/4  -  6.65
   TCW Convertible Secs       NYSE   b7.89    8 1/4  +  4.56
   Templeton Em Mkts          AMEX  b14.73   13 7/8  -  5.80
   Templeton Value Fund       NYSE   b9.44    8 3/4  -  7.31
   Thai Fund                  NYSE   18.00   19      +  5.56
   Turkish Inv Fund           NYSE   13.89   11      - 20.81
   United Kingdom Fund        NYSE   10.14    8 7/8  - 12.48
   Z-Seven                    OTC    12.92   13 1/4  +  2.55
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close. g-NAV would be 11.06 and difference would
be -8.45%, if possible Brazil tax not included; correct NAV
for 4/12/90 was 7.74 and difference was +17.9%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Tribune Co. Net Fell
   9% to $33.5 Million
   In the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TRB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Tribune Co., citing widening losses at its New
York Daily News and "continued weakness" at its newsprint
operations, said first-quarter earnings fell 9%, despite a 6%
rise in revenue.
   The media concern posted net of $33.5 million, or 43 cents
a share, down from $36.8 million, or 49 cents a share, a year
earlier. Per-share figures reflect a decrease in average
common shares outstanding to 68.1 million from 74.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue rose to $583.6 million from $552.9 million.
   Tribune said operating profit at its newspaper publishing
group fell 10% to $55.7 million. Increased losses at the
Daily News reflect "weak market conditions" as well as costs
associated with continuing contract talks with unionized
workers. The rest of the newspaper group showed increased
operating profit, on the strength of stronger performance at
the Chicago Tribune and lower prices for newsprint.
   But those lower prices gave the company's
newsprint-manufacturing group a 63% decline in operating
profit, despite a small increase in revenue.
   Tribune's broadcasting and entertainment group, helped by
improved earnings at the company's television stations,
reported operating profit of $6.2 million, compared with a
year-earlier operating loss of $1.4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   London Petroleum Exchange, Buoyed by Volume,
   Moves Toward Introducing Dubai Crude Contract
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Giddy from surging trading volume in oil futures
over the past few months, London's International Petroleum
Exchange is moving toward introducing a Middle Eastern crude
oil futures contract.
   Draft specifications circulating among traders contain
details of a 1,000-barrel Dubai crude contract that could
begin trading this summer, dealers say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is a logical step following soaring volumes of North
Sea Brent oil futures and options, says Christopher Bellew,
head of the energy division at C. Czarnikow Ltd., London
commodity merchants.
   However, the market for Dubai crude is relatively small,
he points out. Dubai crude is produced at a rate of 350,000
barrels a day, Mr. Bellew says, which is equivalent to a
monthly tally of 19 cargoes, each containing half a million
barrels of oil. By comparison, the North Sea fields can
supply 40 cargoes a month.
   Dubai petroleum is similar to Iranian and other "sour," or
high-sulfide, crude oil that is produced in the Middle East,
Mr. Bellew says, so the contract should be popular.
   "OPEC won't be able to ignore the contract; it will be a
visible price for a key, Middle Eastern crude oil," says
Peter Gignoux, director of Shearson Lehman Hutton's
international energy department. He hopes that more Middle
Eastern producers will deal in London.
   Spot Dubai oil traded at $13.80 a barrel Friday, against
$17.90 for the "sweet," low-sulfide Brent oil and $17.95 for
West Texas Intermediate.
   The proposed new contract would make its debut following a
year in which volumes exceeded the most optimistic
expectations of the International Petroleum Exchange,
officials say. With prices volatile, Brent oil futures
averaged around 14,000 contracts a day this month, says Peter
Wildblood, chief executive of the exchange.
   This is double the daily average of last year and more
than three times the levels in 1988, the year in which the
contract was resuscitated, he says. Each Brent crude contract
is for 1,000 barrels, or about 42,000 gallons.
   Trading in heating oil has also soared, Mr. Wildblood
says, but a heavy fuel contract, which opened trade last
year, is disappointing; the exchange is looking for ways to
attract interest. Besides the Dubai contract, the exchange is
considering introducing a naptha or gasoline contract.
   Such has been the growth of the International Petroleum
Exchange that it is taking a growing share of the
international oil trade. Last year, for example, volumes in
Brent futures were only 8% of the dealings in West Texas
Intermediate on the much larger New York Mercantile Exchange.
In the past few weeks, the proportion has risen to around 14%
of New York's daily average of 100,000 contracts a day.
   Meanwhile, dealings in London's heating oil contract rose
to an average of around 8,500 contracts a day from 6,000 in
1988, the exchange says. Although it is a slightly smaller
instrument than its U.S. counterpart, its volumes are now a
third of the levels on the New York exchange, up from 25%
three years ago.
   Trading surged since the London exchange abandoned a
lunchtime break and extended trading hours until 8 p.m., Mr.
Wildblood says. Some dealers still complain about the longer
hours, he says, but most exchange members appreciate that
almost 40% of the London trade occurs from late afternoon
onward when the New York market is active.
   Increasing numbers of U.S. traders are making use of the
London market, Mr. Wildblood says, but better volumes are
also benefiting the New York Exchange. Such "Wall Street
refiners" as J. Aron &amp; Co., a division of Goldman Sachs &amp;
Co., Phibro Energy, a unit of Salomon Inc., and Morgan
Stanley Group account for a high proportion of London trade,
dealers say.
   As a result of buoyant conditions, prices of seats on the
International Petroleum Exchange have jumped to around
$260,000 from $80,000 two years ago. There are now 42
"locals," or trading-floor speculators, at the exchange, Mr.
Wildblood says, although producers, refiners, professional
traders and distributors still account for 70% to 80% of
dealings.
   The Brent contract is attracting more European players
because it is an international benchmark crude, says Laurent
Chatenay, futures trading manager at ICI Chemical &amp; Polymers
Ltd. He says his firm is reducing dealings in U.S. oil
futures, which are more suitable for North Americans.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   Prices of cattle futures contracts might come under
downward pressure at the open of trading today in the wake of
a government report showing that the flow of young cattle
onto feedlots in March didn't slow as much as expected.
   After the close of trading Friday, the Agriculture
Department said that the number of young cattle placed onto
feedlots in seven major ranching states in March fell 4% from
March 1989. Livestock analysts had expected the department to
report a 10% drop. Feedlots fatten livestock for slaughter.
   The department reported that the number of cattle on
feedlots in the seven states rose 3% instead of the 2% rise
that had been expected.
   The department also released a quarterly survey of
feedlots in 13 states. The report was generally in line with
expectations, showing that the number of cattle on feedlots
on April 1 rose 1% from the same date in 1989.
   In the report, the department projected that sales by
feedlots in the 13 states to slaughterhouses could rise 1%
from the same 1989 quarter. The projection signals that the
slaughter could hit a record for any second quarter.
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices fell sharply Friday, dropping 4.05 cents a
pound to $1.1255. Further declines are expected even though
new fundamental developments are lacking.
   Traders apparently viewed the return of striking workers
at one Peruvian mine as a sign that the separate six-week-old
miners' and smelter workers' strike in that country may soon
end. Statistics indicating the U.S. economy is more sluggish
than at the beginning of the year also are worrying traders,
analysts said.
   Traders will be keenly watching today's London Metal
Exchange's report on copper stocks. Estimates range for
increases of anywhere from 5,000 tons to as much as 12,000.
   Despite all this, Fred Demler, metals economist for
PaineWebber in New York, noted the Peruvian strike still
hasn't been settled and a major Chilean mine that recently
had a production disruption still is working at only 60% of
its capacity. Production losses may amount to as much as
25,000 tons of refined copper, as a result, he said. Chile is
the world's top copper producer.
   In the futures market, Mr. Demler noted, the price drop
hasn't been as severe as it might seem. "After all, the price
rose from below 95 cents in January to $1.25 in early April.
It's only given up about 10 cents or so of that in what has
to be regarded as a fair correction."
   Copper supplies are still tight and dealer prices in the
U.S., Japan and Europe remain high, he noted. Also,
soonest-to-expire months in London and New York futures
markets are higher priced than more deferred ones, he noted.
"If supplies were really more ample, the premiums in the cash
market would be sharply lower. In the futures markets, the
premiums would have disappeared," he said.
                                                                                                       

   Coffee
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices rose Friday but the prospect of increased
Brazilian shipments of coffee limited the advance and may
continue to weigh on the market.
   A major factor contributing to the price advance was the
rapid absorption of 1,054 notices to deliver coffee against
May contracts, analysts said. Friday was the first day for
the issuance of such notices.
   The quick acceptance of such a large number of notices by
dealers generated the perception that demand for immediately
available supplies of coffee remains very strong and futures
prices rose, said Sandra Kaul, analyst for Shearson Lehman
Hutton, New York.
   However, Ms. Kaul noted, prices later partially fell back
and the general impression was that, with Brazilian exports
of coffee having resumed, supplies that have been backlogged
in that country will soon be finding their way on to the
world market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Transatlantic Holdings
   To Make Initial Offer
   Of Shares to Public
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   AIG
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Transatlantic Holdings Inc., a property and
casualty reinsurance company whose major shareholder is
American International Group Inc., said it plans an initial
public offering.
   Transatlantic said it plans to sell up to 6.9 million
common shares, including overallotments to underwriters, to
raise a maximum $186.3 million at the proposed offering price
of $27 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AIG, which owns approximately 41% of the company, isn't
selling any shares. Of the offering, 4.8 million shares will
be offered in the U.S., managed by Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., and
1.2 million shares outside the U.S., managed by Goldman Sachs
International Ltd.
   According to the filing, Transatlantic had net income in
1989 of $55.7 million, or $2.44 a share; it had total assets
of $1.73 billion at year end.
   The shares are being sold by a group of insurance
companies, most of whom are reducing their holdings by half;
Transatlantic Holdings will receive none of the funds from
the offering.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BMW Plans Investments in Small Plants
   In Eastern Europe for Tools, Components
   ----
   By Philip Revzin and Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BMW EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MUNICH -- Like many other West German manufacturers,
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG suddenly finds itself confronted
with its past.
   BMW's original car-making factory in the East German town
of Eisenach was taken over after World War II and turned into
a Soviet-style company making frumpy Wartburg cars.
Meanwhile, in West Germany, BMW turned its Munich aircraft
engine plant into a factory producing some of the most prized
and expensive cars in the world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After the Berlin Wall opened, the East Germans invited BMW
engineers to tour the Eisenach plant, hoping the West Germans
would be willing to take it back and spruce it up.
   The answer: a firm but polite nein, danke. BMW is likely
to say the same to the Czechs, who are looking for a Western
partner for their car maker, Skoda.
   Eberhard von Kuenheim, the longtime BMW chairman, said the
Eisenach plant doesn't come close to meeting West German
environmental standards; it employs four times as many people
as would a comparable BMW plant; and "the plant looks like a
picture of one of our plants in 1928, with no renovation
since."
   As for Skoda, he said, "I think it would be easy to
convince Skoda that BMW would be a good partner for them. But
up to now we aren't so convinced that Skoda is a good partner
for us. Besides the money you'd have to spend to take 50% or
whatever, you would have to bring a lot of money with you to
reshape factories and the product line." Skoda's main
attraction, the only real sales and dealership network in
Eastern Europe, probably isn't enough to persuade BMW to
invest.
   Instead, Mr. von Kuenheim said BMW will soon start pouring
money into relatively small start-up plants that make tools
and components, employing 200 to 300 people at a time in East
Germany, and then perhaps elsewhere in Eastern Europe.
   Mr. von Kuenheim said the main attraction of this approach
is its speed. "Big investments by big companies take a long
time, maybe three to five years, but these people need help
now," he said. "It's much easier and quicker to help these
people who suffered for 40 years by starting thousands of
small-business activities."
   This approach also offers maximum control, a vital feature
for a firm known for hands-on management style and exacting
technical requirements. Mr. von Kuenheim said BMW is leaning
toward starting its own small companies in the East, rather
than taking over existing ones. Then it can hire its own work
force and not have to prune a bloated payroll. And he doesn't
expect problems finding qualified, motivated East German
workers.
   Mr. von Kuenheim's strategy differs sharply from that of
his main West German counterparts, including Volkswagen AG
and Daimler-Benz AG, which have scrambled to take over East
German car and truck plants.
   But then, BMW's top executive has never felt compelled to
follow the pack. Mr. von Kuenheim took over the chairmanship
of BMW in 1970 at the age of 41. Many analysts said BMW
"matured" along with its chairman, achieving a record level
of production and profits, but they also accuse BMW of often
taking an overly cautious approach. During the 1980s, for
example, while many other car companies rushed to diversify
beyond their traditional production areas, BMW dragged its
feet.
   Now, with many auto companies finding it difficult to
integrate these diverse activities, Mr. von Kuenheim doesn't
try to hide the fact that he feels vindicated. "I prefer my
little problems instead of the bigger problems of other
people," he said.
   He takes the same confident view toward the new
opportunities in the East. Despite BMW's unwillingness to
jump into the region brandishing its checkbook, Mr. von
Kuenheim is confident that Eastern Europe will develop more
quickly than expected into a flourishing free market.
   Mr. von Kuenheim already has plenty of reason to be happy.
BMW last year sold a record 523,000 cars, up from 490,000 the
year before. Driven by the success of the redesigned series
500 and 700 cars, BMW group earnings jumped 21% in 1988 to
455 million marks ($271 million). Group figures for 1989 will
be released next month, when analysts say they expect another
"good improvement."
   More important than the numbers, however, is BMW's steady
advance on archrival Daimler-Benz. BMW now competes head to
head with Daimler in the top-of-the-line luxury classes. And
in April, BMW overtook Daimler for the first time in an
annual ranking of West German companies by Manager Magazin,
becoming the top-ranked company in the survey.
   Mr. von Kuenheim believes he can turn events in the East
to the company's longterm advantage. With the number of
vehicles per capita in Eastern Europe only one-fifth that of
the West, "this is a huge potential demand," he said.
   At first, perhaps, this demand will be more for Fiats and
Volkswagens. But Mr. von Kuenheim is patient and optimistic.
As entrepreneurs get rich in the East, he believes they'll
sooner or later turn up at a BMW dealer. "The quicker
everybody's income level moves up, the sooner they will
become our customers," he said. Eastern Europe will, however,
probably remain a parts supplier rather than a big market for
luxury cars for some years to come.
   But Mr. von Kuenheim already has a toehold. He said BMW
sells about 1,500 cars a year in Hungary, and it recently
made a small but symbolic sale in Czechoslovakia: President
Vaclav Havel's entourage now has three big BMWs in the Czech
national colors, red, white and blue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Skeptics Squint at Rorer's Glowing Forecasts
   For Merger With Rhone-Poulenc Drug Lines
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   ROR RP.C EUROP BRK
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Rorer Group is gung-ho about its pending union
with Rhone-Poulenc. But skeptics are saying, "Show me."
   At a recent meeting of analysts in New York, Rorer
Chairman Robert Cawthorn painted a glowing picture of the
newest global pharmaceuticals power that will soon be created
by merging Fort Washington, Pa.-based Rorer with the drug
businesses of the French chemical and drug giant
Rhone-Poulenc. Mr. Cawthorn predicted sales after 1991 will
grow 50% to nearly $6 billion in 1994, while profit, after
big layoffs and other savings, will zoom to $11 a share in
1994 from an estimated $4.86 in 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I think it generates some interesting estimated stock
prices," Mr. Cawthorn said, according to a transcript of the
meeting. His target for Rhone-Poulenc Rorer stock, which will
be publicly traded, is $98.26 in the third year of the
merger. Mr. Cawthorn will be chief executive officer of the
new company, though French government-owned Rhone-Poulenc
will dominate the board.
   Such precise, rosy forecasts are considered unusual from a
company on the verge of a complex transoceanic merger. Smith
Barney says, "Investors are highly skeptical of Rorer's
dramatic earnings-per-share projections." Moreover, if much
of Rhone-Poulenc Rorer's profit comes from cost-cutting,
investors won't pay top prices for the stock, Smith Barney is
telling clients.
   Much is at stake for Mr. Cawthorn -- and Rorer holders.
After May 4, when Rhone-Poulenc's tender offer for Rorer is
scheduled to expire, Rorer holders must decide either to cash
out entirely, or stick around and hope Mr. Cawthorn can work
his magic.
   Rorer holders can tender half their stock to Rhone-Poulenc
for $78 a share in cash. For the rest of their Rorer shares,
holders will get stock in the new company, plus special
rights that entitle them to payments from Rhone-Poulenc in
three years if Rhone-Poulenc Rorer stock is a bomb. In the
distribution, Smith Barney values Rhone-Poulenc Rorer stock
at $39 and the rights at $25.
   Besides the usual speculators, current Rorer holders
include the multibillionaire investor Warren Buffett and his
Berkshire Hathaway, who seem to be playing takeovers again
with a recently disclosed 5.8% Rorer stake.
   While Mr. Cawthorn has taken Rorer from strength to
strength, analysts say the union with a much bigger partner
might strain his management savvy. The culture of
government-owned Rhone-Poulenc is different from Rorer's. The
new company initially will be encumbered with merger debt,
and, as European trade barriers come down, it must compete
head-to-head with many pharmaceutical dynamos. At least one
new drug that Rorer needs to help boost revenue, a once-a-day
prescription drug for controlling blood pressure, won't
necessarily win federal approval as soon as Rorer expects,
analysts say.
   "There are a lot of ifs in this merger," says Hemant Shah,
an analyst at HKS &amp; Co. in New York, though he expects Mr.
Cawthorn to meet his profit projections. "It's clearly a big
job," a Rorer spokesman says, "but it's {Mr. Cawthorn's}
charge to make it happen."
   Rorer's merger is the latest in a stampede to form drug
industry partnerships that has created elephants such as
SmithKline Beecham and Bristol-Myers Squibb. Rhone-Poulenc,
after buying newly issued Rorer shares and 50% of the
existing publicly traded Rorer shares, will control 68% of
the separate publicly traded company, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer.
   Today, few people are downright bearish on Rorer's deal.
On Friday, Rorer closed at 69 3/8, not far below the value in
the low 70s that traders put on the merger. But investors who
stuck with Marion Merrell Dow, a similarly structured 1989
merger, saw that stock plummet until Dow Chemical recently
started buying more shares.
   Some takeover players haven't decided whether they will
dump Rhone-Poulenc Rorer shares and rights when they get
them. Mr. Buffett won't discuss his Rorer investment. He and
Berkshire bought Rorer stock in March and April for $143
million, or about $65.60 a share. In a recent filing, Mr.
Buffett said he will tender half his Rorer shares and has "no
present plans" to sell the rest, but might do so.
   If Rhone-Poulenc Rorer's shares and rights have a combined
value of about 64 when they are distributed, as many traders
expect, Mr. Buffett could sell them and make a fast 8% profit
on his total Rorer investment lasting about two months, equal
to a 48% profit over a year.
   Of course, if the shares and rights trade at a much lower
value than expected, nobody will do so well. For example, if
Mr. Buffett had to sell shares and rights for only 55, his
annualized return would plummet to 7%.
   ---
   Rorer Group
   (NYSE; Symbol: ROR)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Pharmaceuticals
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Sales: $1.8 billion
   Net income: $86.5 million; $2.43 a share*
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, Dec. 31, 1989:
   Per-share earnings: $1.12* vs. 75 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   616,148 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 32.2 million
                                                                                                       

   *Curent year-end and quarter includes pretax charge of $10
million related to restructuring costs.
   Note: All per-share figures are fully diluted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Washington Docket:
   High Court's Child-Pornography Ruling
   Is Watched for Effect on Adult Privacy
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court's ruling that states may
outlaw the possession of child pornography in the home may
have broad consequences for the privacy of adults.
   The logic of the court's opinion last week, written by
Justice Byron White, has alarmed some legal experts. "This is
a whole new theory of censorship, never before applied by the
Supreme Court," says Alan Dershowitz, a professor at Harvard
Law School.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 6-3 ruling upheld an Ohio law that makes it illegal to
possess nude photographs of children, even if they are used
privately in the home. A ban on private possession is
justified, the court said, because owning such material helps
perpetuate commercial demand for it and hence the
exploitation of the children who are involved.
   The possible effects of the opinion don't stop with
pornography. Under the court's logic, government could
intrude into the home any time a seemingly private activity
is thought to perpetuate a commercial market for actions that
exploit others. Justice William Brennan's dissenting opinion
suggested one such example: A state might make it illegal to
own or use products that were made by a company that violated
child labor laws.
   At the very least, the high court's 6-3 decision last week
suggests that the day may be approaching when the court will
uphold government bans on private possession of adult
pornography, as well as child pornography.
   To do that, the justices would have to overrule an
important 1969 decision, Stanley vs. Georgia, which said the
First Amendment protects possession of adult, obscene
material at home.
   Some legal experts say the court is poised to do just
that. "I predict that within three years, the court will say
we don't have any reason to distinguish between child
pornography and adult pornography," Mr. Dershowitz says.
"Clearly, they've cut back on Stanley vs. Georgia, and at
some point they may well overrule it," says Harvey Zuckman,
director of Catholic University's Institute for
Communications Law Studies.
   The decision may lead to new restrictions on adult
pornography, these experts argue, because there is an
increasingly widespread belief that adult pornography
exploits the women who are depicted. If the court accepts
that view, it may conclude that possession of adult
pornography perpetuates a market that exploits women. "The
theory is fully applicable to adult pornography," says
Georgetown University Law School Professor Michael Seidman.
   Of course, legal experts don't all agree on the impact of
the ruling. "It is not my view that this changes criminal law
doctrine in the field at all," says William Van Alstyne, a
Duke University Law School professor. He said the decision
upholding the Ohio law, which is similar to laws in 18 other
states, "was a foregone conclusion" from a 1982 ruling
upholding state laws that make it illegal to sell material
showing sexual performances by minors. The state laws were
based on the premise that children who are the subject of
pornography are more susceptible to lasting harm than adults.
   Last week's ruling also may have the effect of more firmly
entrenching a 1986 decision upholding a state law that made
private, homosexual activity between consenting adults
illegal. Although Justice White didn't directly address state
sodomy laws, his approach to the privacy of the home makes it
unlikely that the court will look more favorably in the near
future on homosexual conduct.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Mitsui &amp; Co.:
   Firm Revises Its Forecast
   For Revenue for Fiscal '90
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MITSY
</CO>
<LP>
   Mitsui &amp; Co. Ltd. revised its revenue forecast for the
fiscal year ended March 31 to 20.1 trillion yen ($128.2
billion), from 18.2 trillion yen forecast earlier.
   In fiscal 1989, the company had revenue of 14.828 trillion
yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A company spokesman cited dollar-denominated export and
import contracts for boosting revenue, as the Japanese yen
slid considerably against the U.S. currency.
   Favorable contracts on chemical plants, as well as on
electric machineries, also pushed revenue higher, he said.
   The spokesman also ascribed the upward revision partly to
gold trading reflecting the popularity of gold investment in
Japan.
   The company left its forecast for pretax profit and net
income unchanged, standing at 62 billion yen and 21 billion
yen, respectively, in part because of the slim profit margins
from gold transactions.
   In fiscal 1989, pretax profit was 54.89 billion yen, while
net income came to 16.61 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Phoenix Technologies Ltd.:
   Loss of $4.6 Million Posted
   For Fiscal Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9H
</SO>
<CO>
   PTEC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Phoenix Technologies Ltd., Norwood, Mass., reported a
fiscal second-quarter net loss of $4.6 million, or 46 cents a
share, compared with year-earlier net income of $2.3 million,
or 21 cents a share.
   The loss for the quarter ended March 31 was slightly less
than Phoenix forecast last month when it warned investors
that the second quarter would show a deficit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue slumped to $8.7 million from $17.6 million a year
earlier.
   Phoenix late last year changed its revenue-recognition
policies, booking business as it is paid for rather than when
products are shipped. The company has said the new policy
will build a "solid, predictable revenue stream" after a
period of adjustment.
   The second-quarter results include a $1 million charge for
reducing its head count and streamlining operations, Phoenix
said.
   The company said bookings of new business, particularly in
the software-publishing area, increased strongly.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Simon &amp; Schuster to Publish
   `Locked' Garbo Biography
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A biography of Greta Garbo that's been locked
in a vault for more than a decade will be published in June
by Simon &amp; Schuster, a unit of Paramount Communications Inc.
   Written by Antoni Gronowicz, a Polish-born poet and
novelist, "Garbo" is said to contain many details about the
actress's childhood and personal life, including accounts of
love affairs with both men and women. A spokesman for Simon &amp;
Schuster said that the book is based on conversations over
many years between Ms. Garbo and Mr. Gronowicz, a
decades-long friend of the actress.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The author sold the book in 1976, said his agent Morton
Janklow, getting an advance of "several hundred thousand
dollars." The price might have been higher, said Mr. Janklow,
but the author had demanded, out of respect for his
privacy-obsessed friend, that the book remain unpublished
until her death. Mr. Gronowicz died in 1985, but his wife and
son, who are living in New England, will receive the
royalties from what seems likely to be a best seller.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Barnett Banks Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   FIAMA BBI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- Barnett Banks Inc. said it is
completing the acquisition of First American Bank &amp; Trust
Co., North Palm Beach, Fla., effective Thursday.
   Barnett, a bank holding company with assets of more than
$29 billion, said First American's 32 offices will become
part of four Barnett Bank units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ciba-Geigy AG:
   Rights Issue Is Withdrawn;
   Sluggish Swiss Market Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CIG
</CO>
<LP>
   Ciba-Geigy AG, the big Basel, Switzerland-based, chemicals
group, withdrew a proposal for a capital increase with rights
that would have brought the company 436 million Swiss francs.
It cited as a reason the "marked deterioration" of the Swiss
stock market since the proposal was made on Feb. 21.
   A company executive said the proposal for the rights issue
of 363,270 registered shares was meant to compensate
shareholders for their approval of a capital increase
involving the issue of new shares for employee stock purchase
plans. "The company doesn't need the money," he said, adding
that there are no plans to come back at a later date with a
new rights issue proposal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The shares for the employee-stock proposal will now be
obtained on the open market, the announcement said. The
company had planned to seek shareholder approval to issue
360,000 new registered shares for the employee transaction.
Management also had intended the rights issue to act as a
"sweetener" to encourage shareholders to approve a plan
allowing owners of participation certificates to exchange
them for registered shares on a voluntary basis. The
certificates-for-share exchange is still planned, the company
said, including the creation of registered shares required
for it.
   The capital market proposals were part of a package for
the May 9 shareholder meeting to consider, including a plan
to allow foreign nationals to buy registered shares.
   Ciba-Geigy's shares were heavily traded on the Zurich
Stock Exchange after the announcement Friday. The bearer
share rose 40 francs to 2,930 francs and its registered share
added 140 francs to 2,660 francs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- AAR Corp.:
   `Modest Gain' in Earnings
   Is Expected for Fiscal 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9G
</SO>
<CO>
   AIR
</CO>
<LP>
   AAR Corp., Elk Grove Village, Ill., said that it expects a
"modest gain" in earnings for the fiscal year ending May 31,
but that it has a "cautionary view" of the fourth quarter.
   The company said the outlook was given by its chairman,
Ira A. Eichner, during a presentation at a conference last
week. On Friday, AAR issued a statement in response to recent
inquiries about the trading activity in its common stock. The
company said it believes that the activity resulted from
comments during the presentation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In fiscal 1989, the aircraft products and services concern
earned $24.8 million, or $1.56 a share, on sales of $406.4
million. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1989, AAR earned
$7.4 million, or 46 a share, on sales of $113.4 million.
   A spokesman for the company couldn't be immediately
reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Korean Investors Protest
   Roh's Failure to Aid Market
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL -- Disgruntled stock investors, shouting "Down with
{President} Roh Tae-woo," demonstrated Friday to protest the
lack of government measures to boost the sagging South Korean
market, witnesses said.
   Police said they arrested eight protesters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At least two people were injured when about 200 investors
began hurling stacks of papers, booklets and chairs at
several stock trading offices in Seoul, the witnesses said.
   The composite index, the main measure of the Korea Stock
Exchange, has been falling sharply in the past several days,
dropping to 767.45 Friday, the lowest level since November
1988.
   Analysts blamed the market's decline on the sluggish
economy. Exports, on which the Korean economy depends
heavily, fell nearly 3% in the quarter ended March 31 from a
year earlier.
   Despite the gloomy economic outlook, the government ruled
out any short-term measures to boost the market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Recognition Equipment Inc.:
   Two Former Insurers Sued
   For Liability Cases' Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   REC STPL
</CO>
<LP>
   Recognition Equipment Inc., Dallas, said it sued two
former insurance carriers in state district court, seeking to
recover more than $9 million under its directors' and
officers' liability insurance policies.
   The maker of data management equipment filed the action in
the Dallas court against Harbor Insurance Co., which was its
primary carrier, and St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Co. in
the bid to collect on costs and expenses related to defending
Recognition and two former executives in criminal and civil
lawsuits. Harbor, Los Angeles, is a unit of Continental
Corp., a New York-based insurance holding company. St. Paul
Surplus Lines is a unit of St. Paul Cos., a St. Paul, Minn.,
insurer. Both insurance policies expired last year,
Recognition said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company and its two former executives were acquitted
last November of charges that they tried to manipulate the
award of U.S. Postal Service contracts for mail-sorting
equipment. Recognition said that civil suits against the
company relating to the criminal charges are pending, and
that its total claims against the insurance companies for
those lawsuits and others could exceed $10 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- C. Itoh &amp; Co.:
   Two of Japanese Company's
   Chemical Units Plan Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   J.CIT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Two of the Japanese trading company C. Itoh &amp; Co.'s
chemical subsidiaries, C. Itoh Fine Chemical Co. and C. Itoh
InterChem Inc., both based in Tokyo, plan to merge businesses
on July 1.
   The new company, tentatively to take the C. Itoh Fine
Chemical name, will be capitalized at 300 million yen ($1.9
million) with 110 employees. Total sales are forecast at 100
billion yen for the initial year, and two trillion yen within
five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One of the joint company's principal businesses will
involve efforts to develop resins for industrial use and the
raw materials used in making them, thus helping to build its
market share in the chemical industry.
   By combining both units' resources, the parent company,
one of Japan's Big Three general trading companies and a
member of the Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank group, hopes to strengthen
its presence in an increasingly competitive international
market, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   British Coal Pension Funds
   To Seek Globe Investment
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GLO LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- British Coal Corp.'s pension funds are together
to bid 191 pence ($3.14) a share for the 66.2% of Globe
Investment Trust they don't own after the funds purchased a
further 5% of Britain's largest investment trust.
   The bid by the British Coal Staff Superannuation Scheme
and the Mineworkers' Pension Scheme would value the whole of
Globe at #1.02 billion ($1.68 billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bid was prompted by the funds' purchase of 26.8
million Globe shares at 191 pence, which raised the funds'
combined holdings in Globe to 33.8%.
   Under United Kingdom law, any company that acquires more
than 29.9% of another must make an offer to buy the remaining
shares of that company at an equivalent price.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Jacobs Suchard AG:
   Swiss Firm Weighs Cutting
   Global Work Force by 19%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.JAC
</CO>
<LP>
   Jacobs Suchard AG, a Swiss chocolate, coffee and candy
company that owns the E.J. Brach candy concern in the U.S.,
is considering eliminating 3,000, or 19%, of its 16,000
full-time jobs world-wide, a spokesman confirmed, but
declined to be specific. Chairman Klaus J. Jacobs last week
was said to have told analysts of plans for such cuts in the
next 12 months.
   The spokesman said the work-force reductions are a
"logical" outcome of the "modernization and concentration" of
factories, a program Suchard calls "Vision 2,000." Suchard
plans to reduce the number of its factories to six major ones
and three smaller ones in Europe from more than 20; some of
those were obtained through acquisitions. Job cuts could
occur in Europe and the U.S., but U.S. factories won't be
closed, the spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The E.J. Brach unit has presented product mix and
marketing problems since it was acquired by Suchard for $730
million in 1987. In 1986, Brach had pretax profit of about
$75 million, on sales of about $462 million; in 1989, it had
a $50 million operating loss. Suchard has annual profit of
about 275 million francs ($48.7 million).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Publishers Asked to Boost
   Use of Recycled Newsprint
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Newspaper publishers are being pushed to
increase their use of recycled newsprint.
   Here for the annual meeting of the American Newspaper
Publishers Association, publishers are being asked to
increase their use of recycled material to as much as 28% of
their total newsprint consumption by 1992. Currently, use of
recycled newsprint varies by newspaper, but it is estimated
that most daily newspapers use less than 15% of their total
in recycled newsprint.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move toward recycled newsprint already is taking hold.
Today, the Boston Globe's edition will be published entirely
on recycled newsprint. The Globe had planned to publish its
Sunday edition -- on the 20th anniversary of Earth Day -- but
couldn't get enough recycled paper for the larger Sunday
edition. The Globe, published by Affiliated Publications
Inc., regularly produces about 8% of its papers with recycled
newsprint. On Friday, Gannett Co.'s USA Today published a
24-page `Earth Day 1990' section entirely on recycled
newsprint.
   Meeting Saturday, the ANPA board of directors set the 28%
consumption level and asked publishers to demand as much
recycled newsprint from North American newsprint mills as
they are capable of producing.
   Supplies of recycled newsprint remain a problem. ANPA
estimates fewer than 10 of the existing 60 U.S. and Canadian
paper mills have the ability to produce recycled newsprint.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PEOPLE PATTERNS
   ----
   By Alan L. Otten
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR FREST
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Superpowers Lose
   Population Momentum
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   THE U.S. and the Soviet Union have much in common
demographically.
   Census Bureau specialists Barbara Boyle Torrey and W. Ward
Kingkade report that in both superpower nations, the rate of
population growth is slowing, and the rate of labor force
growth is slowing even more. Writing in Science magazine,
they note that the U.S. population, which increased at an
annual rate of 1.1% in the 1970s, will grow only 0.7% a year
in the 1990s and only 0.5% annually in the first decade of
the 21st century. Over the same period, the Soviet annual
growth rate will have dropped to 0.7% from 0.9%.
   In both countries, the proportion of older people is
increasing sharply; the Soviet Union, long demographically
younger than the U.S., is now one of the world's
fastest-aging countries. The share of the U.S. population 65
and over will swell to almost 14% by 2010 from 9.8% in 1970.
Oldsters will account for 11.8% of the population in the
U.S.S.R in 2010, up from 7.9% in 1970.
   Since Americans can get Social Security as early as 62 and
Soviet women can retire at 55 and Soviet men at 60, the
pension-age population will bulk even larger. By 2010, almost
one out of six Americans and almost one out of five Soviets
will have reached retirement age.
   Naturally there are important demographic differences as
well. Life expectancy has been increasing in the U.S. but
dropped in the Soviet Union during the 1970s. And while the
fertility rate in both countries has remained relatively
stable in recent years -- around 1.8 or 1.9 children per
woman in the U.S. and around 2.3 or 2.4 in the Soviet Union
-- the disparity among ethnic groups is far greater among the
Soviets. In 1988, the U.S. fertility rate ranged from 1.7 for
white women to 2.7 for Hispanics. But the Soviet Union's
central Asian nationalities had fertility rates double those
of the country's European and Caucasian ethnic groups.
                                                                                                       

   Part-Time Work Is Fine,
   If It's What You Want
                                                                                                       

   ARE PART-TIME jobs good ones or bad ones? It all depends,
says a new analysis.
   Part-time employment has grown slowly over most of the
post-war period; more than 15% of all adults in non-farm
civilian jobs work less than 35 hours a week. About
one-fourth of all working women and not quite 9% of all
employed men are part-timers. Most work part-time
voluntarily, but one out of four female part-timers and
better than two out of five male part-timers do so because
they can't get full-time work.
   Part-time jobs are usually thought of as bad jobs, with
low wages and few fringe benefits. But in a contribution to a
Brookings Institution volume titled "A Future of Lousy Jobs?"
Northwestern University economist Rebecca Blank discovers
that although part-time hourly wages do average less than
full-time wages, the difference isn't all that great -- not
quite 8% less for women and 6% for men. She also finds
particular types of work -- many professional and managerial
jobs, for example -- where part-timers get even slightly
better hourly wages than full-timers with similar
qualifications.
   There are marked differences, however, in fringe benefits.
Ms. Blank reports that part-timers are only one-third to
one-half as likely as full-timers to have all-important
health insurance or pension-plan coverage.
   The overall conclusion: Because most part-timers work
fewer hours voluntarily, they presumably have personal
reasons that offset the negatives, and thus for them,
part-time work isn't too bad a deal. For part-timers who
can't find full-time jobs or single heads of families
prevented from working full-time because of child-care
responsibilities, a part-time job is indeed a bad one.
                                                                                                       

   Nursing Homes Factor
   Into More Futures
                                                                                                       

   NURSING-HOME stays loom large for future oldsters.
   Christopher Murtaugh and colleagues at the federal
government's Agency for Health Care Policy and Research
figure that more than half the women and almost one-third of
the men turning 65 this year will spend time in a nursing
home before they die. Assuming average risks for each spouse,
seven out of 10 couples now reaching 65 can expect at least
one partner to use a nursing home sometime before dying.
   The researchers base their estimates on a study of a large
sample of individuals dying between mid-1982 and mid-1984.
More than one-third had been in nursing homes at some point
after reaching 65. Not surprisingly, the older the dying
person, the greater the likelihood of a nursing home stay,
due partly to the longer life but also the increasing
probability of chronic illness as the person aged.
   "Because individuals now turning 65 have a longer
life-expectancy than the persons studied, they face a still
higher remaining lifetime risk of nursing home use," the
researchers explain. In the sample studied, women were almost
twice as likely as men to have been in a nursing home, and
whites far more likely than blacks.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   SEATTLE IS the best city in North America for bicycling,
the editors of Bicycling magazine conclude, based on readers'
nominations. Two California cities -- Palo Alto and San Diego
-- are next best, while New York City, Orlando and Pittsburgh
are the cyclists' top horror spots. . . . An increasing
number of men and women in their 30s and 40s are entering
social work, making a career change for altruistic reasons,
according to Richard Edwards, a dean at Case Western Reserve
University in Cleveland.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   MICHAEL MILKEN AGREED to plead guilty to six felony counts
and to pay $600 million in fines and restitution, the largest
criminal settlement ever. Friday's decision by Drexel's
former junk-bond chief came just before a grand jury was to
indict him on insider trading, bribery and other charges.
It's unclear how much Milken will cooperate with federal
investigators in implicating others.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Far West Financial became the latest big California thrift
to run into financial problems. The S&amp;L posted a $46.1
million loss for 1989 due to writedowns of its junk bonds.
Far West now must raise at least $117 million in capital or
risk a federal takeover.
   ---
   Avon's accord to sell its 60% stake in Avon Japan to a
Tokyo company for $450 million has apparently collapsed. The
failed sale was viewed as a setback for Avon management,
which was going to use the cash to help pay down its $695.9
million debt.
   ---
   First Chicago's profit tumbled 45% in the first quarter,
as expected, mostly due to bad real-estate loans. The bank
denied it improperly told analysts about the problems before
broadly disclosing the information.
   ---
   The slumping bond market is bracing for more blows that
are likely to drive down prices and boost yields further over
the next few weeks. Stocks also are likely to weaken.
                                                                                                       

   Fed Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said he sees signs of a
pickup in the economy, though inflation remains a threat. His
comments suggest the Fed may favor higher rates.
   ---
   Deficit-reduction talks between the White House and
Congress are "highly likely" to begin within a month, Budget
Director Darman said. Obstacles to an accord are likely to be
defense cuts, taxes and curbing growth in entitlement
programs.
   ---
   Norton's stock rose $2 Friday, to $77.50, after the
Massachusetts abrasives maker said an unidentified bidder had
expressed interest in topping BTR's offer of $75 a share, or
$1.64 billion. BTR is waging a proxy fight to force Norton to
accept the bid.
   ---
   Merck proposed to make its prescription drugs available at
lower prices to Medicaid patients. But it isn't clear that
the plan will deflect federal and state pressure to force the
drug industry to bring down prices.
   ---
   CrossLand Savings posted a $136.5 million quarterly loss
and a doubling of problem assets, worsening its already
severe shortage of capital.
   ---
   GTE agreed to buy cellular phone operations in the
Southeast U.S. from Providence Journal for $710 million,
tightening the telephone industry's grip on cellular
communications.
   ---
   McDonnell Douglas posted a 98% drop in quarterly earnings,
while operating results rose meagerly.
   ---
   Toronto's Reichmann family proposed a reshuffling of
energy assets that would create Canada's biggest domestically
owned oil producer. It also would establish Canada's main oil
pipeline as a separate company.
   ---
   Nigeria told bank creditors it will unilaterally cut
interest payments on $5.4 billion of foreign debt from May 1.
The country, an OPEC member, has been hurt by the slide in
oil prices.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 174,260,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2695.95, off 15.99; transportation 1154.87, off 5.69;
utilities 208.19, off 3.14.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3236.62, off
24.24.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.93, off 0.01;
spot index 136.01, up 0.32.
   Dollar: 157.45 yen, up 0.25; 1.6875 marks, off 0.0009.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Acts to Ban Shipping
   To Protect Florida Reefs
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   ISLAMORADA, Fla. -- President Bush proposed to ban
shipping from a wide swath of the southern Florida coast to
protect sensitive coral reefs from pollution and ship
groundings.
   Mr. Bush made the announcement as part of his observance
of Earth Day during a Florida fishing vacation. His proposal
would establish an "area to be avoided" approximately 10
miles off the Florida coast and five miles off the reef. The
measure would ban vessels larger than 50 meters in length, or
those carrying oil or hazardous materials, from entering the
area. The area extends from Key Biscayne to the Dry Tortugas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The administration's proposal must be forwarded to the
International Maritime Organization for approval. While the
measure doesn't carry the rule of law, adoption by the body
indicates that 128 member nations intend for ships registered
to those countries to abide by the guidelines. International
accord is necessary, according to officials, because the reef
line lies five to seven miles off the shoreline, beyond U.S.
domestic shipping jurisdiction.
   The action follows three ship groundings off the reef line
last fall. No hazardous materials were spilled, but the ships
caused extensive damage to the reefs, which Mr. Bush called
"one of the most diverse ecosystems in the world and a unique
national treasure."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Adventurer Strives to Get His Flying News Room Aloft
   ---
   Some See Aerobureau as Breakthrough,
   But Others Call It Pie in the Sky
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS MOT MC RD SC GE CCB NWS TBSA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chuck DeCaro has developed a rare bird: a flying news
room.
   To some, it could be a dramatic breakthrough in
journalism. Stocked with satellite transmitters, radar,
telescopic cameras and an arsenal of high-tech studio
production equipment, the Lockheed L188C Electra can fly a
news team any time, anywhere and land on a short dirt runway.
It can produce and transmit fully edited television news
reports from the sky, allowing a network to scoop the
competition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. DeCaro sees himself as the inventor of "the most
important news tool since the plume pen." Skeptics see him as
a quirky adventurer who stubbornly continues to push an
overpriced, impractical idea.
   "I don't know if he's Quixote or the next Ted Turner; I
just don't know," says Stephen Jacobs, senior producer for
CBS's special events unit.
   Whatever the case, Mr. DeCaro, 40 years old, is in the
tantalizing, perilous situation of many entrepreneurs
starting high-risk ventures. He has risked his life's savings
on his idea, but has yet to bring in the first penny from the
venture. And yet, the networks and other potential clients
have given him just enough encouragement to keep him
struggling at it.
   Concedes CBS's Mr. Jacobs: "We're giving it
consideration."
   In addition, big companies -- including Motorola Inc.,
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.'s Panasonic Co. and Shell
Oil Co., a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group -- have donated or
lent more than $1 million worth of equipment to his cause,
often in exchange for stakes in the venture. Mr. DeCaro, in
turn, touts the interest as proof of others' confidence in
his idea.
   Mr. DeCaro has many cynics intrigued, if not amused. He
cultivates the aura of a soldier of fortune, brags of being
caught as a reporter in guerrilla mortar fire in Nicaragua
and eats an occasional dish of rattlesnake.
   His idea for Aerobureau Corp. was born during his headier
days as special assignment reporter at Cable News Network.
After a rather tortuous trip to Grenada in 1983 that
subjected him to gunfire, exorbitantly priced fishing-boat
rides and plenty of lost time, Mr. DeCaro decided there was a
better way to get the news.
   So he went about inventing a flying news room, which he
says would be perfect for breaking news stories such as the
Achille Lauro hijacking in the Mediterranean or the wreck of
U.S. Rep. Mickey Leland's plane in Ethiopia's mountains.
   For instance, in a disaster such as the Mexico City
earthquake, an Aerobureau crew would scramble from a hangar
in Tucson, Ariz. In only four hours, it could send live
camera feeds via satellite of the wreckage below in Mexico
City, Mr. DeCaro says.
   Three two-man news crews carrying cameras could be
deployed, with a collapsible helicopter stored onboard, as
well as an all-terrain vehicle. Live remote reports could be
shot from the ground in the sixth hour, with overhead shots
and commentary from a pilot-reporter in the plane.
   Besides beating the competition, the system would bypass
logistical problems of traditional reporting, such as finding
transportation and arranging for local satellite transmitters
during disaster situations.
   One might think such a stunning display of deadline flair
would certainly drive ratings-hungry news networks to a deal.
But there are some very big hurdles Mr. DeCaro must jump
before he can fly.
   For starters, Mr. DeCaro is asking $6.5 million for a
year-long exclusive contract. Yet all networks are suffering
budget cutbacks and corporate pressure on profits.
   "We don't have a lot of money to throw around, and we want
to make sure every penny is spent wisely," says Jay Fine, NBC
managing director of news production and technical services.
He echoes complaints of every other network Mr. DeCaro
approached -- ABC, CBS, CNN and Fox.
   "They're looking at price, not value," says Mr. DeCaro,
who says the plane could augment other regular news programs.
   Then there is the issue of reporters. Mr. DeCaro insists
his hand-picked, 10-person crew can deliver flawless news
reports, but networks oppose having anyone but their own
people reporting the news.
   Mr. DeCaro argues that his insurance won't cover any
passengers, the flight team would have to wait for a news
anchor and the plane, called the Amazin' Lady, would simply
be a "star vehicle."
   Mr. Jacobs has another concern: "I have trouble seeing how
his tool would be useful more than twice a year," he says.
   For all their objections, Mr. Jacobs and others concede
they're still considering the idea. And Mr. DeCaro remains
militantly resolute: "No matter how much they tell me no, it
will be yes. It has to work."
   The plane itself, leased from a Canadian airline, is
loaded with equipment for covering a crisis. An obsessive
techie, Mr. DeCaro rattles off acronyms of his beloved
equipment: SLAR, FLIR, SLOS (read: Side Looking Airborne
Radar, which gives a high-definition video map of 100 miles
on each side of the plane; Forward Looking Infrared, which
allows video during total darkness; and Stabilized Low-light
Optronic Systems, a stabilized telescopic camera with an
image intensifier.
   Even the Federal Aviation Administration and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, not to mention some insurance
firms, are looking at the plane's capabilities to see if it
could also be used to assess damage in a disaster area.
   Mr. DeCaro, who got his pilot's license before his
driver's license, was always fascinated by flying and the
military. He entered the Air Force Academy in Colorado in
1969, but says he left two years later because he didn't make
the grades. "It was the heartbreak of my life," he recalls.
   As a special assignment reporter for CNN for four years,
he flew an F-14 into an inverted spin to illustrate a Navy
program to halt the loss of jets and pilots during
uncontrolled flight. He also camped in jungles in enemy
territory in Nicaragua to interview contra Commander Zero,
Eden Pastora. He has written for the "Army Times" and has
recounted more than one story in Gung-Ho, "the magazine for
the international military man."
   In 1986, the year before he left CNN, he sold everything
he owned for $150,000 to get his project off the ground.
Since then, free-lance journalism assignments and borrowed
money from family and friends kept him afloat. Last year,
Aerobureau was paid $25,000 in a contract to videotape a
trans-Atlantic balloon voyage, but the trip was scrubbed for
safety reasons.
   Today, Mr. DeCaro lives a spartan life in a shared house
in the woods near Great Falls, Va. "He's a cross between a
journalist and a soldier of fortune. He doesn't fit the
mold," says Ted Kavanau, Mr. DeCaro's former boss at CNN.
"But a lot of sober people have their high-tech stuff on the
plane."
   Indeed, Motorola supplied the plane's side-looking
airborne radar antennae. Panasonic lent nearly $250,000 worth
of editing devices, color cameras, video recorders and other
gear.
   Mr. DeCaro even wrangled the gas to fly the plane out of
Shell Oil Co., one of the largest suppliers of aviation fuel
in the country -- about 20,000 gallons valued at about 60
cents a gallon, or about $12,000.
   "He's doing this on less than a shoestring -- it's a
thread, says Ken Spalding, manager of aviation sales of Shell
Oil. "But everybody's sitting on the wing hoping like hell
it'll make it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Blackstone and Hambro
   To Cooperate on Mergers
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Two closely held investment banking boutiques,
Blackstone Group of New York and J.O. Hambro Magan &amp; Co. of
London, agreed to work together to arrange mergers and
acquisitions involving companies in the U.S. and United
Kingdom.
   The pact provides that each firm will assist the other in
developing and completing mergers between U.S. and U.K.
firms, but it doesn't involve any cross-ownership between the
two concerns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Blackstone already has affiliate relationships with Nikko
Securities Co., Tokyo, which owns 20% of Blackstone, and
Banque Indosuez, Paris.
   Rupert Hambro, chairman of Hambro Magan, noted that
mergers between U.S. and U.K. companies last year had a total
value of $29.8 billion, up from only $5.4 billion in 1985.
   Hambro advised Jaguar PLC in its acquisition by Ford Motor
Co. and Deutsche Bank in its acquisition of Morgan Grenfell.
   Peter G. Peterson, chairman of Blackstone, said so-called
cross-border merger activity "certainly is a rapidly
exploding field." He said Hambro Magan has "very good access
at the highest levels" of U.K. companies.
   Blackstone has advised Sony Corp. on its acquisitions of
CBS Records and Columbia Pictures and Bridgestone Corp.'s
acquisition of Firestone.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal Judges Shouldn't Be Taxmen
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   These are excerpts from the dissent in last week's case on
the judicial power to tax. Supreme Court Justice Anthony
Kennedy was joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices
Sandra Day O'Connor and Antonin Scalia. A related editorial
appears today {see: "REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) Judge
George III" -- WSJ April 23, 1990}.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The {Kansas City, Missouri, School District} plan adopted
by the Court provided that "every senior high school, every
middle school, and approximately one-half of the elementary
schools in the KCMSD will become magnet schools by the school
year 1991-92." . . .
   It comes as no surprise that the cost of this approach to
the remedy far exceeded KCMSD's budget, or for that matter,
its authority to tax. A few examples are illustrative.
Programs such as a "performing arts middle school," a
"technical magnet high school" that "will offer programs
ranging from heating and air conditioning to cosmetology to
robotics," were approved. The plan also included a "25 acre
farm and 25 acre wildland area" for science study. The Court
rejected various proposals by the State to make "capital
improvements necessary to eliminate health and safety hazards
and to provide a good learning environment," because these
proposals failed to "consider the criteria of suburban
comparability."
   The District Court stated: "This `patch and repair'
approach proposed by the State would not achieve suburban
comparability or the visual attractiveness sought by the
Court as it would result in floor coverings with unsightly
sections of mismatched carpeting and tile, and individual
walls possessing different shades of paint." Finding that
construction of new schools would result in more "attractive"
facilities than renovation of existing ones, the District
Court approved new construction at a cost ranging from $61.80
per square foot to $95.70 per square foot as distinct from
renovation at $45 per square foot. . . .
   The power of taxation is one that the federal judiciary
does not possess. In our system "the legislative department
alone has access to the pockets of the people," The
Federalist (J. Madison), for it is the legislature that is
accountable to them and represents their will. The authority
that would levy the tax at issue here shares none of these
qualities. Our federal judiciary, by design, is not
representative or responsible to the people in a political
sense; it is independent. Federal judges do not depend on the
popular will for their office. They may not even share the
burden of taxes they attempt to impose, for they may live
outside the jurisdiction their orders affect. And federal
judges have no fear that the competition for scarce public
resources could result in a diminution of their salaries. It
is not surprising that imposition of taxes by an authority so
insulated from public communication or control can lead to
deep feelings of frustration, powerlessness, and anger on the
part of taxpaying citizens. . . .
   Perhaps it is good educational policy to provide a school
district with the items included in the KCMSD capital
improvement plan, for example: high schools in which every
classroom will have air conditioning, an alarm system, and 15
microcomputers; a 2,000-square-foot planetarium; greenhouses
and vivariums; a 25-acre farm with an air-conditioned meeting
room for 104 people; a Model United Nations wired for
language translation; broadcast capable radio and television
studios with an editing and animation lab; a temperature
controlled art gallery; movie editing and screening rooms; a
3,500-square-foot dust-free diesel mechanics room;
1,875-square-foot elementary school animal rooms for use in a
Zoo Project; swimming pools; and numerous other facilities.
   But these items are a part of legitimate political debate
over educational policy and spending priorities, not the
constitution's command of racial equality. Indeed, it may be
that a mere 12-acre petting farm, or other corresponding
reductions in court-ordered spending, might satisfy
constitutional requirements, while preserving scarce public
funds for legislative allocation to other public needs, such
as paving streets, feeding the poor, building prisons, or
housing the homeless. Perhaps the KCMSD's Classical Greek
theme schools emphasizing forensics and self-government will
provide exemplary training in participatory democracy. But if
today's dicta become law, such lessons will be of little use
to students who grow up to become taxpayers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Housewares Corp.:
   Blyth Industries Buys Unit;
   Bid Is Accepted for Another
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GHW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Housewares Corp., Stamford, Conn., said it
completed the sale of one unit and accepted a management
buy-out bid for another, with combined proceeds expected to
be about $15 million.
   The Colonial Candle operations was sold to closely held
Blyth Industries Inc., based in Greenwich, Conn. Also,
General Housewares accepted a proposal from an employee
management group to acquire the Kitchen Textile Coordinates
business. Both units have been based in Hyannis, Mass.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kitchen Textile makes kitchen accessories, such as aprons
and place mats. It also markets canister sets and mugs. The
sale is expected to be completed around the end of June.
   General Housewares has said the proceeds would go to pay
down long-term debt, as the company concentrates on its
retail cookware business.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
General Housewares closed at $11.50 a share, down 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodity Fund Values Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The average value of investment units in 131
publicly offered commodity funds rose 2.5% in March,
according to Norwood Securities, which tracks the monthly
performance of the funds.
   The majority of the funds rose in value for the fifth
consecutive month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Public commodity funds are managed pools of money in which
limited-partnership units are offered to investors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.K. Institutional Investments
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Investments by United Kingdom institutions in
British ordinary shares during the fourth quarter rose to #1
billion ($1.65 billion) from a net disinvestment of #374
million in the fourth quarter, the Bank of England said.
   The figure is down from the #3.2 billion invested by
institutions in U.K. shares in the year-earlier fourth
quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The data were disclosed in the British central bank's
quarterly report on institutional investment, which is
intended to show the scope of investment activity among a
wide range of pension funds, insurance companies and
investment trusts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   New Zealand's System
   Couldn't Deliver Here
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
POSTAL SERVICE (POS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The New Zealand experiment in free enterprise for the mail
sounds attractive as John Crutcher described it in his March
8 editorial-page article. Unfortunately, in order to make his
case, he left out quite a few facts that would cause the
American people to say "no way in the USA."
   Yes, in the first year of "corporatization" an enormous
profit was shown (equal to about $10 billion if applied to
our volume). But the profit was accomplished by the
following: a 33% increase in the price of a first-class
stamp; a reduction in the number of post offices from 1,200
nationwide to 894 nationwide -- with further reductions this
year to just 340; establishment of a higher-priced mail
service called Fast Post, offering next-day service anywhere
in New Zealand for twice the new first-class rate; a one-time
profit from the sale of former postal property.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Recognizing that New Zealand, with a maximum distance of
600 miles between any two points and a population just 1.5%
that of the U.S., is so different from us that comparisons
are difficult, the fact is that service was reduced, except
for those who wanted to pay 166% more. Local post offices,
postal service and even community identity were decimated. We
have 40,000 post offices in the U.S.; as a businessman I
easily could identify for you which of those would be closed
by a business seeking only to maximize profit. The number
would be well over 10,000 post offices. Is this what the
American people want?
   The result in New Zealand is that the government still
owns the post office; that the number of post offices will
have been reduced by more than 70%; and that service has
decreased except for those willing to pay 166% more for
postage. This is not a model for this country.
   Anthony M. Frank
   Postmaster General
   Washington
   ---
   I agree wholeheartedly with the premise in Mr. Crutcher's
article. I would like to know, however, how he arrived at his
compensation figure of $42,000 a year including benefits.
Starting postal-service wages are currently $11 an hour,
without benefits. The U.S. postal carrier is at the top of
the range after 15 years and is paid $30,000. To reach the
$42,000 level, his benefits package would have to be 40%.
Even with government largess, I have trouble believing
benefits are 40% of wages. Even if they were, the average,
semi-skilled employee would not be paid $42,000.
   Also, comparing New Zealand wages of $15,000 with U.S.
wages is hardly appropriate. I visited New Zealand in 1986
and I would say it's well behind the U.S. in standard of
living.
   Obviously, United Parcel Service has demonstrated it can
be successful at delivering packages, so privatizing the
Postal Service probably would result in better service at a
cheaper cost. In the meantime, however, eliminating Saturday
delivery to residences as well as charging higher postage to
bulk mailers would cut costs tremendously. Bulk mailers would
not send three or more copies of the same catalog in one
month if they couldn't mail them so cheaply. There is no mail
delivered to a residence on Saturday that couldn't wait until
Monday.
   E.H. Melendres
   Cathedral City, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   GNP Annual Growth Rate for 1st Period
   Seen Doubling Forecasts, to About 2.5%
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Now that it's over, the first quarter looks
twice as strong as most folks thought it would at the start.
   The consensus view estimates an annual growth rate of
about 2.5% in real gross national product for the quarter, up
from the 1% growth outlook that prevailed in January,
according to MMS International, a unit of McGraw-Hill Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government takes its first stab at estimating GNP in a
report Friday. Real GNP is the inflation-adjusted value of
the nation's output of goods and services. The data also are
expected to show that inflation heated up in the quarter. And
more inflationary timber is expected from tomorrow's report
on the first-quarter employment cost index. The week's only
other indicator, March durable goods orders, is still thought
to be on the rebound, after January's plunge.
   Economists generally have been raising their GNP
forecasts, because of the unpredictable weather, imperfect
statistics, inventory swings, and some plain old
miscalculations.
   Some, at least, are good-humored about taking the blame.
"I don't usually make a habit of comparing what I say at the
beginning of the quarter to what I say at the end," Robert
Dederick, chief economist of Northern Trust Co. in Chicago,
said. "It just depresses me." As many of his counterparts
did, Mr. Dederick in January predicted 1% growth. "I'm now
saying 2% to 2.5%," he said.
   "Business's fixed investment is higher than we thought. So
is residential construction," Mr. Dederick said, noting two
areas boosted by unseasonably mild January weather. He said
better-than-expected exports helped the trade deficit and
added strength to the quarter.
   Asked about his change-of-heart estimate, Michael Moran,
economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc., said: "Oh, boy.
It's much stronger than I had at the beginning of the
quarter." He now expects growth of 2.3% for the quarter, up
from the 1% to 1.5% he forecast at the start of the period.
GNP grew at an annual rate of 1.1% in the 1989 fourth
quarter.
   Two improved areas that surprised Mr. Moran the most in
the first quarter: the trade-sector improvement and
fixed-investment spending. Besides the benefits of mild
weather, he noted that overall "demand was just a bit more
robust than we thought was likely."
   While the first quarter may have been stronger than they
thought, many economists said the growth pace won't hold.
   Donald Fine, chief economist at Chase Manhattan Bank, New
York, raised his first-quarter estimate to 2.5% from around
1%. But he doesn't expect the pace to continue in the months
ahead. "I think capital spending will slip off," he said.
"Construction will definitely fall off. And we don't know if
trade will get much better." On the other side, Mr. Fine
said, auto output is likely to be stronger in the second
quarter than in the first. "But that's quarterly auto
catch-up," he said.
   Many economists, including Robert Chandross at Lloyds
Bank, are sticking to their full-year forecasts but are
reshuffling the quarters. "Basically, there'll be a little
more in the first quarter and a little less in the second,"
he said. "I'm still looking for {a} 2%" annual growth rate
from the 1989 fourth quarter to this year's fourth quarter.
   An inflation measure of the GNP report known as the
implicit price deflator is expected to have risen at a 5.5%
annual rate for the quarter. Allen Sinai, Boston Co.'s chief
economist, expects to see "uncomfortably strong inflation"
for the first quarter, with the implicit deflator as high as
6%.
   The first-quarter employment cost index is expected to add
to inflationary fears, with an increase of about 5.5% to 6%
on a year-to-year basis. Economists pointed out that part of
the rise in employment cost results from Social Security
payment increases that took effect in January.
   Expectations for tomorrow's report on March durable goods
orders are typically scattered. Estimates range from a
decline of 1.2% to an increase of 5.1%, with the median view
a rise of 2%, according to MMS. Most economists expect some
kind of increase in durable goods, as orders continue to
rebound from January's sharp 10.5% plunge.
   ---
                    Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

         Statistics Released in the Week Ended April 20
                                                                                                       

                                                 CHANGE
                                               (from prior
                                     TOTAL       period)
                                                                                                       

     Money supply
      M1 -- Week ended
      April 9 (in billions)         $805.6      -$2.4
                                                                                                       

      M2 -- Week ended
      April 9 (in billions)         $3,275.8    +$6.5
                                                                                                       

      M3 -- Week ended

                                                                                                       

     Consumer price index
     March                          128.7       +0.5%
                                                                                                       

     Auto sales
     Early April                    163,585     -13.3
                                                                                                       

     New jobless claims
     Week ended April 7             371,000     +9.8%
                                                                                                       

     Capacity utilization
     March, change in
     percentage points              83.3%       +0.4
                                                                                                       

     Merchandise trade deficit
     February (in billions)         $6.49       -$2.83
                                                                                                       

     Housing starts
     March, annual rate             1,321,000   -9.3%
                                                                                                       

     Building permits
     March, annual rate             1,206,000   -7.6%
                                                                                                       

     Industrial production
     index
     March                          108.8       +0.7%
                                                                                                       

            Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

     Durable goods orders (Tues.)
     March
                                                                                                       

     Auto sales (Tues.)
     Mid-April
                                                                                                       

     Employment cost index (Tues.)
     First quarter
                                                                                                       

     Real Gross National Product (Fri.)
     First quarter (estimate)
                                                                                                       

     Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

     New jobless claims (Thurs.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   About Face:
   How Michael Milken
   Was Forced to Accept
   The Prospect of Guilt
   ---
   By Pleading Now, He Avoids
   Menacing New Charges,
   Likely Conviction at Trial
   ---
   Negotiating His Cooperation
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Michael R. Milken was less than one hour away from being
publicly charged as the biggest financial criminal in
history. A federal grand jury in Manhattan was about to
accuse him of a sweeping array of crimes that included
insider trading, bribery, cheating customers and his former
employer, Drexel Burnham Lambert, and destroying
incriminating evidence.
   His chances of winning the case in court, most of his
lawyers and advisers told him, were slim.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thus, the billionaire financier who had spent so much of
his energy and funds insisting over the past few years that
he had done nothing wrong, made a stunning reversal last
Friday afternoon, agreeing to plead guilty to six felony
counts and pay $600 million in fines and restitution. Five of
the six counts carry prison terms of up to five years; the
sixth provides a three-year maximum. With his actual plea set
for tomorrow, Mr. Milken could still change his mind and
refuse to settle the case.
   The magnitude of the settlement is undoubtedly historic,
far stiffer than the guilty plea to one felony count and the
$100 million payment extracted from arbitrager Ivan Boesky.
But how big a coup the Milken plea is for the government,
given the magnitude and scope of the crimes it was prepared
to allege, will depend on how much Mr. Milken cooperates with
government investigators.
   Mr. Milken's plea agreement includes a promise of
cooperation with the probe, and given the government's
previous allegations of wrongdoing involving prominent
savings and loan executives and corporate raiders, Mr. Milken
could conceivably vault the insider-trading investigation to
an entirely new plane. But, in an unusual departure from
precedent, Mr. Milken will be sentenced before he speaks with
prosecutors, depriving them of their main leverage over the
former junk-bond empire builder should he prove recalcitrant.
   Indeed, given the asserted strength of the government's
case, and the public outcry that followed the plea agreement
with Mr. Boesky, the government is likely to face intense
questioning about why it accepted any plea agreement with Mr.
Milken that, unlike the Boesky agreement, failed to contain
ironclad guarantees that Mr. Milken could implicate other
criminals.
   If nothing else, Mr. Milken's three years of insisting on
his innocence and massive defense effort seem to have taxed
the government's stamina. The original U.S. attorney on the
case, Rudolph Giuliani, resigned, as have two heads of the
office's fraud section who were supervising the Milken case.
At the Securities and Exchange Commission, both the chief of
enforcement in charge of the Milken case and his top deputy
have resigned for jobs in private practice.
   Still, a Milken guilty plea will save the government years
of a costly trial and goes a long way toward vindicating the
government, which has been the target of stinging attacks by
Mr. Milken and his public relations apparatus during its long
investigation. After his indictment last March, Mr. Milken
continued to denounce government prosecutors for engaging in
a "shadow trial of systematic leaks and innuendo based upon
false accusations."
   In return for his guilty plea, Mr. Milken effectively
halts a public airing of the vast amounts of evidence
collected by prosecutors since their first, 98-count
indictment of him in March of last year. The evidence goes
far beyond the earlier charges of insider trading and
securities fraud.
   People familiar with the investigation say that the new
information largely was provided by former Milken aides James
Dahl, Terren Peizer and Cary Maultasch, and by Mr. Milken's
old firm, Drexel Burnham, which itself agreed to plead guilty
to six felonies and pay $650 million in fines and restitution
in December 1988. Messrs. Dahl and Peizer were granted
immunity from prosecution in return for their testimony.
Prosecutors agreed to defer indefinitely charges against Mr.
Maultasch as a result of his cooperation. More than a dozen
additional witnesses are said to have provided corroborating
information to the government, people familiar with the probe
say.
   Mr. Dahl is understood to have widened the investigation
dramatically by testifying about an arrangement under which
Mr. Milken allegedly helped a favored client, Columbia
Savings &amp; Loan Association, violate tax laws. (No charges
have been filed against Columbia. The company has confirmed
that it is under investigation, and it has denied
wrongdoing.)
   Messrs. Maultasch and Peizer are said to have provided the
government with information suggesting that Mr. Milken may
have obstructed justice by ordering the destruction of
documents in 1986, after it was learned that Mr. Boesky was
under investigation.
   Mr. Peizer also is said to have told prosecutors that Mr.
Milken helped David Solomon, the former chief investment
officer of Solomon Asset Management, to violate tax laws. Mr.
Solomon, for his part, also became a witness against Mr.
Milken, confirming his illegal tax arrangement and providing
additional information on a London-based partnership
masterminded by Mr. Milken. The partnership, known as
Finsbury Partners, allegedly cheated its customers by
overcharging for securities.
   Drexel is understood to have led the government to
investigate Mr. Milken's relationship with another
partnership known as MacPherson Partners. According to
Drexel's information, Mr. Milken allegedly used MacPherson as
part of a payola scheme: If certain money managers would buy
securities that Drexel had difficulty marketing, the clients
would be given the chance to participate personally in the
lucrative partnership. The government had been expected to
charge Mr. Milken in a new indictment with arranging to
defraud investors who might otherwise have benefited from
ownership of warrants held by the partnership.
   A spokesman for Mr. Milken declined comment on the new
charges and all other aspects of this story. Government
spokespeople also declined comment.
   According to people familiar with the course of the
settlement talks, the discussions began back in January of
1989. Then, Mr. Milken was offered the chance to plead guilty
to two felony counts. Prosecutors acceded to Mr. Milken's
demand that his brother receive immunity from prosecution,
people familiar with the talks say.
   But when the prosecutors' deadline for a decision arrived,
Mr. Milken wasn't taking phone calls. He later refused the
offer, though it met most of the conditions he had originally
set. Friends say Mr. Milken, distraught at the prospect of
admitting guilt, had pulled back from the brink of a
settlement and resolved once again to take his case to a
jury.
   Throughout the spring and summer of last year, Mr. Milken
and his legal team racked up more than $2 million a month in
legal fees preparing Mr. Milken's trial defense. They weeded
through hundreds of cartons of documents stored in a
government warehouse. They drafted dozens of legal briefs and
memos. And they commissioned expert studies on the operations
of the financial markets in an effort to demonstrate that
there had been no wrongdoing.
   Some time during this period, the defense team received
stunning news: copies of handwritten profit and loss tallies
on allegedly illegal trades done by Mr. Milken and Mr. Boesky
were in the hands of prosecutors. Defense lawyers had
believed that Mr. Boesky had destroyed the documents, but the
papers had in fact been kept by Mr. Boesky's bookkeeper,
Setrag Mooradian, who was cooperating with the government.
This news convinced some members of the Milken legal team
that their case was in serious trouble.
   More bad news came from the six-week trial last summer of
Drexel trader Bruce Newberg and five others. Many of the
accusations leveled by the government in its first-ever trial
of securities firm officials on racketeering charges involved
Mr. Milken and Drexel. All six defendants were convicted.
   By early fall, the fighting spirit of the Milken team
appeared to be flagging. Mr. Milken authorized Arthur Liman,
a partner at the New York law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton and Garrison, and New York defense attorney Stephen
E. Kaufman to begin another round of negotiations with
prosecutors.
   For months, the delicate negotiations remained shrouded in
secrecy, hidden even from the SEC and from other defense
lawyers involved in the case.
   By early February, agreement had been reached on most
details of the six felony counts to which Mr. Milken is
expected to plead guilty tomorrow in federal court in
Manhattan. The fate of Mr. Milken's brother, Lowell Milken,
remained a small obstacle -- prosecutors weren't at this time
willing to drop charges against him.
   But then word of the negotiations began to leak, and SEC
Chairman Richard Breeden, learning that months of talks had
occurred without SEC input, demanded that his agency have its
say.
   The SEC immediately took a hard line, asking among other
things that Mr. Milken provide information on savings and
loan chiefs who were once Mr. Milken's clients, people
familiar with the talks say. Mr. Milken's lawyers flatly
refused, and talks became so tense that Mr. Milken's defense
team threatened to walk away from the table.
   A little more than a week ago, the SEC softened its
demand, clearing the way for a deal that could be presented
to Mr. Milken.
   The unusual agreement on cooperation would still leave the
government with some leverage should he attempt to withhold
information, people familiar with the case say. The
government could cite him for breach of the plea agreement
and seek a resentencing. They could also use his lack of
cooperation to oppose any motions for early release from
prison, and he could be held in contempt for failing to
respond to questions from a grand jury.
   For his part, Mr. Milken can argue that he didn't
implicate friends and former clients in order to reduce his
sentence, or agree to implicate them in obtaining his plea.
   Prosecutors told Mr. Milken's lawyers they would ask for a
substantial prison sentence but they agreed not to seek any
specific sentence. They also agreed that of the $600 million
payment, $200 million would constitute fines and $400 million
will be set aside to satisfy the claims of investors and
clients who allegedly lost money because of Mr. Milken's
criminal acts. The fine would leave Mr. Milken among the
nation's wealthiest individuals, with an estimated net worth
of nearly $1 billion.
   The plea agreement also would grant Mr. Milken immunity
from prosecution anywhere else in the nation, a provision
that required the approval of U.S. Attorney General Richard
Thornburgh. The agreement would dismiss criminal charges
against Mr. Milken's brother Lowell, a former top aide, who
would be permanently barred from the securities industry and
would have to sign a consent decree with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. He may also face civil penalties.
   The agreement leaves unclear the status of Bruce Newberg,
who was charged along with Mr. Milken in the first
indictment, and of former Milken aides Peter Gardiner, Alan
Rosenthal and Warren Trepp, who were expected to be indicted
along with Mr. Milken.
   Although Mr. Milken's decision to plead may finally
relieve him of some of the considerable stress associates say
he has felt in recent months, it wasn't an easy one for him
to make.
   The government had given him a deadline of noon on Friday
to accept the deal, but he let the deadline pass -- as he had
the first time a settlement was offered last year.
   Mr. Milken remained in his Encino, Calif., home with his
wife, Lori, and his mother, Fern. The three had been
together, talking, since the early hours of a tense morning.
The phone rang insistently, but the trio took no calls.
Meanwhile, in Manhattan, the federal grand jury was poised
for a rare Friday session in which it would be asked to
approve the array of new charges.
   Although Mr. Milken's attorneys had spent hundreds of
hours with him over a nearly four-year period, even they
didn't know how Mr. Milken would decide. It was midafternoon
New York time, only minutes before the grand jury was
scheduled to vote on the new indictment, when Mr. Milken
finally ended the suspense.
   ---
        Landmarks in the Drexel-Milken Investigation
                                                                                                       

   May 1986 -- The SEC and federal prosecutors accuse
Drexel's Dennis Levine of making $12.6 million in
insider-trading profits while employed at four different
firms.
                                                                                                       

   June -- Mr. Levine pleads guilty to four felony charges
and agrees to cooperate with the government. Settling the SEC
suit, he agrees to pay $11.6 million.
                                                                                                       

   November -- Famed arbitrager Ivan F. Boesky agrees to pay
a $100 million penalty to settle SEC charges that he traded
on inside information supplied by Mr. Levine. Mr. Boesky also
agrees to help in the investigation.
                                                                                                       

   February 1987 -- Mr. Levine is sentenced to two years in
prison and is fined $362,000 on the felony counts.
                                                                                                       

   April -- Mr. Boesky pleads guilty to the criminal charge
of conspiring to file false statements with the SEC.
                                                                                                       

   December -- Mr. Boesky is sentenced to three years in
prison.
                                                                                                       

   August 1988 -- Five officials of an investment partnership
called Princeton/Newport LP and Bruce L. Newberg, a former
Drexel trader, are indicted on racketeering and other
charges.
                                                                                                       

   September -- The SEC files suit against Drexel, Michael
Milken and others, accusing them of insider trading, stock
manipulation, fraud and other violations of federal
securities laws.
                                                                                                       

   December -- Drexel agrees to plead guilty to six felony
counts relating to securities fraud, settle civil charges
brought by the SEC and pay a record $650 million in fines and
restitution. Drexel also agrees to cooperate with the
government in the case against Mr. Milken.
                                                                                                       

   January 1989 -- A federal grand jury returns an expanded
indictment against the Princeton/Newport defendants.
                                                                                                       

   March -- Mr. Milken, his brother, Lowell Milken, and Mr.
Newberg are charged in 98-count indictment alleging
racketeering and fraud.
                                                                                                       

   April -- Mr. Milken and his co-defendants enter pleas of
innocent. Because of the RICO charges, Mr. Milken must agree
to deposit more than $600 million in cash and other assets in
accounts to be monitored by the government.
                                                                                                       

   June -- Judge approves Drexel's SEC settlement that gives
federal regulators unprecedented control over Drexel's
operations and requires Drexel to exclude Mr. Milken from its
business. Mr. Milken resigns from the firm a short time later
to start his own financial business, International Capital
Access Group.
                                                                                                       

   July -- The Princeton/Newport defendants are convicted on
63 of 64 counts against them, including racketeering.
                                                                                                       

   November -- Princeton/Newport defendants are sentenced to
prison terms ranging from three to six months.
                                                                                                       

   February 1990 -- Drexel files for bankruptcy court
protection and says it will cease doing business.
                                                                                                       

   April -- Mr. Milken agrees to plead guilty to six felony
counts and pay $600 million in fines and restitution.
   ---
                  The Milken Plea Agreement
                                                                                                       

   -- Michael R. Milken will plead guilty to six felony
counts, five related to unlawful securities trading and one
to filing a false tax statement. All other charges against
him will be dropped.
                                                                                                       

   -- Mr. Milken will pay the government $600 million -- $200
million in fines and $400 million in restitution to benefit
defrauded investors and clients.
                                                                                                       

   -- Mr. Milken will agree to cooperate with the government
in its continuing investigations of insider trading and
savings and loan fraud, but he will do so only after he is
sentenced.
                                                                                                       

   -- Mr. Milken will be permanently barred from the
securities industry.
                                                                                                       

   -- Criminal charges against his brother Lowell Milken will
be dismissed, but Lowell Milken will also be barred from the
securities industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend Brief -- Hollywood Park Realty:
   Payout on Common Is Set,
   The First in Almost 3 Years
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   HTRFZ WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hollywood Park Realty Enterprises Inc. and Hollywood Park
Operating Co., an Inglewood, Calif.-based race track owner
and operator whose stock is paired for trading, declared a
dividend of 12.5 cents a share on common stock. It is the
first dividend in nearly three years.
   The dividend is payable June 1 to holders of record April
20.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hollywood Park Operating also elected Allen E. Paulson as
a director. Mr. Paulson, who is chairman and chief executive
officer of Gulfstream Aerospace Corp., is an owner and
breeder of thoroughbred racehorses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Palfed Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PALM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PALFED Inc. (Aiken, S.C.) -- John W. Cunningham retired as
chief executive officer of this thrift holding company. He
remains chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Seat Is Sold
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange said a seat was
sold for $410,000, up $15,000 from the previous sale April 6.
   Seats are currently quoted at $380,000 bid and $450,000
asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Waste Management Plans to Introduce
   Automated Garbage-Collection System
   ----
   By Bill Paul
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7C
</SO>
<CO>
   WMX EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Garbagemen could soon become an endangered species.
   Waste Management Inc. said it plans to introduce this year
what it calls the nation's first fully automated
garbage-collection system in about 100 American communities.
The Oak Brook, Ill., waste-services firm said its system,
developed with Germany's waste-disposal giant Edelhoff
G.m.b.H., is more efficient than existing three-man trucks
and can be adapted for recycling without additional manpower
or equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Waste Management has managed to cut labor costs while
improving equipment utilization. Technologically, this is a
very forward-looking system. It should give them a real leg
up in marketing," said Marc H. Sulam, environmental and
wasteservices analyst for Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
   Essentially, Waste Management has borrowed the concept of
containerization from the transportation industry. Without
leaving the cab, a driver can swivel his truck's
front-mounted arm lifts from side to side, thereby picking up
a garbage can that's been placed at the curb and raising it
above the cab. The trash gets dumped into the container,
where it's compacted.
   When a container is full, it can be automatically stood on
its end on the ground, and an empty container substituted.
Three fully loaded containers then can be mounted on a truck
chassis and driven directly to a landfill, thus eliminating
the need for a transfer station. Such stations are disliked
by people who live near them because they can cause air
pollution, excessive noise and road wear.
   To convert from garbage to recycling requires simply using
different containers.
   Waste Management officials acknowledge that their new
system probably won't work well in big cities because of the
difficulty in navigating a truck down city streets. Rather,
they say the system is geared for suburban and rural areas,
with one truck picking up both residential and commercial
garbage.
   Mr. Sulam said that because Waste Management worked with a
leading German company, he expects the U.S. company to pitch
its new system in Europe, too, where American disposal firms
have recently been gobbling up their European counterparts.
   Addressing a Kidder, Peabody solid-waste conference in New
York last week, Harold Gershowitz, senior vice president of
Waste Management, indicated that the company will push hard
in Eastern Europe, too. "We intend to be on the ground, ready
to go," he said, adding that he expects East European
environmental business to boom starting around 1995.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kellogg Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   K WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   KELLOGG CO. (Battle Creek, Mich.) -- Claudio X. Gonzalez,
55 years old, chairman and chief executive officer of
Kimberly-Clark de Mexico S.A., was elected a director of this
cereal maker, increasing board membership to 13. He succeeds
Brian P. Burns, chairman of BF Enterprises Inc., who retired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Corona Corp.:
   Stock Deal Set for Stake
   In Stikine-Prime Resources
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA ICRA T.SKZ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Corona Corp., Toronto, said it will acquire a 44.6% stake
in a new company to be formed through the proposed merger of
two mining companies, Stikine Resources Ltd. and Prime
Resources Group Inc., both based in Vancouver, British
Columbia.
   Corona said it will acquire the stake in exchange for 16.6
million new Class A shares, giving the transaction an
indicated value of about 128.7 million Canadian dollars
(US$110.7 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corona said the proposed transaction "represents a
potential 20% increase in gold and equivalent reserves, and
approximately a 10% dilution in outstanding common equity."
Corona has about 141.9 million Class A shares outstanding. On
the Toronto Stock Exchange Friday, the Class A shares closed
at C$7.75, down 50 Canadian cents, in heavy trading.
   Stikine and Prime each hold 50% stakes in the Eskay Creek
property in Northern British Columbia. The property has
created much speculation in the mining industry as a possible
major new precious-metal and base-metal find.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nebraskans' Relish for Pickle Cards
   Has Charities Playing Catch-Up
   ----
   By Katherine Walsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Internal Revenue Service has some Nebraska charities
over a barrel, all because of a seemingly innocuous item
called a pickle card.
   Pickle cards are an old fund-raising device, indigenous to
the Middle West. An instant lottery-ticket with pull tabs,
the pickle card is so named because in the old days they were
often sold from empty pickle jars. For a dollar or so, a
player gets a card, pulls the tabs, and, if the symbols
underneath match, wins. Under Nebraska law, nonprofit groups
are the only ones that are allowed to sell pickle cards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For years, the revenues from the cards were regarded as
tax-exempt under federal law. Then came the Tax Reform Act of
1986. A single sentence in the act placed a federal tax on
profits from such devices as unrelated business income. But
many Nebraska nonprofit groups missed the four-year-old
change -- until a letter from the IRS pointed it out to them
this year.
   Now, a number of the 200 or so organizations that are
subject to the federal tax, including Catholic schools,
Little League teams, even the University of Nebraska football
team's booster club, are in a panic. About a dozen of them
are looking at potential six-figure bills for back taxes,
estimates Carl Patterson, an IRS official in Omaha.
   "It would wipe us out. We would be done. We would have to
sell off all our assets to repay it," says Ed Lehotak of
Gladiators Athletic Association Inc. in Omaha, a 20-year-old
athletics organization for boys and girls. "We don't like the
business {of selling pickle cards}, but it's the only way we
can consistently raise money year-round."
   Faced with this crisis, the organizations have turned to
Congress for help. The state's two senators, James Exon and
Bob Kerrey, and Rep. Peter Hoagland of Omaha have introduced
legislation that would retroactively repeal the tax.
   "The federal government has cut many social programs and
increased the need for private charitable resources," Sen.
Exon said in introducing the bill. "This is not the time to
send an IRS deficiency notice to the orphanage and the
church."
   No one seems to know what will happen if the legislation
doesn't pass. "You can't squeeze blood out of a turnip," says
Mr. Patterson, the Omaha IRS man. "If the money isn't there,
it isn't there."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   After Heady Growth, West German Stock Prices
   Seen Flat Through 2nd Quarter, Then Rising
   ----
   By A.H. Mooradian
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HOT G.HOZ G.HEI G.DYK G.SIE EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- West German stock prices'
powerful rise since the East European overhaul process got
into full swing last November should flatten, leading them to
fluctuate around current levels through the second quarter
before resuming an upward track later in the year, analysts
said.
   Stock prices on balance may have risen too far too fast,
they said. And amid uncertainty about the contemplated German
monetary union and its effects on West German interest rates,
inflation and the West German mark, the analysts said,
operators probably will be quick to take profits on
short-term jumps in stock prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The {stock} market from a price-earnings standpoint is
somewhat overextended, as well as from the perspective of
relative yields against interest rate investments," said
Walter Heinemann, head of research at Merck, Finck &amp; Co., a
Munich-based investment banking firm.
   But the potential for a sustained slide in prices is just
as limited as that for a major increase in the next three
months, analysts said. Few investors are willing to pull out
of the West German market, because the reconstruction of East
Germany offers a big economic push for West Germany and
promises hundreds of billions of marks in potential sales for
Western companies in the next several years, they said.
   "It's a question of risks, and we wouldn't want to run the
risk of being out of the West German market," said Andrew
Thomson, an analyst at Kleinwort Benson Securities in London.
   Even the emotionally charged buying sentiment in Frankfurt
in recent months, on euphoria from German reunification
prospects, probably won't be able alone to sustain the recent
pace of price growth that took the weighted German Stock
Index, or DAX, up 10% from the beginning of the year to a
historical peak of 1968.55 on March 30. The DAX rose 35% in
1989, ending the year at 1790.37. It finished Friday at
1884.33.
   "Although we retain our positive stance towards the {West
German stock} market in our longer-term view, we are now,
however, looking for a period of cooling off, accompanied by
a measure of profit-taking in selected areas," analysts at
Swiss Bank Corp.'s London equities research group wrote.
   Analysts forecast that the DAX will fluctuate between 1850
and 2000 in the next couple of months. "If anything goes
wrong with the {German} monetary and economic union, we could
very easily see the market go down 10% to 15%," Mr. Heinemann
of Merck Finck said.
   The construction sector appears to be one of those best
positioned to capture substantial new business in Eastern
Europe. Builders and engineering and materials supply
companies are moving to expand productive capacity that
already is being tested by West Germany's own building boom.
Builders such as Hochtief AG and Philipp Holzmann AG and
suppliers such as Heidelberger Zement AG and Dyckerhoff AG
are likely winners from a longer-term perspective, analysts
said. But they added that after rising steeply in recent
months, stocks of these companies probably are in for some
more profit-taking.
   Analysts also are high on Siemens AG, which has strong
earnings in its main businesses in electronics, computers and
telecommunications. The company has been arranging joint
ventures with East German monopolies and has secured major
contracts to help upgrade the East German telecommunications
network. Siemens, also one of the world's largest builders
and outfitters of power plants, stands to benefit from
anticipated East German investment in such projects.
   ---
   World Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo shares finished lower Friday, after profit-taking
depressed prices of steel and shipbuilding stocks, though
equities were up from midday lows, leaving a large number of
stocks higher.
   The Nikkei index of 225 issues fell 109.97 points to
29835.44, after gains in the two previous sessions. First
section volume was estimated at 700 million shares, down from
908 million shares a day earlier.
   In early trading Monday in Tokyo, the Nikkei index rose
47.88 points to 29883.32.
   On Friday, the Tokyo Stock Price Index, or Topix, of all
first section issues, which surged 45.53 points Thursday,
rose 0.67 point to 2214.16.
   Friday's market performance was watched closely, as prices
haven't had three consecutive daily gains since early March.
Until Friday, stock prices had fallen back sharply on days
following two consecutive sharp daily gains.
   The decline Friday didn't cause serious damage to the
market, traders said, as participants are more relaxed
because of the widespread expectation the dollar won't rise
far above the 160-yen level. But at the same time, Friday's
results convinced many participants that the market faces
strong resistance around 30000 and 31000 points on the
Nikkei.
   In London, share prices finished a drab session slightly
firmer Friday, amid a dearth of trading influences. Shares
were largely mixed during most of the session, as dealers
complained of a lack of investor interest in the middle of
the long three-week trading account.
   The Financial Times 30-share index was up 0.4 point at
1712.6. Volume was a modest 410.7 million shares, compared
with 491.9 million a day earlier. The 100-share index rose
2.4 points to 2187.1.
   Market participants also suggested that investors steered
clear of the market after the brokerage firm Warburg
Securities warned Friday that British inflation could exceed
10% in April. The nation's March inflation rate was 8.1%.
   Elsewhere on Friday, stock prices closed higher in Paris,
Frankfurt, Brussels, Amsterdam and Stockholm, and lower in
Milan. Prices in Zurich were mixed. In Paris, stocks climbed
to a record, as institutions beefed up their positions for
the start of the May trading account. Stockholm equity prices
soared in slow trading, boosted by Swedish trade data that
were better than expected.
   Share prices closed lower in Sydney, Singapore and Manila,
were mixed in Hong Kong and Seoul, and ended higher in
Wellington and Taipei.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                      % This
                                   Apr 19    Apr 18    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ..........................  312.2     314.7   -  3.9
   Britain .......................  648.2     654.9   - 10.1
   Canada ........................  372.2     379.6   - 13.9
   Japan ......................... 1262.7    1237.4   - 23.7
   France ........................  584.5     584.1   +  3.1
   Germany .......................  301.1     304.7   +  5.5
   Hong Kong ..................... 2284.0    2264.0   +  8.9
   Switzerland ...................  202.9     204.2   -  8.1
   Australia .....................  301.0     302.1   -  9.1
   World index ...................  487.6     484.3   - 14.1
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   BCD: Looking Back
   On Great Foresight
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   Your two-inch news story on March 14 was not, in my
judgment, a sufficient obituary for the demise of Business
Conditions Digest, the government's monthly publication on
leading indicators. BCD, as it is known among its admirers,
was born in 1961, when the Commerce Department had the
foresight to adopt the leading indicators as a persistent and
reliable way of telling where the business cycle is heading.
At that time BCD stood for Business Cycle Developments. The
words, but not the letters, were changed a few years later,
when the government's foresight failed to perceive that the
business cycle would persist, as it has to this day. Why else
are there news stories practically every day about whether a
recession is or is not about to break?
   BCD is being buried quietly in the Survey of Current
Business, a useful publication but not one devoted to the
business cycle. Now would have been a good time not to bury
BCD but to expand it. Why not cover international
developments more thoroughly, since their impact on the U.S.
business cycle is large and growing? Why not cover indicators
of inflation more thoroughly, since inflation is so closely
tied to the business cycle and policy makers must consider
both? Why not provide more indicators of the varying fortunes
of the service industries, since they now play a dominant
role in our economy?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As we raise a glass to BCD and toast its 29 years of
service as well as the example it has set for many other
countries, let us resolve that its mission will continue to
be fulfilled, whether by government or private initiative.
   Geoffrey H. Moore
   Director
   Center for International Business Cycle Research
   Graduate School of Business
   Columbia University
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OK, What Rhymes
   With Vogue and Eats
   Raw Chicken Necks?
   ---
   Answer: Dogue de Bordeaux,
   A Breed New to Many
   And a True Power Dog
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Douglas Quinn was so taken with the phlegmatic
dog star of the movie "Turner &amp; Hooch" that he took out a
classified ad seeking a "Hooch" pup. "I liked the dog, and I
want it. That's all," says Mr. Quinn, a man of few words and
the father of 3 1/2-year-old twin boys in Barry, Ontario. So
far, no response to the ad.
   Just wait till Mr. Quinn finds out that the gargoyle-faced
dogue de Bordeaux can cost as much as $1,800, weighs 125
pounds and craves 12 pounds of raw chicken necks each day,
plus kibble. "It isn't easy to get chicken necks," concedes
Peter Curley, the breeder who supplied four dogs for the
movie, which also stars Tom Hanks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Curley adds that though the dogue may have achieved a
certain vogue thanks to Hollywood, smart (as in fashionable)
doesn't necessarily mean smart (as in intelligent). "The only
thing you can train the Bordeaux to do is eat and sleep,"
says Mr. Curley, who now is branching out to an even rarer
breed: the presa de Canario, known as "the gripping dog" of
the Canary Islands. Mr. Curley expects that strong-jawed
beast to be popular at dog shows and to command maybe $2,500.
   The Bordeaux and the presa are power dogs -- not mere pets
but status symbols. "I'm sure it happens that there are
people who buy dogs like they buy cars," says Peter L.
Borchelt, an animal psychologist in Forest Hills, N.Y.
   Carol Lea Benjamin, a New York author whose book
"Second-Hand Dog" is a paean to the mongrel, notes that
"breeds are often chosen because somebody famous has one" --
the president of the U.S., say, or an admired movie star.
Appreciating that fact, the International Kennel Club, which
is really just a pet store in Manhattan, sometimes manages to
plant items in the gossip columns disclosing that an actor --
Bruce Willis, for instance -- is taking delivery of some
Akita pups or that singer Roberta Flack has a fox-faced shiba
inu. Gilt by association, in other words. It is supposed to
move dogs, and it undoubtedly does.
   People magazine recently predicted that the bichon frise,
a bit of fluff whose name means curly- haired lap-dog, will
be one of the top five dogs of the 1990s, "style-wise." And
in no time at all, Tina Geores, a New Jersey breeder, was
advertising it as "the most stylish dog of the '90s."
   Ms. Geores claims the bichon is getting more and more
popular "with very trendy people, people in show business,"
people like Carly Simon, the singer and songwriter. "They are
such a pleasant little dog," Ms. Geores says. "They're easy
to travel with. They're easy to live with." They cost between
$650 and $1,200.
   The authoritative American Kennel Club, which is not a pet
store in Manhattan, is a little slower on the uptake than
readers of People. It recognizes only 130 breeds, and the
Bordeaux and shiba inu aren't two of them. The AKC each year
lists the top 10 breeds (in terms of registrations), and most
are not exotic power dogs. Cockers and Labs, poodles, golden
retrievers and German shepherds head the list, in that order,
although two currently fashionable breeds, Rottweiler and
chow chow (chow for short), do make the latest top 10.
   "The Rotty is the guard dog of the moment," says John
Mandeville, an AKC judging official. He says the bear-faced
chow is probably the "pre-eminent fad dog." Mr. Mandeville
notes that both dogs tend to be hard to handle, particularly
if they aren't well trained and if the owner isn't assertive.
But, he says, many breed-conscious masters unfortunately
can't see past the pup. "If there's anything cuter than an
eight- or 10-week-old chow puppy, I'm not sure what it is,"
he says. But then one day, the dog owner wakes up to find a
giant, shedding beast (with a blue tongue in the case of the
chow) who wants to be boss. "Cute" can easily enough turn
into "trouble."
   That hasn't kept AKC registrations from reaching an
all-time high, as more Americans seek to spend their mad
money on the perfect dog. The dogue de Bordeaux may not be
it, for a variety of reasons, one of which is that it
originally was bred as a fighting dog. It is said to be good
with children. But it might just have the neighbor's shih tzu
for lunch.
   The border collie (like Mike the Dog in the film "Down and
Out in Beverly Hills") is a current favorite. So are
bulldogs. Jack Russell terriers are popular with the horsy
set. The short-legged Welsh corgi is big (Queen Elizabeth II
has at least one). And so, of course, is the English bull
terrier (thanks to Anheuser-Busch, Bud Light and Spuds
MacKenzie).
   Barbara Bush and the president have been good for English
springer spaniels. Theirs -- Millie and her pups -- have been
good for the Bushes politically. (Yes, Messrs. Reagan, Nixon,
Johnson and Roosevelt had famous dogs, too.) George Bush gave
this advice to a Republican running for Congress in New York:
"One single word. Puppies. Worth 10 points."
   Like politicians, dog breeds have their moment. But the
popular ones get overbred, by puppy mills and others trying
to take advantage of demand. "With anything trendy, there's a
rush to breed for profit," says Mr. Borchelt, the animal
psychologist. "That's no good." Puppy mills turn out dogs
with physical and psychological problems, dogs that can't
handle their aggressive impulses, dogs that bite.
   And ultimately a breed will pass out of fashion, as the
shar-pei seems to be doing now. It is that wrinkly creature
which, as a pup, looks more like a pile of sweat shirts than
a dog.
   On a tour of the Animal Medical Center in Manhattan, Mr.
Borchelt is interrupted twice by veterinarians seeking his
advice about their patients. An elderly woman has a "nervous
chow," says one. The other confides: "I've got a problem with
an aggressive shar-pei."
   The Chinese shar-pei, or "sand-skin," was nearly extinct
in the 1950s. But, two decades later, it caught on with the
rare-dog breeders and, in 1983, the Neiman Marcus Christmas
catalog featured a pair of shar-pei pups -- at $2,000 each.
The rage began. Today there are more than 50,000 shar-peis.
The price has come down to as little as $100, a sign that the
fad is about played out. And that's only the half of it.
   "The shar-pei is a veterinarian's dream," says Michael
Marder, a Manhattan vet. "I'm seeing a lot of health and
behavioral problems, not life-threatening but chronic," he
says. Skin trouble is especially common.
   Ethel Petry, of Central Point, Ore., is familiar from an
owner's standpoint with the shar-pei's potential for
ailments. She chose her shar-pei puppy largely because his
front paws were "broken down," and she was afraid the
flat-footed dog would be destroyed.
   Timothy, now three years old, cost her a hundred bucks.
But he was no bargain. His doctor bills have been at least
five times that. He contracted a bad case of mange, and he
tends to be sickly. "He can be playing with you one minute,"
Ms. Petry says, "and come down with a temperature of 104
degees the next."
   Efforts to fix the dog's feet failed, and the little pads
on his paws never toughened up. So, "Timothy is a grass-dog.
I never walk him on the street," says his owner. He travels
by car from his backyard to the park for outings. And at
least once, Ms. Petry has had to carry Timothy in her arms to
keep him off the pavement. Still, she says, "We get along."
   Fortunately, passe power dogs seldom seem to end up at the
pound, abandoned by owners who have traded up to a newer
model. Marjorie Stein, manager of adoption services for the
North Shore Animal League in Port Washington, N.Y., says she
sees few of the exotic breeds: "A chichi dog has a much
better chance of getting a home by word of mouth. Generally,
somebody wants it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Considers
   Spending $148 Million
   To Build New Engine
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. said it is
considering a $148 million investment to build a new, more
powerful engine.
   The auto maker confirmed reports that it is weighing an
expansion of its Trenton, Mich., engine plant to build
150,000 units a year of a new 24-valve, 3.5-liter engine.
Chrysler officials wouldn't say what vehicle would get the
new engine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such a project would be consistent with Chrysler's recent
efforts to improve its engines. During the 1980s, Chrysler
was hurt when consumers demanded cars with bigger, more
powerful engines, and Chrysler didn't build either
six-cylinder or multivalve car engines.
   Last year, Chrysler added a six-cylinder engine to its
line, but it still doesn't produce any multivalve engines; it
is to begin building its first -- a four-cylinder, 16-valve
engine -- later this year, but the site hasn't been
designated.
   The new six-cylinder engine Chrysler is considering
building in Trenton would have dual overhead cams and four
valves per cylinder, two more than conventional engines have.
Multivalve engines deliver increased power more efficiently
than conventional engines do.
   Chrysler stopped short of saying it has made a final
determination to build the engine in Trenton, and it declined
to say the decision hinges on getting tax breaks it is
seeking from Trenton city officials. But a Chrysler spokesman
did say the Trenton plant is the preferred site. The company
wouldn't say whether it is considering other locations.
   Chrysler said the expansion would add about 550 jobs in
Trenton. About 2,700 people work at the plant now. Last year,
Chrysler employees in Trenton built 338,340 four-cylinder and
six-cylinder engines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education:
   `Tracking' of Minority Pupils Takes Toll
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<GV>
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   Racial segregation inside school buildings creates
inferior opportunities for black and Hispanic students to
learn mathematics and science, according to a new study by
Rand Corp.
   The study, one of the largest-scale reports on separate
instruction for separate ability groups, found that
disproportionately high numbers of blacks and Hispanics are
assigned to low-ability mathematics and science classes,
while few minorities gain entry to high-ability classes. In
addition, the study said low-ability classes are taught by
less-qualified teachers and receive fewer resources, such as
laboratory equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Aside from the potential social damage alleged in the
study, the findings could also bode ill for the economy. By
the year 2000, the U.S. Labor Department says, minorities
will grow to about 26% of the labor pool from 20% currently,
while employers will need more people with sophisticated
mathematics and science training. The study by Rand, a Santa
Monica, Calif., public-policy research center, suggests that
many future workers won't have this training.
   Racial discrepancies in advanced and slow-track classes
have produced controversy on the local level, notably in
Selma, Ala. There, supporters of a black superintendent
charged that his efforts to reduce the segregative effects of
ability-grouping, or tracking, helped lead to the non-renewal
of his contract by a white-majority school board.
   Using a National Science Foundation survey of 1,200
schools and 6,000 teachers, researchers at Rand found
tracking in science and mathematics to be pervasive
nationally, with potentially wide-scale damage to black and
Hispanic learning. Between kindergarten and sixth grade, Rand
found 65% of math and science classes are classified as
fast-track, medium-track, or slow-track, with only 35%
containing students of mixed abilities. From seventh through
12th grade, single-ability classes were 80% of the total.
   "This is the Selma story -- but everywhere in the
country," says Jeannie Oakes, one of the authors of the
study, who previewed a portion of the work at a conference in
Boston on Friday. "The differences we found are not efforts
to fine-tune instruction to meet the needs of kids, but gross
differences in the allocation of school resources."
   At elementary schools that are 90% to 100% minority, the
study found that low-ability classes account for 28% of
science and math courses, with only 9% of classes classified
as high-ability. Conversely, for grade schools that are 90%
or more white, only 7% of classes are low-level and 11% are
high-level. In high school, the differences are even more
striking, with advanced classes making up 34% of heavily
white schools' math and science curriculum; at heavily
minority high schools, only 12% of the science and math
offerings are advanced classes.
   At mixed-race schools, blacks and Hispanics were also
over-represented in low-level classes when compared with the
schools' total racial makeup, and under-represented in
high-level classes. In two out of three slow-track high
school classes, the minority enrollment was higher than that
of the school as a whole. The figures were based on
educators' actual counts of students, but Rand didn't release
the exact numbers.
   Middle schools and high schools have traditionally offered
students at the same grade level courses of different
difficulty, with one of the classic choices being first-year
algebra or a simpler arithmetic course in ninth grade.
Assignments or teachers' steering of students at this level
are often based on past grade and test records. But Ms. Oakes
says it was "astonishing" to see the high level of tracking
and racial differentiation even in kindergarten through sixth
grade classes, when an academic track record is much less
established. Stratification in these years, she said, seems
much more likely to be based, consciously or unconsciously,
on a student's race.
   The bulk of research on ability grouping suggests that
more intelligent students may achieve slightly more in the
long run when they are separated from slower students, but
slower students' achievement suffers significantly. Surveys
of teachers have shown they support ability grouping for
several reasons, especially because it reduces their need to
repeat certain lessons for slower students when brighter
students are ready to move on.
   But the practice is growing more controversial. Although
there have been few successful lawsuits alleging
discrimination via ability grouping, Norman Chachkin, an
attorney for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, says the Office of
Civil Rights of the U.S. Education Department has brought
several administrative actions against districts where racial
patterns are pronounced at differing ability levels. However,
critics have found it hard to convince courts that placements
are being made on racial grounds, and not on the basis of
demonstrated ability.
   One area where the Rand report may add fuel to the dispute
is in resources. For some time, a general shortage of math
and science teachers has meant that instructors uncertified
in these fields have been permitted to teach them. But Ms.
Oakes and her colleagues found that only 39% of teachers of
low-ability classes at largely minority secondary schools had
certification or bachelor's degrees in math or science,
compared with 84% for advanced classes at schools with white
majorities. Availability of science laboratories and
equipment was also scarcer at schools with more low-track
classes.
   "This is institutional discrimination," Mr. Chachkin says.
"The consensus among educators for some time has been that
the disadvantages of tracking outweigh the advantages, yet
the practice remains tremendously resilient to change."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Net
   Plunged 98%
   In 1st Quarter
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MD
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   McDonnell Douglas Corp., whose earnings a year ago were
artificially inflated by a one-time accounting adjustment,
posted a 98% drop in first-quarter net income, while
operating results rose meagerly and barely broke even.
   The biggest disappointment came at the aerospace company's
Long Beach, Calif., transport-aircraft unit, which registered
an $84 million loss for the period -- more than twice as wide
as the deficit of a year earlier. The company largely blamed
the poor performance on the fact that a lot of money is being
ponied up to develop and flight-test the MD-11 commercial
tri-jet, but revenue won't begin to be registered until the
plane is certified by the Federal Aviation Administration and
deliveries can get under way.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the problems in Long Beach run deeper than any one
project. In February 1989, the 45,000-plus employees at the
site undertook an extensive reorganization aimed at improving
efficiency and cutting costs. The first-quarter loss means
there is all the more pressure for the bottom line to display
improvement in the second half. It also underscores that
while McDonnell Douglas has the promise to make more money
than any other aerospace company, except for Boeing Co., it
has yet to realize that potential.
   The reshuffling in Long Beach is, in many eyes, a flop. In
the first quarter, the MD-80 aircraft line fell into the red
after two periods of steady gains. The company attributed the
slip to having to train and integrate new workers,
difficulties that were especially acute in the assembly of
MD-80 noses. Some industry experts also say that at least
some of the 25 MD-80s delivered by McDonnell Douglas during
the first quarter were sold at a huge discount to carriers,
especially Delta Air Lines and AMR Corp.'s American Airlines,
in an attempt to hang on to market share.
   "There's no way you can sugar-coat what happened," said
Cyrus J. Lawrence Inc.'s Howard Rubel, who is considered one
of Wall Street's more upbeat analysts when it comes to
McDonnell Douglas. "The results are lower than they should
be.
   "But it shouldn't come as a shock that Douglas is still
suffering operationally," he added. "What it really does is
put the spotlight on the second part of the year."
   James Phillips, deputy general manager of the MD-80
program, maintained that the line is already positioned to
rebound. He said the section of the factory manufacturing the
plane's noses experienced congestion during the first
quarter, but it is now being equipped to handle extra
capacity. "We've added more people and more tools," he said.
"We expect the situation to be well corrected within the next
several months."
   Overall, St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas posted net of
$2 million, or five cents a share, compared with $169
million, or $4.43 a share. Last year's figure includes a $179
million gain from the initial application of a new accounting
standard for taxes. Revenue, which jumped in every business
segment, increased 19% to $3.83 billion from $3.22 billion.
   The units that manufacture military products at McDonnell
Douglas, the nation's No. 1 defense contractor, turned in
mixed showings. The missiles, space and electronic systems
units collectively earned $13 million, down 68% from $41
million a year before. But the company's jet-fighter
operations, which had minor production problems during the
first three months of 1989 on the AV-8B Harrier aircraft and
in other areas, recorded a more than tripling of profits to
$104 million from $32 million. Improved margins on the F-15
Eagle and F/A-18 Hornet lines and lower costs on the Air
Force's Advanced Tactical Fighter helped in particular.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Battered Bond Market
   To Face More Selling
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The sagging bond market is bracing for several
heavy blows that are likely to drive down prices and boost
yields even further over the next few weeks, investment
managers and economists predict.
   Money managers now are warier about bonds than at any time
since last summer, according to a new survey of 51
fixed-income investment managers by C.J. Lawrence, Morgan
Grenfell Inc. Many strategists are waiting for government
bond yields, now about 8.9%, to surge to 9% or 9 1/4% before
they consider buying again later this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Inflation fears, concerns about massive government
borrowing in early May and worries about higher interest
rates abroad have investors especially on edge. Moreover,
many Japanese institutions have been hit hard by plummeting
Tokyo stock and bond prices this year. Many strategists
predict the Japanese won't buy nearly as much as usual of the
$30 billion of U.S. Treasury notes and bonds to be sold by
the government next month. Some even fear the Japanese will
sell more of their U.S. bonds soon and move their money back
into Japanese government bonds.
   Moreover, many economists expect additional signs this
week and next of higher inflation and stronger economic
growth. "Near-term, we see major problems with the market,"
says Thomas Slefinger, a portfolio manager at Van Kampen
Merritt, an investment firm based in Lisle, Ill. "I think
we're going to see higher interest rates over the next
month."
   Later this year, bonds will look much more attractive, Mr.
Slefinger and many other managers predict. In the meantime,
Mr. Selfinger advises: "The best thing to do is sit on the
sidelines and just watch. We don't see any rush or urgency to
buy right now."
   Prices of long-term government bonds tumbled 3 1/2 points,
or $35 for each $1,000 face amount, last week. That included
a one-point drop Friday. Bond yields surged more than
one-third of a percentage point, an exceptionally large jump
for a single week, hitting their highest levels in nearly a
year. Technical analysts say government bond yields now have
pierced important resistance levels, and that this represents
yet another ominous signal.
   To make matters worse, even news that usually boosts bond
prices is having no effect. For example, gold and oil prices
have tumbled, which some economists say should represent
solid signals that inflation isn't a major threat. But
investors don't seem to care. When good news is ignored,
"that's a sign of trouble," says Mr. Slefinger.
   Some money managers reply there is good reason to ignore
falling oil prices. "I don't really trust the oil price
weakness we're seeing," says Garnett L. Keith, vice chairman
of Prudential Insurance Co. of America. "I see it more as a
blip related to the inner workings of OPEC," the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries. He worries about growing
U.S. dependence on foreign oil, adding: "If I had to guess
the direction of oil prices over the next two- or three-year
period, it's up, not down. And since energy is a big
inflation component, I think that's not going to be helpful."
   Inflation fears probably will be fanned again by a
government report Friday on the economy's first-quarter
performance. Many analysts expect an annual growth rate of
about 5 1/2% to 6% in an inflation measure known as the
implicit price deflator. Moreover, the government's April
employment report, to be released in early May, is expected
to show stronger economic growth.
   "Over the next month or so, rates may very well back up
some more," says Donald H. Straszheim, chief economist at
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. "The markets' perception is
that inflation is a real problem and the economy is growing
too fast."
   Stronger economic growth might even persuade the Federal
Reserve to raise short-term interest rates, several analysts
warn. A few Fed officials say they think inflation already is
too high. But other Fed policymakers appear worried about
signs of fragility in the financial system and less worried
about inflation. Thus, the Fed probably will await further
evidence on the economy and inflation before tightening
credit.
   C.J. Lawrence's latest survey shows an unusually large
increase in bearish sentiment lately. Bond managers now are
"the most cautious they have been in eight months," says
Nancy Lazar, senior vice president at C.J. Lawrence.
   According to the survey, 27% of the money managers polled
have turned bearish. That was up sharply from 11% in the
previous week. Another 41% in the latest survey said they are
bullish, down sharply from 55% the preceding week. The firm's
overall bullish-bearish sentiment index sank to 5.4 last
week, the lowest reading in about eight months and down
sharply from 6.04 the previous week.
   To contrarians, this growing cautiousness may just be a
sign that the bond market's fierce rout finally is nearing an
end. After all, investors were extremely bullish on bonds
late last year, just before bond prices began tumbling. But
C.J. Lawrence analysts say the survey doesn't always work so
well as a contrary indicator. They point to a surge in
bullishness last year that came before a big bull market in
bonds.
   Whatever the case, Ed Hyman, C.J. Lawrence's vice
chairman, contends that investor fears about inflation are
greatly exaggerated and that bonds look attractive. "The
economy hasn't been doing what I thought it would be doing,"
Mr. Hyman says. "I'm nervous, but I haven't thrown in the
towel" on bonds.
   "I still think the next move in interest rates is more
likely to be down than up," Mr. Hyman says. "I think the
economy is going through a temporary lift in growth, and it
will slow down in the next few months." He also expects that
the dollar will rise in the foreign-exchange markets, and
that government bond yields will drop back down to 8% in six
months.
   Inflation worries also are haunting Japanese investors. As
a result, many economists expect Japanese officials to raise
interest rates this spring, in an effort bolstering the yen
and making Japanese rates more competitive with those in the
U.S. "I think the Japanese are likely to push their rates up
once more," says Mr. Straszheim of Merrill Lynch.
   Koji Yoneyama, president and chief executive officer of
Daiwa Securities America Inc. here, says more Japanese
investors are moving their money out of dollar-denominated
investments and into Japanese bonds. The spread between U.S.
and Japanese bond yields has shrunk to only about 1 1/2
percentage points, which Mr. Yoneyama says is "a very small
spread and not big enough to ease currency risk."
   Japanese bonds due in 1999 were quoted late Friday at
about 7.3%, compared with 8.93% for comparable U.S. bonds.
Nevertheless, Mr. Yoneyama expects the U.S. dollar to
strengthen and that this should help bolster U.S. bond
prices.
   Mr. Straszheim of Merrill Lynch says that although U.S.
rates may rise soon, he expects significantly lower rates
later this year. For example, he predicts Treasury bond
yields will drop back down by year-end to about 8 1/4%.
   Ian MacKinnon, senior vice president at Vanguard Group in
Valley Forge, Pa., agrees that last week's bond-market
pessimism is exaggerated. "We are by no means rushing in to
buy, but we think yields are attractive," he says. "We would
be tilting a little bit to the bullish side, but I'd be
reluctant to bet the farm right now."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Capping one of the worst weeks in recent memory, bond
prices fell sharply again and 30-year government bond yields
jumped close to 9%, the highest since May of last year.
   Treasury bond prices tumbled one point, or $10 for each
$1,000 face amount, on Friday. That was the sixth consecutive
trading session in which prices dropped.
   The government's benchmark 30-year issue was quoted late
Friday at a price of 95 13/32 to yield 8.93%. At the start of
the week, the issue stood at 98 29/32, to yield 8.59%.
   The selling spree, largely attributed to growing inflation
fears and worries that Japanese investors won't be big buyers
at the Treasury's quarterly refunding next month, has driven
prices below their previous trading ranges. Traders also were
startled by news Friday afternoon of an unexpectedly huge
$53.3 billion federal budget deficit in March, the widest on
record.
   "People are skittish, and the budget deficit provided one
more reason to be bearish," says Robert Chandross, a vice
president and economist at Lloyds Bank in New York.
   The Treasury is scheduled to disclose details of its
quarterly financing on May 2. Many analysts expect a package
totaling more than $30 billion and consisting of three-year
notes, 10-year notes and 30-year bonds.
   Rates fell again on short-term Treasury bills. The latest
three-month bills were quoted late Friday at a discount rate
of 7.70%, to yield 7.94%. That compared with a discount rate
of 7.76% Thursday, to yield 8%.
   Thus, there now is about a one percentage-point gap
between yields on short-term bills and 30-year bonds. Late
last year, these yields were nearly the same.
   In the corporate market, prices of long-term,
investment-grade corporate debt edged lower. However,
intermediate corporate issues ended little changed.
   Corporate junk bonds, the high-yield, high-risk securities
with low credit ratings or no ratings at all, were mixed.
Among the big gainers were junk bonds of Supermarkets General
Holdings Inc. Its bonds surged on news that the company's
loss narrowed significantly in the first quarter. Some issues
rose as much as three points.
   Municipal bonds were little changed to slightly lower.
Among active issues, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority's
7.20% bonds of 2018 fell 1/4 point to 96 5/8 bid, 96 3/4
offered, to yield 7.48%. Mortgage securities ended 10/32 to
13/32 point lower.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900423-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900423-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
04/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   PPG LOTS VC LPAI NSCO YELL UCC SLB MCA WMX HAS UIS JBM BOW
VLO TAN BSC SNG COBE RBK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  PPG Industries        $1.16  $ .95 (3)  $ .96  (8)   22.11
  Lotus Development       .53    .49 (3)    .48 (18)    8.16
  Vista Chemical         1.53    ...       1.21  (9)   26.45
  La Petite Academy       .17    ...        .14  (4)   21.43
  Network Systems         .13    ...        .11 (11)   18.18
  Yellow Frght Sys        .47    ...        .43  (9)    9.30
  Union Camp Corp         .98    ...        .90 (10)    8.89
  Schlumberger Ltd        .54    ...        .51  (8)    5.88
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  MCA Inc               $ .42  $ .47 (3) $  .47 (10)   10.64
  Waste Mgmt Inc          .31    .33 (3)    ...         6.06
  Hasbro Inc              .33    .35 (3)    .35  (5)    5.71
  Unisys Corp            (.19)   ...       (.12)(13)   58.33
  Jan Bell Mktg           .09    ...        .13  (3)   30.77
  Bowater Inc             .59    ...        .70  (6)   15.71
  Valero Energy           .22    ...        .26  (5)   15.38
  Tandy Corp              .67    ...        .76 (17)   11.84
  Bear Stearns            .34    ...        .38  (4)   10.53
  Sthrn New Eng Tel       .62    ...        .68  (6)    8.82
  Cobe Labs               .36    ...        .39  (4)    7.69
  Reebok Int'l            .46    ...        .49  (7)    6.12

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
