<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0187
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0187.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Polish Bank Submits
   Bankruptcy Petition
   Against Drexel Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bank Polska Kasa Opieki, a Polish bank, filed
an involuntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition against Drexel
Burnham Lambert Trade Finance Inc., an attorney for the bank
said.
   Under Chapter 7, a creditor -- such as Bank Polska -- can
force a debtor into bankruptcy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for the parent company, Drexel Burnham Lambert
Group Inc., said its attorneys had been notified of the
filing in federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan but hadn't
yet seen the petition.
   Jon Arnason, an attorney for Bank Polska, said that the
Drexel unit's total assets are $94 million and its total
liabilities are $98 million. He said he expects the case to
be converted from Chapter 7 to Chapter 11 under the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code. Under Chapter 11, the debtor would continue
to manage the company.
   The Drexel spokesman said he also expects the case to be
converted to Chapter 11. The parent company filed under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on Feb. 13.
   Bank Polska said it is owed $5 million by Trade Finance
for a short-term loan that was to be repaid around the time
of the parent company's Chapter 11 filing. Mr. Arnason said
the other creditors include the National Bank of Poland,
which is owed $12 million.
   Mr. Arnason said the largest creditor is DBL Finance Ltd.,
a Drexel unit that is in receivership in England. He said
that unit is owed $28 million. According to the parent
company's previous filings, it owed DBL Finance $141.3
million on Feb. 12.
   The parent company has disclosed that it owed DBL Trade
Finance $28 million on Feb. 12. Mr. Arnason said Drexel
Burnham Lambert Trading Corp., which was pushed into
bankruptcy proceedings last seek, is owed $20.5 million by
DBL Trade Finance.
   Mr. Arnason said many of the creditors' transactions with
DBL Trade Finance involved foreign-exchange transactions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0186
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0186.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Corn Futures Prices Fall as Fund Managers Sell
   And Rumors Spread of Soviet Political Upheaval
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Corn futures prices dropped on widespread selling by
commodity fund managers and unfounded rumors about rapidly
worsening political upheaval in the Soviet Union, a major
importer of U.S. grain.
   Rumors swept the floor of the Chicago Board of Trade
yesterday morning that Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev had
either been assassinated or that political opposition to his
leadership had sharply increased. No news emerged to support
the rumors. In fact, the White House announced yesterday
afternoon that President Gorbachev planned to extend by two
days until June 4 his U.S. summit meeting with President Bush
that is scheduled to begin May 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What's more, the government announced another
150,000-metric-ton sale of corn to the Soviets, following a
similarly sized corn sale to the Soviets reported Monday. The
Soviets are within about one million metric tons of the 17
million to 18 million metric tons of corn they are expected
to purchase this season. Despite continued reports that the
Soviets are delaying payments for imports and scrambling to
finance international trade, the Soviets are likely to make a
good-will gesture in the form of additional corn purchases
ahead of the summit, analysts said.
   Trend-following commodity funds started selling corn
futures contracts as the price declined, which put further
pressure on futures prices.
   Corn futures for July delivery declined six cents a bushel
to close at $2.8475 on the Board of Trade.
   Continued wet weather in the Midwest and a 30-day forecast
calling for cool, wet weather across much of the Corn Belt
also depressed corn prices by greatly increasing the odds
against a drought-reduced harvest this year.
   "Rain makes grain," one analyst said.
   The sell-off in the corn futures trading pit at the Board
of Trade weighed on soybean futures prices as well.
Commodity-fund managers actively sold soybean futures
contracts, helping to drive July soybean futures down 10.75
cents a bushel to close at $6.25.
   Adding to the weakness in soybean futures prices was the
continued lack of substantial export demand, said Daniel
Basse, director of marketing for AgResource Co., Chicago.
   Wheat futures prices held up the best under the wave of
sell orders on the Board of Trade floor. Even as corn futures
traders were anticipating the imminent demise of President
Gorbachev, wheat futures traders were spreading rumors that
the Soviet Union would shortly receive export bonuses to buy
one million to two million metric tons of U.S. wheat.
   July wheat futures on the Chicago Board of Trade fell 0.75
cents to close at $3.4375 a bushel.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Rising visible supplies of copper continued to
exert pressure on futures prices. The May contract caught the
brunt of the reaction, declining 2.70 cents a pound to
$1.2130, while July eased only 0.90 cent to $1.1410. A
similar narrowing of the premium of the spot contract over
the forward position occurred in the London market, an
analyst said. At least in part, this was traced to an
increase of 5,650 tons to 67,000 tons in copper inventories
in London Metal Exchange warehouses. While the increase was
within industry expectations, it still meant more metal was
immediately available, the analyst said. Supplies also rose
again in New York's Commodity Exchange warehouses, increasing
yesterday by 428 tons, to 6,335 tons. U.S. sales of
automobiles in the first 10 days of May were sharply lower
than a year earlier, dropping by as much as 23% for Chrysler
Corp., the analyst noted. Also, he said, a decline in U.S.
industrial production and a slight easing in plant-capacity
utilization indicate a slowing of the economy and a possible
consequent decline in industrial copper use. In Peru, the
strike that began Monday at the state-owned Centromin Co.
mines continued, but these mines are mostly zinc and lead
producers and have only a small copper output. A New York
spokesman for the company said the union representing workers
at the company's Toquepala mine had given the concern notice
that those workers would strike, but didn't cite any date or
duration of the strike. The spokesman said Southern Peru
Copper Corp. is negotiating individually with unions
representing workers at its Cuajone and Toquepala mines and
at the Ilo smelter.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Petroleum futures were mixed on some profit-taking
after Monday's rally. The New York Mercantile Exchange's
crude oil contract for June delivery declined 12 cents a
barrel to $19.59. Heating oil also fell 0.71 cent a gallon to
51.72 cents. But unleaded gasoline futures firmed on news of
problems at two West Coast refineries. June-delivery gasoline
was up 0.54 cent a gallon to 63.51 cents. Some traders
remained on the sidelines to wait for the American Petroleum
Institute's weekly report on U.S. oil statistics, released as
usual after trading had closed. It had been expected to show
lower inventories of gasoline and crude oil. There was a big
decline, nearly 4.2 million barrels, last week in gasoline
inventories. But crude oil in storage rose by more than 4.3
million barrels. Analysts differ over the impact on today's
trading. But Eric Bolling of Edge Trading Corp. said that
"the API gasoline number is more bullish than the crude
number is bearish."
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices were mixed. June delivery
gold rose $2.40 an ounce to $372.30. July silver was off 5.5
cents an ounce at $5.07. July platinum edged higher by 70
cents an ounce to $487.90. The most notable feature of the
day's trading, one analyst said, was the ability of gold to
recover from early weakness and close strong, particularly in
the face of a stronger dollar, a factor that usually incurs
weakness in gold. The rebound was attributed to a revival of
investor demand for gold bullion in Europe, he said. He noted
that when the June price has dropped to around $367 an ounce,
it has spurred buying of bullion. Platinum rose in sympathy
with gold and was also helped by Japanese buying interest for
platinum bullion, he said. Another analyst, Bernard Savaiko
of PaineWebber, noted that the metals market was rife with
speculation about the Soviet Union and its purchases of U.S.
grains, which were financed with sales of gold and platinum.
Essentially, the rumors were that the Soviet Union was having
financial troubles and, as a result, had cut off purchases of
grains and had ceased selling gold and platinum. "My own
belief is that the Soviet Union has already bought the bulk
of the grains it needs for the time being, and will be a less
aggressive marketer of gold and platinum in the foreseeable
future," Mr. Savaiko said. If June gold rises above $374,
which was yesterday's intraday high and around which the
Soviets lately have sold gold, that would seem to confirm the
belief that the Soviets have temporarily suspended sales, he
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0185
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0185.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T, Unions
   Reach Agreement
   On Retirements
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   T LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. and its
unions agreed on a non-management retirement plan that would
raise the number of eligible workers to 33,500 from 18,000,
keeping the company's work force-reduction plans on track.
   AT&amp;T says it won't be able to assess the financial impact
of the accord until it knows how many workers will take
advantage of it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement, which had been expected, also empowers
individual AT&amp;T units to offer additional incentives to the
new plan to encourage workers in superfluous jobs to leave
without sacrificing their early retirement benefits.
   "Unions tend to be one-size fits all, and this allows
individual units to respond better to their own business
conditions," said an AT&amp;T spokesman. For example, AT&amp;T's
Network Services division will cut 6,000 surplus jobs because
it doesn't need as many people to maintain a phone network
that has been upgraded to more modern digital equipment.
   AT&amp;T had said that it would have to lay off the workers
without full early retirement benefits if it didn't receive
an agreement on the special incentives from the unions -- the
Communications Workers of America and the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.
   The new plan adds three years of age and three years of
service to the records of all non-management employees as of
May 1. These added years accelerate eligibility and increase
the pension payout to each worker.
   In addition, individual units with a surplus of workers
will be able to offer an incentive of two additional years of
age and two more years of seniority for workers. The units
can also offer a "sweetener" that raises monthly pension
payments 15% a month.
   All told, AT&amp;T has firm plans this year to consolidate
numerous office and manufacturing sites and to cut 12,800
non-management jobs. The company currently has 165,400
non-managers out of 281,000 workers. That is about 92,000
fewer workers than in January 1984 when AT&amp;T was broken up
and 28,000 less than AT&amp;T had 17 months ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0184
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0184.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Bonn, 11 West German States to Form
   $70.02 Billion East German Aid Fund
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- The Bonn government and the 11
West German states plan a 115-billion-mark ($70.02 billion)
special German Unity Fund financed by credits to help pay for
the reconstruction of East Germany's economy through 1994.
   Creation of the financing vehicle for German reunification
depended on the willingness of hesitant state governments to
commit to a 50% share of the fund. In a meeting with Finance
Minister Theo Waigel last night, the state finance ministers
agreed to the huge fund, an individual in the ministry said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plan requires approval of the 11 state governors. The
Bonn cabinet would then decide on the facility during a
special Friday session.
   The size of the unity fund was the first clear estimate of
the monumental cost West Germans face in absorbing East
Germany's collapsing economy. Officials in Bonn noted,
however, that the estimate is based on sparse knowledge of
the depth of East Germany's woes.
   The Finance Ministry said earlier yesterday that the
German Unity Fund would be built up by debt issued in the
domestic capital market and would be considered a special
facility maintained separately from Bonn's federal budget.
The interest and principal would be serviced by the federal
and state governments, but the form of borrowing hasn't been
decided.
   Net borrowing under the fund would total 95 billion marks,
officials said.
   The Finance Ministry denied reports it is planning to form
the fund through special bonds designed for international
investors, particularly the Japanese.
   Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl told reporters in
Basel, Switzerland, after a meeting of European Community
central bankers that an issue of international bonds "is not
the appropriate way to finance German unification."
   With the plan to merge the German monetary and economic
systems set for July 2, Bonn officials still are guessing at
the total funding requirements in the absence of reliable
figures on the extent of East Germany's economic crisis.
   Among other variables, the costs of protecting East German
property and farms have yet to be determined. Future East
German unemployment also could cause broad swings in support
costs. Figures released yesterday showed joblessness has
tripled to 100,000 from 26,600 in March, and many economists
estimate the rate will surge to as high as two million by the
end of next year as the nation's once-protected industry
adjusts to free markets.
   West German officials estimated East Germany's budget
deficit would total 30 billion marks in the second half of
this year and about 50 billion marks in 1991, after which the
costs gradually should taper off.
   Market analysts anticipate a sharp jump in Bonn's
borrowing requirements amid projections an all-German federal
budget deficit in the wake of economic union could exceed 100
billion marks in 1991, possibly depressing bond prices and
driving up interest rates. In coming years, the analysts
suggested the fund could be serviced from higher tax revenues
for expected economic growth in the united German economy.
   The ministry is confident the capital market can absorb
the additional funding requirement, noting that West Germany
last year had a net overall savings volume of 280 billion
marks, as well as capital exports of 120 billion marks.
   "The capital requirement for financing German unity can be
covered by the domestic market," it concluded. In addition,
West Germany's liberal capital market allows foreigners
access to domestic debt instruments, the ministry said.
   One German government official said, "There would be
several ways to finance this fund, it doesn't necessarily
have to be a conventional bond issue." One alternative would
be for the government to issue non-tradable notes through the
banking system.
   In addition to the unity fund, Bonn should be able to drum
up financing by phasing out programs associated with a
divided Germany. Put at nearly 40 billion marks, these
include subsidies to West Berlin and West German border
regions, as well as former currency-exchange pacts with East
Germany.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0183
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0183.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Yields on CDs Fell
   Across the Board
   In the Latest Week
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage companies declined across the board in
the week ended yesterday.
   "Treasury bill rates are coming down, so banks are eager
to lower their CD rates," said Norberto Mehl, chairman of
Banxquote Money Markets, a New York information service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Average yields on small-denomination, consumer CDs slipped
the least, according to an 18-bank survey by Banxquote.
Average yields remained above 8% for longer-term maturities.
Yields fell to 8.02% from 8.10% on one-year CDs, and to 8.25%
from 8.32% on five-year CDs.
   Small-denomination CDs sold through leading brokerage
companies showed a slightly greater decline in average
yields, but were still higher across the board than those
offered directly by banks. Average yields on six-month CDs
dropped to 8.22% from 8.34%, while average yields on two-year
CDs slid to 8.60% from 8.80%, according to figures compiled
by Banxquote.
   Brokerage firms are typically able to offer
higher-yielding CDs because they shop for competitive yields
at banks across the country. They then buy CDs in bulk and
resell them to their customers as a service, without fees.
   Meanwhile, average yields for large-denomination CDs,
which generally require deposits of $90,000 or more, were
also down. Average yields on six-month jumbo CDs declined to
7.93% from 8.07%, while one-year maturities dropped to 8.10%
from 8.25%. The only bank in the survey that offered a CD
with a yield of at least 9% was Continental Bank in Chicago,
which offered a 9% five-year jumbo.
   Mr. Mehl expects CD yields to waffle for the next few
weeks, but cautions that when change comes, it may come
quickly. "If banks have an opportunity to lower the rates,"
he said, "they'll do it as fast as they can."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0182
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0182.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aerovox to Reduce Odd Lots
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   ARVX
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW BEDFORD, Mass. -- Aerovox Inc. said stockholders who
own fewer than 100 shares are being offered a program under
which they can sell their odd-lot shares -- without cost.
   The maker of capacitors said the offer is available to
holders of record May 2 and will expire June 22.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0181
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0181.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Nobel Industries of Sweden Agrees to Buy
   Spectra-Physics Inc. From Ciba-Geigy
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   S.NOB Z.CIG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Continuing an international buying spree,
Nobel Industries Sweden AB agreed to acquire Spectra-Physics
Inc. of San Jose, Calif., a major producer of lasers and
laser systems.
   Nobel said its Pharos AB unit won an international auction
for Spectra-Physics by agreeing to pay an estimated $325
million, roughly equal to the U.S. company's 1989 sales. The
transaction is subject to U.S. government approval, Nobel
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The seller is Swiss chemicals and drug giant Ciba-Geigy
AG, which bought the U.S. laser concern three years ago. More
recently, Ciba-Geigy changed direction and opted to sell
Spectra-Physics and other health-care related electronics
units. But Ciba-Geigy officials said it would continue
cooperation with Spectra-Physics in development of certain
instruments and laser applications.
   The Spectra-Physics purchase is the third international
acquisition proposed by Nobel this month. If, as expected, a
pending British takeover bid succeeds and other required
government clearances are obtained, Nobel's trio of new units
would boost its annual sales by almost 20% to 26 billion
Swedish kronor ($4.32 billion).
   The month began with Nobel's #205 million ($345 million)
purchase of Crown Berger Ltd., Britain's second-biggest
producer of paint. That move reflected the Swedish concern's
drive to expand consumer-related paint operations and
strengthen its position in the United Kingdom, one of its
weakest markets.
   Pharos, Nobel's fast-growing collection of high-technology
businesses, accounted for both remaining acquisitions. First,
Pharos launched a #16 million bid for Continental Microwave
PLC, a British manufacturer of satellite TV broadcasting and
receiving equipment. The offer is pending but Pharos already
owns 29.8% of the target company's shares and has received
irrevocable commitments by holders of an additional 26.7%
stake. Swallowing Continental Microwave and Spectra-Physics
would nearly triple Pharos's annual sales to about four
billion kronor. The unit, which is separately quoted on the
Stockholm Stock Exchange, plans to finance the acquisitions
with an estimated one billion-kronor share offering later
this year. Nobel has agreed to guarantee the new issue and
plans to maintain its current 75% voting stake in Pharos.
   Anders Carlberg, Nobel chief executive officer, said all
of Spectra-Physics' business areas would be maintained
intact. The company holds world-leading positions in several
applications of laser technology, such as bar code scanners
in point-of-sales systems and instruments used in medical
research and control of construction and agricultural
machines.
   Last year, Spectra-Physics reported pretax profit of $15
million on sales of $325 million. Sales growth has averaged
23% the past three years and is expected to remain robust.
Still, Mr. Carlberg predicted that Nobel could increase
profitability by trimming overhead remaining from
Spectra-Physics' days as an independent company.
   Nobel has shown a flair for managing small high-tech niche
companies since wresting majority control of Pharos in 1986.
In a swift turnaround, the unit posted pretax profit of 150
million kronor last year, compared with a loss of 75 million
kronor three years earlier.
   But industry analysts warned that Nobel will have to spend
heavily to maintain Spectra-Physics' heady growth. A hefty
research budget was one major reason Ciba-Geigy decided to
shed the U.S. concern, these analysts said.
   The acquisition also looms as the biggest test so far of
Nobel's management prowess in the U.S. But as one of the few
Swedish companies headed by a foreigner, Pharos already had a
North American management flavor. The prime architect of
Pharos's turnaround has been Lawrence Karlson, a Canadian
executive previously with Nobel's AB Bofors unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM Unveils Details
   Of Major Expansion
   Of CallPath Software
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM NT G.SIE T
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- International Business Machines Corp.
unveiled, as expected, a major expansion of CallPath, a
software product that links telephone switches to computers.
   IBM said a new CallPath product will allow its
minicomputers to talk to switches made by four leading
telecommunications companies -- American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph Co., Northern Telecom Inc., Rolm Co. and Siemens
AG. Previously, CallPath had worked only with switches made
by Rolm, which IBM owns in partnership with Siemens.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Northern Telecom, Rolm and Siemens announced that their
links to CallPath would be available immediately. AT&amp;T said
it will work with IBM to enable its switches to talk to
CallPath, though neither company announced a schedule.
   IBM, based in Armonk, N.Y., also announced new CallPath
capabilities and a set of protocols for companies that write
software that works with the product. And it promised that
CallPath will soon work with other switches and IBM
mainframes and personal computers, too.
   Taken together, the announcements suggest that CallPath
will emerge as a standard in the burgeoning field of
"voice-integrated applications."
   "This indicates an eagerness {on IBM's part} to connect to
the broad range of communications vendors' switches," said
Carl Pitasi of the Gartner Group, market researchers based in
Stamford, Conn. "The old CallPath product is a teeny shadow
of what this will become."
   CallPath identifies the origin or destination of calls
made through a telephone switch known as a PBX, for private
branch exchange. Then it automatically pulls information
about callers from an IBM computer. Telephone operators --
customer service representatives or brokers, for example --
can see callers' files displayed on a screen as soon as they
pick up the phone, which saves time and opens up new
marketing opportunities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Foote, Cone &amp; Belding Communications Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FCB
</CO>
<LP>
   FOOTE, CONE &amp; BELDING COMMUNICATIONS Inc. (Chicago) --
Gregory W. Blaine, director of corporate resources and
development, and Laurel Cutler, vice chairman and director of
marketing planning, were named directors of this advertising
concern, filling one vacancy and expanding the board to 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Precision Castparts
   Will Pay $3.5 Million,
   Settle Sex-Bias Case
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PCP LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Precision Castparts Corp., a Portland, Ore.,
metal castings maker, agreed to pay $3.5 million in back pay
to settle Labor Department sex-discrimination charges.
   The amount is one of the largest equal employment
opportunity settlements in the department's history, its
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs said. The
office had charged the company with putting about 1,000 newly
hired women into certain low-pay mold-casting production jobs
usually held by women.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those jobs also provided less opportunity for the women to
compete or train for higher paying jobs usually held by men
at three company plants, the compliance office said.
   Precision Castparts agreed to the settlement without
admitting or denying wrongdoing. The company will provide
back pay to about 1,000 current and former female employees
who were employed for at least three consecutive quarters
between 1978 and 1988 at one of the three plants.
   The company also agreed to create an affirmative-action
program for the plants to encourage women to compete for
higher paying jobs that are usually held by men. Female
workers will be permitted to seek such jobs, and when they
meet minimum qualifications, including seniority, they must
be given preference for those jobs over male applicants.
   Under the agreement, the women also will be allowed to
transfer back to their previous jobs if the new ones don't
work out. Also, each woman in a traditional female job who is
paid on an hourly basis will be offered career counseling.
And the performance review of their supervisors will include
how those managers carry out their equal employment
opportunity responsibilities.
   In Portland, a Precision Castparts spokesman said in the
10 years it took to negotiate a settlement the company had
implemented a number of equal opportunity and affirmative
action programs for women. "In the intervening period, we
think we've done quite a few things to improve our position
with respect to employing women," the spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Apache Discovers Oil Off Texas
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   APA UNP
</CO>
<LP>
   DENVER, Colo. -- Apache Corp. said it discovered gas in
the Gulf of Mexico, offshore Texas.
   The well flowed at a rate of 14.1 million cubic feet of
gas a day through a 23/64-inch choke at a depth of 7,300
feet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Apache is the operator with a 40% interest. Its partners
are Union Pacific Resources Co. of Fort Worth, Texas, a unit
of Union Pacific Corp. of New York with a 35% interest, and
Santa Fe International of Dallas, with a 25% interest.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   UNION PACIFIC Corp. is based in Bethlehem, Pa. The
location was incorrect in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ May 17, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Average Interest Rate Falls
   At Citicorp Weekly Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate fell to 8.1478% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.27% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $431 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.129% to 8.148%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said the average rate fell to 8.1466% at its
$50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 8.2968%
at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $391 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.105% to 8.15%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ICN Biomedicals Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GRH BIM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   COSTA MESA, Calif. -- ICN Biomedicals Inc. said it
adjusted the price it paid to buy the biomedical business of
GRC International Inc. to $37.6 million from $41.5 million.
   ICN and GRC International, formerly Flow General Inc.,
signed a definitive agreement for ICN to buy the biomedical
business last October; the accord was subject to an audit of
its inventories. An ICN spokesman said a drop in the level of
those inventories between Flow's July 31 fiscal year end,
which was used to formulate the original purchase price, and
Dec. 31 prompted the adjustment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cambridge BioScience Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBCX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WORCESTER, Mass. -- Cambridge BioScience Corp. said it
signed a definitive agreement covering its plan to acquire
Biotech Research Laboratories Inc., Rockville, Md., for six
million shares of stock.
   The two makers of AIDS screening tests are merging to
combine technologies and gain market clout. The agreement
remains subject to shareholder approval at special meetings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Full of Beans, They're Planning
   For a Real Exercise in Civic Pride
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Boston Mayor Ray Flynn arrives at City Hall on May
30, both he and his breath will be in short pants. It's hoped
that thousands of others will report for work the same way.
   It's all to decide whether Boston or Montreal is in better
shape.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Never mind that Massachusetts's economy is winded. When it
comes to fitness, it's going to be physical, not fiscal, that
counts. The winner on this otherwise normal workday will be
the city that gets the most people to exercise for 15
continuous minutes.
   Last year, in the first showdown between the two, Boston
lost by 420,868 to 248,328. Consequently, Montreal's flag
flew over Boston City Hall for three days.
   But this year, Boston has prepared a cardiovascular
circus. Jogging gurus will head hearty jaunts around town.
Also planned are stair climbing, street hockey, vigorous
table tennis and what's billed as the world's largest
aerobics class to be held on a red stone mesa at the city's
sprawling civic center. Power walking counts, but window
shopping doesn't.
   Afterward, participants are to phone the YMCA with this
brief message: "I exercised for 15 minutes today."
   "If we can get 500,000 to aerobicize, I think we can beat
Montreal," declares an upbeat Gerdy Weiss, a Greater Boston
YMCA director and event coordinator.
   Bean Towners are eager to win.
   Northeastern University, for instance, is offering a
recreation class aimed chiefly at helping to publicize the
event -- students lick envelopes and send out fliers. And
even some Boston hockey fans aren't hoping for a sweep
against the Edmondton Oilers in the Stanley Cup Championship
Series. "If the Boston Bruins go into a fifth game, it will
be played on May 30 and we could include 26 more names on the
list," muses Dennis McKenna, a Boston Stock Exchange trader
and lifelong Bruins rooter.
   Further flexing its aerobic capacity, Boston is
dispatching its flag 400 miles to Montreal via a solo
bicyclist.
   A Montreal official chuckles when told of Boston's
resolve.
   "We want to win, too," says Marielle Seguin, assistant
chief of staff for Montreal's mayor. "They beat us in the
Stanley Cup playoffs." But when asked whether Montreal also
plans to bicycle its flag to Boston, Ms. Sequin says: "No,
no. We send our flag by plane. But in Boston we do some
walking."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Investment-Management
   Director at SEC Resigns
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Kathryn McGrath, director of investment
management at the Securities and Exchange Commission,
resigned effective early June to enter private practice.
   Ms. McGrath, a 16-year SEC veteran who has headed the
division for nearly seven years, will become a partner in the
Washington office of the law firm Morgan, Lewis &amp; Bockius.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investment-management division regulates the
mutual-fund industry, which has grown furiously in the past
decade to $1 trillion, as well as other investment companies
and utility holding companies. Under Ms. McGrath, 45 years
old, the division has pushed for better mutual-fund
disclosure while at the same time trying to scale back the
size of prospectuses sent to investors.
   It is unclear who will succeed Ms. McGrath. Her one-time
most likely successor, Marianne Smythe, recently moved from a
division associate director slot to executive assistant to
the chairman. The mutual-fund industry, which has often
battled Ms. McGrath in the past, is likely to push its own
candidates for the job.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Industry Output
   Declined 0.4%
   During April
   ---
   Production Slipped to 83%
   Of Capacity; Weakness
   In Economy Is Indicated
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve offered more evidence of
continuing weakness in the economy.
   Industrial production dropped 0.4% in April, as the
nation's factories, utilities and mines operated at 83% of
their production capacity, a Fed report said. Factory output
had climbed 0.5% in March, when the operating rate was 83.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A steep fall in production of cars and trucks was a big
factor in last month's decline, the central bank said. But
production of lumber products, computers, nonferrous metals,
paper, clothing, textiles and many other products also
dropped from the previous month. The only industries showing
significant increases in output were chemicals, petroleum,
iron-and-steel and printing and publishing.
   "In no sense is there strength here," said Maury Harris,
chief economist at PaineWebber Group Inc. in New York.
   The new industrial statistics are the latest in a string
of reports suggesting the economy may be weaker than many
analysts had believed. After slowing severely at the end of
last year, the economy seemed to pick up in the first quarter
of 1990, aided by unusually mild winter weather, which
boosted construction and other economic activity.
   But in April, private-sector employment declined and the
nation's unemployment rate rose for the first time in more
than a year, the Labor Department recently reported. Retail
sales also dropped during the month, and the prices factories
and other producers charge for their goods declined, the
government said.
   The latest numbers were released as a Fed committee was
meeting here to set monetary policy for the next six weeks.
The figures made it even more likely that central-bank
officials would decide to leave interest rates unchanged.
   Until recently, many analysts had come to believe that the
Fed would be inclined to push up interest rates to battle
inflation. But last week's report of a decline in the
producer price index and other signs of slack in the economy,
virtually ended such speculation.
   The drop in industry operating rates is another sign that
price pressures may be easing. When factories operate well
below full capacity, they aren't likely to run into
production snags, shortages and other problems that can lead
to higher prices.
   Economists, however, are reluctant to draw many
conclusions from a single month's reports. The drop in
industrial production last month followed gains of 0.5% in
March and 0.9% in February and a fall of 1% in January.
Manufacturing output was particularly weak in April, falling
0.6%, while output by utilities rose 0.6% during the month
and mining production climbed 0.9%.
   For more than a year, manufacturing has been the softest
segment of the U.S. economy, with the auto industry
particularly weak. In January, the nation's Big Three auto
companies temporarily closed plants and laid off thousands of
workers in an effort to pare bulging inventories of unsold
cars. After selling many vehicles, the companies reopened
factories and rehired workers. But in the aftermath of the
winter's vigorous promotions and buying incentives, car sales
are down, and production is sluggish. In April, output of
motor vehicles and parts plunged 10.3%, the Fed report said.
   Nevertheless, Theodore Tung, chief economist for National
City Corp., in Cleveland, said, "We have good reason to
expect the manufacturing sector will improve as the year
progresses."
   "Overall the sources of strength driving manufacturing are
reasonably good," he said, explaining that consumer spending,
export orders and capital spending by businesses are still
rising.
   All the numbers were adjusted for seasonal fluctuations.
                                                                                                       

   Here is a summary of the Federal Reserve Board's report on
industrial production in April. The figures are seasonally
adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                                    % change from
                                                                                                       

                               March             April
                               1990              1989
                                                                                                       

  Total .....................  -0.4               0.1
    Consumer goods ..........  -1.0               0.1
    Business equipment ......  -0.9               0.9
    Defense and space .......  -0.6              -0.3
                                                                                                       

  Manufacturing only ........  -0.6              -0.2
    Durable goods ...........  -1.0              -1.1
    Nondurable goods ........  -0.1               1.0
                                                                                                       

  Mining ....................   0.9               0.2
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   The industrial production index for April stood at 108.7%
of the 1987 average.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   CBS Posts Ratings Victory
   In Prime-Time Viewing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   GE CBS CCB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- CBS won the prime-time ratings last week for
the first time since June 1988.
   According to the A.C. Nielsen Co., CBS Inc.'s TV network
finished first with 11.7% of the audience, followed by NBC, a
unit of General Electric Co., with 11.5% and ABC, a division
of Capital Cities/ABC Inc., with 11%. Nielsen is a unit of
New York-based Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CBS's victory was attributed to its strong ratings on
Sunday, with "60 Minutes" and "Shattered Dreams" a
made-for-TV movie, and on Monday with two hours of comedies
and a one-hour special hosted by Connie Chung.
   ABC had the top three shows, including "America's Funniest
Home Videos," which was No. 1. A companion show, "America's
Funniest . . . Part II" was rated No. 3. "Roseanne" was No.
2.
   CBS also had the lowest-rated show, the Saturday night
comedy series, "City," which attracted only 3.3% of the
viewers. That was the lowest-rated network show in history
tying "Live From Studio 8H" on NBC in January 1982.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Degussa and E. Merck End
   Plan for Merging Divisions
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DGS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Degussa AG and E. Merck said
they have abandoned their plan to merge their pharmaceutical
divisions, citing a lack of common interests.
   The two West German chemicals groups said a study by a
joint expert commission has shown that "the common interests
for a cooperation weren't sufficient."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The talks were subsequently terminated," Degussa and
Merck said in a statement.
   In late 1989, Degussa approached Merck with the proposal
to merge its Asta Pharma AG drug subsidiary with the much
larger pharmaceutical division of Merck and take a minority
stake in the joint venture.
   Merck, which is closely held, isn't affiliated with Merck
&amp; Co. of the U.S.
   Details on the talks were first disclosed in February, and
at a news conference in March, Degussa Chairman Gert Becker
still expressed optimism that the negotations would succeed.
   But Hans-Werner Hauck, Merck's finance chief, said the
concept proposed by Degussa wasn't in the best interest of
Merck. "Degussa wanted to sell its division and still have a
say in it, but this is a difficult construction," he said.
   A Degussa spokesman declined to give any reasons for the
failure of the talks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hoover Institution Names
   John Raisian as Director
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PALO ALTO, Calif. -- The Hoover Institution, the
conservative think tank at Stanford University, named John
Raisian as its new director.
   Mr. Raisian, 40 years old, succeeds W. Glenn Campbell, who
held the post from 1960 to 1989. Mr. Raisian is an economist
who has served as Hoover's acting director since September
and became the front-runner for the post after Michael
Boskin, the first choice, withdrew himself from consideration
in February. Mr. Boskin heads President Bush's Council of
Economic Advisers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During his stint as acting director, Mr. Raisian has been
credited with defusing tensions -- years in the making --
between Hoover and Stanford's faculty over what some say are
Hoover's ideologically driven research activities.
   Despite the institution's widely viewed reputation for a
conservative bias, Mr. Raisian said, "I have tried to take my
case to the university: We do not have a mission or a point
of view." He added that his efforts "are paying dividends"
among Stanford faculty and that in the future he expects
Hoover's resident fellows, who include such influential
conservatives as economist Milton Friedman and physicist
Edward Teller, to have more involvement with Stanford
students.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Blind Trust Held by Bush
   Totals Nearly $1,280,000
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The blind trust containing President Bush's
personal investments has risen in value to nearly $1,280,000,
the White House disclosed.
   A year ago, the blind trust had a value of $998,000. As
previously disclosed in Mr. Bush's tax return, the trust
earned $217,000 in taxable and tax-exempt income in 1989, and
had capital gains of $36,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest information about Mr. Bush's assets was
contained in his annual financial-disclosure statement. The
statement indicates that the blind trust contains the bulk of
Mr. Bush's personal investments, with the exception of his
vacation home in Maine. That home is valued at $892,000, the
disclosure reports. A piece of real estate Mr. Bush owns in
Houston is valued at $81,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ELECTRONIC FILING tickles the fancy of state tax
collectors, too.
   Over 4.2 million taxpayers filed federal returns
electronically this year; the benefits for accuracy and fast
refunds aren't lost on the states. New Mexico got 57,500
returns in the first broad use of this method by a state. It
accepted them through preparers and also invited low-income
filers to take their returns to local tax offices for
transmission. The state accepted 195 balance-due returns
filed early; it returned bills due April 16.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Michigan tried out electronic transmission of returns
taken to 12 district offices and got 3,100; it hopes to
expand next year by offering computer software to preparers
and individuals. New Mexico and Michigan both required signed
confirmation copies on paper, but that requirement is
expected to be dropped eventually.
   To get experience, South Carolina's tax department
transmitted employees' federal returns to the IRS.
                                                                                                       

   STATES MAY USE THE IRS as a conduit for electronically
filed state returns.
   At least 20 of the 41 states with broad-based income taxes
are seriously interested in electronic filing, says South
Carolina's Tax Commission Chairman Howard, but they know
development will be costly and lengthy and that uniform
standards are desirable. So the Federation of Tax
Administrators, a state officials' group, has proposed to the
IRS that it be their intermediary: Both federal and state
returns would be filed by wire to the IRS; it would pass on
the state returns through existing channels for exchanging
data with states.
   Combined transmissions could cut fees for taxpayers and
help promote electronic filing, Howard says. South Carolina
has been picked to test the idea and is working with the IRS
in the hope of having a system ready for the 1991 filing
season. Protecting taxpayers' privacy is a major concern,
Howard says, but he doesn't foresee taxpayer resistance to
the combined transmissions.
                                                                                                       

   THE IRS'S FORGIVENESS of penalties often reflects its own
sins, the GAO says.
   In 1988, the IRS says, it assessed 17.4 million penalties
totaling $3.8 billion for failure to file a return or to pay
tax due. It says it abated 14.4% of the penalties, totaling
$1.7 billion. In one of a series of reports on civil
penalties, Congress's General Accounting Office says this
high forgiveness rate led it to review the abatements. Its
conclusion: Too many result from IRS processing errors -- and
the statistics overstate the true level of IRS clemency.
   The GAO studied 626 abatements granted in 1987 to filers
who claimed a reasonable cause; it found that 29% were needed
to correct IRS errors, mainly in coding returns or processing
filing extensions. A lack of documentation prevents the IRS
from identifying and fixing the causes, the GAO adds.
Further, it says, 80% of the reported 1988 abatements were
automatic adjustments based on changes in tax liability, not
waivers based on reviewing taxpayers' explanations.
   IRS errors heat up taxpayer frustrations and create
burdens for the agency, the GAO says.
                                                                                                       

   TEXAS WILL PHASE OUT sales taxes on manufacturing
equipment by the end of 1994, saving businesses over $1
billion in 1995. Meanwhile, legislators and the governor are
wrestling over proposals to raise as much as $555 million
more next year for public-school funding and avoid a
court-imposed tax equalization plan.
                                                                                                       

   OUSTED AS TOO OLD, Frank E. Rickel won an
age-discrimination suit against his ex-employer and a
$180,000 settlement. The Tax Court said half was taxable as
wage-related. But the third-circuit appeals court has ruled
that the entire sum is tax-free as compensation for a
personal injury.
                                                                                                       

   THREE MORE STATES -- Georgia, Oklahoma and Nebraska --
have enacted stamp or other taxes on illegal drugs, bringing
the total number of states with such provisions at least to
21. Innovator Minnesota has collected nearly $1.2 million
from voluntary payments and seizures of assets.
                                                                                                       

   JUST DONATE MY FEE to my church, he advised, and we'll
both benefit.
   The Universal Life Church, a big tax scam in the early
1980s, told people how to deduct gifts of money really used
for personal expenses. Scott E. Slayback Jr. of Altamonte
Springs, Fla., a return preparer and adviser on setting up
the phony churches, devised a special twist for his own use.
In 1982 and 1983, he had clients "donate" his fees to a
church he controlled and deduct them or pay the fees to a
partnership allegedly 75%-owned by the church.
   Slayback spent the money on himself but reported almost no
taxable income. Then he bragged about his scheme to an IRS
undercover agent. Slayback said he was operating six or seven
churches out of a post-office box, that he had practiced law
without a license for 20 years, and that he could disrupt an
IRS audit. Yet when the IRS slapped him with a tax bill and
civil penalties, he turned to the Tax Court. Now Judge Parker
-- relying on "evidence from {Slayback's} own mouth" -- has
found him liable for taxes plus fraud and other penalties.
   The judge also has imposed damages of $3,000 for bringing
frivolous claims before the court.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: The Treasury plans to begin negotiating a tax
treaty with Bulgaria next week. . . . IRS Notice 90-37 offers
guidance to employers for accelerated deposits of withheld
income and Social Security taxes required by 1989's tax act.
. . . Seeking revenue sources, legislative advisers say
California could raise $120 million by repealing its
sales-tax exemption for candy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<LP>
   Utilitarian
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I am a man of many parts"
   Sounds as though I've had stage ventures,
   But actually I refer to
   My pacemaker, contacts and dentures.
   -- Joshua Adams.
   ---
   A Word to the Unwise
                                                                                                       

   If you don't believe the truth will set you free, try
telling the boss what you think of him.
   -- Ivern Ball.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Industrial spy: plotted plant.
   -- Daisy Brown.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Charter Medical
   Posts Biggest
   Loss Since '88
   ----
   By George Anders and Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   CMDA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Charter Medical Corp. reported its biggest quarterly loss
since going private in a 1988 buy-out, raising concern on
Wall Street about the company's ability to service its debts.
   For the second quarter ended March 31, Charter posted a
$67 million loss on revenue of $475.2 million. The year
earlier, the psychiatric-care company based in Macon, Ga.,
had a $14.6 million loss on revenue of $397.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Part of Charter's latest loss reflected a wider than
expected $35 million pretax charge for "inaccurate recording
of previously reported contractual allowances, bad debts and
expense accruals." The company had estimated in March that it
would take a $28 million charge for the accounting problems.
For the March quarter, Charter also incurred $11.2 million in
pretax charges for canceled development projects and a lost
lawsuit.
   Charter's chief financial officer, C. Michael Ford, said
the company has already taken steps, including cutbacks in
capital-spending and cost-cutting programs, to "protect
bondholders and employees." He declined to say whether any
managers or employees had been dismissed in connection with
the accounting problems. In the long term, Mr. Ford said, "We
think Charter is viable, and we can meet our debt-service
requirements and continue to operate the company."
   But some Wall Street analysts said Charter's basic
business -- separate from the write-offs -- appeared to
suffer in the latest quarter. "Their cash flow as a
percentage of revenue dropped to 15.8% from 26.3%," said
Meredith Adler, an analyst at First Boston Corp. "That's
disappointing." Ms. Adler said Charter faced pressure on the
average length of patient stay, and on its adolescent-care
business.
   Charter's business slump intensified worries about the
company's ability to handle its $1.5 billion in long-term
debt. The company's 14% senior subordinated bonds, which had
traded at 70 cents on the dollar in March, were quoted
yesterday at 48 cents to 50 cents on the dollar. Other,
pay-in-kind bonds were quoted as low as 23 cents on the
dollar yesterday.
   "Charter could face significant cash-flow shortfalls over
the next five years," analyst Roger Gordon of Donaldson,
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. warned. "The company could
be forced to restructure its long-term debt." Mitch Bartlett,
an analyst at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., also predicted that
Charter's latest results "spell a restructuring for the
company."
   Charter, however, asserted that it can pull through. Mr.
Ford said the company has reduced planned capital
expenditures for the year to $140 million from $200 million.
That, he said, combined with cost reductions in, among other
areas, marketing and advertising programs, should enable
Charter to meet its debt payments and still complete
construction of four additional psychiatric hospitals in the
next nine months or so.
   "We don't anticipate having to restructure debt," Mr. Ford
said.
   Mr. Ford acknowledged that insurance companies and other
payers of medical bills are increasing pressure on healthcare
providers -- particularly providers of psychiatric care -- to
reduce the length of patient stays and to cut bills. But that
pressure, he said, has been offset at Charter by an increase
in patient admissions -- up 20% in the most recent quarter.
   Charter had been advised in its 1988 buy-out by Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc., which also underwrote high-risk,
high-yield "junk" bonds that helped finance the transaction.
Drexel ceased most operations this past winter, leaving
Charter to search for a new Wall Street adviser.
   Despite Charter's current problems, Mr. Ford said Drexel
had been "very helpful" in structuring the initial buy-out
and selling the debt. He added that the plan to go private
was -- and still is -- a good idea. "It was a chance for
employers and management to benefit from their own work," he
said. "Employee ownership increases productivity."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Sony Text Display System,
   `Data Discman,' Due in July
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO (AP) -- Sony Corp. said it will introduce an
"electronic book" system that uses a palm-sized player for
reading books recorded on three-inch compact disks.
   Sony said its "Data Discman" player has a screen that
displays text recorded on CDs, called Electronic Books, that
can store about 100,000 pages of text each, or more than 300
paperback books.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The purpose of this product is to create an entirely new
market. Instead of having to go to a library or bookshelf for
information, people can have access to it anytime and
anywhere," said Sunobu Horigome, head of Sony's General Audio
Group.
   He said Sony hopes the product will create a "new culture"
and approach to information access, with an impact similar to
its Walkman portable stereos.
   Sony said it plans to begin marketing the machine in Japan
in July for about $380. Overseas sales are expected to begin
in less than a year, after arrangements with local publishers
are made, officials said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Technologies Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX MD
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- United Technologies Corp. won a $49.2
million Army contract for 36 UH-60L helicopters.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Norfolk Shipbuilding &amp; Drydock Corp. got a $25.3 million
Navy contract for destroyer overhaul.
                                                                                                       

   McDonnell Douglas Corp. was given a $18.6 million Air
Force pact for aircraft electronics repair kits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN EXPRESS Co. (New York) -- James Li, 43 years old,
previously president for Asia, Pacific and Australia, based
in Hong Kong, at the Travel Related Services unit of this
travel and financial services company, was named executive
vice president, chief quality and credit officer, of the
unit, succeeding Ray Larkin, 64, who is to retire early next
year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   BankAmerica Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BAC
</CO>
<LP>
   BANKAMERICA Corp. (San Francisco) -- Richard V. Fulp was
named executive vice president of Bank of America, this
holding company's main unit. Mr. Fulp, 47 years old,
previously was senior vice president. He will continue to
oversee the bank's recently formed custody and trust services
division. He also is in charge of the bank's trust and
investment services division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ninety Accounts
   Thought to Hold
   Illegal Drug Funds
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department said about 90 of the
roughly 680 U.S. bank accounts that were frozen at its behest
last month are still thought to contain illegal Colombian
drug profits.
   The other 590 accounts have been "unfrozen" as prosecutors
studying the accounts have discovered they were either empty
or contained legitimately obtained assets, Justice Department
officials said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Bush administration had touted the bank-account
investigation as an unusually sweeping aspect of a larger
money-laundering probe known as Operation Polar Cap. Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady last month called the freezing of
the accounts "one of the most significant law enforcement
undertakings involving bank account seizures in U.S.
history."
   Treasury and Justice Department officials claimed at the
time that the suspect accounts had received as much as $400
million in illegal profits from sales of Colombian cocaine
and other drugs as of early 1989.
   Doug Tillett, a Justice Department spokesman, said he
couldn't estimate how much money the government might win in
pending forfeiture proceedings against the 90 accounts still
under investigation.
   Government officials now are stressing that their original
goal was to gather information on illegal drug finances, not
to recover the money. Prosecutors "were more interested in
following the paper trail," Mr. Tillett said. "All along, we
said we didn't know that there would be any money at all."
   The number of accounts that the government attempted to
keep frozen by means of court orders "dwindled dramatically"
since mid-April, as hundreds of account holders "came in to
present their bona fides," he said.
   The cleared account holders have included businesses and
individuals, including some Colombians not thought to be
involved in drug trafficking. Prosecutors are proceeding with
forfeiture actions against some Colombians who purchased U.S.
currency on the Colombian black market, which is thought to
be a principle mechanism for the laundering of drug profits.
   The Miami Herald has reported on the large number of
accounts that have been unfrozen in that city. Most of the
frozen accounts were at banks in Miami and New York and were
thought to have received illegal proceeds from the operations
of some of the world's biggest cocaine traffickers who belong
to the so-called Medellin Cartel.
   Wilmer Parker, an assistant U.S. attorney in Atlanta and a
lead prosecutor in Operation Polar Cap, said, "We are very
satisfied and pleased with the information we have gotten
from the account holders and others." Last month, Mr. Parker
predicted that a "certain small percentage" of the targeted
accounts might turn out to be controlled by legitimate
businesses and indviduals.
   Prosecutors haven't charged any of the banks affected by
the account-freezings with wrongdoing. But prosecutors have
declined to rule out that step.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Diaper Services, Sir,
   Are Not to Be Mocked
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Regarding Tim W. Ferguson's April 17 Business World
column, "Where the Greens Risk Soiling Themselves": As
members of the "thirtysomething generation" with two kids in
diapers, we take issue with Mr. Ferguson's implication that
disposable diapers are not a legitimate environmental
concern. Using them creates non-recyclable trash and lots of
it. One can argue whether there are worse offenders, but that
does not solve the problem.
   As Mr. Ferguson notes, disposables are popular, and
rightly so, because they are convenient. No one wants to
spend his or her days washing diapers like mom used to do.
But the diaper services he mocks offer a recyclable
alternative. We discovered to our surprise that for less than
the monthly cost of disposables, we can keep our two kids in
100% reusable cloth diapers that are delivered and picked up
at the door. And one does not need to be "affluent young in
urban centers" as he suggests to take advantage of a diaper
service. We have it here in a little Oregon town. You may,
too. Just look in your phone book.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mark Becker
   Susan Albright
   Corvallis, Ore.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Egypt's Femme Fatale Through the Ages
   ----
   By Donald Lyons
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   Plutarch reports that she wasn't particularly pretty but
had a good personality. Others have insisted the reverse was
true. Cleopatra is certainly a woman worth following through
legend's hall of mirrors, as Lucy Hughes-Hallett
entertainingly demonstrates in "Cleopatra: Histories, Dreams
and Distortions" (Harper &amp; Row, 338 pages, $27.50). Written
in the tradition of Marina Warner's studies of the Virgin
Mary and Joan of Arc, "Cleopatra" takes a critical look at
the cultural metamorphoses of an important woman.
Quicksilvery Cleopatra (69 to 30 B.C.) has been used to
reflect cultural values in story and image for two millennia.
   But before the legend there was the life, and a busy one
it was. She was the last of a Greek dynasty imposed on Egypt
by Alexander the Great's general Ptolemy I in 305 B.C. Her
father, Ptolemy XII the Flute-Player, left her the throne
when she was 18 years old to rule Egypt jointly with her
10-year-old husband-brother Ptolemy XIII. (Brother-sister
marriages were a habit the Ptolemies picked up from the
earlier, native Pharaohs.) Ptolemy XIII soon turned up
drowned, after Cleo took up with the Roman conqueror Julius
Caesar, perhaps the first man she'd met not a sibling or a
eunuch. But Caesar wouldn't marry her, forcing her instead to
wed another brother, 12-year-old Ptolemy XIV.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After a brief sojourn in Rome that ended with Caesar's
murder, Cleopatra returned to Egypt, where Ptolemy XIV died.
Civil war followed, this time featuring Cleo and her new
Roman lover, the warlord Mark Antony, vs. Caesar's
grand-nephew Octavian (later Emperor Augustus). Defeated by
Octavian at Actium, Antony fell on his sword. Whether
Cleopatra reached for an asp is actually uncertain, and
perhaps a misinterpretation of a snake bracelet adorning the
dead queen.
   Certainly male Roman poets wasted no time turning the
enemy queen into a "barbaric voluptuary." Virgil in his
"Aeneid" presented her in the guise of Dido, a clinging
African queen who nearly sidetracked Aeneas from the founding
of Rome. Horace called her a "monster" and Propertius a
"royal prostitute."
   Ms. Hughes-Hallett, a British journalist and television
critic, stresses the one-sidedness of these Roman views of
Cleopatra as a seductress out to topple aqueducts and
legionaries with orgies and banquets. Set on a feminist
deconstruction of male views of Cleopatra, the book sees the
queen as a capable ruler, a woman of political and military
savvy, and a shrewd manipulator of her own public image who
liked to present herself as snake-loving Isis, the supreme
Egyptian Mother Goddess ruling in cosmic harmony with "King"
Antony as her consort Osiris. Although the author concedes
the equally partial nature of her dream Cleopatra --
androgynous, pacific and racially tolerant, at war with a
patriarchal, bellicose and racist Rome -- she goes on to
judge later Cleopatras in the light of it.
   The Cleos of the middle ages are skimpy: Dante, for
example, puts her in Hell and dismisses her with one word,
"luxurious." It is in the Renaissance, specifically in
Shakespeare's "Antony and Cleopatra," that Cleo attains major
legendary status. Ms. Hughes-Hallett admires the play, but
chafes a bit at its erotic heat, saying, "The Alexandria of
this play is a cramped and enervating place, a gilded cage.
The real Cleopatra's court must have been a bustling place,
the centre of an elaborate and efficient bureaucracy, and the
real Cleopatra, scholar and administrator, would have had
little time for mooning over love letters." What a prosaic
and dreary revisionist prospect: Cleopatra as Mrs. Thatcher]
   Eighteenth-century Cleos were stiffly regal, but exotic.
"Oriental" versions blossomed in the next century, both in
literature and in painting (which Ms. Hughes-Hallett also
treats at length). In a Pushkin story she is an Asiatic
nymphomaniac, whose young lovers must die after a single
night of bliss; in Rider Haggard's novel "Cleopatra," she is
a jewel-hungry mummy robber; Sardou's play was a lurid
vehicle for Sarah Bernhardt, a performance of which in
Victoria's London provoked the famous remark: "How unlike the
home life of our own dear queen."
   This century's Cleos have largely been cinematic. Ms.
Hughes-Hallett dwells attentively on such films as the 1934
DeMille art-deco "Cleopatra" with Claudette Colbert (happily
seeing this as a triumph of visual wit and not at all
contemptible), the 1945 "Caesar and Cleopatra" (she rejects
the Shaw play's infantilization of the queen but does like
Vivien Leigh), and the 1963 Taylor-Burton bore (she
expatiates far too long and humorlessly on Taylor-Cleo
parallels. "Such futile expenditure is anarchic. It robs
money, the stuff we work so hard to get . . . of its
meaning," she writes, sternly, about Ms. Taylor's Roman
villa, whose tablecloths matched her dresses).
   This is a rich and richly illustrated book about an
amazingly durable and fascinating figure. Reading it, one
keeps hoping that its gifted writer will let the evidence
speak for itself before rushing to her all too predictable
judgments on it. Often enough, she does.
   ---
   Mr. Lyons reviews theater for the New Criterion and film
for Details.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vision Test:
   Despite His Successes,
   Baker's Critics Say He
   Lacks a Broad Strategy
   ---
   Secretary's Mastery of Tactics,
   They Add, Isn't Enough
   In Handling Big Problems
   ---
   Betting Heavily on Gorbachev
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger and Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   It looks like a political campaign in the American
heartland -- except it is in Sofia, Bulgaria.
   As Secretary of State James Baker's black Cadillac
limousine pulls up to the Sheraton Sofia Hotel on Lenin
Square, more than a thousand enthusiastic Bulgarians wave
hand-lettered signs saying "USA -- your democracy is our
dream" and chant, "So-fi-a, Wash-ing-ton."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Baker is uncomfortable. He hustles up the steps,
offering the crowd only an awkward smile and stiff wave. His
press spokeswoman, Margaret Tutwiler, steps in and urges him
to say something. He turns and offers a few limp phrases
about America's admiration for what Bulgaria's people are
doing. Then, he flees inside, where he conducts a
closed-door, two-hour seminar for Bulgarian opposition
leaders on how to beat the ruling Communists in the country's
first free election.
   Mr. Baker, whose natural habitat is the smoke-filled room,
has displayed his skill in political tactics during his first
year in office. With communism collapsing from Moscow to
Managua, he forged a bipartisan foreign policy at home, kept
America's allies united and built a solid relationship with
his Soviet counterpart. All the while, he courted Congress
and the press.
   But now the tactician must show a feel for strategy. The
recent upheavals have made him the first post-Cold War
secretary of state. Before him is a world-wide realignment of
power that requires not just wheeling and dealing but also a
clear sense of direction from the U.S. So far, though, he and
President Bush have had trouble presenting a comprehensive
strategy.
   "Baker is very skillful at negotiating every sharp turn in
the road," says Burton Yale Pines, an official at the
conservative Heritage Foundation. "But what I see missing
from U.S. foreign policy is a grand sense of where we are
going."
   Mr. Baker declines to comment on the view that he lacks a
long-term strategy or vision. But a close adviser bristles at
the criticism: "We say just judge him by the results. Was it
vision to come up with the compromise on Central America? Was
it vision to come up with the NATO arms-control proposals?
You can't do those things without a strategy."
   Clearly, however, clever tactics, not grand strategy, got
Mr. Baker where he is today. Texas-bred and
Princeton-educated, he honed keen political skills as a
campaign chairman for Presidents Ford, Reagan and Bush. Few
people in U.S. history have played such important roles in so
many successful presidential campaigns. And few have built
such spectacular resumes: Mr. Baker has moved in succession
through three of Washington's top posts, from White House
chief of staff to Treasury secretary to State, mastering the
arcane details of policy all the way.
   But by experience and instinct, he manages foreign policy
as if he were still on the campaign trail. During the Bush
campaign, an old colleague recalls, Mr. Baker would canvass
top aides every morning on what the candidate needed to do
that day. Then, the colleague says, "He'd call Bush and say,
`Here's what's important today.' He really did control
things."
   The disadvantage in that closely held operating style,
says another former campaign worker, was that "if you weren't
in the inner circle -- and I wasn't -- you never saw the
guy." That could prove more dangerous in international
diplomacy, where Mr. Baker is still a newcomer, than it did
in presidential campaigning, where he is regarded as a
black-belt master.
   At State, as in the past, Mr. Baker relies almost
exclusively on a few intensely loyal, youthful aides who were
by his side at Treasury or in campaigns. To the chagrin of
career diplomats, the small in-group handles important issues
such as German unification, Soviet relations and Mideast
peace talks.
   For instance, it was Robert Zoellick, a former Treasury
official, Bush campaign adviser and now State Department
counselor, who was dispatched to Bonn earlier this month to
prepare for the Allies' talks on German reunification. Only
the day before, Mr. Zoellick had returned from Mexico, where
he led a trade delegation.
   Unlike many of his predecessors, who often hit stone walls
in dealing with the White House, Mr. Baker speaks by
telephone with his "candidate," George Bush, at least a
half-dozen times a day. In a small but symbolic show of
power, he sometimes phones the Oval Office in the middle of
the president's daily 8 a.m. meeting with National Security
Adviser Brent Scowcroft, a potential rival.
   The frequent telephone talks permit Messrs. Bush and Baker
to discuss problems or make quick decisions unencumbered by
the bureaucracy. They enjoy a mutual confidence dating back
to the 1960s, when they were doubles partners on the tennis
courts of Houston's country clubs. Recently, for instance,
President Bush needed quick advice before heading into a
White House meeting with four congressmen who wanted the
administration's view on legislation that would guarantee
$400 million in housing loans to help resettle Soviet Jews in
Israel. Most presidents would have turned for in-house help
from the national security adviser. Instead, Mr. Bush phoned
Mr. Baker.
   "The president and Jim Baker have a social relationship
that's very different," says White House Chief of Staff John
Sununu. "There's no introductory language necessary; they
communicate in shorthand with each other."
   The unusually tight White House tie also makes Mr. Baker a
formidable secretary of state to his peers abroad. "He is so
close to the president you can rely on everything he tells
you," says West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich
Genscher.
   So far, Mr. Baker's instincts have served the
administration well. Early in the Bush presidency, Mr. Baker
surmised that what was being viewed as Mr. Bush's excessive
caution would curtail the honeymoon usually accorded new
administrations. Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev was
dazzling the world while the U.S. was bogged down with an
ill-advised foreign-policy review that yielded only an empty
slogan, "beyond containment."
   The administration's foreign-policy strategists gathered
at the White House. Aides such as Mr. Scowcroft urged a
go-slow approach. But the new secretary of state, though
still learning his job, took charge. "Baker insisted that, by
the May {1989} NATO summit, the president would have to be
ready to assume the leadership of the West with a bold
approach. It was like getting ready for a debate or a
primary," recalls a senior aide.
   The result was a Bush proposal last May in Brussels to
negotiate cuts in American troops and Western aircraft in
Europe. Mr. Bush's proposal was, in part, just a clever
public-relations move because the cuts were almost
inevitable. But afterward, Mr. Bush was viewed, for the first
time, as having seized the diplomatic initiative from Mr.
Gorbachev.
   For all that, Messrs. Bush and Baker haven't yet
demonstrated skill in navigating beyond the medium range.
After much hesitation, they tied themselves to Mr.
Gorbachev's future, even declining to support Lithuania's
independence drive in hopes of nailing down U.S.-Soviet
arms-reduction agreements. Mr. Baker will try to close these
deals today in crucial pre-summit talks in Moscow. But if
that reliance on Mr. Gorbachev fails, the Baker-Bush strategy
will hit a dead end: The administration has no post-Gorbachev
plan.
   "There's a lack of historical background for what's
happening," complains one senior administration official
(who, like most others, would criticize the powerful Mr.
Baker only if he wasn't identified). That lack sometimes
hampers Mr. Baker's response to Soviet reforms or Mideast
peace moves, the official argues: "There's not, sometimes,
the sense that these things have happened before." Indeed,
Mr. Scowcroft's deputy, Robert Gates, has publicly implied
that the Baker approach is naive because it doesn't recognize
that earlier Soviet reform efforts have failed.
   Mr. Baker also has missed a chance to channel foreign aid
to emerging democracies. Instead, tactician-like, he is
asking Congress for flexibility to shift existing funds as he
goes along.
   Some critics complain that his voice has been
conspicuously absent from the troubled U.S. policy toward
China. His aides are quick to shield him, saying President
Bush, who was once U.S. envoy there, "is his own secretary of
state for China."
   Yet such distance from messy problems is a hallmark of Mr.
Baker's career. "His secret of success is he's so adroit at
being able to separate himself from issues that become
unpopular," says GOP Sen. Nancy Kassebaum. As Treasury
Secretary Mr. Baker was one of the Reagan administration's
top financial officials -- yet he isn't commonly linked to
the savings-and-loan disaster that occurred partly on his
watch. And although he ran Mr. Bush's last campaign, he
wasn't criticized for its mean-spirited tone, which was
characterized by pro-Bush advertisements featuring a black
rapist, Willie Horton.
   Mr. Baker makes no bones about picking his issues. "It has
always been my view that it is important to prioritize,
particularly in the expenditure of presidential capital," he
says in a comment that, in a bit of a departure, is on the
record.
   Added up, his traits help him excel in the diplomatic art
of damage control. Last May, he delivered a speech calling on
Israel to give up its dream of maintaining control over the
West Bank. The address was received coolly by many American
Jews. A week later, he invited several pro-Israel members of
the House Foreign Affairs Committee to his office for drinks.
He explained he was trying to prod Israel toward peace talks
with the Palestinians and thus was doing Israel a favor.
   "Baker likes dealing with politicians," says one
representative who attended the session, Howard Berman of
California. "George Shultz had a lot of respect on the Hill.
But you never got the impression he enjoyed being up here.
With Baker, you do get that feeling."
   Few of his predecessors courted Congress as ardently as he
does. As an ironclad rule, he returns every member's
telephone call, if possible on the same day. He is a regular
visitor on Capitol Hill, where he spent 40 hours negotiating
his first foreign-policy triumph, a bipartisan agreement on
Nicaragua. The deal he cut was based on his shrewd
recognition that lawmakers no longer had the stomach to fight
over military aid to the Contras.
   When preparing for his confirmation hearing before the
Senate Foreign Relations panel, he visited each member
individually, working them as if they were key delegates at a
political convention. Sen. Kassebaum recalls that he arrived
alone in her office for a long chat and jotted notes on a pad
as they spoke. "You thought, `My gosh, he's interested in my
issues,'" the Kansas Republican says.
   Mr. Baker also works hard to forge personal bonds with
foreign officials, especially Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze and West Germany's Mr. Genscher. Initially
hostile to Mr. Genscher's dovish views on U.S. missiles in
Germany, Mr. Baker gradually built a friendship with him. A
little flattery helped. To contrast his own inexperience at
diplomacy with Mr. Genscher's 17-year tenure, Mr. Baker calls
him "the Dean."
   Mr. Baker cultivates the press, too. A month after moving
into Foggy Bottom, he threw a cocktail party for reporters
and their spouses, prompting many foreign-service officers to
gripe that they still hadn't met their new boss. He has
granted more than 150 news interviews during the past year --
usually in the guise of a "senior official" -- far more than
his predecessor.
   But despite his hospitality, Mr. Baker got off to a rocky
start with the State Department press corps. On his first
diplomatic trip abroad, matters of state were overshadowed by
a news story about his ownership of Chemical Bank stock while
he was Treasury secretary. Mr. Baker appeared shocked when
reporters on his plane pressed him about this apparent
conflict of interest rather than foreign affairs.
Characteristically, he quickly cut his losses, announcing en
route to Rome that he would sell all his publicly traded
securities.
   On overseas trips these days, Mr. Baker customarily
wanders back to the airplane's press section, wearing an
electric-blue nylon warm-up suit, to banter with reporters
and kibbitz during their games of "liar's poker," which
involves betting on the serial numbers on dollar bills.
Recently, appearing while a game was in progress, he unfurled
a huge sheet of uncut single bills bearing his signature from
his days as Treasury secretary and joked: "I'm ready to play
now."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Editorial Trivializes
   Iran-Contra Misdeeds
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   I take serious exception to your efforts to trivialize the
serious misdeeds of the principals in the Iran-Contra
scandal. Your April 9 "After Poindexter" editorial is built
on a mighty thin reed. Blaming Congress and the Democrats for
"criminalizing of policy differences with the executive
branch" begs a much larger issue here: Should members of the
executive branch be allowed to withhold vital information
from those members of Congress charged by law to monitor
specific actions of the president?
   A lifelong Republican, Special Prosecutor Lawrence Walsh,
didn't think so. An impartial grand jury that voted to indict
Adm. John Poindexter didn't think so, nor did the 12 jurors
who found him guilty on all five charges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Your Iran-Contra editorials send the wrong message both to
those who believe they can hide behind so-called patriotic
acts without punishment, and also to those who cynically view
such selective "law-and-order" posturing as further evidence
that there indeed exist two standards of justice in our
country.
   John M. Burns
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   From an April 2 letter to a constituent by Rep. Patricia
Schroeder (D., Colo.):
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Someone has to remind corporate America that it should run
business as a service to the public and not as something to
buy and sell for personal profit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australia Interest Rate Forecast
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MELBOURNE, Australia -- Australian interest rates are
likely to stay high next fiscal year and the nation's
current-account deficit will deteriorate further, two
economists forecast.
   Philip Adams and Peter Dixon from the Institute of Applied
Economic and Social Research at Melbourne University predict
the current-account deficit will widen to 19.7 billion
Australian dollars (US$15.12 billion) for the fiscal year
ending June 30 from A$17.41 billion last fiscal year, and
deteriorate to $A20.53 billion next year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This will push the current-account deficit to 5.4% of
gross domestic product this fiscal year from 5.2% last year,
and back to 5.2% next fiscal year.
   The economists say in the latest issue of the Institute's
Australian Economic Review that the current-account deficit
will deteriorate because interest payments overseas will keep
rising and prices for Australia's exports are likely to fall.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   BICC Group
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.BIC
</CO>
<LP>
   BICC GROUP (London) -- This cable and construction company
said Michael C. Eisner was named chief financial officer,
senior vice president and a director of New York-based
subsidiary Cablec Corp. Mr. Eisner, 50-year-old former chief
financial officer at Sony Corp. of America, succeeds Charles
Killeen, who becomes executive vice president of the
industrial electronics group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Inflation Impoverishes
   Core of Middle Class
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your April 16 page-one story "Steady Inflation: Does
Anyone Care?" suggests that "perhaps most Americans are
correct not to care about inflation."
   In a highly intensive and largely mature economy, with 80%
of our GNP comprising services, inflation of 4.5% is not
manageable, it is pernicious. It causes a small percentage of
our people to get temporarily rich and a big percentage to
become permanently poor. It has impoverished and greatly
eroded the core of our middle class and established a
propensity among us to spend rather than to save, to
speculate rather than to invest and to lose respect for the
hard-earned dollar.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Inflation is the worst form of taxation. As our Fed
appears, at least, to be committed to fight inflation, we
should see to it that it has many allies.
   Emil Sherer Finley
   President and CEO
   International Commodities Export Corp.
   Purchase, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South African Trade Unions
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -- Trade union power and
increased expectations created by political developments in
South Africa appear to have prevented a necessary fall in
wage increases to accompany the economic recession, said
Rudolf Gouws, chief economist for Rand Merchant Bank Ltd.
   In an interview he said this would have a negative impact
on corporate profitability, fixed investment and employment.
He said changes in levels of wage increases normally
coincided with the business cycle, dropping appreciably in
recessionary periods and recovering during upturns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But latest available figures showed that since the
beginning of the current recession early last year, the rate
of increase of wages had leveled off but not declined,
reflecting a "fairly strong growth in real per capita
remuneration."
   Since unions were the major force behind this trend,
organized workers would be the main beneficiaries, resulting
in a further widening of the wage gap between organized and
unorganized workers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tab Products Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TBP
</CO>
<LP>
   PALO ALTO, Calif. -- Tab Products Co. said it retained
Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. Inc. to help the company
evaluate alternatives to improve stockholder value.
   A spokesman for the company, which manufactures and
markets office filing and furniture systems, said the
evaluation probably will take three to six months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the nine months ended Feb. 28, the company had net
income of $3.8 million, or 58 cents a share, on revenue of
$104 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Finessing the King
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   You erred grievously in your April 11 editorial "Grievous
Misconduct" by saying that King Baudouin of Belgium
"abdicated for two days, allowing the {abortion} bill to
become law." Belgian journalist Paul Belien, who broke the
news blackout of the king's total opposition to abortion,
wrote in your European edition (reprinted in the U.S. edition
April 10, editorial page): "The politicians just ignored the
constitution. Mr. {Prime Minister Wilfried} Martens simply
suspended the king's powers for two days and had the
government sign the abortion law instead." Mr. Belien, who
was fired by the Gazet van Antwerpen for his Journal article,
deserved firm and accurate support. If not from his
publisher, where?
   Thomas J. McCormick
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Journalism Lecturer
   St. Michael's College
   Ext. Professor Emeritus
   University of Vermont
   Winooski, Vt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Textile Makers Demanding More Protection
   Threaten Hopes for Seamless U.S. Trade Policy
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -- When a powerful group of U.S. textile
manufacturers invited White House Trade Representative Carla
Hills to speak at their annual meeting here, they promised to
treat her "like a queen."
   "Which queen?" Ambassador Hills asked upon her arrival.
"Mary Queen of Scots? Marie Antoinette?"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both monarchs, of course, were beheaded, and Mrs. Hills
has reason to think the textile industry may be planning a
similar fate for her. She has staked the Bush
administration's trade policy, as well as her own success as
trade representative, on the so-called Uruguay round of talks
under the international trade treaty known as the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. But the textile industry,
with its powerful ties to Congress, could ruin those plans.
   There's a lot at stake here. The Bush administration has
said its "top trade priority" is the completion of the
multilateral trade talks, which it hopes will help open
foreign markets, especially in areas not previously covered
by GATT, such as services, investment, intellectual property,
agriculture and textiles.
   Mrs. Hills and her counterparts from almost 100 other
nations in the GATT talks are committed to eliminating the
need for special trade rules for textiles and replacing the
29-year-old Multi-Fiber Arrangement, a complex set of quotas
among the main textile consuming and producing nations. The
resulting freer trade in textiles would offer greater
opportunities to the more competitive U.S. companies and
reduce prices for U.S. consumers, but it would also result in
some less-competitive companies having to adjust or fail.
   But the trade treaty, scheduled to be completed in
December, must eventually be approved by the Senate, and
there the textile industry has the upper hand. Its
saber-rattling political backers are claiming they already
have the power to block any trade treaty they don't like. As
a result, Mrs. Hills may be forced to back down from her
free-trade stance. She has tried to be conciliatory, even
proposing a 10-year transition period while the U.S. abandons
its current textile quotas.
   In the meantime, the industry's allies on Capitol Hill are
trying to seize the high ground. Led by Sen. Ernest Hollings
(D., S.C.), they submitted a bill in early April "to provide
for orderly imports of textiles, apparel and footwear," which
would significantly increase protection for the textile
industry.
   Claiming that "the very survival of the U.S. textile
industry is at stake," Sen. Hollings called in his bill for a
maximum 1% annual growth in textile imports and an
import-licensing program. It has garnered huge support,
attracting the backing of 54 senators and 230 members of the
House.
   Just days before the bill was proposed, Ambassador Hills
sent an unusual plea to members of Congress, asking that such
a bill not be introduced. "The introduction of legislation
might be counterproductive to our efforts," and could
polarize positions, she wrote. Such legislation "will
antagonize our trading partners" and force them to take "a
more rigid stance in negotiations or enact protectionist
legislation themselves," Mrs. Hills said. But her request was
ignored.
   Moreover, Sen. Jesse Helms (R., N.C.) is saying he will do
all he can to oppose a GATT agreement unless it includes a
global quota on textile and apparel imports with an annual
rate of increase tied to domestic market growth.
   Domestic deadlock on textiles could potentially stymie the
whole GATT round, and the industry is doing all it can to
stress its strength. "We haven't gone to the full-court press
yet," says Donald Hughes, first vice president of Burlington
Mills and new president of the American Textile Manufacturers
Institute, discussing Congress's support for the textile
bill. The institute's membership accounts for about 75% of
all textile fibers consumed in the nation.
   Textiles are "crucial to the GATT round," says William
Brock, a former U.S. trade representative who now runs his
own international consulting firm. The developing countries,
"almost as one, see textiles and agriculture as the way they
evaluate the talks. If we fail to make progress in both
areas, they won't play and that means no round."
   Indonesia, Bangladesh, Mexico, India and a host of other
developing countries are clamoring for better access to
Western markets for their textiles. They see this as a trade
for opening up their markets to Western services, investment
and intellectual property.
   "Textiles and agriculture seem to be the two areas that
are potential deal-makers or deal-breakers," for the GATT
round, says William Cline, a senior fellow at the Institute
for International Economics who is currently preparing a new
study of the textile industry.
   Mr. Cline estimates that protection of the industry now
costs the U.S. $25 billion a year, or $238 for every U.S.
family. If the textile industry's bill is adopted -- with its
1%-a-year allowable growth in quotas -- the costs of
protection would rise to about $85 billion a year in the year
2000, he estimates.
   Many expect compromise and a transition period that
effectively allows textile protection to tighten. It remains
to be seen "if the administration is prepared to commit to
liberalization and whether the transition will be credible,"
says Mr. Cline. Just to keep protection from tightening as
the market expands, current textile quotas should grow about
7% a year, he estimates.
   The Bush administration, however, holds some strong cards
in the struggle to try to bring the textile industry under
the GATT for the first time since 1961. The apparel industry
for once isn't solidly behind its cousin the textile
industry. The American Apparel Manufacturers didn't endorse
the Hollings bill, although it endorsed similar bills
proposed in the Reagan administration and before.
   Second, Mr. Bush is the first president since Dwight
Eisenhower to come to office without having made pledges to
the textile industry. His campaign for the Republican
nomination deliberately avoided them: In the South Carolina
presidential primary, his opponent Robert Dole championed the
textile industry's protectionist goals, but Mr. Bush shunned
them and triumphed.
   Third, even though Congress may pass the new textile bill,
the President is likely to veto it and the textile caucus in
Congress probably doesn't have the two-thirds majority
required to override him. Ronald Reagan twice vetoed similar
bills and on both occasions Congress narrowly failed to
muster the votes for an override. "That bill won't pass and
they know it," says Mr. Brock, who terms the proposed
legislation "a continuing effort to send a shot across the
bow" of the White House Trade Office.
   There are also obvious inconsistencies in the textile
industry's approach to trade policy that are likely to become
more apparent. It is ironic, for instance, that the textile
industry ardently favors open trade when it comes to
duty-free access for foreign textile machinery.
   The industry also isn't in bad shape, contrary to its
claims. In fact, industry shipments of man-made fibers
increased 17.8% between 1987 and 1989, while exports of these
same items jumped 59%, according to the Commerce Department.
And in 1989 the industry had after-tax profit of $1.32
billion, which represented 2.5% of net sales and a 10.3%
return on equity.
   As an internal Bush administration memo says, "The
industry always seeks to maneuver its situation into one
which implies that declining market share, poor financial
performance or any decline in employment is adequate
justification for increased protection."
   The industry's campaign is certainly crafted to play on
people's fears of an ailing national textile business. The
new textile act "is essential to halt further erosion of this
major American industry," says the manufacturers association.
The U.S. textile industry is paying the price for a foreign
policy "that gives our market to foreigners," says Sen.
Helms. U.S. entrepreneurs are taking their expertise overseas
because "they are denied the help of their government in the
international trade competition," says Sen. Hollings.
   Retailers, people in the apparel industry and free-trade
advocates hope that the Bush administration will face down
the textile industry. The ability to destroy the GATT round
is "clearly the underlying threat (the textile industry) is
trying to portray," says Joseph O'Neill, president of the
National Retail Federation, which is seeking freer trade in
textiles. "I'd hope textiles wouldn't be given such an
inordinate amount of leverage."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   After Steep Plunge, Japan's Market
   Has Recovered a Third of Its Losses
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Is Japan's Great Bear Market of 1990 already
over?
   Tokyo's disastrous first quarter, when the stock market
plunged 28%, rapidly is giving way to a modest second-quarter
recovery. Major Japanese stock market indexes have recovered
more than a third of earlier losses. Daily trading volume is
rising.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The market definitely has a firmer tone," says Robert
Alan Feldman, an economist at Salomon Brothers Inc.'s Tokyo
office. "Confidence is coming back. At least for now, it
looks better."
   But analysts here, still smarting from the Tokyo market's
earlier thrashing, remain cautious. They say the factors
supporting share prices aren't permanent and warn that the
market easily could reverse direction again. "The market is
stuck between renewed optimism and fear of (too rapid) a
recovery," says Bruce D. Johnson, a director of Baring
Securities Ltd.
   From its low of about 28000, the Nikkei average of 225
major stocks is up 14.3% -- having recovered about 4000 of
the 11,000 points it lost in the first quarter. On Tuesday,
the indicator slipped slightly, losing 45.61 points, or
0.14%, to 31997.04. On Monday, spurred by gains on Wall
Street, the Nikkei had gained 530.51 points, or 1.7%.
   The Japanese government bond market, too, is staging a
healthy recovery from the battering it took in January. The
benchmark No. 119 10-year issue rose 0.59 yen to 88.25
yesterday, yielding 6.9%. That's down from a recent yield of
7.4%.
   The turnaround in the Tokyo stock market's fortunes
reflects a reversal in the conditions that triggered its
plunge starting in January. Then, a depreciating yen and
rising interest rates ravaged the Japanese bond market and
sent stocks into a tailspin. Concern about inflation was
rampant. Fears of tighter credit in the U.S. and the prospect
of a unified Germany fed uncertainty about the international
economy. Even Japanese domestic politics were in the throes
of upheaval.
   The most notable change from those times has been the
yen's powerful resurgence. Since dropping to a 39-month low
of 160.30 yen to the dollar in early April, the Japanese
currency has soared nearly 6% against the dollar. The
dollar's march higher was blunted chiefly by a shift in the
outlook for interest rates, which appear to have plateaued in
Japan and the U.S.
   Now, signs that the U.S. economy is slowing have fueled
expectations that the Federal Reserve won't have to increase
U.S. rates. That would make U.S. financial instruments
relatively less attractive to Japanese investors. The same
series of Japanese rate increases that helped unravel
confidence here during January now means that interest rates
in Tokyo already are as high or higher than rates in the
U.S., after subtracting inflation.
   Thus, big Japanese investors are likely to move money from
the U.S. back to Japan, where they can earn similar returns
without exchange-rate risk. Already, some people who watch
capital flows say money is flowing back to Tokyo -- though
they say the surging yen may be due for a minor correction
soon.
   In one sign of the renewed interest in Japanese stocks,
trading volume yesterday was the highest of the year, at
around 900 million shares, up from the previous record of 824
million shares on Monday. Both levels are well above average
daily turnover of only about half a billion shares during the
Japanese stock market's downturn in the first three months of
the year.
   The shift in the tastes of major investors comes at the
same time that Japan's economic fundamentals point to a
stronger stock market. Inflation is coming down -- wholesale
prices in the first 20 days of March were up only 0.7% from
the like period a year earlier.
   And Japan's monumental trade surpluses show signs of a
renewed expansion. In the first quarter of 1990, the surplus
surged to more than $70 billion on an annualized basis, up
from $53 billion in the year ended March 1990. That means
more cash will accumulate in Japan -- and its owners will
have to look for places to stash it.
   Even the political situation in Japan seems to bode better
for the stock market. In January and February, the market was
shaken by doubts about the future of the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party, which faced a general election in late
February. It won that election, and since then the government
of Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu has been looking increasingly
stable. This month, Mr. Kaifu even introduced a package of
electoral reform proposals that many market participants
welcome as a sign that the government is confident of its
political strength.
   But despite what analysts here are calling the
"mini-merits" of the current upswing in stocks, the memory of
the market's steep first-quarter drop is enough to keep most
investors circumspect. "The stock market has to take a rest,"
says Mitsuru Ueda, a fund manager for the investment
management arm of Yamaichi Securities Co. "We have to be very
cautious at the moment."
   And from a technical point of view, warns Benedicte Ivey,
a saleswoman at Credit Lyonnais Securities Ltd. in Tokyo, the
market's recovery may prove a precursor to a further retreat.
"In these bear markets, you often see prices move off their
bottoms before resuming their decline," she says.
   Besides, adds a salesman at a Japanese securities house
here, "it's still not a real market anyway." That's because
the market hasn't had to absorb any new stock issues since
March, when big brokerage houses here indefinitely suspended
all new equity underwritings.
   "For the long term," says Mikio Fujino, an international
salesman at Nikko Securities Co., "we are still worrying."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Dolphins: Protect Them or Eat Them?
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your April 17 editorial "Protectionist the Dolphins" was
too much. Are you seriously advocating the idea that it's OK
to kill about 13,000 dolphins so tuna fishermen can keep
their jobs? And that life as we know it will end if American
children can't exercise their God-given right to a tuna-fish
sandwich?
   I also like your argument that it's OK for American tuna
boats to kill dolphins because otherwise they won't be
competitive with foreign tuna boats that will continue
killing dolphins.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. corporations that have finally chosen to stop the
dolphin slaughter (albeit too late for many thousands,
perhaps millions, of dolphins) should certainly be rewarded
with a dolphin-safe label on their cans. Your own recent
survey showed that Americans want to help the environment and
this is one way the marketplace can better inform the
consumer to make environmentally sound decisions.
   Penelope Malone
   Atlanta
   ---
   "Protectionist the Dolphins" is aptly stated, for we will
certainly pay more for unsullied bottlenose-dolphin-excluded
tuna fish. But what is never mentioned is what is done with
the nearly 13,000 dolphins killed each year. Should we assume
that what is probably wonderful beeflike meat is just thrown
to the sharks and never used for human consumption? I would
love to buy dolphin meat for nourishment and to enjoy its
taste.
   No one gets upset about butchering steers, so why would
anyone feel any differently about dolphins that are unlucky
enough to be caught in tuna nets? What a shame to waste them.
The press should give us a more complete picture of
dolphin-meat usage in the tuna-fishing industry. Or does it
fetch too high a price in some other countries for anyone to
want to talk about it?
   Historically, did whaler crews, pirates and others use
dolphins as a source of fresh red meat? Does the Marine
Mammal Protection Act of 1972 fail to provide for a sensible
use of dolphins that may be killed inadvertently such as in
tuna fishing?
   Andrew B. Potter
   Pompano Beach, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korean Trade With U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- Declining exports forced South
Korea's trade surplus with the U.S. to narrow to $216 million
between January and March from $1.17 billion a year earlier,
the Trade and Industry Ministry reported.
   It was South Korea's smallest first-quarter trade surplus
with its No. 1 trading partner since 1982, when Korea began
to show bilateral annual trade surpluses on a sustained
basis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plunge in bilateral surpluses was attributed to a fall
in exports coupled with a rapid rise in imports.
   South Korean exports to the U.S. in the first quarter
decreased 7% from the same period last year to $4.19 billion,
while imports from the U.S. jumped 19% to $3.97 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farm Credit System's
   Profit Climbed 8.5%
   In the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Farm Credit System's first-quarter profit
rose 8.5% as the big agricultural lender's fundamental
financial condition continued to improve.
   Net income for the quarter was $191 million, up from $176
million a year earlier. More indicative of the borrower-owned
system's health, however, was a 34% rise in net interest
income -- basically, interest collected on loans minus
interest paid out to bondholders -- to $321 million from $239
million in the 1989 quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The improvement was due to lower borrowing costs as
high-interest-rate bonds retired, and an improvement in new
loan volume and in the condition of existing loans.
   Loans rose about $500 million during the quarter to $49.63
billion. Nonperforming assets, meanwhile, declined by about
$87 million during the period to $2.93 billion. And so-called
other high-risk loans fell about $100 million to $4.44
billion.
   The system, which received a federal bailout in the
mid-1980s after the farm economy's slump drove it to the
brink of insolvency, also continued to lessen its use of an
unusual accounting technique that boosted profits
substantially in prior years. The so-called negative
provision for loan losses -- meaning money is taken out of
the reserve for losses and recorded as profit -- was $18
million in the first quarter, compared with $75 million a
year ago.
   The technique is allowable under accounting rules, but its
use is rare.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Philippines Puts
   U.S. on Notice
   Over Bases Pact
   ----
   By Matt Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   MANILA, the Philippines -- The government, in an action
that was more procedural than threatening, served official
notice to terminate in September 1991 the current 25-year
agreement governing U.S. military installations in the
Philippines.
   The notice, which paves the way for a possible new bases
accord, came yesterday during the second day of talks in
Manila on the future of the six U.S. bases in the
Philippines: Clark Air Base, Subic Naval Station and four
smaller installations. Clark and Subic are Washington's
biggest overseas military facilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both sides emphasized that the notice doesn't necessarily
mean that the bases will leave the Philippines after
September 1991. "The serving of this notice of termination
doesn't preclude a new agreement," said Stanley Schrager, a
spokesman for the U.S. negotiating team. President Corazon
Aquino said during a news conference: "We felt that since the
bases talks have begun, this would be a good opportunity" to
serve notice.
   Diplomats and other political analysts said the move was
expected and noted that it served several purposes:
fulfilling a domestic legal requirement, appeasing
nationalist sentiment, and enabling the Philippine government
to ensure that the current agreement doesn't extend
indefinitely.
   Manila's constitution stipulates that foreign bases aren't
allowed in the Philippines after September 1991 except under
a new treaty. The present agreement requires a one-year
termination notice, even after the 1991 expiration date.
   The future of the bases looms as the Philippines's biggest
foreign-policy decision and one with far-reaching political
implications. For those who support continued U.S. presence,
the bases are essential to the country's prosperity. But for
many of those opposed to a new agreement, removing the bases
is a prerequisite for national sovereignty, and necessary for
breaking the links to a colonial past.
   The bases issue is highly divisive for a country already
fragmented along social, economic and political lines. On
Sunday, the eve of the talks, two U.S. airmen were shot dead
outside Clark Air Base. Yesterday, the communist New People's
Army claimed responsibility and warned it might target other
Americans.
   While the notice may satisfy some Philippine domestic
considerations, it doesn't necessarily resolve the legal
complexities surrounding the date the bases can't any longer
function under the current agreement. The U.S. continues to
maintain that unless both sides agree to either a new compact
or an earlier end for the old agreement, the 1966 accord
would actually lapse in 1992. This assumes the 25-year
agreement plus one year for termination.
   But few analysts believe negotiations will drag on until
the disputed cutoff date. Mr. Schrager said preliminary talks
could end in one week, after which the two sides could agree
to negotiate a new treaty -- though that could take months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Reductio Ad Absurdum
   Can Become a Burden
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   In his May 1 editorial-page account of the Committee for
the Free World's conference, David Frum quotes me as
describing American culture, because of its vitality, as
"poisonous" rather than merely "decadent" as Hilton Kramer
had argued. My offense was in truth a far more grievous one:
deliberate and premeditated irony.
   In response to Mr. Kramer's gloomy indictment of American
popular culture, I maintained that if he added an undoubted
vitality to his list of its defects, it would surely deserve
even sterner censure, viz., "poisonous." My argument would, I
thought, be understood by those present as a reductio ad
absurdum of Mr. Kramer's position, rather than as an
expression of my own views. After all, I went on to dissent
more plainly by making the ho-hummish argument that American
(and Western) culture has its good and bad points, and the
slightly more interesting one that some of its bad points
will be rectified shortly by the absorption into the Western
cultural mainstream of Central European writers who have
emerged from the experience of totalitarianism resistant to
cultural fashions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But these are transparent excuses. I ignored the advice,
given at my mother's knee, never to commit irony in a public
place; I am justly punished for it by your report; and Mr.
Kramer has the last laugh.
   John O'Sullivan
   Editor
   National Review
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   When Laptop Computers Go on the Road,
   The Hassles Can Cancel Out the Benefits
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   It looks so easy in the ads: An investment banker taps on
a laptop computer to calculate a deal from an airplane seat;
a salesperson relaxes in a hotel room as the portable
computer calls the office.
   The reality isn't so good. Computing on the road can be a
world of hassles, transforming into a burden something
designed to be a convenience. The list of hurdles is long:
Airport security closely inspects portables; coach-class tray
tables are too flimsy to hold a big laptop; batteries may die
during an emergency rewrite of a speech; hotel rooms hide the
phone outlet behind the bed, or charge outrageous rates to
get on line.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The first time Ted Leonsis, president of Redgate
Communications Inc., a Vero Beach, Fla., company, got to the
airport with his hefty Macintosh portable, he came to a
realization. He would have to lug the thing through the rain,
and also check his garment bag because the airline allowed
only two carry-ons. "I said, `This is too hard.' I left it in
the car." Now, his portable moves only between office and
home.
   In fact, most portable-computer owners don't use them much
while they're travelling. Market Facts, a Chicago research
firm, conducted a survey for portable maker Zenith Data
Systems and found 70% of laptop use was at home or in the
office, 8% was in a car or plane, 8% was in a hotel and 7%
was in a customer's office, with the remainder in other
places such as warehouses.
   That not withstanding, portable computers are the fastest
growing segment of the PC market. Bruce Stephen of
International Data Corp., a Framingham, Mass., market
research firm, predicts that 1.1 million portables, valued at
$2.8 billion, will be sold in the U.S. this year, up 26% from
902,000 last year. "It's grown from a niche to a canyon," he
says.
   And by any measure, the portables are steadily improving.
Some battery-powered models based on Intel Corp.'s fast 386
SX microprocessor, weigh less than 17 pounds and have good
enough displays to "be your only PC," PC Magazine concluded
in a March review of 73 different models. Other models called
notebook PCs weigh less than seven pounds and can fit inside
an attache case.
   When the conditions are right, portables clearly make
things easier. Robert V. Costello, a Boston lawyer, says he
can store up to 20,000 pages of documents on his Dell
Computer Inc. laptop, take it into court and instantly check
on what witnesses said in depositions. Likewise, big
corporations create simplified software packages to enable an
entire sales force to obtain specific information while on
the road.
   But for professionals, consultants and entrepreneurs
traveling all over and relying on their laptops to do more --
such as help them receive and answer all their office
correspondence, check on external data, produce slides or
other graphics and turn out contracts -- computing on the go
is a mixture of blessing and curse.
   Take Robert Frankston, the co-developer of Visicalc, one
of the first popular software packages. Last year, Mr.
Frankston was at a computer conference at a posh Seattle
hotel. He set his portable to automatically check his
electronic mail boxes, usually using toll-free 800 numbers.
When he checked out he got a $100 phone bill. The hotel
switchboard had automatically added a 75-cent surcharge every
time it dialed. "Rip-off is the term that comes to mind," Mr.
Frankston gripes.
   For many users, the laptop hassles start as soon as they
get to the airport. Since the downing of the Pan Am jet over
Scotland by a bomb in a radio, security personnel have
examined more closely all electronic equipment. Frequently
they make laptop luggers start up their computers to prove
they are legitimate.
   Computing on board an airplane daunts most users. In
coach, a computer screen that flips up on the back of the
computer gets crushed when the person in front reclines.
Setting up many computers is complex enough to discourage
casual use.
   Lotus Development Corp. Chairman Jim P. Manzi keeps track
of ideas using Agenda, a Lotus software program. But he says
he reverts to pen and paper on planes. The process of
extracting the computer from under the seat, setting it up on
the tray table, booting up the program and then reversing the
process isn't worth it, he says. Other users worry that
seatmates can read their screens.
   Battery life is a problem with many computers that require
recharging after as little as two hours. Dedicated users
carry five pounds or more of spare battery packs and
rechargers. "You're setting yourself up for heartache when
the little beeps tell you it won't do any more," says David
Gang, director of sales and marketing for Snap Software Inc.,
a maker of sales and marketing software in Manchester, N.H.
   To address those problems, some laptops automatically turn
off power to certain parts when the computers aren't in use,
extending battery life. Reducing size solves other problems
too. Compaq Computer Corp.'s LTE/286, introduced last fall,
gives users the option of buying a powerful computer with
both hard and floppy disk drives that can fit inside an
attache case rather than requiring a case of its own.
Reducing size and weight also makes it easier to use them on
planes without breaking the tray tables.
   But then there are the hotels, and all their anguish. Many
hotels don't use modular telephone jacks or special dataports
that provide easy access to telecommunications. Thus many
portable-computer guests don't even try to reach others
electronically. Rod Canion, president of portable pioneer
Compaq Computer, carries a computer for memo-writing, but
won't communicate. "I've found the office runs fine without
me," he says.
   Fans agree that laptops aren't for the faint of heart.
"The laptop is for people who really want to make it work for
them," says Mr. Gang of Snap Software. If electrical outlets,
lighting and flat surfaces are scarce in hotel rooms, "I
don't let the hotel room get in my way," he says. "I move the
furniture around."
   Some dedicated laptop users carry little tool kits to
disassemble telephone outlets and connect the line to their
computers.
   Computer Products Plus Inc., Huntington Beach, Calif.,
makes a $50 kit called Road Warrior that includes
screwdrivers, a lighted magnifier for examining phone outlets
in dark corners and alligator clips for connecting wires to
the computer.
   "E-mail is so endemic to the way we run our business that
I can't exist without it," says Bill Machrone, editor in
chief of PC Magazine, adding that to use his laptop in some
hotels he has to move the bed and remove the phone plate from
the wall. "I always fill out the comment cards and say `I
hate your telephone system and I hate you too.'"
   Hotels aren't oblivious to the problem. New hotels are
being built with modular jacks, and some older ones are
trying to convert them. "In this day and age, if you don't
have extra phone jacks for computers, you won't make a lot of
friends," says Sharon Perper, sales manager for the Embassy
Suites Hotel in South San Francisco. The hotel gets high
marks from some computer users because it doesn't add a
surcharge for calling 800 numbers.
   Andrew Seybold, publisher of a Santa Clara, Calif.,
industry newsletter, is working to compile a computerized
listing of computer friendly hotels. For desperate times,
"I've fashioned an adapter so I can access through my
cellular phone," despite the high rates.
   Worse things can happen. Eugene Lee, product manager for
Beyond Inc., Cambridge, Mass., once carried a computerized
marketing proposal to a potential client in London. Using an
adapter, he plugged the computer into an outlet in his hotel
room for recharging and went to dinner, unaware that the
juice was too strong. When he returned, "the whole screen had
melted. It looked like it had been slimed." Mr. Lee canceled
his presentation and flew back to the U.S. "Sometimes you
just punt," he shrugs.
   Not all problems with on-the-go computers are so dire, but
that doesn't mean they aren't embarrassing. Mark Eppley,
president of Traveling Software Inc., Bothell, Wash., a maker
of equipment for portable computers, says his worst time with
a laptop occurred during a business trip to Korea, when he
spilled kimchi, a pungent condiment, on his keyboard, which
can't be washed. All the way back across the Pacific, he
says, the smell of garlic and cabbage filled the cabin. "Boy
did that make an impression," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Machinery Orders Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese manufacturers received machinery orders
totaling 3.034 trillion yen ($19.9 billion) in March, up an
unadjusted 7.9% from the previous year, the Economic Planning
Agency said.
   The gain followed a 29% year-on-year increase in February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An agency official said machinery orders remain in an
upward trend, and added that March's rise was in line with
expectations. Orders have been rising since October 1988 with
the exception of December 1989.
   After seasonal adjustment, orders in March fell 14% from
the previous month to 1.758 trillion yen.
   Machinery orders to Japanese companies rose 16% to 21.863
trillion yen in fiscal 1989 from the previous fiscal year,
according to the agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Prices Rose in March
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Consumer prices among the world's industrial
countries rose an average 0.7% in March after a 0.6% increase
in February, despite slower growth in food prices and
declining energy costs, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said.
   For the 12 months to March, OECD consumer prices rose
6.5%, up from February's year-on-year rise of 6.4%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The organization said food prices grew 0.4% in the latest
reporting month compared with a 0.9% gain in February.
   Meanwhile, March energy prices fell 0.2% after declining
0.5% in February.
   The "underlying" inflation rate, excluding food and energy
costs, edged up to 0.6% from 0.5%. The underlying rate during
the 12 months to March was 4.7%, up from 4.5% in February.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Semiconductor Lobby
   Represents Many Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   I take great exception to the mention in your April 24
editorial "A Trade Deficit Primer" that "the Semiconductor
Industry Association, {is} in effect a lobby for only two
companies. . . ."
   At present, we represent 35 U.S.-based manufacturers of
semiconductors, including small and large, merchant and
captive companies. Additionally, SIA has 27 associate members
that are either foreign-owned semiconductor makers or firms
that support the industry (i.e. equipment and materials
producers, law firms, etc.). The SIA board of directors is
made up of CEOs, sector presidents and vice presidents of 14
different U.S. semiconductor makers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The SIA prides itself on having the ability to build
consensus among our members or to reach compromise when
necessary. We evaluate and appreciate input from all of our
members, whether it be one of the board-member companies or
an associate member. We have up to 60 recommendations and
opinions to consider, not two.
   Andrew A. Procassini
   President
   Semiconductor Industry Association
   Cupertino, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Africa Gold Output Fell
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -- South African gold output
fell 3.5% to 1,557,000 ounces in April from 1,613,000 ounces
a year earlier, according to the Chamber of Mines, which
represents the country's mining houses.
   April's output represents a 2.9% decrease from March's
1,603,000 ounces.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Total output for the first four months of the year totaled
4,766,000 ounces, down 26% from 6,440,000 ounces in the same
period of 1989.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH AFRICA'S gold output for the first four months of
the year totaled 6,322,000 ounces, down 1.8% from 6,440,000
ounces in the year-earlier period. The figures were misstated
in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ May 17,1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Current Account Data
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's current account balance of payments
surplus widened in March to 1.33 billion francs ($241
million) from a revised surplus of 826 million francs in
February, according to seasonally adjusted figures released
by the Economics Ministry.
   February's figure was revised downward from a previously
estimated surplus of 1.9 billion francs, and brought the
accumulated surplus for the first three months of this year
to 5.47 billion francs, down from a surplus of 9.93 billion
francs in the same 1989 period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On an unadjusted basis, the French current account showed
a surplus of 883 million francs in March, compared with a
deficit of 4.12 billion francs in February.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Business Survey
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Hong Kong manufacturers' business was hurt
during the first quarter amid diminished orders, stiffer
competition and increased costs, but improvement is expected
in the current quarter, according to a government survey.
   The study, based on interviews with approximately 1,000
concerns, found that companies in the textile, plastics and
clothing industries experienced the downturn most markedly.
But improved orders are expected for the April-June period,
particularly in the plastics, metals and appliances
industries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Construction companies, buoyed by the colony's continuing
building boom, reported better business conditions in the
first half and anticipate further improvement during the
current period.
   Banks and real-estate concerns reported stable business
for the first period and expect conditions to remain in place
for the remainder of the first half.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Announces Bond Yield
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government announced an average
yield of 10.804% at an auction of 650 million Canadian
dollars (US$552.2 million) of 11.25% bonds due June 1, 2015.
   Proceeds of the issue will be used for general purposes of
the Canadian government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PEOPLE PATTERNS
   ----
   By Alan L. Otten
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   The '80s Materialism
   Marks American Youth
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   YOUNG AMERICANS have become far more materialistic and far
less idealistic since the mid-1970s.
   Two complementary analyses were presented at a recent
meeting of the Population Association of America in Toronto.
Both drew on annual surveys of high school seniors taken by
the University of Michigan and of college freshmen conducted
by the University of California, Los Angeles.
   Eileen Crimmins and colleagues at the University of
Southern California reported that the desire for a life style
of more goods and more leisure has increased "substantially"
since 1976. More young men and women now consider it
extremely important or quite important to have at least two
cars, the latest clothes, a high-quality stereo, a vacation
home.
   Fewer think it important to "help others," "correct social
and economic inequalities," or "develop a meaningful
philosophy of life."
   The young people, Ms. Crimmins said, want their own
children to have better opportunities than they did, but
again think in terms of possessions. Between 1976 and 1986,
there was a 15% drop in high school seniors believing fathers
need to spend more time with their kids, and a 27% drop in
those believing mothers should. "They are substituting goods
for inputs of their time," Ms. Crimmins observed.
   Margaret Marini of the University of Minnesota said
females have become almost indistinguishable from males in
voicing aspirations for high-paying, prestigious jobs and
administrative responsibility over others. In 1986, for
example, 28% of the male high school seniors and 26% of the
females said they'd like to work in a large corporation.
                                                                                                       

   The Job Scene Drives
   Men From Families
                                                                                                       

   DECLINING male labor force participation and stagnating
real income for younger men have propelled recent changes in
family structure, according to University of Connecticut
sociologist Jane Riblett Wilkie.
   Her analysis of Census Bureau data shows that in 1988 only
75% of working-age men were actually in the labor force,
compared with 83% in 1960, and that the proportion of
families with men as the sole wage earners had dropped to 15%
from 42%.
   Men 55 and older accounted for about half the total
decline in male work-force participation, Ms. Wilkie says.
She attributes this partly to economic changes that led to
layoffs of older industrial workers and partly to expanded
Social Security and pension coverage that permits more older
men to quit working.
   At the same time, young men have had increasing difficulty
in finding jobs at wages adequate to support a family of four
above the poverty level, Ms. Wilkie reports. This is
particularly true, she notes, for poorly educated men,
including many young blacks and Hispanics.
   The changes in male work patterns, she argues, have
obliged many wives to work to fill out the family income,
swelling the number of multiple-earner families. The changes
also have fueled the surge in female-headed single-parent
families, she says. Unable to support a family, men refuse to
marry the mothers of their children or leave the marriage,
and many women see little value in being married to
low-earners.
                                                                                                       

   Birth-Control Practices
   Vary Little With Faith
                                                                                                       

   MOST RELIGIOUS groups now are about equally likely to
practice birth control, a new analysis indicates. Not long
ago, religious affiliation played a central role in
determining contraceptive use. But answers from more than
8,400 women of childbearing age surveyed by the government in
1988 reveal a changed picture, according to Brown University
sociologist Calvin Goldscheider and William Mosher of the
National Center for Health Statistics.
   Just about three out of every five women of childbearing
age in each major grouping -- Protestants, Catholics, Jews
and those with no affiliation -- said they use some method of
contraception, including sterilization.
   Looking only at married, non-Hispanic whites in this age
bracket, the researchers found three out of four Protestants
and three out of four Catholics practicing contraception.
Only 66% of the Protestants and 57% of the Catholics did in a
1965 survey.
   A major trend has been a sharp increase in sterilization
for both Protestants and Catholics. In 1988, 34% of the
married, white, non-Hispanic Protestant women between 15 and
44 had been sterilized for contraceptive reasons, and another
20% were protected by their husbands having been sterilized.
Among Catholics, 22% of the women and 21% of the husbands had
been sterilized. In 1965, none of these four numbers was
above 7%.
   Members of all religious groups sharply cut back use of
intra-uterine devices over the past 15 years, and pill use
also declined. Catholic use of the rhythm method fell from
32% of the 1965 sample to only 4% by 1988.
   The 1988 survey showed blacks and Hispanics of all
religions with higher levels of female sterilization than
non-Hispanic whites, but sharply lower male sterilization.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   MOTHERS FEEL less anxious or guilty about going back to
work after the birth of their second child than they did
after the first, reports Martha Pitzer, a professor of
nursing at Ohio State University. . . . Almost two out of
five patients who have had a skin cancer surgically removed
still refuse to use any sort of sunscreen, according to
research by Dr. June Robinson of the Northwestern University
Medical School.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Office-Products Firm Sees Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OPOAA
</CO>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- Office Products of America Inc. said
it expects to report a net operating loss for 1990, its first
full year of operation, despite substantial operating revenue
generated from its three stores.
   The office-products warehouse concern said the loss will
result from start-up and administrative expenses associated
with its already-opened stores and stores it intends to open
this year. In the first quarter, Office Products reported a
net loss of $798,079, or nine cents a share, on revenue of
about $1 million. The company went public in August 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sweden's Consumer Prices Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Sweden's consumer prices rose 0.4% in April
from March and were up 10.1% from a year earlier, according
to Statistics Sweden, the national statistics agency.
   The agency said consumer prices have shot up 6.4% this
year. It said the rise was mainly a result of rent increases
and higher prices on clothes and shoes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 0.4% increase was in line with the 0.5% average
prediction of analysts.
   Sweden's annualized rate of inflation fell to 10.1% in
April from 11.2% in March but was up from 6.5% in April last
year.
   The national Price and Competition office predicted
consumer prices would increase at a rate of 8.6% this year.
Sweden's consumer price index was measured at 205.2 in April,
down from 205.4 in March. The index reflects a 1980 base of
100.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   New Line Cinema Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NLN
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW LINE CINEMA Corp., (New York) -- This distributor of
films agreed on a $75 million three-year revolving-credit
facility from a bank group led by Chemical Banking Corp.'s
Chemical Bank. New Line will use the credit, which replaces a
$35 million facility the company had with Chemical Bank, for
general purposes, including movie production.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Leisure Technology Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LVX
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LEISURE TECHNOLOGY Inc. said it won't make the June 1
dividend payment on its $2.25 cumulative convertible
exchangeable preferred stock. "It's not a well kept secret
that the housing business is in very difficult
circumstances," said Michael L. Tenzer, chairman, president
and chief executive officer of the Los Angeles real estate
developer. He said the company's housing results are poor in
the northeastern U.S. and in Florida and have moderated in
California. He declined to indicate if the previous
56-cent-a-share quarterly dividend on the preferred would be
resumed in subsequent quarters. For the third quarter ended
Dec. 31, the company reported net income of $231,000 on
revenue of $55.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   VeloBind Inc. Settlement
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VBND
</CO>
<LP>
   FREMONT, Calif. -- VeloBind Inc. settled its patent
infringement action brought against Southwest Plastic Binding
Co. last year in the U.S. District Court for Missouri's
Eastern District, the two companies said.
   As part of the settlement, Southwest, based in St. Louis,
Mo., admitted that VeloBind's binding strip patent is valid
and that Southwest's binding strips infringed on VeloBind's
patent, the companies said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All other terms of the settlement are confidential, the
companies said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Stocks Eke
   Out Record;
   Bonds Slip
   ---
   Cautious Investors
   Mull Profit-Taking;
   Dollar Falls vs. Yen
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Stock prices eked out another all-time high, but bonds
fell modestly as investors turned cautious. The dollar was
mixed.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained a scant 0.92 to
2822.45 in moderate trading. But other broader measures of
the stock market lost ground, and 856 issues declined on the
New York Stock Exchange while 654 rose.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said the speed with which stocks rose during the
past few days has made investors jittery and inclined to take
profits. Indeed, the industrial average fell 14 points in
early trading before recovering and hovering around the
record level set Monday. But some analysts said they were
surprised there wasn't more selling, especially after the
dollar weakened against the yen and bond prices slumped.
   "I think everyone was looking for a big correction," said
Thomas Callahan, senior vice president of U.S. equities at
Yamaichi International (America).
   Charles Clough, chief market strategist at Merrill Lynch,
said he doesn't see any evidence that the current rally is
the beginning of a bull market. Nevertheless, he added that
prices could continue to climb for weeks, if not months,
subject to sudden shifts in investor sentiment that could
make stock prices volatile.
   Just as the rapid runup in stock prices created
opportunities for profit taking in that market, so did the
sharp rally in bond prices last week and early this week.
Bond prices dropped as trading got under way in New York,
then stabilized at lower levels for the remainder of the day.
   Some traders said the rally that brought the yield on the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond to less than 8.6% from more
than 9% two weeks ago was probably the result of optimism
overrunning the sense of caution that had prevailed in the
bond market for weeks.
   But caution returned as traders saw the dollar sinking
against the yen and looked at their bulging inventories of
bonds, the result mostly of last week's record auction of new
Treasury debt. Although many traders expect good news on
inflation today with the release of the April consumer price
index, the chance of a negative surprise keeps them wary.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices crept higher. Trading volume on the New York
Stock Exchange slackened to 165.7 million shares from more
than 225 million Monday.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were off. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bond fell three-eighths of a point, or about $3.75 for each
$1,000 of face amount. The yield on the issue climbed to
8.65%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late afternoon New York trading
the currency was at 1.6465 marks and 150.80 yen compared with
1.6425 marks and 152.47 yen Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Halliburton Revises Budget
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HAL
</CO>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Halliburton Co. said it revised its 1990 capital
spending budget upward about 20% to $335 million from $295
million. The energy services concern said its oil field
services group will get a $60 million budget increase to
accommodate its rapid growth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Putting Art Everywhere
   ----
   By Susan G. Hauser
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   Portland, Ore. -- Nobody here blinks an eye anymore at
finding sculpture in stairwells or gargoyles on garages.
Administrators of both the Oregon and Portland One Percent
for Art programs say the populace is getting used to having
art encounters of the public kind.
   The state program, one of the first in the country, has
been in existence since 1975, allowing 1% of the construction
budget for state buildings to be allocated for art. In 1980
the city of Portland followed suit, but this year it amended
its program to devote an extra 0.33% to administrative and
maintenance costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There's more. In a move to bring art further into people's
lives, the city council voted to budget art for all city
improvement projects, not just new buildings. Now we have
parking garage art, soon to be followed by sewer art.
   Our newest downtown parking garage is now decorated on an
exterior wall with 10 cheerful terra cotta faces that smile
down on passing pedestrians. The sidewalk, as part of the
construction project, also was eligible for art, so it
contains a work entitled "Streetwise," which makes walking
down the street a meaningful experience.
   The brick sidewalk is peppered with 81 granite blocks of
various sizes. On the blocks are engraved pithy quotes from
Bob Dylan, Yogi Berra, Albert Einstein and other thinkers.
Also thrown in are expressions such as "Don't take it for
granite," "Look up]" and "Step on a crack, break your
mother's back."
   At the garage's dedication, a city commissioner said, "In
Portland we now have a garage with more than just parking,
one with a sense of vibrancy and community spirit."
   That community spirit, in or out of parking garages,
wasn't always there. It has been an uphill battle for the One
Percent administrators, who somehow must convince taxpayers
that this use of their dollars will, in the end, make them
more civilized.
   Nancy Lindburg, manager of the state program, said her
darkest hour was when a state senator learned that the next
project was to be at the Eastern Oregon Correctional
Institution. In a twist on an old political theme, the
senator complained loudly and frequently that the state would
be paying for "a painting in every cell."
   As it turned out, the money went for a life-sized,
inmate-designed concrete sculpture of an inmate. It now
greets visitors at the prison entrance. In the palm of his
hand he is holding a dove -- or pigeon, depending on your
point of view.
   Eloise MacMurray, who manages Portland's public art
program, had a similar experience when a new jail on the
outskirts of town was eligible for an art project. The county
sheriff refused to allow it.
   "We told him it was THE LAW," said Ms. MacMurray.
   The sheriff gave in and appointed staff members to a panel
to decide on the art project most appropriate for the jail.
Final decision: a short, animated film on the experience of
being in jail. Although not exactly a "Bugs Bunny Gets
Busted" sort of thing, it will be shown to children, maybe to
convince them that crime doesn't pay, but art does.
   In Salem, Ms. Lindburg oversees the state program. She is
very proud of the growing collection of art and the
collection's growing value. Works purchased over the past 15
years for $1.4 million are now worth about $6 million.
   "I can't think of anything we've purchased in state
government that has jumped in value like this," she said.
   The point of the program is to place art in the most
public places, where it will be seen and enjoyed by the most
people. Works are selected to reflect the mission of the
particular state agency or institution and to be pleasing to
the eye of the beholder.
   For example, she said, art for the state revenue building,
where people go to pay their taxes, was selected partly for
qualities that induced calm and quietude.
   "They didn't want the work to contribute to anger, Ms.
Lindburg noted.
   Employees, meanwhile, are treated to six-story wire
sculptures in the two stairwells. Sculptor Peter Teneau, who
strung the 22-foot-wide, four-foot-deep sculpture himself
through a hole in the roof, planned that the wired array of
metal rods and discs would rely on the motion of the viewer
to achieve its full effect.
   "It's to encourage people to use the stairs," said Ms.
Lindburg.
   Back in Portland, plans are in the works for a sculpture
to grace the Columbia Waste Water Treatment Plant. The plant
management duly nominated three sewage workers to serve on
the panel that will select and supervise the art work.
   Ms. MacMurray said the exact design hasn't yet been
determined, "but it will be something about how dirty water
is made clean."
   She noted that the plant treats 95% of Portland's sewage
each day and, therefore, has many employees. There are, in
fact, 150 employees who will benefit from the presence of art
at the sewage treatment plant. "That," she said, "is nothing
to sneeze at."
   ---
   Ms. Hauser is a writer based in Portland.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Reverse Course and Fall as Decline
   In Dollar Triggers Selling by Foreign Investors
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE FNM GDW FNG DAL MZ SWY X.DEC ADD EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- After a three-day run-up, bond prices stumbled
as the falling value of the dollar prompted some foreign
investors to bail out of the market.
   The selling began during overnight trading in Tokyo, where
the Treasury's new benchmark 30-year bond fell 1/4 point, or
$2.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The losses were
carried over to London trading where the U.S. long-term bond
suffered further declines. When the market opened for trading
in the U.S., prices of the Treasury's benchmark bond were
already nearly 1/2 point lower, where they remained for much
of the day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "All the action in the market occurred early in the
morning. Activity really trailed off in the afternoon," said
Charles Lieberman, a managing director at Manufacturers
Hanover Securities Corp.
   The bond market sell-off was triggered by a sharp decline
in the value of the dollar against the yen. When the dollar
falls, the value of dollar-denominated securities also
declines, which makes them less attractive to foreign
investors.
   In trading, the dollar finished at 151.30 yen in Tokyo,
well below the 153.35 yen there late Monday. The dollar gave
up more ground against the yen in the U.S. and was quoted
late here at about 150.80 yen, down from 152.47 yen late
Monday. Although the dollar rose against the mark, that had
little effect on the market.
   The Treasury's benchmark bond, which has risen sharply in
recent sessions, ended about 3/8 point lower. Municipal,
investment-grade corporate and mortgage-backed securities
posted similar declines. But prices of high-yield junk bonds
advanced for the second consecutive day.
   Traders and analysts said two economic reports released
early yesterday on industrial production and capacity
utilization caused a brief bounce in the market. But it
didn't last very long.
   The two economic reports offered fresh evidence that the
economy is weak. Industrial production dropped 0.4% last
month, as U.S. factories, utilities and mines operated at 83%
of their production capacity. Factory output climbed 0.5% in
March, when the operating rate was 83.5%.
   A decline in the production of autos was a major factor in
the April decline, but production of lumber products,
computers, nonferrous metals, paper, clothing, textiles and
many other products also dropped from the previous month.
   Typically, negative economic news has a positive impact on
the bond market because lower economic growth leads to
speculation that interest rates will eventually move lower.
And when interest rates fall, bond prices rise.
   James Capra, a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman
Government Securities Inc., said the market's inability to
rally after the economic reports came out may mean the market
is "showing signs of fatigue" and that investors believe
bonds have become too pricey.
   Others, however, speculate that investors may be reluctant
to buy bonds ahead of today's potentially market-moving
consumer price index report for April. The index is a key
measure of inflation.
   Economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report
estimate, on average, a 0.3% rise in April's index. A higher
inflation rate could depress the market.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at a
price of 101 11/32 to yield 8.65%. The price was down from
101 24/32 to yield 8.58% on Monday. The latest 10-year notes
ended at a price of 101 14/32 to yield 8.64%, compared with
101 22/32 to yield 8.60% on Monday.
   Short-term rates were slightly lower. The discount rate on
three-month Treasury bills ended at about 7.65% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.89%, down slightly from the
average rate of 7.67% for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.93%
set at Monday's Treasury bill auction.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities ended 2/32 to 5/32 point lower.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9% securities for
June delivery ended at 95 5/8, down 4/32; 9 1/2% securities
were at 98 1/32, down 2/32; 10% securities were at 100 14/32,
down 5/32; and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9 1/2%
securities were at 97 21/32, down 2/32.
   The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 9.77% to a 12-year
average life assumption, as the spread above the Treasury
10-year note narrowed 0.02 percentage point to 1.13.
   In the derivative market, Ryland Acceptance Corp. offered
a $315 million real estate mortgage investment conduit backed
by Ginnie Mae 10% securities through Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
And the Federal National Mortgage Association issued a $190
million Remic backed by its 9 1/2% principal-only strips
through First Boston Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   Despite the mounting problems in the thrift industry, one
California savings and loan managed to tap the debt market
with a sellout bond issue.
   Golden West Financial Corp., considered to be one of the
healthiest and most conservatively run thrifts in the nation,
sold $115 million of subordinated notes. Strong investor
demand prompted underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets to increase the size of the issue from $100 million.
   Among other new issues, Fleet/Norstar Financial Group Inc.
and Delta Air Lines offered a total of $450 million of debt.
   Meanwhile, junk bonds surged for the second straight day
in a broad-based market rally.
   Most junk bonds, or speculative-grade securities with low
credit ratings or no credit ratings, gained 1/2 to 3/4 point.
   Junk dealers said trading volume was the strongest they've
seen in weeks.
   Among the bonds that advanced strongly were R.H. Macy &amp;
Co.'s 14 1/2% senior subordinated debentures, maturing in
1998, which added 1 1/2 to end at 73 1/2; Safeway Stores
Inc.'s 12% subordinated debentures, due in 1998, which
chalked up a point to close at 98 3/4; and Duracell Holdings
Corp.'s 13 1/2% subordinated debentures, due in 2000, which
inched up 1/2 point to finish at 103 1/2.
   The junk bonds of Ames Department Stores Inc. were also
higher. An attorney for the Rocky Hill, Conn.-based retailer
told a bankruptcy court judge that the firm has reached an
agreement in principle with 33 of its pre-bankruptcy lenders.
The judge is expected to issue an order today on Ames's
request for $250 million of interim financing.
   Ames's 13% senior subordinated reset notes rose a point to
close at 28, reflecting the market's belief that the firm
will secure interim financing.
   In the investment-grade corporate debt market, corporate
issues finished unchanged to about 1/8 point lower.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds were 1/8 to 3/8 point lower in late
dealings as the tax-exempt market grappled with its first
onslaught of supply in several weeks.
   Secondary market dealings were quiet as attention focused
on the new-issue arena, where more than $1 billion of new
debt was priced.
   In one of the largest deals of the day, a Chase Securities
Inc. group reported that the account was closed on an issue
of $250 million of Texas National Research Laboratory
Commission's superconducting supercollider project general
obligation bonds priced yesterday.
   By comparison, about one-half, or about $33.6 million,
remained from an issue of $72 million of Los Angeles general
obligation bonds won by a Prudential-Bache Capital Funding
group.
   "Los Angeles was priced so aggressively. It was priced
through the highest trade we've seen on California GOs," said
one New York serial bond trader.
   Prior to the pricing of the Los Angeles bonds, several
traders had suggested that some of the day's deals might come
aggressively priced, with high prices and low yields, because
dealers needed to pick up bonds to fill slim inventories.
   Whether dealers will have difficulty moving new bonds will
depend on the consumer price data scheduled for release
today, several traders said.
   In negotiated dealings, a Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. group
priced $166.5 million of New York State Environmental
Facilities Corp.'s state water pollution control revolving
revenue bonds.
   In secondary action, New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20%
issue of 2018 was off 3/8 point at 98 bid to yield 7.35%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of West German government bonds fell as investors
sold bonds on fears that a large supply of new securities
would depress prices.
   The government is expected to issue between four billion
and five billion marks (between $2.44 billion and $3.04
billion) of 10-year notes on Friday. Dealers expect the notes
to have a coupon rate of between 8 1/2% and 8 5/8%. That
would be up from a rate of 7 3/4% on the current benchmark
10-year note.
   In trading yesterday, the benchmark issue fell 0.55 point
to 94.10 to yield 8.66%.
   Dealers said the market also was hurt by a newspaper
report that said West Germany may soon issue bonds geared
toward international investors, the proceeds of which would
be used to invest in East Germany. West Germany's finance
ministry denied plans to launch international bonds.
   But Bonn and the 11 West German states are planning a 115
billion mark special German Unity Fund financed by credits to
help pay for the reconstruction of East Germany's economy.
The fund would be built up by debt issued in the domestic
capital market.
   In Japan, government bonds ended stronger on the yen's
strength. But many traders in Japan don't believe that bond
prices will continue to rise because the market's
fundamentals haven't changed.
   "At this point the market is only rising on the yen, not
on short-term interest rates," said a trader at one of
Japan's large brokerage firms.
   Rates on new three-month certificates of deposit were
unchanged at 7.36%, and Japanese analysts don't expect
short-term rates to drop much. Therefore, it will be
difficult for the Japanese bond market rally to continue,
they said.
   At the Tokyo Stock Exchange close, Japan's benchmark
10-year issue was quoted at 88.13, up 0.44 point, to yield
6.93%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Divi Hotels Debt Payment
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DVH
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARUBA -- Divi Hotels N.V. said it didn't plan to make the
interest payment due yesterday on its $60 million of 14 1/2%
senior debentures.
   The company said it had previously announced that it was
entering into a bond exchange process with the holders of its
two issues of debt securities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Divi said that if the exchange offers are completed, this
would reduce the company's cash debt service requirement for
three years, allowing the company time to implement its
strategy of selling or recapitalizing its ownership interests
in its hotel and resort properties. The offers will expire
May 24, unless extended, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Pop's Princess of Wails
   ----
   By Pam Lambert
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Sinead O'Connor is something else. With her
shorn skull and immense eyes, the young Irish singer who's
been topping the album and singles charts has a
tough-but-tender look unique in pop. Her voice is very
different too, an emotional seismograph capable of shifting
instantly from whisper to scream. And so, it seems, are
O'Connor's notions of performance, as she is demonstrating on
her current U.S. tour.
   From the start, this Dublin native has stood out from the
pack. Her arresting debut album "The Lion and the Cobra"
(Chrysalis), released three years ago when she was 20, had an
elemental intensity. The songs, most of which O'Connor wrote
and produced, burned with all the anger, pain and yearning of
her Dickensian-sounding adolescence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   O'Connor's vocal fireworks were matched by her musical
daring. She boldly mixed styles ranging from Celtic folk to
symphonic to hip hop -- sometimes within a single composition
-- for a sound as stirring and unpredictable as the passions,
obsessions and betrayals of which she sang. Occasionally the
results were excessive, but never boring.
   Her new album, "I Do Not Want What I Haven't Got"
(Chrysalis), is another story. As the title suggests, this is
a more sober document, the statement of an artist who says
she's found serenity (in interviews she credits domestic
bliss, particularly her recent marriage to the father of her
toddler son). O'Connor's themes have stayed pretty much the
same, if expressed in more confessional terms, but her music
has contracted, muted.
   Except for the odd three-chord rocker, "I Do Not Want"
tends toward folkish hum-and-strum numbers that run no risk
of waking the baby. Or startling the listener. Lyrically
O'Connor cuts to the quick. But musically not much happens
and, at a lengthy five minutes per track, it sounds like even
less.
   It definitely doesn't sound like blockbuster stuff. But
there's a wild card here -- the one song O'Connor didn't
write (Prince did). Called "Nothing Compares 2 U," it's a
torchy lament of lost love. The only thing more wrenching
than the ache with which O'Connor sings the ballad is the way
she looks in the accompanying video. All eyes, she's caught
in tight close-up like a deer frozen by headlights. To resist
her appeal would be like killing Bambi.
   And so it was that O'Connor arrived here last week for two
sold-out shows with the No. 1 album and single in the
country, the hot ticket. Scalpers trolled the blocks around
the Beacon Theatre. Inside the standing-room-only crowd
buzzed expectantly. When the curtain finally rose, revealing
a solitary figure in a cross of light, the audience exploded.
   With her broad-shouldered biker jacket and tight pants,
O'Connor looked like an Oscar statuette. She stood as still
as one while the whoops and shrieks continued, drowning out
what she was singing. Eventually you could make out the words
to the new album's keynote song, "Feel So Different,"
O'Connor's declaration of maturity, and the string sounds
swelling from an unseen synthesizer. But all it took was the
tiniest flutter of her hands -- or voice -- for the crowd to
erupt again.
   They roared at the end of the song when O'Connor doffed
the black snood she'd been wearing, exposing her shaved pate.
She said something indistinguishable. Then she and the
now-visible five-piece band kicked into the chugging riffs of
"The Emperor's New Clothes." The group seemed to energize if
not animate her. Though O'Connor remained as poker-faced as
during the opening number, while the song crested she hopped
like a sparrow -- to the audience's delight.
   Then a percussion rat-a-tat signaled the start of "I Want
Your (Hands on Me)," the first album's dance club hit,
bringing the crowd to its feet. In the eerie purple and green
lighting, O'Connor stripped down to a black bustier. The band
pumped. She sang strongly, giving an edge of menace to her
invitation, but she moved as if in a trance. Footlights threw
her looming shadow against the back of the stage. When she
ran her hands over her thin frame, dipping down to her
crotch, the effect was less erotic than macabre.
   Next it was back to the new album for "You Cause as Much
Sorrow." As the band played the piano-embellished folk tune,
O'Connor accompanied herself with the by-now familiar hand
flutters and arm flaps. Unusual in their own right -- a
spastic hula came to mind -- O'Connor's otherwise zombielike
demeanor made them seem truly bizarre. It was as if the
intensity of O'Connor's singing had drained the life from her
body, leaving only a spasmodically jerking shell.
   Before the end of the song O'Connor walked offstage. She
returned with an acoustic guitar and began to strum "Three
Babies." As a guitar player she proved a good singer, but at
least the instrument gave her someplace to put her hands.
   Alone except for a backup guitarist, O'Connor continued
with more of the new album's chamber music. The fans, though,
seemed on a different frequency. They cheered and whooped
intermittently for no apparent reason, in the vocal
equivalent of a wave. Their high spirits were particularly
ill-timed; the tune was O'Connor's indictment of racism in
England, "Black Boys on Mopeds." But maybe they couldn't
tell. In the barebones folkie arrangement, it didn't sound
all that different from the preceding song -- or from other
new numbers.
   Fortunately the pace picked up with "Jackie," a keening
lament from the first album, and "I Am Stretched on Your
Grave," a newer lament that O'Connor ended by executing a
brisk jig. The return of the excellent but underutilized band
turned up the intensity another notch for the Big Hit, which
O'Connor gave a suitably big-voiced rendition.
   To forestall any letdown, she followed "Nothing Compares"
with a triple play of spirited material. First came the rocky
"Jump in the River," then the ominous "Jerusalem" and finally
the guitar-powered "Mandinka," as close to a traditional pop
song as she has written.
   With a "Thank you very much, good night," O'Connor and the
band were off the stage. But the fans weren't buying it. They
bellowed loudly, held aloft lit matches and didn't budge.
   In a few minutes blue lights washed over the stage and
O'Connor was back, accompanied only by her guitar. Cheers
greeted the opening of "Troy." Even without the roiling
symphonic accompaniment she gave it on the first album, this
invective against a faithless lover is one of O'Connor's
angriest songs, almost thrilling in its vehemence. As she
stormed through it, her growls and howls were matched by the
crowd. The tension built, and built some more. Finally,
bansheelike, she screeched, "You're still a liar]"
   And then she was gone.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   McGraw-Hill Ryerson Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS T.MHR MHP
</CO>
<LP>
   MCGRAW-HILL RYERSON Ltd. (Toronto) -- Michael G.
Richardson was named president and chief executive officer,
succeeding Robert M. Freeman, who left the company. The
publishing company said Mr. Richardson will remain an
executive vice president with the parent company, McGraw-Hill
Inc., which holds about 70% of the Canadian concern. Mr.
Richardson was president of the Canadian subsidiary in 1986
and 1987. He was then promoted to the position of president
of International Book Group and replaced as president of the
Canadian unit by Mr. Freeman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Galveston-Houston's Advisers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GHX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Galveston-Houston Co. said it hired Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co. and Simmons &amp; Co. International to formulate a
plan to enhance shareholder value.
   In April, the company said its chairman, president and
chief executive officer, Nathan M. Avery, would resign to
assume a post with the Commerce Department, and that it would
hire advisers to help determine the best course of action.
Galveston-Houston manufactures oil and natural gas drilling
and production equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman said options include hiring a new chief
executive, possible mergers and acquisitions and the sale of
all or parts of the company. He stressed that no decisions
have been made and that the investment bankers haven't yet
completed a review of the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contriubtors:
   Inflation: Almost Never What It Seems
   ----
   By Irving Kristol
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   The very brief news item from Reuters, datelined London,
May 11, was headlined "Inflation Spurt in Britain." The
story, in toto, read as follows:
   "Britain's annualized inflation rate leaped sharply to an
eight-year high of 9.4 per cent in April from 8.1 per cent in
March. Inflation last reached 9.4 per cent in April 1982, and
has climbed to its current level from a low of 3.3 per cent
in January 1988. The main components in the latest rise were
the introduction of a poll tax to finance local governments
and the increase in duties on alcohol, tobacco, and
gasoline."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This report jogged my memory. Almost a decade ago,
Margaret Thatcher radically increased Britain's value-added
tax (VAT) -- in effect, a sales tax -- while cutting
income-tax rates. Inflation, as officially measured by the
consumer price index, immediately took a huge leap upward.
Government spending on inflation-indexed welfare programs
also jumped, as did the costs embedded in many private
contracts, while the trade unions promptly demanded (and
often got) compensatory wage increases.
   I remember thinking at the time that this made no economic
sense whatsoever. Now, reading the latest Reuters report, I
come to the firm conclusion that it still makes no economic
sense whatsoever. After all, why should an increase (or
decrease) in a sales tax or excise tax be inflationary (or
deflationary), while a comparable increase (or decrease) in
the income tax is not? Why should a poll tax be inflationary
while the property tax, which it replaced, was not? Why
should my office rent go up -- there is an indexation clause
in the lease -- if the government should decide to increase
taxes on alcohol and cigarettes?
   How is it possible for any tax increase to be
inflationary? After all, what a tax does is take money from
the private sector and transfer it to the government's
treasury. Why do we think that such a money transfer can be
inflationary?
   The answer is that we have forgotten the basics, as taught
in Economics 101. Inflation, we learn from the prescribed
elementary textbook, is a monetary phenomenon. It occurs when
too much money is chasing too few goods. And it is certainly
the case that when too much money is chasing too few goods,
we get a rising price level. But it is an error in logic to
reason backward and to assert that a rising price level
always signals inflation -- i.e., that too much money is
chasing too few goods. To the degree that we ignore the cause
of a rise in the price level, we will be misled into
misguided policies (such as indexation) or an erroneous
monetary policy.
   Practically all our economists work from oversimplified
models that assume that the price level, as measured by the
consumer price index (CPI) or producer price index (PPI),
accurately mirrors the state of inflation flowing from the
government's monetary and fiscal policy. This assumption can
lead, and has led, to dangerous absurdities.
   Recall the following actual case. Back in the early 1970s,
the OPEC cartel sharply raised the price of oil, thereby in
effect imposing an energy tax on the American people. Since
the costs of energy flow through the entire economy, the
price level, as measured by the conventional indexes, rose
sharply. It seemed -- and was said as well as believed --
that we were experiencing inflation, as a result of which
Richard Nixon was persuaded to commit the economic folly of
imposing wage and price controls. But, of course, what we
were experiencing was not inflation at all but a case of
instant relative impoverishment. The OPEC tax resulted in all
of us having too little money to purchase the "normal" basket
of goods represented by the CPI.
   It is certainly correct to think, as classical economics
asserts, that over time people would adjust to the new
economic reality. Having to pay more for energy meant that
they would consume less of it, and would -- at least for a
while -- have to consume less of other things as well. This
is precisely what happened -- over time. But the adjustment
process does take time, since people don't instantaneously
revise their living patterns and spending habits. They are
likely to react to this kind of economic "shock" by saving
less, dipping into past savings, and borrowing more.
   So for several years, "inflation" was with us, only it
wasn't inflation at all. Nevertheless, indexation -- whether
contractual or informal -- could make that increase in the
price level permanent. Central banks, in a modern democracy,
have little stomach for a painful deflation of the price
level.
   A similar situation could easily arise from other shocks,
whether "acts of God" or of man. The price level may well be
an adequate proxy for inflation over very long periods of
time. To look at the CPI or the PPI every month, as we now
do, and to try to draw conclusions about the value of 30-year
Treasury bonds, is ridiculous. Nevertheless, our economists
-- most of them, anyhow -- are busily engaged in this
exercise, and the financial markets, having no mind of their
own on this complex issue, tend to follow suit. For the
central bank to jiggle short-term interest rates in the light
of these monthly numbers is equally ridiculous. We are
fortunate that Alan Greenspan thinks so too.
   What makes the whole business even more absurd, in fact as
well as theory, is that the consumer price index is revised,
and its "representative" basket of goods made current, only
intermittently over the decade. It is common for years to
pass before the Bureau of Labor Statistics can get around to
bringing us up to date on how we are distributing our
purchasing power among available goods and services, and how
much we are spending on the total. The price level the CPI
reports always lags well behind the reality. This would not
be so important were it not for the fact that the CPI is
reported in tenths of one percent, and these small variations
in an anachronistic set of monthly statistics are seized upon
by commentators and analysts as possibly signifying a trend.
   It would be very helpful if our economists could come up
with some way of looking at inflation, thinking about
inflation, and roughly measuring inflation (with no attempt
at false precision) that was not linked to the current level
of prices. The monetarists, led by Milton Friedman, have made
a truly noble effort to decouple inflation from
contemporaneous perturbations in the price level, but
"monetarism," when put into practice, has run into serious
difficulties. In an economy with a fiat currency, where
credit is also "money," and where computers can finance
transactions by accelerating the "velocity" of money, the
concept of the "money supply" is slippery and amorphous.
Though still a powerful conceptual tool, it seems to be most
useful in retrospective explanations covering long periods of
time.
   Perhaps, one of these days, our monetarists -- I see them
as our only hope -- will come up with a new and superior
methodology. Until then, we would be well advised to look
with skepticism at all those statistics about prices and
"inflation" that constitute our daily economic news. And we
would be well advised, too, to try to cure ourselves of the
mischievous habit of indexing wages, prices, pensions, taxes,
etc. to relatively short-term changes in the price level.
   ---
   Mr. Kristol, an American Enterprise Institute fellow,
co-edits The Public Interest and publishes The National
Interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Wins Jet Engine Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.LHA GE
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRFIELD, Conn. -- General Electric Co. said its aircraft
engines subsidiary received a $100 million order for CF34-3A1
jet engines from a partner of Lufthansa Airlines.
   The contract covers engines for 13 aircraft, and an option
for 12 more.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Deutsche Luftverkehrgesellschaft, West Germany, is
ordering the jets, called Canadair regional jets, from
Canadair Ltd. The jets, which are expected to begin service
in 1992, seat 50 passengers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chartwell Group Sells Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CTWLE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WESTPORT, Conn. -- Chartwell Group Ltd. agreed to sell its
Paul Hanson Co. subsidiary, a Carlstadt, N.J., manufacturer
of lighting and decorative products, to Kostka France. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   The companies expect to close the transaction by July 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Seegal Leaves Shearson's Media Group
   For Broader Banking Role at Salomon
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AXP SLH SB
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Frederic Seegal, head of Shearson Lehman
Hutton Inc.'s investment-banking group for media companies,
jumped ship to become co-head of Salomon Inc.'s corporate
finance operations.
   The move, considered a coup for Salomon, is a sign of that
firm's determination to build its presence in investment
banking for the media industry. And analysts said it
underscores the problems Shearson faces in retaining key
talent amid its much-publicized financial and management
troubles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Seegal, a 16-year veteran at Shearson, will become a
managing director at Salomon. Mr. Seegal, 41 years old, will
work with Denis A. Bovin, co-head of corporate finance, and
report to Salomon Vice Chairmen Jay F. Higgins and Leo I.
Higdon Jr.
   Salomon has been seeking to position its
investment-banking operation in several areas -- including
media, energy and industrial companies -- that it has
identified as having long-term profit potential. For example,
Salomon represented GTE Corp. in its recently announced $710
million purchase of the Providence Journal's ownership
interest in cellular franchises in four states.
   For Shearson, the loss of Mr. Seegal may be blunted
somewhat by the slowdown in transactions among media
companies. But Mr. Seegal and Salomon nevertheless expect the
media business, which in their broad definition includes
telephone, cellular and entertainment companies, to heat up
again.
   "If there's ever been an industry populated with
aggressive people who want to do deals, it's the media
business," Mr. Seegal said yesterday.
   Shearson hasn't yet named a successor to Mr. Seegal, who
joined the firm as an associate in 1974 from Harvard
University, where he studied law and business. In 1981, Mr.
Seegal was named managing director at Lehman Brothers Kuhn
Loeb Inc., a predecessor firm, and he also was named head of
the firm's media and communications team.
   Shearson's media group has 11 professionals, including
three analysts. The No. 2 professional in Shearson's media
group, senior vice president Jill Greenthal, recently moved
to the firm's London office, reflecting the increasingly
international bent of media banking.
   While Mr. Seegal's departure suggests that Shearson is
having trouble keeping some of its senior professionals,
Shearson officials privately say they believe the firm has
done a good job at keeping most of its top people. And Mr.
Seegal said his move was no reflection on Shearson.
   "This shouldn't be viewed as a vote of no confidence at
Shearson; it was just a great opportunity," Mr. Seegal said.
"If (Salomon) had called a year and a half ago, I'd have
taken it."
   Indeed, Mr. Seegal will have far greater responsibilities
at Salomon than he ever had at Shearson. Along with Mr.
Bovin, he will oversee Salomon's coverage of corporate
clients in most of the U.S., Canada and Latin America.
   Salomon, for its part, is expected to add to its corporate
finance area, which currently has a staff of about 150. The
firm has about a dozen professionals in its media group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Occidental Petroleum Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OXY
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Natural Gas Pipeline Co. of America said it
is seeking federal regulators' approval to expand the
capacity of the central and eastern segments of its recently
completed Amarillo/Gulf Coast natural gas pipeline in
Oklahoma and Texas.
   Natural Gas is the interstate transmission unit of MidCon
Corp., a unit of Los Angeles-based Occidental Petroleum Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company has applied to the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission to increase the capacity of each segment by 300
million cubic feet of gas a day. The central segment
currently carries 500 million cubic feet a day, while the
eastern segment carries 350 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Memotec Data Sees Flat Net
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.MDI
</CO>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Memotec Data Inc., a telecommunications,
computer systems and communications products concern, expects
1990 net income will be "about flat" with the year-earlier
20.1 million Canadian dollars (US$17 million), or 52 Canadian
cents (44 U.S. cents) a share, said Morrie Glick, vice
president, finance.
   Mr. Glick said after the annual meeting that earnings each
quarter are expected to increase from year-earlier levels for
the remainder of this year. Memotec had a first-quarter net
loss, after special charges, of C$4.1 million, or 10 Canadian
cents a share, on revenue of C$89.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Daimler-Benz AG:
   Company Predicts Growth
   In Sales to Continue in 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DAI
</CO>
<LP>
   Daimler-Benz AG predicted further sales growth for 1990 as
it continues its strategy of widespread diversification.
   The Stuttgart, West Germany-based auto, aerospace and
electronics group said first-quarter sales rose to 19.5
billion Deutsche marks ($11.9 billion) from 17 billion marks
in the year-earlier period, reflecting to a major extent the
acquisition last year of aerospace concern
Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm GmbH (MBB). Group sales are
expected to rise to 85 billion marks this year from 76.39
billion marks a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Savings Bonds Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government raised the interest rate
on all Canada Savings Bonds to 11.5% a year from 10.5%.
   The new rate will be in effect for the five months
beginning June 1 and ending Oct. 31. Canada Savings Bonds can
be redeemed at any time at face value. They can be purchased
only by Canadian residents and are one of the government's
main instruments for raising money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Canadians have been redeeming Canada Savings Bonds heavily
in recent months to take advantage of competing instruments
with higher interest rates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Court Strikes Down Fed Policy Forcing
   Bank Holding Firms to Help Sick Units
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr. and Michael Allen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   M
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal appeals court struck down an important
bank-regulatory policy of the Federal Reserve Board, saying
the Fed doesn't have the power to force bank holding
companies to help ailing subsidiaries.
   The appeals court in New Orleans, in a case involving the
Dallas bank holding company MCorp, said the Fed overreached
its authority in asserting the so-called source of strength
doctrine. Under the doctrine, which the Fed made explicit in
regulations in 1984 and 1987, bank holding companies were
required to use their assets to aid their bank units "during
periods of financial stress or adversity."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Banking groups hailed the decision, saying it will remove
huge potential liability that had hurt bank holding companies
trying to raise capital. "This puts shareholders of bank
holding companies on an even playing field with shareholders
of other financial institutions," said James McLaughlin, a
regulatory attorney with the American Bankers Association.
   Said Howard Cayne, a partner with Arnold &amp; Porter who
handled the case for MCorp: "The effect of this decision is
to leave the decision of whether to downstream capital into
subsidiary banks where it properly lies -- with the bank
holding company's board of directors."
   However, the decision also puts a dent in the Fed's
attempt to reduce the cost to the government from bank
failures. The estimated cost of bailing out depositors at 20
MCorp banks that failed last March is about $2 billion. A
spokesman for the Fed hadn't seen the decision and had no
comment.
   MCorp and federal regulators have been bickering over the
banking concern's holding company assets since October 1988,
when MCorp first conceded that it wouldn't be able to weather
the Texas financial collapse without some form of federal
aid.
   At that time, the Fed and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., concerned about the potential bailout cost, began
pressuring MCorp to shore up the capital of its 25 banking
subsidiaries. Invoking the source-of-strength doctrine, the
Fed asked MCorp to identify the banking units that needed
support and to specify the amount of capital it intended to
inject.
   But MCorp, which had recently amassed some $400 million by
selling its credit-card and data-processing businesses,
refused. Rather than pump money into the banks right away,
MCorp hoped to use the assets as the cornerstone of a
management-led recapitalization. Threatened with a possible
bankruptcy filing, the Fed temporarily backed off.
   But after dissident bondholders forced MCorp into Chapter
11 bankruptcy-law proceedings in March of last year -- and
after the FDIC took over all but five of MCorp's banks -- the
Fed renewed its efforts to pry money loose from the holding
company. It instituted new administrative proceedings
charging that MCorp had improperly obtained $63.7 million of
unsecured loans from two of its failed banking subsidiaries
and alleged that the company hadn't acted as a source of
strength to its remaining subsidiary banks.
   MCorp responded with the lawsuit in federal court. MCorp
currently has $482 million in holding company assets and is
trying to sell its remaining five banks.
   In the appeals court decision, Judge W. Eugene Davis said
the Fed, which regulates bank holding companies, doesn't have
the "authority to regulate the day-to-day financial soundness
of the subsidiary banks." He also said a refusal by MCorp to
transfer assets doesn't constitute an "unsafe and unsound
practice" that would give the regulators the right to order
the move.
   Many banking attorneys have long believed that the
source-of-strength doctrine would fall in a court challenge,
and the Fed has only rarely used the policy explicitly. But
the threat of the policy has provided useful leverage against
banks that didn't want to challenge the Fed. "It's been
lurking," said Mr. McLaughlin of the ABA.
   Congress and the Bush administration considered writing
the source-of-strength policy into law last year during
deliberations on the bill that overhauled regulation of the
thrift and banking industries. But they rejected that and
passed a provision under which subsidiary banks -- but not
the holding company -- must help the government bail out
other troubled subsidiaries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Horizon Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HRZB
</CO>
<LP>
   HORIZON BANK (Bellingham, Wash.) -- V. Lawrence Evans was
named president of this financial institution, succeeding
George W. Gust, who remains chairman of the board. Mr. Evans
was Horizon's executive vice president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- The Fortress Companies:
   Hammacher Is Aiming for Sharper Image
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SHRP
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   {Part of a Series}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   You never know when your aging dog will need an orthopedic
pet bed. But when canine arthritis does strike, the affluent
have always known where to shop: Hammacher Schlemmer &amp; Co.
   Of late, however, Hammacher's fortress position in the
marketplace for expensive, often gimmicky, items is beginning
to look a bit like a Maginot line as competitors outflank it.
In 67 cities so far, entrepreneur Richard Thalheimer's
Sharper Image Corp. especially has eaten into Hammacher's
position.
   Hammacher's annual sales -- an undisclosed figure -- are
probably around $50 million, some industry executives say.
But Sharper Image reported revenue of $208.6 million for the
fiscal year ended Jan. 31. Sharper Image employs 1,200
people, 10 times as many as Hammacher.
   "Hammacher had a shot at becoming the company that Sharper
Image now is but blew it," says Alan Millstein, editor of a
New York newsletter named Fashion Network Report.
   A look at Hammacher shows that even fortresses can be
vulnerable. But Hammacher is trying to strengthen its
position. "The company is like this gem that was allowed to
get dusty," says John Semmelhack, president of Hammacher
since March 1989. "Now we're polishing it up."
   Mr. Semmelhack says Hammacher has gotten better results
lately, mostly by stressing mail-order sales through a
slicker catalog. He says overall sales rose 20% last year, a
pace he expects to continue this year and next. (As for
profit or loss, he says only that "profitability is
improving.") The company also is stressing less gimmicky
products and is shifting its target to middlebrow consumers.
   Founded in 1848, Hammacher Schlemmer gained national fame
for such exotic luxury items as a $450 set of ski helmets
with built-in two-way radios and a $1,299 motorized golf bag
that propels itself.
   Rover's bed with a specially designed orthopedic foam
cushion sells for $47. For those who hate to endlessly
reposition their beach chairs to track the sun, Hammacher
offers a $74 folding beach chair that revolves 360 degrees.
For $25, it has a battery-powered nose-hair trimmer that it
claims is the best in the business. The company was an early
seller of the pop-up toaster, the electric dry shaver, the
automatic steam iron, the electric toothbrush and the
cordless telephone.
   The company's flagship New York store, situated on East
57th Street since 1926, has inspired New Yorker magazine
cartoons. It also inspired a Broadway song, "Hammacher
Schlemmer, I Love You," from "The Little Show" of 1929.
   The regular customers have included movie stars,
presidents and foreign dignitaries. "The store is great for
taking out-of-town relatives into -- it's an archetypical New
York experience," says David J. Kaufmann, a Manhattan lawyer.
   While it sold toys for adults, Hammacher for many years
was itself a toy for a succession of rich but complacent
owners, Mr. Millstein says. Tim Simon, president of a San
Francisco manufacturer of gift items, says Sharper Image
aggressively created a national market for products similar
to Hammacher's while Hammacher seemed content to serve a much
smaller audience, mostly in Manhattan.
   Though Hammacher's New York store has shrunk to a single
sales floor from as many as seven in the past, it has
survived. Hammacher also runs two smaller stores, in Chicago
-- where it is now based -- and Beverly Hills, Calif. A
nationwide mail-order business accounts for 75% of sales.
   Many of the 800 items at the New York store are gimmicky
or even wacky; some are difficult or impossible to find
elsewhere. In recent years, Hammacher has offered bowling
lanes and used London taxicabs. Besides unusual gadgets,
Hammacher offers a broad range of housewares, sporting goods,
personal-care products, electronics and soft goods.
   The store isn't for cheapskates. Even Mr. Kaufmann, the
lawyer who likes taking visitors to Hammacher, says, "I keep
purchases to a minimum -- it's a fairly pricey store."
Morocco's King Hassan once requested a discount on $28,000 in
purchases, including a half-scale copy of a Model T Ford --
and was refused.
   The company, which began as William Tollner's hardware
store, has long catered to the affluent. (The name "Hammacher
Schlemmer" came along in 1883, reflecting the names of the
owners at the time.) In 1899, when only a few hundred wealthy
people in New York owned cars, Hammacher began selling auto
parts. After several shifts in direction, it switched its
major focus in 1955 to luxury gift items.
   Yet in recent years, as consumer gadgetry boomed,
Hammacher missed chances to grow. "We weren't aggressively
managing the company for expansion -- it wasn't our primary
business interest," says New York investor Norman M.
Hinerfeld, part of a group that owned Hammacher in the early
70s. Hammacher had an even lower priority with its next
owner, huge Gulf &amp; Western Industries (now Paramount
Communications Inc.). In 1980, G&amp;W sold Hammacher to J.
Roderick MacArthur, an heir to the insurance fortune behind
the foundation known for generous awards to gifted
individuals. After Mr. MacArthur died in 1984, his heirs
became the owners.
   While Hammacher drifted, Sharper Image gained ground. For
example, both companies bought the same product, a
sound-actuated light switch, from Mr. Simon in the early 80s.
Sharper Image, thanks to a harder sell in a much flashier
catalog, sold 300,000 units, while Hammacher moved only
1,000.
   Mr. Simon says Mr. Thalheimer consistently is more
aggressive than Hammacher at commissioning exclusive products
and at making commitments for large purchases even when
products are still in the concept stage.
   Hammacher has become a bit less gimmicky, dropping the
radio-equipped ski helmets, for example. Mr. Semmelhack
explains, "You can get so unique that you don't have a
market." In its window display, the New York store now
stresses traditional low-tech products, such as a child's
wagon and an English bicycle.
   Middlebrow consumers, not rich eccentrics, increasingly
are Hammacher's target. Thus, its catalogs are placing more
emphasis on the findings of Hammacher Schlemmer Institute,
the company's quasi-independent advisory arm since 1984. On
the basis of comparison tests, Hammacher avers that many of
its wares are the "best" in their categories. Sami Ozgen,
research manager, says Hammacher's cordless telephone
defeated 10 others in tests for sound quality and range.
   Hammacher plans to remodel its flagship store, which Mr.
Semmelhack sees as the base for building a stronger company.
If the MacArthur family -- distant relatives of the late Gen.
Douglas MacArthur -- succeeds in its strategy, the old
fortress won't ever fade away.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Ruling Creates a New Market
   ----
   By Sara Hanks
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Securities and Exchange Commission recently set off a
fresh round of debate over how to make the American
marketplace more competitive when it introduced a new program
for private-placement security sales known as Rule 144A.
Opponents of the change argue that the rule, which provides a
"safe harbor" from disclosure and registration burdens for
large traders, favors those traders at the expense of the
small investor. But Rule 144A actually can benefit the small
investor. More important, 144A will benefit the entire market
by lowering the cost of capital in the U.S.
   The SEC was designed to protect the smallest investor --
widows and orphans whose pensions might depend on stock
shares. Companies could traditionally avoid some of the SEC's
more onerous disclosure and registration rules by selling
their securities privately to institutional investors. These
days, the private-placement market is growing rapidly -- some
35% of all corporate financings last year were private
placements. But before rule 144A, such transactions faced an
important obstacle. SEC regulations limited resale of
private-placement stocks, reducing their liquidity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For a long time, this system hurt the competitiveness of
the U.S. as a marketplace. For years, rival markets
comparable to the U.S. market in size, liquidity and quality
of participants have been springing up. Arguably, these
marketplaces are less efficient. But they make up for this
disadvantage by being less regulated. When a U.S. company
decides to raise capital, one of the first places it looks is
the Euromarkets. Why would a U.S. issuer ignore the huge
market on its own doorstep? Because it's too expensive. The
SEC's regulations were not only discouraging foreign issuers
from raising capital here but also encouraging U.S. companies
to go overseas. The large number of foreign issuers listed on
the London Stock Exchange compared with the relatively small
number listed on the New York Stock Exchange provides some
evidence of this.
   Rule 144A identifies a category of transactions involving
large institutions that do not need the protection provided
by the SEC's disclosure provisions. These are transactions
that cannot be carried out efficiently under the SEC's
existing regulatory system -- paper work and long waiting
periods slow the process up.
   There are, of course, a variety of occasions when
institutional investors must unload securities: When, for
example, the securities no longer fit in the portfolio or
when the institutions are required by law to dispose of them.
The latter often becomes the case in these days of leveraged
buyouts and frequent recapitalizations. Investment funds,
many of which are limited in the amount of non-investment
grade securities they can hold, often find they must divest
downgraded stock.
   Before the change, U.S. securities laws provided no clear
way for traders to resell private-placement securities
without registering them with the SEC, or holding them for
two years. Rule 144A says the traders may resell
private-placement securities without registration and without
a waiting period. The rule permits such transactions only in
instances where the buyer has a portfolio of $100 million or
more. From a technical point of view this is all the rule
does.
   The practical implications of Rule 144A, however, are much
broader. By providing a mechanism for privately placed
securities to be resold outside the registration process, and
without much of the legal hullabaloo and paper work that
currently accompany such transactions, the SEC authorized the
creation of a third market. In the future there will be three
types of markets in the U.S. The first is the public retail
market. The second is the established private-placement
market, in which securities are sold on a negotiated basis to
investors with whom the issuer expects to have a continuing
relationship. The new market is the Rule 144A market, in
which institutions will trade securities among themselves.
   Observers expect that this market will be competitive with
the older Euromarkets. They believe that U.S. issuers will be
able to raise capital in the private markets here as
efficiently as, and probably at lower transaction cost than,
in the Euromarkets. Foreign issuers, who are frequently
deterred from entering the U.S. public markets by the SEC's
disclosure and reporting provisions, are expected to widen
their issuances in the newly liquid U.S. private markets.
U.S. investors, whose interest in foreign securities is
growing, will benefit from easier access to these securities.
   Will the new market shut out the small investor? Reps.
Edward Markey and John Dingell have expressed concern that
the rule will result in a two-tiered market, with small
investors in the public market being frozen out of the best
deals. But Messrs. Markey and Dingell have missed the point.
A two-tiered market already exists. Large institutions can
buy in the private market securities that are not available
to small investors, and can go overseas to buy securities of
foreign issuers that are reluctant to venture into the U.S.
markets.
   It may well be the case that a few issues of securities
that would have been made in the U.S. public markets will now
be made privately. It is even possible that some of the
private issues will include issues that would have been sold
to small investors. It must be remembered, though, that many
issues of securities that appear to be offered publicly are
in fact entirely sold to institutions and are registered with
the SEC only to provide liquidity. What is far more likely,
however, is that issues that would otherwise have been made
overseas will now be attracted to this country. Many of the
players in the private market, it should be noted, are the
proxies of small investors: Pension funds and mutual funds
make up a large proportion of the participants.
   Indirectly, at least, then, the smaller investor will have
a larger market to work in. Direct foreign issuer access to
the U.S. can only serve to benefit all investors. Should we
risk this benefit to preserve the fiction of a level playing
field?
   The answer to Rep. Dingell's concern is not to retain
inefficient and unnecessary barriers to raising capital in
the private market but to improve the competitiveness of the
public market. Some obstacles are unlikely to budge soon --
excessive litigation, for example. The U.S. also has some of
the world's most burdensome disclosure requirements. Full
disclosure is necessary for a fair and efficient market, but
the SEC has come to the realization that it doesn't
necessarily have to be the exact kind of disclosure mandated
by its current rules.
   The proposal by the SEC last year of the
"Multijurisdictional Disclosure System" shows the way. That
system would permit Canadian issuers to make public offerings
in the U.S., and to comply with the SEC's continuous
disclosure requirements on the basis of documents that meet
the disclosure requirements of Canadian regulatory
authorities. If other foreign companies listed on their own
national exchanges were able to use documents approved by
their home regulators, it seems reasonable to assume that
they would be more likely to offer their securities publicly
and to small investors in this country. Rule 144A in any case
is a good step in the right direction. Critics may be right
in sensing that work remains to be done. But the change
that's needed is more Rule 144A-style flexibility -- in other
areas of U.S. securities law.
   ---
   Ms. Hanks, who worked on the preparation of Rule 144A at
the SEC, is an attorney in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Tightens
   Rate Regulations
   For Cable TV
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian regulators have decided to tighten
cable television rate regulations to slow what they said was
a "spiraling" rise in cable-TV rates.
   The new rules will reduce the cable TV industry's
profitability, the Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission said in its rate ruling. The
industry's annual return on net fixed assets has been
increasing steadily since the early 1980s, reaching 28.1% in
1988, the latest year for which industry figures are
available.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The commission had to take steps to ensure that cable TV
remains affordable," said Keith Spicer, CRTC chairman.
Canada's cable TV industry is much more closely regulated
than the U.S. cable industry, with regard to both rates and
content.
   The Canadian Cable Television Association, which
represents the Canadian cable industry, said it was
disappointed with the ruling, particularly the commission's
refusal to allow the industry to raise cable subscribers'
monthly rates in order to pass on the cost of copyright fees
for retransmission of distant TV signals.
   Since Jan. 1, Canadian cable systems have been liable to
pay such copyright fees. The amount of the royalties will be
decided by a new federal agency, the Copyright Board, which
has been holding hearings on the issue. TV producers in the
U.S. are expected to receive a substantial portion of the
copyright fees.
   The Canadian cable industry said its rates haven't risen
as sharply as claimed by its critics. After adjustment for
inflation, basic cable-TV rates increased by only 5.9%
between 1979 and 1988, the industry association said.
   Canadian cable-TV firms are permitted to recover through
automatic rate adjustments part of the rise in the consumer
price index and part of their capital spending costs.
   The new rules, however, will further limit the cable
companies' ability to pass on such costs to their customers.
   The commission said any future cable-rate increases to
recover capital expenditures would be effective for a
five-year period only.
   The federal agency also said it will commission an
independent study of new profit measures and benchmarks for
the cable industry. The commission has allowed a cable
company to earn over an eight-year period an average annual
return of up to 24%, before interest and income taxes on net
fixed assets. Mr. Spicer said the new maximum rate of return
would be less than 24%, but he wouldn't be more specific.
   The commission said it will also undertake "a major review
of the structure and cost of cable-TV service," and hold a
public hearing in mid-1991. Cable-industry officials said
they hoped this hearing would open the way for a partial
deregulation of their industry that would allow them greater
freedom to set prices for specialty services, provided they
undertook to deliver a basic package of television signals at
an affordable price.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Sandinista History
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   While strikes by Sandinista unions yesterday paralyzed
Violetta Chamorro's newly elected government, unsettling news
of past Sandinista acts was emerging. The May 5 issue of
Barricada, the Sandinista Party organ, reports that 20,289
Contra rebels were killed during the war. Additionally, they
claim to have captured 3,365 Contras. This far exceeds all
known figures for Contra combatants, so it seems likely that
unarmed opponents of the Sandinistas were also being killed
and counted. These Sandinista figures raise questions about
the work of the human-rights groups chartered to monitor
abuses in that beleaguered country. In their rush to condemn
Contra abuses, these groups apparently missed the real level
of Sandinista killing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   ITT Names Comey
   To Corporate Post
   Directing 2 Units
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ITT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- ITT Corp. named Dale Comey as executive vice
president and gave him responsibility for the day-to-day
operations of two key units.
   Mr. Comey, 49 years old, has been president and chief
operating officer of ITT Hartford Fire Insurance Co. since
1988. ITT Hartford is ITT's largest operating unit,
generating nearly 21% of the company's total operating profit
last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   People at the company said that with Mr. Comey's
appointment to executive vice president, he has been clearly
identified as a possible successor to DeRoy Thomas, ITT
president and chief operating officer. Mr. Thomas plans to
retire next February. In moving up from the insurance unit to
the corporate staff, Mr. Comey has skipped several rungs on
the ITT corporate ladder.
   "Given this slot and the amount of responsibility they
have given him, they could be grooming him for a bigger role
within the company," said Jack Kelly, who follows ITT at
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   "The appointment of Dale Comey to this senior executive
position is an expression of my confidence . . . that Dale
will play a significant role in the management of our
corporation over the long term," said Rand Araskog, ITT
chairman.
   Mr. Comey, who began his business career as an actuarial
trainee at ITT Hartford in 1965, will be responsible for ITT
Rayonier, a forest products operation, and ITT Coins, which
involves a yellow-pages directory outside the U.S. and 38
technical schools in this country.
   ITT Rayonier was ITT's second biggest income generator in
1989, contributing 16% of operating net. Like insurance,
forest products is a highly cylical business. ITT Coins is
one of the company's smaller units.
   Mr. Comey said his first task is to develop a full
understanding of what opportunities lie ahead for these two
units. Then, his focus will be on developing their
competitive advantages, which is what "yields a
better-than-average return for shareholders," he said.
   In his new position, Mr. Comey reports to Mr. Thomas.
Before becoming president of ITT in 1988, Mr. Thomas headed
the Hartford insurance group. Mr. Comey worked as his
executive assistant during the mid-1970s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   Even Gentlemanly Yachtsmen
   Go to Court, But Why Let Them?
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   You don't have to be a class warrior to wonder why with
courts bursting at the seams with drug and violent crime
cases, New York courts spent the past two years agonizing
over which yacht to declare the rightful holder of the
America's Cup. Probably all the lawyers and judges involved
in this litigation wish it had been settled amicably out of
court. Still, no one dared utter the thought that maybe there
are some disputes that don't belong in court, that judges can
sometimes just say no, go away, we're too busy, shoo.
   This is too bad, because in musty law books is an old case
that could have saved everyone a lot of trouble and the
taxpayers a lot of expense. But before getting to the marvels
of trust law, consider the fascinating facts behind Mercury
Bay Boating Club v. San Diego Yacht Club. The Americas Cup
match was created under a trust created by yacht-owner George
Schuyler in 1887. His deed refers to "a perpetual challenge
Cup for the friendly competition between foreign countries."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Competition in recent years hasn't been real friendly, but
has shown that foreigners have learned to jib neatly through
the U.S. court system. New Zealand investment banker Michael
Fay read the America's Cup deed to say that the challenger
can choose the timing and nature of a match. In 1987, he
called for a one-on-one duel with the San Diego club where
New Zealand would use a 90-foot yacht similar to a kind --
called J boats -- that hadn't been built in a half-century.
   Trouble was that San Diego was already planning a big
competition for 1991 with more typical 12-meter boats -- a
competition the city hoped would bring in $1.2 billion in
revenues. So the San Diego club ignored Mr. Fay's challenge.
Mr. Fay decided to go to court. New York Judge Carmen
Ciparick ruled in 1987 that his challenge was good under the
deed. Then the San Diego club decided to make sure the Kiwis
couldn't win against skipper Dennis Conner, who had won the
America's Cup for the U.S.
   Instead of racing in a 90-foot or even a 12-meter boat,
San Diego sailed in 1988 in a 60-foot catamaran, the Stars
and Stripes. This double hull against the New Zealand single
hull was a Ferrari against a Hyundai. San Diego won easily
and went back to preparing for its 12-meter competition among
several vessels.
   Mr. Fay wasn't done. He returned to court to say that San
Diego had violated the America's Cup deed by fighting dirty.
Judge Ciparick agreed. Although the deed only stipulated
certain dimensions for sailboats ("length on load water-line;
beam at load water-line and extreme beam; and draught of
water"), which the catamaran fit, Judge Ciparick decided to
go beyond the written words of the deed. She ruled that Mr.
Schuyler intended that vessels be at least "somewhat evenly
matched." San Diego would have to forfeit the cup.
   Strict constructionism still lives in New York courts,
however. Judge Ciparick was overruled by an appeals court,
which said that even a lopsided race fit the precise wording
of the America's Cup deed. By the time the
multimillion-dollar litigation reached the state's highest
court, two heavyweights of the New York bar were drafted into
action. Landlubber Harold Tyler argued for San Diego. Amateur
yachtsman Robert Fiske Jr. made the case for New Zealand. The
argument was lively, with Mr. Fiske at one point standing
with his legs far apart to illustrate the huge stability
advantage of a catamaran against his client's single hull.
   But the New York court last month decided by a 5-2 vote
that fair or unfair, the race stands. There was the unusual
feature that the defending yacht club also served as trustee
and so had a high duty to the challenger. Still, the court
ruled that San Diego had met the requirements under the deed.
The majority opinion noted that "sportsmanship and fairness .
. . are not questions suitable for judicial resolution."
   New York's chief judge, Sol Wachtler, wrote a concurring
opinion warning against "the most distasteful innovation of
all in this case -- resolution of the competition in court."
He said that if New Zealand had won the case, from now on "no
defender could be secure in victory without a court order
attesting to the fact that it had not won too easily." He
zinged winner and loser: "If the traditions and ideals of the
sport are dependent on judicial coercion, that battle is
already lost."
   There may have been an even better way to send the message
that this competition belongs in the water, not in a crowded
judicial docket. There was a line in a footnote in the
majority opinion that had a touch of wistfulness. Citing an
English case from 1895 that "trusts created for the purpose
of promoting sports events are not true charitable trusts,"
the court noted that nobody in this litigation had argued
that the America's Cup trust was void.
   This is too bad. The reasoning of this case decided by the
Chancery Court would have ended this litigation before it
began. English courts have traditionally refused the burden
of resolving disputes about trusts except in the clearly
worthy area of charities.
   The century-old case, Re Nottage, also dealt with a trust
to create a yacht race, this one awarding a planned Nottage
Cup to the victor. But the English courts invalidated the
trust, with one judge explaining that "there are many things
which are laudable and useful to society which yet cannot be
considered charitable, and this, in my opinion, is one of
them."
   It wasn't just the oddity of a rich man's yacht race as a
charity that led the English courts to refuse to enforce the
Nottage Cup. There was also this serious question of public
policy and the proper role of judges. As an English court
noted back in 1804, what's called a non-charitable-purpose
trust requires that "there must be somebody in whose favor
the court can decree performance." Otherwise, there is the
big risk that the trust will become a massive administrative
headache for judges with more pressing duties.
   One reason U.S. courts are asked to decide questions such
as what's fair in yachting is that unlike courts elsewhere,
ours have taken a wide view of the kinds of trusts they will
take the time and effort to enforce. This approach expanded
the jurisdiction of U.S. courts without anyone giving much
thought to whether it's such a good idea that judges invite
all such challenges.
   In other words, that the America's Cup litigation made it
into court at all is the result of American judicial
activism. New York judges eventually decided not to become
yacht adjudicators, but could have done so years ago by
simply saying that if yachtsmen can't work out matters on
their own, too bad, case dismissed.
   Meanwhile, the yachting world seems to have cleaned up its
legal act. In order to avoid litigation in future cases,
representatives of several yacht clubs have signed a detailed
agreement that future disputes about the America's Cup will
be resolved through mediation. Taking no chances, each
commodore and witness initialed at the bottom of each page.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ames Stores Reports
   Sharp Decline in Sales
   During Recent Weeks
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   ADD
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Ames Department Stores Inc., Rocky Hill,
Conn., which filed for bankruptcy court protection last
month, disclosed that its sales have plummeted in recent
weeks.
   The discount department store chain, which reported a $228
million loss for the fiscal year ended Jan. 27, disclosed the
recent sales slump at a bankruptcy court hearing yesterday to
determine whether it can receive $250 million in interim
financing from Chemical Bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Attorneys for various parties indicated they have reached
an agreement resolving differences between Ames and
pre-bankruptcy lenders, including Citibank, that had led
those lenders to object to the new financing. The court
indicated a decision on the financing would be made today.
   According to testimony at the hearing, sales at Ames
stores dropped 30%, to $67.9 million for the week ended May
5; and sales declined 42%, to $53.4 million for the week
ended May 12.
   Ames, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection
on April 25, has had trouble keeping its shelves fully
stocked as many vendors stopped shipping goods because they
hadn't been paid for past shipments. Ames previously received
bankruptcy court clearance for $25 million in financing. It
has said it needs the additional $225 million in financing to
continue its operation.
   "If it doesn't have (additional) financing, it cannot
survive, because they're not going to get goods shipped to
them," said Wilbur Ross Jr. of Rothschild Inc., an adviser to
certain creditors of Ames. He said he expects the financing
to be approved.
   Separately, Ames reported a net loss of $228 million, or
$6.41 a share last year, compared with net income of $42
million, or $1.07 a share, in fiscal 1989. The latest year's
loss includes a restructuring charge of $137 million to cover
previously announced plans to close certain unprofitable
stores.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   China Won't Use
   Jet-Fighter Systems
   Made by Grumman
   ----
   By Charles W. Stevens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST GQ
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   China canceled plans to spend $256.8 million to modernize
Chinese jet fighters with electronic fire-control systems
built by Grumman Corp., the Pentagon said.
   Grumman, of Bethpage, N.Y., has performed development work
on the systems under a $245 million contract since 1987.
Following the development work, scheduled for completion this
year, Grumman expected China to execute a production option
to have the systems delivered for installation by the Chinese
in their F-8 II jet fighters. The program would have been the
biggest U.S. military sale to China.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The contract's future became clouded last year after the
Bush administration suspended military sales to China after
the Beijing government crushed that country's pro-democracy
movement. Production of the hardware could have proceeded
under the suspension although delivery of the systems would
have been withheld until the measure was lifted, according to
a Defense Department spokesman.
   In Washington, spokesmen at the Chinese embassy didn't
return calls to comment on the decision to forego production
of the Grumman equipment.
   For Grumman, the decision was the latest in a series of
blows to its military-aircraft business as defense spending
in this country takes its toll on the company's programs. A
Grumman spokeswoman said the Chinese decision will add to the
pressure for more layoffs. The spokeswoman said Grumman has
about 180 employees working on the development phase of the
Chinese contract.
   Under the production phase of the contract, Grumman would
have produced electronics packages for 55 F-8 II aircraft
consisting of fire-control systems made up of radar,
computers, display and other gear. The systems were to be
delivered to China for installation on new planes at
Shengyang Aircraft Co.
   The F-8 II is a single-seat, twin-engined interceptor
based on the Soviet MiG-21, Grumman said.
   Grumman received the Chinese contract under the Reagan
administration's generally liberal policies toward China.
Although Grumman was to supply equipment and services to the
Chinese, the Air Force was to be the official vendor under
the terms of a foreign military-sales arrangement with China.
   When the Bush administration suspended military sales to
China in June, the U.S. also expelled 40 Chinese working on
the Grumman development program in Bethpage. The
administration allowed the Chinese to return in October and
since then there have been about 24 Chinese nationals working
at Grumman, the company said.
   The F-8 II systems work is the second Chinese project
Grumman has lost during the past year. U.S. restrictions on
sales to China last year put an end to a Grumman program
announced in 1988 in which the company was to conduct a
preliminary study with China on upgrading the Chinese F-7M
fighter aircraft for sale in international markets. The study
was to determine the feasibility of an improved aircraft that
could be sold for approximately $10 million each.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quixote's Purchase
   Of an Ex-Unit Isn't
   Tilting at Windmills
   ---
   CD Firm Now Profitable;
   Company Down Under
   Gives Up Stake for $1,000
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   QUIX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Quixote Corp.'s sale of its compact-disk unit
to an Australian concern has boomeranged, and Quixote says it
couldn't be happier.
   The holding company yesterday announced that it had
reacquired -- for $1,000 -- the remaining 51% of an operation
it sold for $55.5 million two years ago. What's more, the CD
unit, which was losing money when Quixote sold it, is now
profitable, says a spokeswoman. The unit makes laser video
disks, audio compact disks and CDs for use in computers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Quixote sold the unit, then called LaserVideo Inc., to
Disctronics Ltd. of Melbourne in January 1988. The Australian
company paid Quixote $29 million cash and issued a note for
$26.5 million, payable in January 1989.
   Disctronics didn't make good on the note. Quixote
initially sued, but late last year it entered into a new
agreement under which Quixote received 49% stake in its
former unit, now called Disctronics Manufacturing Inc.
   As part of the revised agreement, Disctronics Ltd. also
issued Quixote preferred shares and set up a schedule of
repayments which, if Disctronics didn't meet, allowed Quixote
to buy the remainder of the unit for a "nominal" $1,000.
   Disctronics Ltd. didn't meet the first payment, scheduled
for April 30, Quixote says, and so the Chicago company
"regained total ownership."
   The unit, renamed yet again Disc Manufacturing Inc., seems
none the worse for its round trip: Quixote said Disc's sales
climbed 70% in the year ended March 31, to $38 million, and
are expected to climb to $55 million in the current 12
months. Operating profit was $3.8 million in the latest year,
and is also expected to increase "at a good clip," Quixote
said, thanks in part to $10 million its former owners spent
to boost capacity.
   Disc, which manufactures CDs at plants in Alabama and
California, is also benefiting from trends favorable to
domestic CD manufacturers, Quixote said.
   Quixote is a holding company with interests in
highway-safety products, computer-aided transcription
services and diagnostic equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   A Baltic Armenia?
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   After the Soviet Red Army moved in to stop fighting
between Armenians and Azerbaijanis in January, the Kremlin's
pretext, widely credited in the West, was that it moved only
to suppress bloody ethnic animosity. Later it became clear
that Soviet troops moved in only after the ethnic riots had
been allowed to run their course, and that in all likelihood
the ethnic tensions had been deliberately stirred by at least
some elements among Soviet authorities. These points were
made forcefully by, among others, world chess champion Gary
Kasparov, who rescued his Armenian relatives from Azerbaijan.
   Yesterday, in both Latvia and Estonia, which had recently
declared their independence from the Soviet Union, there were
clashes between Russians and non-Russians in front of the
countries' respective parliament buildings. In a recent
interview in New York with the editors of The Wall Street
Journal, a leader of the Estonian independence movement drew
our attention to the Russian nationalist group called
Interfront, which has appeared in a number of Soviet
republics. On Monday, a helicopter over the Latvian capital
of Riga dropped leaflets, signed by Interfront. Here is the
full text of the document:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Let us rise up in defense of Soviet power in Latvia. The
time for orators has passed. It is time to go over from words
to deeds.
   "Our fate is being decided today. The honor and
self-respect of the Soviet person does not give us the right
to hide behind the backs of those who are fighting for our
future. Let disdain and shame cover the descendants of those
who in this decisive hour do not come out against
counter-revolution. Men -- look into the eyes of your
children, mothers and wives. Can you leave them defenseless?
   "At 10 o'clock, May 15, 1990, stop the factories and
plants and come out into the streets of the city. Altogether
we will go to the buildings of the Supreme Soviet with the
demand for the re-establishment of Soviet power in the
republic. Let the handful of traitors and political
adventurers who are making decisions for us hear the voice of
the working people.
   "Long live the Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic."
   ---
   Even before these events, Baltic leaders had come to
suspect that the similarity and professionalism of Interfront
activities suggest that it is pretty much run by Soviet
intelligence. This time, the people of the West should at
least allow the possibility that the Baltic "unrest" isn't
spontaneous but is instead the strategy Moscow is using to
lay the justification for armed suppression of the empire's
spreading independence movements.
   We don't deny the possibility that there could be tensions
in the Baltic republics between some Russians and
non-Russians. However, with Secretary of State Baker even now
in Moscow preparing for the impending Bush-Gorbachev summit,
we do not see why the West's leaders and editorialists should
continue to accord Mr. Gorbachev deference in his offensives
against these democratic independence movements.
   In their May 4 declaration of independence, the Latvians
bent over backward to accommodate Mr. Gorbachev's insistence
on a go-slow process, without confrontation. In return, the
Soviet leader Monday night declared Latvia's and Estonia's
March 30 independence declarations "null and void." Now we
have the spectacle of several thousand off-duty Soviet
soldiers pushing people around in front of the Latvian
parliament, and reports of 2,000 Russians storming the
Estonian legislature in Riga. They were turned back by about
15,000 Estonians. We hope that in the days ahead some thought
is given to the possibility that these "tensions" are not
some agentless event but are instead occurring by design.
   It is now clear that Mr. Gorbachev's earlier economic
sanctions against Lithuania have only encouraged the efforts
of the three Baltic states to gain independence from Moscow.
Over the weekend, they aligned themselves with each other by
re-establishing the Council of Baltic States, first formed in
1934 when the Baltic nations were independent states.
   It seems likely that they will continue seeking alliances
with reform movements elsewhere. Indeed, just a week ago
Sunday in Kiev, "people's-front" groups from eight Soviet
republics met to create the Union of Democratic Forces. Its
purpose, said the Ukrainian group Rukh, is "to help republics
quit the U.S.S.R. . . . and to ensure the empire disbands
peacefully."
   The events in Estonia and Latvia yesterday were not
peaceful. It would be unfortunate if the authorities in
Moscow, beset by an economy that is failing, could devise no
better nearterm policy than to destabilize their own
republics and use the army to successively impose an
"Armenian peace" on each of them. Yet this is the path we
seem to be on, with the big remaining question one of timing.
Will the Red Army move in Talinn and Riga before or after Mr.
Gorbachev and Mr. Bush trade toasts and smiles at the White
House?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Profitable Stock Strategy:
   Do as the Chairman Does
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers and Tom Herman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   XLDC FFC CCI MER ARK ALG
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Company chairmen who bet big on their
companies' stocks in the first four months of this year
generally saw their faith rewarded.
   While the Dow Jones Industrial Average is up about 2.5%
this year, some of the chairmen have scored much bigger
gains, according to data compiled by Invest/Net, a North
Miami, Fla., firm that tracks Securities and Exchange
Commission filings by officers, directors and other corporate
insiders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall, according to Invest/Net, 10 of the 12 chairmen
who increased their stakes by more than 1% have profited, at
least on paper.
   Consider Thomas Owens, who heads XL/Datacomp Inc. of
Hinsdale, Ill. Mr. Owens spent about $306,000 on 42,000
shares of the computer remarketer in purchases in February
and March, SEC filings show. He paid an average price of
$7.28 a share. The stock closed yesterday in national
over-the-counter trading at $9.75, unchanged.
   "There had been a lot of panic selling in the stock" last
year on news that International Business Machines Corp. would
reduce its discount to computer remarketers, squeezing their
profit margins, said Mr. Owens. "The marketplace reacted
horribly," substantially overselling the shares.
   Mr. Owens said he bought both to support the stock and
because he thought he was getting a bargain price. "I've made
a nice profit," he said, adding that he expects an even more
significant profit given the stock's trading range last fall
of about $20-$24.
   For Jack Byrne, chairman of Fund American Cos. and its
Fireman's Fund Insurance Cos. unit, love turned into a smart
investment strategy. Last February, he spent about $1.9
million on 60,000 shares of the Greenwich, Conn., parent
company.
   "I bought them to be a Valentine's Day present for my
wife," said Mr. Byrne. "That's all the economic thinking that
went into it." Still, Mr. Byrne added, "the stock looked
awfully cheap to me."
   He paid an average share price of $31.13. Yesterday, the
stock closed in New York Stock Exchange trading at $32.375,
down 37.5 cents.
   But Mr. Byrne isn't bragging about his market-timing
ability. "The stock went off two to three points immediately
after I bought," he recalls with a laugh. "That shows my
perspicacity."
   Moreover, he says his wife initially needled him about his
timing, and he quips that next year he may give her roses
instead. He adds that the purchase represented only a small
portion of his total holdings; Fund American's latest proxy
statement shows that Mr. Byrne owns a total of 2,630,000
shares, either outright or through warrants or options.
   Sometimes, such big-money bets aren't as well timed. For
example, in October 1988, John S. Reed, Citicorp's chairman
and chief executive officer, spent $2.5 million to buy
100,000 Citicorp shares, mostly at $25 a share. The stock
closed yesterday at $24, up 12.5 cents, in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.
   Mr. Reed is "delighted with his holdings," he said through
a spokesman yesterday. The Citicorp chief is "a long-term
investor" and continues to believe Citicorp stock is "a great
investment," the spokesman said. He also pointed out that Mr.
Reed's 1988 purchase represented only part of his stake,
which he said now totals 543,306 shares -- making him the
company's largest individual holder.
   On the other hand, SEC filings show that William Schreyer,
chairman of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., in February of this year
purchased 20,000 shares at $22.18 a share. The purchase came
shortly after the company announced a cost-cutting program
that depressed quarterly earnings and, subsequently, the
price of Merrill stock. At the time, Mr. Schreyer said the
price decline made the stock a particularly good value.
Yesterday, on the New York Stock Exchange, it closed at
$23.25, down 37.5 cents.
   Carl S. Quinn, chairman of Arkla Exploration Co., doubled
his holdings in the Shreveport, La., oil and gas exploration
company with an April 12 purchase of 11,000 shares, SEC
filings show.
   It's paid off handsomely. While Mr. Quinn paid $16.53 a
share, according to the filings, the stock closed yesterday
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange at
$19.875, up 12.5 cents.
   Arkla Exploration, a unit of Arkla Inc., just went public
last December. Its stock price has ranged between about $16
and $23 since, said corporate secretary Greg Jones. Mr.
Quinn, he said, bought near its low, when the stock "had
mirrored the decline in oil and gas stocks." Oil and gas
demand was soft in the first two months of the year, which
were warmer than expected, and that depressed stocks
throughout the sector. But the sector in general is beginning
to rebound, he said, Arkla shares along with it.
   Mr. Quinn was out of the country and not available for
comment.
   ---
                    Success at the Top
                                                                                                       

   Some chairmen who bet on their companies' stocks in 1990*
                                                                                                       

                    AVERAGE                       PERCENTAGE
  COMPANY            DOLLAR  CURRENT  DOLLAR VALUE    CHANGE
 (CHAIRMAN)      PRICE PAID    PRICE (In thousands) IN PRICE
                                                                                                       

 Fund American Cos.  $31.13  $32.375     $1,867       + 4%
 (J.J. Byrne)
                                                                                                       

 Merrill Lynch        22.18   23.250        444       + 5
 (W. Schreyer)
                                                                                                       

 XL/Datacomp           7.28    9.750        306       +34
 (T.M. Owens)
                                                                                                       

 Arkla Exploration    16.53   19.875        182       +20
 (C.S. Quinn)
                                                                                                       

 *Based on insider filings with the SEC through May 11
 Source: Invest/Net
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Metropolitan Savings &amp; Loan Association
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MSEA
</CO>
<LP>
   METROPOLITAN SAVINGS &amp; LOAN ASSOCIATION (Seattle) --
Ferris L. Dracobly, senior vice president of this financial
institution, was named interim chief executive officer,
succeeding Judson S. Shorett, who resigned as president,
chief executive and a director to pursue other interests. The
company didn't state a timetable for filling the posts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Atlantic Richfield Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ARC
</CO>
<LP>
   ATLANTIC RICHFIELD Co. (Los Angeles) -- Marlan W. Downey
was appointed to the new post of senior vice president of
exploration with the company's Arco International Oil &amp; Gas
Co. division, based in Plano, Texas. Atlantic Richfield is a
diversified oil, gas and minerals company. Mr. Downey was
previously chief executive officer of Roxanna Oil Co. of
Houston.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Justice and the Unified Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Attorney General Dick Thornburgh has received some bad
press for his management style, most recently over the
resignation of Deputy Attorney General Donald Ayer. The
conventional line on the Ayer flap is that Mr. Thornburgh
didn't support his deputy's instinct to rely on the advice of
the department's "professional" civil servants. If this is
true, we'd say that Mr. Thornburgh deserves credit for
attempting to create a department that speaks with one voice
in an Executive Branch that for years has weakened its
institutional powers by speaking with too many voices.
   The Founding Fathers wanted a unified Executive Branch so
that it could hold up its side in the separation of powers,
posing itself against the countervailing forces in Congress.
The President and his aides are supposed to adopt and stand
accountable for a clear set of policies. Mr. Thornburgh has
consciously pursued this goal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This has angered the career staff, which might not be all
that bad. It had become standard operating procedure in
Washington for career staffers in league with loose-wheel
officials to sabotage policies they don't like or that
threaten the bureaucracy.
   One reason Deputy Attorney General Ayer resigned last week
was that he wanted to support a radical proposal by the U.S.
Sentencing Commission, which would have multiplied by up to
50 times the punishments for companies convicted of
regulatory or other white-collar crimes. Shareholders of
firms convicted for environmental or securities violations,
even when the culprit was one low-level employee, could have
had to pay huge new fines out of earnings. It is an entirely
legitimate position that such a policy makes little economic
sense.
   Mr. Ayer, however, sent a letter to the Sentencing
Commission in February saying that Justice agreed these new
guidelines were "urgently needed." In fact, many officials at
the White House were horrified at the proposals. White House
Counsel Boyden Gray asked Robert Ross, one of Mr.
Thornburgh's top aides, what was going on. Mr. Ayer soon
thereafter sent another letter to the Sentencing Commission,
retracting the endorsement of the guidelines, which have
since been shelved.
   We've noted before that for all his accomplishments,
President Reagan failed to protect the institutional powers
of his office. Terry Eastland, who was the spokesman for
Attorney General Meese's Justice Department, is writing a
book on "Conservatives in Power" that emphasizes the
importance of a unified, energetic Executive Branch. He
argues, for example, that there wouldn't have been so much
bickering in the White House if President Reagan had fired
David Stockman and others who leaked as a way to win internal
policy battles.
   Mr. Thornburgh is reassigning some of the aides he brought
to the department from his native Pennsylvania, but signaled
his continued interest in building a unified Executive Branch
by selecting William Barr as his new deputy. Mr. Barr, head
of Justice's Office of Legal Counsel, is appropriately enough
an expert on separation of powers. If more departments follow
the Justice model, George Bush could be the first President
in many years to leave the office stronger than he found it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Save Perestroika
   With Monetary
   Deflation
   ----
   By Jude Wanniski
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mikhail Gorbachev, booed and jeered during the May Day
rally in Red Square, surely realizes the desperate nature of
the political paradox he faces. His economic advisers tell
him his reforms cannot succeed without price reform, which
they warn will bring inflation. His political advisers and
his own instincts tell him the federation cannot survive the
pain of this "austerity solution," patterned after Poland's
"big bang."
   In recent discussions in Moscow with the State Bank of the
U.S.S.R., a possible solution occurred to me: The key is a
conscious policy of monetary deflation, leading to a
gold-convertible ruble.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Soviet economy's myriad problems will take years to
solve, as all economists agree. The current crisis, though,
requires a quick fix. Because Soviets have been told that
price reform will inevitably lead to inflation, they are
doing everything reasonable people can do to get rid of their
rubles before that predicted inflation occurs: They're buying
up everything in sight.
   Officials say the average household has up to seven years'
supply of laundry detergent. Last year $1 billion in hard
currency was used to import detergent, and it disappeared as
soon as it hit the shelves. The detergent is poor man's gold;
it is not subject to spoilage or vermin and can be stored
indefinitely -- just like bonds.
   More serious is a growing food crisis. A recent reform
permits farmers to sell their surpluses for cash instead of
delivering them to the state at a fixed price. But because
farmers expect prices to soar in the coming inflation, they
are withholding their surpluses from the market. As many as
30 million tons of grain are in storage or are being fed to
animals while the state pays hard currency to import grain.
   Consider tomatoes. When they can be found, the fixed price
is three rubles per kilo, compared with 15 rubles on the free
market. The government assumes that if price controls
suddenly were lifted, the market would clear close to 15
rubles. The value of wages in the controlled economy would
plunge and the value of the nearly 500 billion rubles in
personal savings and pensions would drop to a fraction of
present worth. Mr. Gorbachev has rejected this "shock
therapy," as he calls it.
   Monetary deflation solves the problem. The Soviet Union
has an advantage over Western nations in being able to deploy
deflation as a policy instrument. Instead of trying to reduce
the supply of rubles, it could increase demand for them by
greatly increasing their value. Once Soviets realize the
government is not going to cheapen the ruble but is going to
strengthen it, they will unload hoarded goods to acquire the
more valuable currency. In economic parlance, inflation is
prevented by a sharp decline in the velocity of money and
rise in the supply of goods.
   The deflation should come before price reform. Then, when
wage and price controls are lifted, wages and prices will not
rise and the process of shifting to a market economy from a
command economy will be greatly eased. The price of tomatoes
would fall to three rubles per kilo in the free market and
all prices would equilibrate at the deflated level. The
purchasing power of wages would be restored.
   Western governments can't employ monetary deflation
because it crushes private debtors. But there are no private
debtors in the Soviet Union. There are no personal loans, no
mortgages, no fixed-income securities exchanged by
individuals. The only debtor is the government, which could
easily shoulder the entire burden of adjusting to a market
economy. The people would be left with their savings,
pensions and wages restored to original values.
   How to deflate? The Kremlin is planning a 70 billion ruble
bond issue (60 billion rubles for state enterprises and 10
billion rubles for private citizens), with a 16-year maturity
and a 5% coupon.
   It will be very difficult to persuade anyone to buy 5%
paper on the eve of an anticipated inflation. But what if the
government were to back interest and principal on the bonds
for its citizens with gold at, say, 500 rubles per ounce?
Ordinary citizens say they wouldn't trust the government's
guarantee. (The one-ruble notes in their pockets already
state they are worth almost a gram of gold.) But they say
they would trust the government if the bonds were also sold
to foreigners. And foreigners would buy if the government
deposited a part of its $30 billion gold hoard with a trustee
in New York or Geneva.
   If Soviets see that their government not only says it
won't devalue the ruble but will lose a lot of its gold
reserves if it does, the value of all ruble assets would rise
to meet the value of the tradable bonds. The measure would
shake loose hoarded goods. Gold backing would also call a
bond market into existence, giving the government its first
tool of monetary management. And a successful issue of
gold-backed bonds would then be the springboard for full
ruble convertibility.
   Taking the first step toward ruble convertibility in this
fashion eliminates a central concern of Soviet officials: the
fear that the government would be quickly stripped of its
gold and foreign-exchange reserves. A successful bond issue
would also ensure that these reserves would not be at risk
for 16 years, when the bonds mature. Moreover, it would
establish the government's credit-worthiness at home and
abroad; the government would soon find it could increase the
supply of rubles, along with a whole range of bills and
bonds.
   Federal Reserve Governor Wayne Angell advised the state
bank last September that backing the ruble with gold would
produce the lowest interest rates in the world -- 3% or less.
If properly designed, he said, the bonds would be snapped up
in Western financial markets. New York investment bankers
agree.
   As for collateral beyond its gold, the country is rich
beyond belief, in its people and resources, and the
government owns everything -- across 11 times zones. All it
needs is this painless path to ruble convertibility and
perestroika will be off the ground and flying.
   ---
   Mr. Wanniski is president of Polyconomics Inc. in
Morristown, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Justice Agency Supports Bill Expanding
   U.S. Ability to Seize Assets in Fraud Cases
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department is pushing
legislation that would vastly expand federal prosecutors'
ability to freeze the assets of defendants in fraud cases
before trial and permanently seize the assets after a
conviction.
   The proposed bill would build on what prosecutors consider
to be their successful use of existing laws that allow them
to seize the assets of drug traffickers, money launderers and
racketeers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new legislation, sent to Congress last month, has
already attracted powerful bipartisan support. Chairman
Joseph Biden (D., Del.) of the Senate Judiciary Committee and
South Carolina Sen. Strom Thurmond, the panel's ranking
Republican, are expected to introduce a bill similar to the
Justice Department's proposal, possibly as soon as this week.
   In 1989, a record $580 million was forfeited to the
Justice Department as investigative agencies such as the Drug
Enforcement Administration and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation increased their efforts to track down drug
criminals' illicit proceeds. Much of this activity became
possible when Congress gave prosecutors wider latitude to
seek forfeiture of assets tangentially related to criminal
activity, as opposed to illegal profits alone.
   The bill being promoted by the Justice Department would
extend forfeiture provisions to cover assets that are the
"gross receipts" of fraud involving use of the U.S. mail,
credit cards and computers, as well as military-procurement
fraud and fraud against federal programs such as Medicare. A
defendant's legitimately acquired assets wouldn't be subject
to forfeiture under the legislation.
   The proposed bill would allow prosecutors to attempt to
seize assets either during a criminal trial or in a separate
civil proceeding. Under the civil approach, illegally gained
assets may be frozen quickly, before a defendant has a chance
to hide them, according to Barry Stern, a Justice Department
official involved in crafting the proposed laws. A central
goal of the expanded forfeiture provisions is to allow money
to be returned to the government or to private victims of
fraud, Mr. Stern said.
   Some defense lawyers, civil libertarians and criminal
targets have criticized the government's expanding efforts to
seize assets as excessively punitive and possibly
unconstitutional. These criticisms have arisen, for example,
in securities-manipulation cases prosecuted under existing
racketeering statutes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Staying Local
   Can Be Smart
   For Investors
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   What do Len Width of Seattle and Susanne Heimbuch of
Minneapolis know that a $200,000-a-year Wall Street analyst
doesn't know?
   They're two of the many individual investors who score big
profits uncovering winning stocks long before they are
discovered by investment professionals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Their secret: Focusing on up-and-coming companies close to
home, while avoiding the pitfalls of local boosterism and
small-stock volatility.
   "I get a better feel for companies in my own backyard,"
says Mr. Width, a 71-year-old retired lumber dealer, who has
a third of his portfolio in Pacific Northwest stocks. Adds
Ms. Heimbuch, 44, a public relations consultant: "If you want
to know if they are hiring or laying off people, you can drop
by and count the cars in the parking lot."
   It's an approach advocated by mutual-fund manager Peter
Lynch in his 1989 book "One Up on Wall Street." Mr. Lynch,
who's retiring at the end of this month as manager of the
Fidelity Magellan Fund, argues that investors should use "the
power of common knowledge" to give themselves a leg up on the
investment pros.
   That's how Mr. Width decided to invest in Nordstrom Inc.,
the Seattle-based department store chain. A bridge
enthusiast, he got to know several Nordstrom executives who
were fellow bridge devotees. He says he was impressed by
these individuals and their stories of what was happening at
the company. Having friends at a company isn't enough by
itself to merit purchase of a stock, but talking to his
bridge pals helped fill in missing details of his study of
the company, Mr. Width says.
   Mr. Width says he has made a nice profit on the Nordstrom
shares. "If it gets into the low 20s, I'll mortgage my house
to buy some more," he says. The stock rose 25 cents a share
to $29.75 in over-the-counter-market trading yesterday.
   Ms. Heimbuch found G&amp;K Services Inc., a Plymouth, Minn.,
company that rents and launders uniforms, in much the same
way. She had seen G&amp;K's trucks speeding around to various
fast-food restaurants in Minneapolis and St. Paul and figured
that providing employees with uniforms they needed on the job
was a growth area. A trip to the library showed that G&amp;K's
sales and earnings were up steadily over the past five years.
   So, in April 1986, Ms. Heimbuch bought 100 G&amp;K shares at
$16 each. Today after various splits, she has 337 shares,
valued at just over $4,500 at yesterday's market price of
$13.375 a share.
   Betty Taylor, 66, a retired first-grade teacher in
Overland Park, Kan., also cashed in on the local angle of a
national trend. Mrs. Taylor noticed back in 1987 that her
local grocery and other stores were increasingly using bar
codes on packages that could be electronically scanned at
check-out counters to get quick prices.
   A little research showed that one major maker of these
bar-code labels was Graphic Technology Inc., a company in
nearby Olathe, Kan. The company had a solid record of
earnings and sales growth for several years. Another area
investor told Mrs. Taylor that Terry Van Der Truck, Graphic's
chairman, had a record of successfully growing other small
companies.
   Next, Mrs. Taylor went to a local "Investors' Fair" where
Graphic Technology was one of the companies appearing and
spoke to Mr. Van Der Truck and other executives in person.
She came away convinced that the company had a strong
position in a niche market.
   So Mrs. Taylor bought the stock at $8.50 a share. She kept
up on developments by attending annual meetings. "It's so
much easier to keep track of companies in your local area,"
she says.
   Her personal knowledge paid off. Last September Nitto
Denko Corp., an Osaka, Japan, electrical-insulating concern,
acquired Graphic Technology for $18.50 a share.
   But investors who follow the "backyard strategy" need to
do thorough research and diversify their stock portfolios.
Small, regional stocks should be only one part of a balanced
stock portfolio also made up of large and medium-sized
companies, says Ernest Felzani, a Boston, Mass., investor who
runs a rental-car agency.
   Just picking any small regional stock won't do. Although
over the long term, small stocks as a class have outperformed
large stocks, small stocks have underperformed larger stocks
for the past six years.
   And small stocks are more volatile. John Hoffman, director
of emerging-growth research for Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp;
Co., says he picked 25 small stocks in 1989 for the firm's
customers. On the average, they outperformed the Standard &amp;
Poor's 500-stock index by seven percentage points. But some
of the stocks were up as much as 100% -- and some fell as
much as 50%, he says.
   Investors who buy shares in local companies can also be
blindsided by becoming boosters instead of hard-nosed
analysts, says Judith Russ Leon, of Dartmouth, Mass. Ms.
Leon, who works as a medical technologist, is active in
several investment clubs. Local publications have a soft spot
for local companies and can become too protective, she says.
   Ms. Leon says one of her investment clubs took a bath on
Wang Laboratories Inc. Several years ago, local papers said
that the computer company had "temporary" problems but that
its long-term outlook was strong, she says. Ms. Leon tried to
convince other club members to sell the stock but, lulled by
the local rah-rah spirit, the other members decided to hold.
The stock, which was selling around $20 a share when she
urged the club to sell, closed yesterday at $4.125, down 25
cents, on the American Stock Exchange.
   Still, even investment professionals say that if
individuals do their homework, this is one arena where the
"little guy" can beat the Wall Street pro.
   Evonne Hurst, a Brookfield, Wis., investor and bookkeeper,
is a case in point. Her first husband worked for Racine
Hydraulics Co., a company run by James Mohrhauser. Ms. Hurst
got to know Mr. Mohrhauser and was "tremendously impressed"
with his entrepreneurial abilities. After Racine was
swallowed up by a larger firm, Mr. Mohrhauser started another
company called Versa Technologies Inc., which makes
engineered fluid power products. The tiny company began
racking up steady earnings and sales gains.
   In 1983, Ms. Hurst purchased 100 shares for a total of
$850, way before analysts even heard of Versa Tech. The
company expanded into silicone-rubber products for food and
health-care markets. Today after several stock splits, Ms.
Hurst's stake is valued at $3,100.
   And today Wall Street has discovered Versa Tech.
Institutions own 47% of the stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST LATAM EUROP MDEST JAPAN JAPNY J.ANA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOVE IN CHINA
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A pioneering survey in China found many couples were
dissatisfied with sex and unhappy in their marriages.
   "We found that Chinese marriages tend to be stable --
people shun divorce. But the quality of the marriages is not
good," Liu Daling of Shanghai University said. Mr. Liu said
the survey, which he described as the first of its kind,
involved interviews in 15 provinces with 23,000 people
ranging from sex offenders in prison to middle-school
students.
   Half the 8,000 couples interviewed said they were just
putting up with their partners despite unfulfilled sex lives
and resulting unhappiness, Mr. Liu said. "Many people have
the idea of just making do with a bad marriage," he added.
   Divorce is frowned on in China, and authorities often make
feuding couples sit through hours of mediation before
allowing a divorce. One reason: Divorce causes problems with
scarce housing.
                                                                                                       

   INVESTING IN COLOMBIA
                                                                                                       

   Foreign investment in Colombia dropped by more than half
in the first four months of this year because of uncertainty
over violence, economic policy and approaching elections, the
government said. A report by the National Planning Department
said the government approved $49.5 million of foreign
investment in the first four months of the year compared with
$112.3 million in the same period last year. The biggest
foreign investors were the U.S., with 67.5% of the total,
Britain, 11%, and Panama, 5.2%.
                                                                                                       

   TAIWAN'S `POSITIVE MEASURE'
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan wants to establish a mission in China to promote
trade and other unofficial ties, a Taiwan government
spokesman said. He said the mission would be a "positive
measure" that could "help solve the many problems arising
from exchanges {with China} and will contribute to the stable
and peaceful development across the Taiwan Strait." Taiwan
authorities now allow investment in China only if it is
channeled through companies in third countries.
                                                                                                       

   HELP FROM DUTCH RETIREES
                                                                                                       

   Newly retired Dutch executives will go to Eastern Europe
this year to pass on their managerial skills to fledgling
businesses and help in the process of developing market
economies. Under a Dutch government-backed program, between
40 and 50 of the highly qualified "pensioners" will go to
Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia and East Germany for several
months. The Dutch Economics Ministry said 672,000 guilders
($364,000) had been allocated for the program, whose
participants won't receive any salary but will have expenses
paid.
                                                                                                       

   CHEATING IN BANGLADESH
                                                                                                       

   Nearly 11,000 students in Bangladesh were expelled for
cheating and violence during three days of college-entry
examinations last week, education officials said. More than
200 students were arrested and about 100 teachers were
suspended for helping the cheaters, they said. Nearly 450,000
students are taking the month-long Secondary School
Certificate tests. There was violence in about 70 examination
centers where students demonstrated for the "right to cheat,"
attacked teachers and battled police.
                                                                                                       

   ISRAELI INFLATION
                                                                                                       

   Israel's consumer price index rose 2.5% in April, the
government announced. An increase in housing costs
contributed 0.8% to April's inflation figure, the Central
Bureau of Statistics said; that followed a rise of 1.3% in
February and of 2.2% in March. Rents and home-sale prices
have been pushed up by a housing shortage caused by an influx
of Soviet Jews. Inflation in the first four months of 1990
reached 5.5%, the bureau said. For all of 1989, consumer
prices rose by 20.7%.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN-U.S. FLIGHTS
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Transportation Ministry said it was permitting
Japanese airlines to increase service to U.S. cities in the
wake of last fall's aviation negotiations.
   The ministry said it authorized three companies to
establish new direct passenger flights to the U.S. from
Tokyo: Japan Air Lines Co. will operate three flights weekly
to Washington; All Nippon Airways Co., five to New York; and
Japan Air System Co., two to Honolulu. In addition, Japan Air
Lines will increase its service to Chicago to seven flights a
week from five currently.
   Nippon Cargo Airlines Co. will also be allowed to operate
four cargo flights a week to Chicago and three to Los
Angeles. Japan Air Lines got authorization for four weekly
cargo flights to Chicago.
   Transportation Minister Akira Ohno said his ministry
decided to authorize the new passenger and cargo flights "to
overcome international aviation competition."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Vietnam released a U.S. publisher whom it had detained for
three weeks, a spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Thailand
said. Mike Morrow, a Hong Kong resident and publisher of
Petroleum News, had been in Vietnam looking into investment
possibilities, according to friends; the Vietnamese
government hasn't stated the reason for his arrest. . . .
Scientists said they hope data from a computerized weather
station installed yesterday atop the Sphinx will help them
stop the 4,600-year-old monument's accelerating decay. "The
Sphinx has deteriorated more in the last 50 years than in all
previous centuries of its existence combined," said an
Egyptian official.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hughes Aircraft Says
   Air Force Has Taken
   Disciplinary Action
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GMH
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Hughes Aircraft Co. said that certain operations of its
missile-systems group were temporarily barred from receiving
new Air Force contracts after the company's recent admission
that it improperly obtained Pentagon documents during the
mid-1980s.
   In March, Los Angeles-based Hughes agreed to pay $3.6
million in criminal and civil penalties as part of a plea
agreement in which it admitted using a pair of classified
five-year Pentagon budget plans in 1984.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hughes, a unit of General Motors Corp., said it received a
letter about the proposed debarment last week. "Once you
receive the notice, you are placed on suspension while you
meet with the Air Force to go over what changes you have made
to rectify the situation," said a company spokesman.
   The Pentagon has the authority to bar Hughes from
receiving any new federal contracts for up to three years.
"We're under review now; it's up to the Air Force to decide"
how long the suspension continues, the spokesman said.
   An Air Force spokesman said in Washington that the
suspension covers engineering, research and certain other
operations at the Canoga Park, Calif., facility of the
company's missile-making group. Since those operations don't
directly hold or compete for military contracts, he said the
suspension isn't expected to have any impact on the company's
current operations.
   But if the Air Force eventually imposes the more stringent
punishment it has proposed, the impact on Hughes could be
significant. Engineers, scientists and others at the facility
could be barred from working on some or all of Hughes' future
military work. The company has until early June to make its
case to a special Air Force board.
   There's a good chance, however, that Hughes will escape
long-term pain. In the past, Pentagon officials have been
unwilling to bar major contractors from new contracts.
Moreover, none of the other firms convicted in the
document-swapping case have been hit with long-term
sanctions.
   As part of the company's plea agreement last month,
prosecutors said that the company cooperated with the
investigation and that General Motors, which acquired Hughes
in 1985, didn't participate in or benefit from the illegal
activity. Such language typically has protected contractors
from Pentagon punishment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Bankruptcy Judge Lifts Ban on Lawsuits
   Against Partners of Defunct Finley Firm
   ----
   By Ann Hagedorn
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A bankruptcy trustee won the right to bring lawsuits
seeking debt payments from former partners of the defunct law
firm Finley, Kumble, Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Manley,
Myerson &amp; Casey.
   In a hearing in Manhattan's federal bankruptcy court,
bankruptcy trustee Francis Musselman disclosed that dozens of
partners were not cooperating with a plan that both he and
the creditors' committee had agreed could make a reasonable
dent in the law firm's huge debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In response, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Prudence Abram lifted
an injunction protecting those partners from suits, making
them each potentially liable for the entire debt. The judge's
order allows only Mr. Musselman to proceed against the
partners, and the suits he is ready to file will seek at
least $60 million from each of 50 or so former partners.
   Finley Kumble, once the nation's fourth-largest law firm,
collapsed in October 1987 under the weight of heavy debts and
clashing egos. Three months later, it was pushed into Chapter
11 bankruptcy-law proceedings by four banks to which the firm
owed $83 million. Of the firm's 700 or so lawyers, 270 were
partners.
   On March 30, Mr. Musselman, a partner at the New York law
firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley &amp; McCloy, sent letters to all
former partners informing them about how much they owed in
accordance with a plan designed to tackle the firm's debt.
The plan, the second submitted by Mr. Musselman, set the
partners' debt responsibility at $43.2 million, the trustee
said. An earlier plan, rejected by the creditors' committee,
placed the total at $35 million.
   Although claims in excess of $2 billion have been filed
against the firm, duplicate or overstated claims helped to
whittle the debt down to about $120 million, excluding
malpractice claims. To pay off the debt, Mr. Musselman can
draw on accounts receivable, the sale of assets, and solicit
the former partners. From auctions and debt collecting, Mr.
Musselman has amassed about $45 million so far. The
shortfall, $60 million to $70 million, is the responsibility
of the partners, said Albert Togut, counsel for the
creditors' committee.
   What the partners were asked to pay in the March 30
letters, said Mr. Togut, was less than what they actually
owe. "The {$43.2 million} is a compromise; it's an inducement
to get the partners' consent to pay a portion," he said.
   Mr. Musselman said 207 partners, accounting for $24.3
million of the $43.2 million, have written letters accepting
the plan. Twelve others whose portion totals about $704,000
sent letters rejecting the plan. The rest, he said, failed to
respond or didn't agree with the amount cited in the letter.
   At the hearing, Judge Abram was apparently outraged at the
lack of consensus in the case and expressed skepticism about
whether the partners could ever agree on any plan. Still, Mr.
Musselman remains optimistic, and he is scheduled to meet
today with several former partners and some partners'
attorneys.
   Meanwhile, he said lawsuits against 50 or so partners
seeking the total shortfall of at least $60 million from each
are ready to be filed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Hit Record High Again,
   Although Broader Indexes Decline
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors bought blue chips again, nudging the
Dow Jones Industrial Average to another all-time high, but
broader market indexes snapped their long string of gains
because of profit-taking.
   The industrial average closed up 0.92 to 2822.45. Standard
&amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index and the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Index both fell, capping 11-session winning streaks
that began April 30. The S&amp;P 500 dropped 0.47 to 354.28, the
composite index lost 0.34 to 193.31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Declining issues outpaced advancers by 856 to 654 on the
New York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled 165,730,000
shares compared with 225,410,000 shares Monday. Declines in
broader indexes reflected the cautious attitude money
managers have about the latest rally.
   James Wright, chief investment officer at Banc One Asset
Management Corp., says he still hasn't changed the asset
allocation in an account that is 40% stocks, 15% cash and 45%
bonds. "I would have adjusted my equity position up if I
really believed the rally," he said.
   Expectations of slowing inflation are driving the bond
market, which has a big influence over stocks currently, he
said. "The bond market is not at all predictable, and it is
running the stock market quite clearly," Mr. Wright said. He
believes stock traders could get whipsawed if bond prices
swing again on today's report of the consumer price index for
April.
   The report is expected to show that both the overall index
and the "core inflation rate" -- a measure of prices
excluding volatile food and energy products -- gained 0.3%
last month, according to a consensus estimate of economists
surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report. The index
gained 0.5% in February and March.
   Traders are also cautious about the stock market because
they haven't seen many of their foreign customers stepping up
to buy U.S. equities. But the yen's strength against the
dollar may encourage some Japanese investors to buy soon.
Japan's fiscal year began in April, one trader at Daiwa
Securities America said, and so many institutional investors
are looking for a propitious time to buy U.S. stocks.
   Jack Solomon, technical analyst at Bear Stearns, noted
that stock prices held ground despite a weaker bond market
and a sharp decline in a recent market darling, Deere &amp; Co.
   Deere dropped 2 1/8 to 75 on 1.9 million shares. Goldman
Sachs lowered its earnings estimate for the fiscal year
ending in October by 15 cents a share, to $6.35. Analyst
Thomas Burns said he took the action after the company told
him it had cut prices on some of its farm tractors, according
to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report.
   American Express climbed 1 3/8 to 30 5/8 on 2.2 million
shares on renewed rumors that the company would sell its
Shearson Lehman Hutton securities unit to Primerica. American
Express strongly denied the rumors -- "I categorically deny
them," said a spokesman -- while Primerica said it "as a
matter of policy doesn't comment on rumors." American Express
has agreed to buy the remaining publicly traded shares of
Shearson, subject to a shareholders' vote expected in June.
   Primerica rose 5/8 to 31 7/8. Other blue chips to bolster
the Dow industrial average included International Business
Machines, which went up 1 3/8 to 115 5/8, International
Paper, up 1 to 51 5/8, Allied-Signal, up 1 1/8 to 37 1/4, and
Procter &amp; Gamble, up 3/8 to 76 1/8.
   Compaq Computer climbed 2 1/8 to 114 1/2. Analysts at a
number of brokerage firms made favorable comments on the
stock after a meeting with company officials.
   Federal National Mortgage Association gained 3/8 to 38 1/4
on two million shares, recovering from its sell-off Monday
after the Treasury urged Congress to require Fannie Mae and
other government-sponsored agencies to seek triple-A credit
ratings that wouldn't be based on implicit federal guarantees
for their debt.
   The affected agencies include Federal Home Loan Mortgage,
which also rebounded by climbing 1 to 70 1/8, and Student
Loan Marketing Association, which slid an additional 3/8 to
48 3/8 after falling 1 3/4 points Monday.
   Marsh &amp; McLennan gained 1 1/8 to 73 3/8 after boosting its
quarterly dividend by 4% to 65 cents a share. Other financial
stocks to attract buyers included Household International,
which went up 1 to 46 3/4, Chase Manhattan, up 3/8 to 25 3/4,
and J.P. Morgan, up 1/2 to 37 3/4.
   Texas Instruments rose 2 1/4 to 39 7/8. In reaffirming a
"buy" recommendation, Kidder Peabody boosted its estimates of
the company's 1990 and 1991 earnings and established a target
price of $75 a share for the stock, which carries the firm's
highest investment rating.
   A utility issue, Niagara Mohawk Power, gained 3/8 to 14
1/8. B. Ralph Sylvia, who engineered a turnaround at Detroit
Edison's Fermi 2 nuclear plant, resigned his post at that
company to run Niagara Mohawk's troubled nuclear operations.
   J.C. Penney lost 1 3/8 to 65 1/4. While the company
reported that its first-quarter net income rose more than 20%
from a year earlier, the latest results fell short of most
analysts' projections.
   News Corp. dropped 5/8 to 15 3/8 after reporting that
operating income for the nine months ended March 31 fell 53%
from a year earlier.
   Tiffany, which posted a 29% increase in net income for the
fiscal first quarter ended last month, gained 1 to 43 1/4.
   Sotheby's Holdings lost 1/2 to 17 3/8 after a
disappointing start to the spring auction season for
impressionist and modern art. Habsburg, Feldman, a small,
Geneva-based auction house, sold only about 15% of the
paintings it put up for bids Monday in New York. But art
dealers said that the art Sotheby's will sell at its auction
tomorrow evening is far superior to the works offered by
Habsburg, Feldman.
   Eagle-Picher Industries went down 1/8 to 3 3/4, below its
52-week low. Oppenheimer &amp; Co. removed the stock from its
list of recommended issues, citing the number of asbestos
claims being filed against the company.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index snapped an
11-session winning streak by falling 0.78 to 353.56. Volume
totaled 14,510,000 shares compared with 16,170,000 Monday.
   Blessings advanced 1 1/2 to 26 1/2. The company reported
an 88% surge in net income for the fiscal quarter ended April
21.
   Healthvest gained 1/2 to 2 7/8. Private Capital
Management, an investment firm based in Naples, Fla., said it
holds a 4.96% stake in the company for clients as an
investment.
   Divi Hotels, which said it doesn't plan to make an
interest payment due on one of its two issues of debt
securities, fell 1/2 to 3. The company is in the midst of an
exchange offer for both issues.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   News Corp. Reports Loss of $24 Million
   For Quarter, Hurt by Currencies, Sky TV
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- News Corp. posted a net loss of $24 million on
slim revenue growth for the fiscal third quarter, hurt by
high interest payments, unfavorable currency translations,
and continuing losses at its Britain-based Sky Television
venture.
   Booming results at News Corp.'s Fox Broadcasting Co.
network and the Fox TV stations in the U.S. weren't enough to
offset losses at Sky, or the high costs of the company's
strike-wracked Australian airline and foreign-currency
translations. The currency impact triggered the net loss for
the quarter ended March 31, but even without it the company's
"income before abnormal items" plunged 82% from a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rupert Murdoch, News Corp.'s chairman, recently said he
will now shun major acquisitions, avoid new debt and focus on
growth from within. His No. 1 pursuit is Sky Television, the
four-channel satellite service that has registered losses of
$144.8 million since Sept. 1, including a $50 million loss in
the fiscal third quarter. Mr. Murdoch has said he expects Sky
to run losses of another #100 million ($168.3 million) before
it can break even in late 1991.
   For the quarter ended March 31, News Corp. posted a net
loss of $24 million, or nine cents an American depository
receipt, compared with net income of $27.4 million, or 23
cents an ADR, a year earlier. Revenue rose slightly to $1.68
billion from $1.62 billion.
   Wall Street reacted mildly to the report, with News
Corp.'s American depository receipts closing at $15.375, down
62.5 cents, in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange.
   News Corp. said sales were strong in most major markets.
Newspaper profits rose in Australia and in the Pacific Basin
and "held steady" in Britain, "despite worsening advertising
conditions in all markets," the company said, adding that
News Corp.'s overall profit would have exceeded record levels
of a year earlier without the losses at Sky Television and at
Ansett, its Australian airline.
   Despite the net loss, News Corp.'s operating profit was
"still better than I expected," said Jessica Reif, an analyst
at First Boston Corp. The company posted $8.3 million in
pretax earnings before currency charges, down sharply from
$45.3 million a year earlier, but still 10% higher than she
had predicted. The foreign-currency charge of $32.3 million,
taken in the quarter because News Corp. took out loans in
U.S. dollars and is paying them back in weaker Australian
dollars, is merely an accounting measure that doesn't drain
cash in the bank, she said.
   The First Boston analyst expects losses at Sky Television
to narrow in the current quarter as the service charges
subscribers for movies. Ms. Reif also believes the Fox
network can post pretax profit of $30 million for the fiscal
year ending June 30 -- its first profitable year -- and can
double those earnings in fiscal 1991. "Potentially, Fox next
year could be more profitable than CBS," Ms. Reif said.
   For the nine months, News Corp.'s net income fell 76% to
$93 million, or 74 cents per ADR, from $384.8 million, or
$2.41 an ADR, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $4.82 billion
from $4.53 billion in the year-earlier period, which included
$127.7 million after taxes in one-time gains, largely from
the sale of Elle magazine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Lidak Pharmaceuticals
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LDAKA
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LIDAK PHARMACEUTICALS said it completed its initial public
offering of one million units at $5 each. Each unit consists
of five common shares and five redeemable Class A warrants.
Each Class A warrant is exercisable to buy one common share
and one redeemable Class B warrant at $1.50 until May 8,
1995. Each Class B warrant holder may buy one common share at
$2.25 until May 8, 1995. D.H. Blair &amp; Co. managed the
underwriters, the La Jolla, Calif., company said. Proceeds
will be used to fund human clinical trials of a therapeutic
product to treat herpes and certain inflammatory skin
disorders and for research and development of other
pharmaceutical products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greyhound Union
   May Seek Back Pay
   Due to NLRB Move
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho and Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR X.GRE
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Leaders of the Amalgamated Transit Union say they may
press Greyhound Lines Inc. for back pay for their striking
members as a result of a National Labor Relations Board
complaint accusing the bus company of engaging in an unfair
labor practice in contract negotiations.
   More than 9,400 Greyhound employees represented by the
Amalgamated Council of Greyhound Local Unions, the ATU's
bargaining unit, have been on strike since March 2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Monday, NLRB General Counsel Jerry Hunter authorized
the issuance of a complaint alleging that Greyhound, a unit
of Dallas-based GLI Holding Co., unilaterally implemented
some of its contract proposals before reaching a bargaining
impasse with the union. "The complaint will also allege that
the current strike is an unfair labor practice strike," the
NLRB said in a news release.
   If unfair bargaining practices and not economic issues are
found to have caused the strike, Greyhound could be forced to
rehire thousands of striking ATU drivers it has replaced with
new hires since the strike began. The company has said that,
even if a settlement is reached, it has jobs for only a few
hundred of the nearly 6,000 ATU drivers still out.
   Though no new bargaining talks have been scheduled, Edward
Strait, president of the ATU's Amalgamated Council, said ATU
local presidents would discuss offering to go back to work
under the terms of their now-expired contract at a meeting
May 21. Mr. Strait said that if Greyhound turns down such an
offer the company might eventually be forced to pay striking
drivers back pay if the NLRB general counsel's complaint is
upheld.
   "This could be quite costly to them down the road," Mr.
Strait said.
   Still, the ultimate resolution of the NLRB complaint could
be years away. Both sides will now argue the complaint before
a federal administrative law judge. The judge's decision can
be appealed by either party to the entire labor relations
board and their decision can, in turn, be appealed through
the federal courts.
   "We are confident we will prevail," said Greyhound
Executive Vice President P. Anthony Lannie. "We will appeal
all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court, should that become
necessary."
   Meanwhile, Greyhound officials said they were pleased that
Mr. Hunter, the NLRB general counsel, also authorized the
issuance of a second complaint, this one alleging that the
union had engaged in violence and other forms of misconduct
during the strike. Mr. Hunter said he had obtained clearance
from the board to seek a federal court injunction enjoining
the union from such conduct nationwide.
   Since the strike began, Greyhound has spent more than $4
million on legal fees to obtain such injunctions and
restraining orders in individual cities and states. The
increased costs of legal fees and security were among the
reasons Greyhound cited for a $55.8 million net loss during
the first quarter. The debt-burdened company is currently
negotiating with creditors and lenders on a financial
restructuring.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Sales of U.S.-Made Vehicles Fell 8.4%
   In Early May, Dashing Hopes of Rebound
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC TOYOY NSANY J.MZD J.MOT SBRU J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Sales of domestically built cars and trucks
dropped 8.4% in early May, damping hopes that the auto
industry's year-long malaise will end soon.
   Americans bought 301,030 North American-made cars and
trucks in the first 10 days of the month, compared with
328,719 vehicles a year earlier. On a seasonally adjusted
basis, the sales stumbled to a 6.4 million-vehicle annual
rate compared with a 7.4 million clip a year earlier and a
7.1 million selling rate in late April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sales stagnation deeply disappointed car dealers, who
had hoped to get at least a few weeks of good sales out of
the traditionally strong spring season. Instead, the
generally weak results throughout this spring have caused
many dealers to cut new car orders and hunker down for an
uncertain next several months.
   "I'm not betting on anything big happening soon," said
Carlo Merlo, owner of Glendale Chrysler-Plymouth in Glendale,
Mo. "It's a mediocre market."
   As it has in recent periods, Chrysler Corp. posted the
largest sales decline among the Big Three auto makers.
Chrysler's total vehicle sales fell 21.3% from a year earlier
due to a 23% drop in domestic car sales. So far, at least,
Chrysler's aggressive advertising campaign comparing its cars
to those of Honda Motor Co. isn't drawing customers back into
Chrysler showrooms.
   Not that Ford Motor Co. fared much better. The No. 2 auto
maker saw its total vehicle sales in early May fall 15.4%,
with domestic car sales decreasing 19.8%.
   Ford officials blamed the shortfall on slightly reduced
incentive programs that pulled some May sales into April.
Ford also said it hadn't seen the benefit in early May from
the launch of the redesigned 1991 Ford Escort subcompact car.
Ford's biggest gainer: the recently redesigned Lincoln Town
Car, sales of which jumped 81.1% in early May.
   General Motors Corp. fared the best, by far, among the Big
Three, although its total vehicle sales fell 9.2%, slightly
more than the industry overall. GM continued to benefit from
surging sales of the Geo line of import and joint-venture
cars sold by Chevrolet dealers. Sales of the sporty Geo
Storm, built by Isuzu Motors Ltd. of Japan, jumped 37.6%;
sales of the Geo Prizm, built at the New United Motors
Manufacturing Inc. plant in California that GM runs with
Toyota Motor Corp., increased 41.3%
   Geo's gains, however, were offset by declines at GM's
Pontiac, Buick, Oldsmobile and Cadillac divisions. Each model
in the Pontiac lineup had lower sales than a year ago.
   Sales of the cars and trucks that Japanese auto makers
build in North America increased significantly. The gain
reflects increased production schedules by some companies and
solid sales gains by more established Japanese makers in the
U.S., such as Honda.
   Honda said its domestic car sales rose 32.3% to 11,238 in
early May. Nissan Motor Co., which has also built vehicles in
the U.S. for several years, said its total domestic vehicle
sales increased 42.6%
   Analysts said the continued soft sales of the Big Three
show the saturation of new cars on U.S. streets. "The U.S.
auto industry is now the victim of its own prosperity," said
David Healy, auto analyst with Barclays BZW investment
banking group in New York. "The number of late model vehicles
is now at an all-time high."
   "Look around at the stop lights," echoed Hoot McInerney,
who owns nine dealerships in Michigan and Florida. "The
rusted out cars are gone. Everyone's got something shiny and
new and it'll be a long time before they come into
showrooms."
   The bright spot on the horizon: Hopes for reduced interest
rates in the near future will stir buyer interest like it has
the stock market.
   ---
           RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                                 1990        1989      x-%
                               May 1-10    May 1-10    Chg.
                                                                                                       

   GM total vehicles ........   145,310     160,039  -  9.2
     Domestic car ...........    89,873     103,990  - 13.6
     Imported car ...........     4,746       5,883  - 19.3
       Total car ............    94,619     109,873  - 13.9
     Domestic truck .........    50,654      49,929  +  1.5
     Imported truck .........        37         237  - 84.4
       Total truck ..........    50,691      50,166  +  1.0
                                                                                                       

   FORD total vehicles ......    87,861     103,813  - 15.4
     Domestic car ...........    48,333      60,258  - 19.8
     Imported car ...........     1,554       1,840  - 15.5
       Total car ............    49,887      62,098  - 19.7
     Domestic truck .........    37,974      41,715  -  9.0
                                                                                                       

   CHRYSLER total veh .......    48,629      61,792  - 21.3
     Domestic car ...........    22,796      29,612  - 23.0
     Imported car ...........     1,616       2,978  - 45.7

     Domestic truck .........    23,869      28,123  - 15.1
     Imported truck .........       348       1,079  - 67.7
       Total truck ..........    24,217      29,202  - 17.1
                                                                                                       

   HONDA domestic car .......    11,238       8,494  + 32.3
                                                                                                       

   TOYOTA domestic car ......     9,118       2,624  +247.5
                                                                                                       

   NISSAN total vehicles ....     3,766       2,641  + 42.6
     Domestic car ...........     1,534       1,042  + 47.2
     Domestic truck .........     2,232       1,599  + 39.6
                                                                                                       

   MAZDA domestic car .......     1,157         639  + 81.1
                                                                                                       

   MITSUBISHI-c .............     1,776         694  +155.9
                                                                                                       

   SUBARU domestic car ......       214           0  +100.0
                                                                                                       

   ISUZU domestic truck .....       262           0  +100.0
                                                                                                       

   Total cars ...............   193,955     218,054  - 11.1
     Domestic ...............   186,039     207,353  - 10.3
     Imported ...............     7,916      10,701  - 26.0
                                                                                                       

   Total trucks .............   115,376     122,682  -  6.0
     Domestic ...............   114,991     121,366  -  5.3
     Imported ...............       385       1,316  - 70.7
                                                                                                       

   Total domestic veh .......   301,030     328,719  -  8.4
                                                                                                       

   Total vehicles ...........   309,331     340,736  -  9.2
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   x-There were 9 selling days in the most recent period and
9 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily sales
rate rather than sales volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Exxon Is Granted Request
   To Delay Oil Spill Trial
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   XON
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ANCHORAGE, Alaska -- A U.S. district court judge here,
citing legal complexities, agreed to postpone Exxon Corp.'s
trial on criminal felony and misdemeanor charges related to
the March 24, 1989, Alaska oil spill.
   The oil giant had been scheduled to go on trial June 8 in
Anchorage. In his ruling, Judge H. Russel Holland sided with
Exxon attorneys, who had asked for the delay on the grounds
that the charges against Exxon posed certain "novel legal
issues" and involved collection of "an extraordinary volume
of data."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The judge didn't set a new trial date but ordered both
Exxon and Justice Department attorneys to agree on a calendar
for the filing of pretrial motions. A Justice Department
spokesman declined to comment on the ruling but confirmed
that Justice hadn't objected to Exxon's motion for more time.
Exxon also declined to comment.
   There is speculation that the Justice Department might try
to strike an out-of-court settlement with Exxon, something
that a delay could affect. However, a government spokeswoman
said the Justice Department isn't engaged in plea
negotiations with Exxon.
   The two sides had reached a tentative plea bargain that
would have allowed Exxon to escape more serious criminal
charges in exchange for paying $550 million into a
restoration fund. But the deal fell apart after Alaska
officials and environmental groups objected to provisions
that would have given Exxon a large say in restoration-fund
spending, and would have effectively kept the government from
participating in massive civil litigation against Exxon.
   Exxon was charged with five federal counts, including two
felonies related to the competence of ship crew members. It
also was charged with misdemeanor violations of pollution
laws, and laws against killing of migratory birds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Ashland Oil Plant `Fallout' Prompts Suit
   ----
   By Gregory Stricharchuk and Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH S AET SAFC AS WNEWS ONE
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Are the oily droplets and white flaky "fallout" from an
Ashland Oil Inc. refinery a nuisance that impairs the quality
of life?
   That's what nearly 300 residents of West Virginia and
Kentucky claim in a suit against Ashland scheduled for trial
today before Judge Tod J. Kaufman of the Charleston, W. Va.,
circuit court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The litigation is among a half dozen suits against Ashland
over pollution from the Catlettsburg refinery in Kentucky, on
the Big Sandy River that borders three states. In its 1989
annual report, Ashland said plaintiffs were seeking about
$850 million in damages.
   In this case, the residents are seeking $300 million in
compensatory damages and $300 million in punitive damages for
Ashland's alleged interference with their right under
Kentucky law to enjoy their property free from "annoyance."
They also seek $30 million for medical monitoring, claiming
that pollutants from the refinery have increased their risk
of disease. The case is being divided into two parts; the
part that goes to trial today will involve only the nuisance
allegation.
   The Ashland, Ky., company failed in repeated attempts to
get the suit dismissed or have it heard in federal court. An
Ashland spokesman said, "We believe the suit is without merit
and that we have the evidence to prove that." Both sides
declined to say whether they had engaged in settlement
discussions.
   Debra Hamilton, a plaintiffs' attorney from the Charleston
firm Di Trapano &amp; Jackson, says her side plans to introduce
evidence showing that refinery pollution has altered
residents' lifestyles.
   A key piece of evidence, she says, is a letter John R.
Hall, Ashland's chairman and chief executive officer, sent in
February 1988 to people living near the refinery. In the
letter, Mr. Hall said, "Particles which are large or heavy
enough to fall out of the atmosphere could possibly be
considered a nuisance and could cause some skin irritation
under certain conditions. However, they are not considered a
long-term health risk."
   Ms. Hamilton said, "the letter is tantamount to an
admission that the fallout is a nuisance." She says her side
plans to use Mr. Hall as a witness against Ashland.
   Ms. Hamilton said plaintiffs will testify that fallout has
forced them to keep children indoors and otherwise alter
their lifestyles. Photographs and testimony will be presented
showing that when residents leave their windows open the dust
invades bedrooms and falls into their mouths. She said people
will testify that the pollution has disrupted outdoor
activities, including Easter picnics.
   Ashland's refinery has operated since 1924. But the suit
alleges that air-pollution emissions increased substantially
beginning about 1983, with Ashland assuring the public that
the pollutants were "innocuous and harmless."
   ---
   PENNSYLVANIA SUES top seven insurers to force compliance
with law.
   Regulators have gone on the offensive in state court,
seeking to force some of the largest auto insurers working in
Pennsylvania to lower their premium rates as mandated by a
new law. The suit also charges that the seven companies
worked together to stymie implementation of the law.
   The law, adopted in February, required rate reductions of
10% for all drivers and as much as 22% for those who waived
their right to sue except in severe accidents. The lower rate
filings were due May 1.
   State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., Allstate
Insurance Co., a unit of Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., Erie Insurance
Exchange, three units of Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co., and
Harleysville Mutual Insurance Co. were named in the suit,
filed in Commonwealth Court in Harrisburg. These companies
have 46% of the auto market in the state.
   Pennsylvania's Assigned Risk Plan, which is supposed to
provide insurance for drivers rejected by commercial
companies, was also named as a defendant. The insurers filed
for rate increases, not decreases, with the insurance
department. Representatives from the companies, except
Harleysville, sit on the governing committee of the
assigned-risk plan.
   The suit alleges that these companies met four times to
discuss the new insurance law and consider "appropriate
action." State officials claim these insurers raised the same
or similar issues in numerous suits as a way of undermining
the implementation of the law and inundating the insurance
department with paperwork.
   ---
   ARMCO LOSES $48.8 million jury verdict in Texas.
   A federal jury in Houston assessed the damages after
finding that Armco Inc., a Parsippany, N.J., steel company,
breached an agreement to lease space in a new office
building, causing the lender to foreclose on the project.
   The plaintiffs included AWH-I Ltd., a limited partnership
formed to construct the building; Bank One Texas, which last
year acquired the lender, MBank Houston, after it failed and
was taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.; and
the FDIC, which acts as receiver for certain claims pending
against MBank.
   Underlying the dispute was a 1984 pact under which Armco
agreed to lease space for 15 years in a building to be built
by AWH-I. AWH-I got a $23.6 million construction loan from
MBank. But in 1986, the suit alleged, Armco breached the
lease agreement after paying four months' rent, leading AWH-I
to default on its loan and the bank to foreclose.
   The jury awarded AWH-I about $18 million in actual damages
and lawyers fees, plus $8 million in punitive damages. Bank
One and the FDIC won $19.8 million in actual damages. The
verdict still is subject to approval by Judge Melinda Harmon.
   Marvin D. Nathan, a lawyer in Houston with Nathan Wood &amp;
Sommers, counsel for AWH-I, asserted that Armco's lease
termination was motivated by a desire to get "cheaper rent"
while Houston's real-estate market was declining.
   A spokesman for Armco said the company is considering an
appeal.
   ---
   REHNQUIST DECRIES DELAYS in capital punishment; rejects
proposed remedies.
   Chief Justice of the U.S. William Rehnquist criticized
proposals by senators on changing the law on appeals to
federal courts by state death-row prisoners.
   Speaking at the annual meeting of the American Law
Institute in Washington, he said there is a "serious
malfunction" in the capital-punishment system, leading to
uncertainty and endless delays. His speech, on habeas corpus,
injected the chief justice unusually deeply into the arena of
legislative debate. The Senate is scheduled to consider crime
legislation, including habeas-corpus proposals, possibly as
soon as next week.
   In death-penalty cases, habeas corpus is a process in
which inmates convicted in state court, whose appeals are
denied, file a new civil suit in federal court charging their
constitutional rights were violated by their arrest, trial or
sentence.
   Chief Justice Rehnquist said a proposal by Sen. Joseph
Biden (D., Del.) goes too far in allowing inmates on death
row repeated opportunities for appeals that lead to delays in
state executions. The Biden legislation's "highly
questionable goal" would be accomplished "by overturning a
series of Supreme Court cases," he said.
   He also criticized a proposal by Sen. Strom Thurmond, (R.,
S.C.), which has the support of the Bush administration, to
cut back sharply on appeals to federal courts by state
prisoners on death row. The Thurmond bill would basically bar
inmates convicted in state court from challenging their death
sentences in federal court, unless they were unable to obtain
a "fair" review in state court.
   The chief justice urged Congress to consider what he views
as a middle approach proposed last year by a task force that
he appointed led by retired Supreme Court Justice Lewis
Powell. The Powell approach also has been introduced as
legislation in the Senate.
   The Powell report has been criticized as too restrictive
by Sen. Biden and civil-liberties groups. The Powell approach
was also criticized by the Judicial Conference, the
policy-making arm of the federal judiciary, which rebuffed
the chief justice in March by endorsing two amendments that
diluted the Powell report.
   Congressional aides say there are discussions under way
among Senate factions that may produce a compromise proposal
by next week.
   One facet of the Biden proposal, to which the chief
justice objected most strenuously, is to allow inmates in
habeas-corpus cases to take advantage of Supreme Court
rulings decided after their convictions announcing new
constitutional-law principles. This retroactivity, the chief
justice said, "would overturn an entire body of Supreme Court
precedent."
   ---
   STATE DEPARTMENT legal adviser will join law firm.
   A State Department spokesman said Abraham Sofaer would
leave his post as legal adviser June 15 to head the
Washington office of Hughes Hubbard &amp; Reed, a New York law
firm.
   Mr. Sofaer has served as the department's in-house counsel
since 1985. Before coming to the State Department, he was a
federal judge in Manhattan, N.Y.
   Hughes Hubbard's Washington office has had turmoil in
recent years. In 1988, 11 lawyers left en masse for Arnold &amp;
Porter. More recently Victoria Toensing, a former
high-ranking Justice Department official, decided to leave
the firm.
   But Managing Partner Charles Scherer says that Hughes
Hubbard's fortunes have reversed and that under Mr. Sofaer,
who will also serve as co-chairman of the litigation
department, its Washington office will expand to 30 lawyers
from seven.
   In addition to litigation, Mr. Sofaer said he plans to
focus on arbitration, and "anything involving the government
or international affairs or international trade."
   ---
   Stephen Wermiel contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Time Warner Unit to Close
   Its Southpoint Magazine
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Southern Progress Corp., a subsidiary of Time Warner Inc.,
said it will close down its Southpoint magazine, a regional
magazine for southern states.
   Southpoint, a general interest monthly magazine, will
cease publication with its June issue. Don Logan, chief
executive officer of Southern Progress Corp., said the
magazine is being folded because it wasn't drawing enough
advertising or new paid circulation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Staff members of Southpoint, based in Atlanta, were
stunned by the news. "Obviously I am deeply disappointed that
the commitment to Southpoint proved to be so fleeting," said
John Huey, editor of Southpoint.
   A publisher of several profitable magazines such as
Southern Living and Southern Accents, the Birmingham,
Ala.-based Southern Progress said it will shift focus from
Southpoint to new advertising packages that include Sunset
magazine, another regional magazine. Sunset, a
large-circulation life style magazine in the western states,
was acquired by Time Warner in March for $225 million.
   Hoping to expand its franchise in the South, Southern
Progress acquired 70% of Southpoint, then known as Southern
magazine, in March 1989. The remaining 30% of the magazine is
owned by Stephens Inc., the Little Rock, Ark.-based
investment banking firm, which originally bankrolled the
magazine when it was launched in 1986.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Boulevard Bancorp Inc.:
   Work Force Cut to Result
   In a Second-Quarter Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BLVD
</CO>
<LP>
   Boulevard Bancorp Inc. said it will take a $650,000 charge
against its second-quarter earnings as a result of a 10%
reduction in its work force.
   The Chicago-based bank holding company, which has assets
of $1.7 billion, has about 865 employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Boulevard said the reduction is one of several actions it
is taking to improve long-term profitability and shareholder
returns. The company said it expects the measures to result
in annual savings of between $2 million to $2.5 million.
   In the year-earlier quarter, Boulevard earned $2.5
million, or 39 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manville Trust
   Is Criticized
   By Two Judges
   ---
   They Demand Explanation
   For Shortfall in Funds,
   Threaten Drastic Moves
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The trust set up by Manville Corp. to pay
asbestos victims' claims came under fire in an unusual
federal-state proceeding as two judges ordered the trust to
account for its enormous shortfall in funds.
   U.S. district Judge Jack B. Weinstein and New York state
court Justice Helen Freedman also raised the possibility that
they may order drastic measures to ensure that the trust and
Manville more rapidly pay damages to asbestos victims.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two judges, in a joint memorandum, said these steps
could include requiring Manville to pay additional funding to
the trust and opening the company up to new asbestos
lawsuits. Currently, only the trust, which was formed in 1988
as part of the company's bankruptcy-court reorganization, can
be sued.
   Maryanna Smith, executive director of the trust, said the
trust and Manville believe that many of the judges'
suggestions are unlikely to be adopted and may be barred
under bankruptcy law. She said the trust's attorneys believe
that the company's funding can't be changed.
   A spokesman for the company said it believes no changes
are warranted in the plan that set up the trust. "The plan .
. . was well thought out and resolved through the judicial
process. There's no basis for changing it," he said.
   Manville also issued a statement saying that if the ban on
lawsuits against the company were lifted, the trust's assets
would be hurt. "If the injunction weren't in place, it could
dramatically reduce the value of all assets provided to the
trust, including the value of trust stock," it said.
   The judges' harsh criticism of the Manville trust came at
the end of a hearing on efforts to settle about 500 asbestos
cases involving workers from the Brooklyn Navy Yard. The
Manville trust is one of the major defendants in the
settlement effort, which is being overseen by Kenneth
Feinberg. The two judges appointed Mr. Feinberg, of Kaye,
Scholer, Fierman, Hays &amp; Handler, as special master in
January to come up with a settlement of the state and federal
cases.
   Mr. Feinberg advised the judges on the settlement
negotiations, which he said are making good progress. He said
the defendants, all former makers of asbestos, which causes
respiratory ailments, had been notified of the amounts he
expects each to pay. He said the defendants are expected to
respond within the next few days as the settlement talks near
a May 30 deadline set by the judges last January.
   But Mr. Feinberg said one problem that has emerged is the
lengthy delay in getting any payments from the Manville
trust. The trust recently told plaintiffs' attorneys that
cases settled now won't receive their first payments until
the year 2004. Because of that delay, plaintiffs' attorneys
don't want the trust included in the settlement.
   After the hearing, held in state supreme court in
Manhattan with both judges presiding, Mr. Feinberg said, "I
remain optimistic that even without the Manville trust's
participation we can work out a settlement of the Brooklyn
Navy Yard cases involving all the other defendants."
   The judges, however, appear determined to include the
Manville lawsuits in the settlement. "It isn't satisfactory,
from both courts' points of view, to leave Manville out of
it," Judge Weinstein said. "We want these cases settled."
   The judges, in a memorandum issued after the hearing,
listed several possible steps that it said could be
considered against the Manville trust. It also ordered the
trust to turn over details about its assets, administrative
expenses, legal fees, projected payments to plaintiffs and an
explanation of why it currently can't pay damages.
   "If the defendants (in the Manville cases) claim
insufficient funds, there may be a fiduciary relationship
requiring an inquiry into what the parties and insurers have
been doing to maximize payments to the injured," the judges
said.
   Ms. Smith said all of the material requested by the two
judges is included in the trust's regular reports to the
federal bankruptcy court that oversaw the Manville case.
   The judges said they may have the power to appoint a
receiver for enough of the trust's assets to cover Manville's
share of the Brooklyn Navy Yard cases. They also asked the
trust to explain why interest shouldn't be collected on
claims that won't be paid for several years, hinting that
interest could be required as part of a judgment.
   Another possibility, the judges said, would be for the
federal bankruptcy court to lift its injunction barring new
asbestos lawsuits against the company. Because ailments
allegedly caused by asbestos take years to appear, new cases
are still being filed. And the judges said the trust could go
back to the federal bankruptcy court and ask that the company
provide more of its profits as funding.
   The trust has assets of about $2.5 billion, mainly
Manville stock. But it says it can afford to pay only about
$250 million in claims this year and has already paid more
than $26 million. The company is to contribute its first $75
million annual payment in August 1991 and will start
contributing 20% of its profit in 1992.
   Ms. Smith said that the shortfall in paying claims was
anticipated when the trust was formed. But she said the
shortfall had come sooner than expected because the trust has
settled more cases and paid more money than projected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Chiat to Seduce Ad-Buyers for Playboy
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   PLA LIO IPG FCB U.GUI WNEWS GCI
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Playboy magazine, bracing itself for competition from a
slew of new men's magazines, is expected to announce today
that it selected Chiat/Day/Mojo to handle its ad account.
   Its choice of a new ad agency comes at a crucial time for
the men's magazine. Men have recently become a hot commodity
in the publishing world, and a coterie of upscale magazines
-- both new and repositioned existing ones -- is competing in
an already tight media market. At the same time, Playboy,
hurt badly by the conservative backlash of recent years, saw
its ad pages plummet from a high of about 1,400 in 1981 to
less than half of that in 1987. By last year, the figure
rebounded slightly to 735.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The magazine's goal now is to persuade advertisers to
think of Playboy when they think of Esquire, Rolling Stone or
new entrants like Murdoch Magazines' planned Men's Life and
the revamped Details. So, Chiat/Day will be rolling out a new
trade advertising campaign, and the magazine will boost its
puny ad budget to about $3 million.
   "With this recent spate of men's books and the refocus on
the men's field, we think there's a real opportunity for us
to say: You can take all the men's books out there and add
them up and you still don't get the circulation of Playboy,"
says James Spanfeller, associate publisher and senior vice
president of marketing. Playboy's rate base is 3.4 million,
more than that of GQ, Esquire and Rolling Stone combined.
   Playboy, a unit of Playboy Enterprises, still will have to
deal with the basic problem advertisers have with the
magazine, though: The fact that since it built its reputation
on girlie pictures, Playboy isn't just another men's
magazine. Even though only 15% to 20% of the magazine's
editorial content is devoted to the skin pictorials,
advertisers just don't consider it in the same breath with
more sedate men's life-style magazines.
   What's more, while Playboy says its readers are just as
upscale as readers of other men's books, that certainly isn't
the perception among advertisers, even Playboy executives
admit. The advertisers are more likely to envision tacky gold
chains, open shirts and beer bellies. Even Mr. Spanfeller
concedes that when he joined last year from Newsweek, he
thought the magazine's readers were downscale. There's "a
gap" between perception and reality, he says.
   Mr. Spanfeller, though, contends that the time is right
for Playboy to become more acceptable to the mainstream. He
believes the conservative backlash of the 1980s "is on the
wane." He adds, "The mood of the country is changing from
being obsessed with work to becoming more involved in life
styles. That makes sense with Playboy, because we're about
leisure life."
   A new ad campaign geared to advertisers will likely stress
Playboy as a leisure magazine, he said. The campaign "will
give advertisers permission to buy," says Steve Cohen, a
Playboy vice president. Other changes are in the works to
back that up. In July, the magazine introduces two new
columns that presumably have very little to do with naked
women, one on media and one on style. Under Mr. Spanfeller,
Playboy has also beefed up its sales staff.
   For Chiat/Day, meanwhile, the account is a first, of
sorts: Playboy's creative work will be handled not by
Chiat/Day's big West Coast or New York offices, but by its
young Toronto office. It's a carefully calculated strategy on
Chiat/Day's part to build up the Canadian office by placing
small but high-profile accounts there. Tom McElligott, the
creative star who joined Chiat/Day earlier this year, even
led the Playboy pitch himself, and will oversee the account.
   Bob Wolf, chairman and chief executive officer of
Chiat/Day in North America, says the Toronto office's
strategy "is to think about the Midwest of the U.S. as
new-business hunting ground." For relatively small U.S.
clients like Playboy, the arrangement allows them to be "a
big fish in a small pond," instead of getting lost in the
huge New York or West Coast offices, he says.
   For a small fish, the Playboy account was hotly contested.
The account had been handled by Keye/Donna/Pearlstein's New
York office, which was shut down. When word got out, Playboy
was deluged by about 40 ad agencies wanting to pitch the
account, and ultimately had discussions with close to a dozen
of them.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   TOY-STORES ACCOUNT: Lionel Leisure, Philadelphia, awarded
the creative portion of the ad account for its Lionel Kiddie
City and Lionel Playworld toy stores to Ketchum Advertising,
Philadelphia. Billings are $6 million to $8 million.
                                                                                                       

   CONSULTING: Morgan, Anderson &amp; Co., a New York-based ad
consultant, said it will offer evaluations of advertisers'
marketing programs in addition to its compensation service.
The firm said it has two new consultants on staff to help
direct the marketing assessment service.
                                                                                                       

   INTERPUBLIC: Interpublic Group of Cos. directors voted to
increase the quarterly dividend to 19 cents a share from 17
cents a share, payable on June 15 to stock of record May 30.
At the annual meeting, Philip H. Geier Jr., chairman and
chief executive officer, said, "It will be a difficult first
half in our domestic operations," but that the international
side, representing over 60% of the company's business, "is
doing reasonably well." After the meeting, he said 1990
earnings would be "in the area of" analysts' expectations,
which range between $2.30 and $2.40 a share, up from $2.10 a
share last year.
                                                                                                       

   FOOTE CONE: Foote, Cone &amp; Belding said Public
Communications, an ad agency in Taiwan, will join the FCB
international network by the end of the year. The
announcement was made by Norman W. Brown, the agency's
chairman and chief executive, at the agency's annual meeting
in Chicago. In addition, the agency named Gregory W. Blaine,
executive vice president, and Laurel Cutler, vice chairman at
FCB/Leber Katz Partners, to the board.
                                                                                                       

   MOOSEHEAD BEER: Guinness Import Co., Stamford, Conn.,
named Mathieu, Goluskin, Donovan &amp; Clarke, a tiny New York
shop, to create ads for its Moosehead beer brand. Billings
are set at $3 million. The account was previously handled by
McCann-Erickson, an Interpublic Group agency. Guinness Import
is a unit of Guinness PLC.
                                                                                                       

   YELLOW PAGES: D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp; Bowles, New York,
named Mary MacDonald chief executive and managing director of
its DMB&amp;B/Yellow Pages ad division. Separately, the division
acquired Donald E. Whiting Inc., a Deerfield, Ill., agency
specializing in yellow pages advertising. Terms weren't
disclosed. Donald Whiting will continue as chairman of the
unit, reporting to Ms. MacDonald.
                                                                                                       

   MAGAZINE: USA Weekend, a national Sunday magazine
supplement published by Gannett Co., awarded its ad account
to Anda, Bokuniewicz &amp; Scotti, a small New York agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   PAUL C. MARSH, an analyst at Bateman Eichler, Hill
Richards Inc., places the value of Hanna-Barbera Productions
Inc. at about $300 million, and the rest of Great American
Communications Co.'s entertainment assets at about $200
million. Yesterday's edition misstated the latter figure.
   (See: "Media: MCA Views Top Creator of Cartoons" -- WSJ
May 15, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   NINTENDO Co., based in Kyoto, Japan, reported pretax
profit at the parent company of 55.246 billion yen in the
seven-month fiscal period ended March 31. In yesterday's
edition, the profit figure and the city where Nintendo is
based were misstated.
   (See: "International Brief -- Nintendo Co.: Tokyo Firm's
Profit Surges In Period Ended March 31" -- WSJ May 15, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bleaker Outlook
   On Deficit Seen
   At White House
   ---
   Bipartisan Discussions Begin
   As '91 Budget Gap Is Put
   At a High of $140 Billion
   ----
   By David Wessel and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The White House painted a bleaker picture of
the federal deficit outlook, telling congressional leaders
that it now projects the fiscal 1991 budget gap at between
$128 billion and $140 billion -- even if the costs of the
thrift cleanup are excluded.
   The new estimate came as President Bush convened the first
session in bipartisan talks aimed at avoiding
across-the-board spending cuts this fall and reaching a
multi-year accord to sharply reduce the deficit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All sides declared the one-hour, 40-minute session at the
White House a success, and negotiators agreed to meet again
tomorrow at the Capitol for a more detailed presentation on
the scope of the deficit problem.
   The White House has steadily enlarged its projection of
the deficit, blaming higher-than-expected interest rates and
a shortfall in federal revenues. But some Democrats are
skeptical of that explanation. "It appears quite likely at
this point that the current `crisis' was brought about by
poor performance by the administration's economic forecasters
rather than poor performance by the economy," the House
Democratic Study Group said.
   Three and a half months ago, the administration projected
that without any changes in government policy, the deficit
for the year beginning Oct. 1 would be $100.5 billion. In
March, White House Budget Director Richard Darman told a
congressional committee that a slowing economy meant the
deficit would be between $106 billion and $115 billion. And
he told reporters little more than three weeks ago that he
had increased his estimate to between $108 billion and $120
billion.
   Automatic spending cuts will be triggered in October if
Congress fails to reduce the deficit to within $10 billion of
the $64 billion target in the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction
law. The new estimates, disclosed by congressional
negotiators, suggest that negotiators need to find spending
cuts, tax increases or some combination of both totaling
between $54 billion and $66 billion to avoid the cuts -- even
if they agree to ignore the tens of billions of dollars in
added borrowing for the thrift cleanup.
   Economists outside the administration said that despite a
significant surge in interest rates early this year, the
near-term economic outlook hasn't changed much in the past
few months. The consensus of private forecasts for the next
two years actually has turned a tad more bullish since
January, according to a survey by Blue Chip Economic
Indicators, an Arizona newsletter.
   "What has really happened is that the optimism embedded in
the administration's (earlier) forecast seems less likely to
be realized," said Robert Reischauer, director of the
Congressional Budget Office. The administration had forecast
falling interest rates throughout this year and next. But
rates have risen, and administration officials now fear that
further increases in interest rates around the world could
lead to a recession before the 1992 election.
   Some Democrats welcomed what they described as new candor
from the administration. "Finally, a healthy dose of reality
has made itself manifest," said Sen. Wyche Fowler (D., Ga.),
one of the Democratic budget negotiators. "You can't solve a
problem without admitting that it exists."
   The White House issued a statement saying that Mr. Bush
told the negotiators that his call for a summit wasn't
prompted by any immediate crisis. Rather, Mr. Bush said that
it's important to act while the economy is still growing "for
growth is not as strong or secure as it should be."
   Senate Democratic Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine) said
he and Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.) told Mr. Bush that
after hearing "a more detailed and precise definition of the
problem," they want the administration to make suggestions
for addressing it before Democrats make proposals of their
own.
   Mr. Bush didn't agree to that, however, and one
participant said that the president suggested that such an
approach wouldn't be constructive. Senate Republican Leader
Bob Dole (R., Kan.) said that the success of the talks would
be in doubt if Democrats stuck to that position.
   Speaker Foley and Sen. Dole said that the next few
sessions probably will be devoted to detailing the deficit
and the scope of the across-the-board budget cuts that will
occur if the talks break down. Mr. Bush won't attend, and
Speaker Foley and Sen. Mitchell aren't likely to make more
than token appearances.
   After a week of speculation over who would or wouldn't
propose increasing taxes, no one uttered the word "taxes" at
yesterday's session, Speaker Foley said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Price Waterhouse Ordered
   To Make Woman a Partner
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A federal judge ordered Price Waterhouse to
give a partnership to a woman who was denied the opportunity
seven years ago and whose sex-discrimination lawsuit went to
the Supreme Court.
   Judge Gerhard Gesell ordered the accounting firm to make
Ann Hopkins a partner, effective July 1, and to pay her back
pay and interest from 1983 that her lawyers say will total
about $350,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. Hopkins, who works at the World Bank, charged that
Price Waterhouse denied her a partnership because of sex
stereotyping -- some partners thought she was too aggressive
and were offended by her use of profanity.
   Last May, the Supreme Court ruled that discrimination
based on sexual stereotypes is prohibited by Title VII of the
1964 Civil Rights Act. The high court concluded that the
federal district court had applied the correct legal standard
at the trial but sent the case back so the court could decide
how to correct the illegal actions by Price Waterhouse.
   Judge Gesell, in a 33-page opinion, concluded that the
firm should make Ms. Hopkins a partner, an offer that her
lawyers say she is inclined to accept, if it is made.
   Price Waterhouse said it is was studying the decision. The
firm wouldn't say whether it would accept the decision or
appeal again.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manufacturers Hanover's Ebert Leaves
   After He Is Denied Top Spot at New Unit
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   MHC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Manufacturers Hanover Corp.'s head of
investment banking, Douglas E. Ebert, resigned after failing
to win the top spot in a newly combined commercial and
investment banking unit.
   For nearly a year, Mr. Ebert -- whose combined salary and
bonus of $625,913 last year made him one of the big bank's
five most highly paid executives -- had set his sights on
heading such a combined unit, and he was widely regarded as
the frontrunner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So, he was clearly disappointed when the company chose not
to put a single individual in charge, but instead to have six
group heads for commercial and investment banking report
directly to Manufacturers Hanover President Thomas S.
Johnson.
   The reorganization firmly puts the imprint of Mr. Johnson,
formerly the No. 2 executive at rival Chemical Banking Corp.,
on Manufacturers Hanover, the nation's ninth-largest banking
company. It also signals the completion of a long and painful
restructuring and recapitalization that began more than two
years ago.
   In a statement issued by the bank, Mr. Ebert said, "I
support and indeed have been a strong advocate of the need to
create an integrated wholesale bank structure. My preference
would have been to head up the wholesale bank. However, I
understand and support the feeling that Tom Johnson should
have the new global banking group reporting directly to him.
   "Having my own career objective, I feel it is the
appropriate time to pursue advancement opportunities outside
the institution," he said.
   Mr. Ebert, 44 years old, didn't return telephone calls
seeking comment and reportedly doesn't have job plans. In an
interview yesterday, Mr. Johnson said that some departures
were "inevitable when you try to take a level of management
out." He added, "We're sorry to lose him."
   Despite his abilities, Mr. Ebert was actively opposed for
the top post by some senior managers who felt he was too
abrasive and wouldn't work well in the "team" environment
that Mr. Johnson is creating, according to a bank executive.
   Two other names mentioned most often to head the new
combined commercial and investment banking unit, Donald H.
McCree and Donald G. McCouch, are remaining with
Manufacturers Hanover, although with somewhat diminished
responsibilities. Mr. McCree, who was in charge of corporate
banking, will now head up business with other financial
institutions, including sales of loans and other financial
products; Mr. McCouch, formerly head of banking and
international lending, will be in charge of
developing-country loans and other business.
   The biggest winners in the reorganization are Mark G.
Solow, the head of acquisition finance, who now also has
responsibility for energy and media lending and venture
capital; Michael Hegarty, the head of real estate lending,
who now also oversees lending to medium-sized companies, the
bank's branch network, private banking and personal trust,
and Donald H. Layton, head of trading, who now adds treasury
responsibilities. Messrs. Solow and Layton will report to Mr.
Johnson; Mr. Hegarty will report to Vice Chairman Edward
Miller.
   All three men are young rising stars within Manufacturers
Hanover. Mr. Solow has made Manufacturers one of the three
leading lenders to leveraged buy-outs, while avoiding the
major financings that have gotten into trouble. Under Mr.
Layton, Manufacturers has made progress penetrating markets
for financial hedging products, such as swaps contracts. And
Mr. Hegarty has rebuilt Manufacturer's real estate lending
business after disastrous loans in the Southwest ballooned in
the mid-1980s.
   The other group executives that will report directly to
Mr. Johnson are Mr. McCree; Herbert F. Aspbury, North
American markets; James R. Brokken, who continues to work
with European clients, and John J. Simone, who will work with
Asian customers. Reporting to Mr. Miller will be Charles R.
Walsh, group executive for credit cards, and Richard J.
Matteis, group executive for operating services.
   James McCormick, a bank consultant with First Manhattan
Consulting Group, said that by combining commercial and
investment banking activites and not superimposing a new
layer of management, Manufacturers is attempting to "do
something distinctive with its products."
   Mr. Johnson said, "Manufacturers has a tremendous set of
client franchises in such areas as media and energy. At the
other end of the organization, we have all these products,
such as swaps. They've grown up separately from each other.
One of the objects of the reorganization is to create a
flexible organizational structure that allows us to move
resources to opportunities."
   How well the union of commercial and investment banking
activities works will be vital to Manufacturers Hanover's
future.
   Manufacturers in recent years has shrunk its size, boosted
its capital levels and begun building its reserves against $5
billion of loans to five problem Latin American borrowers.
   Since 1985, Manufacturers has shrunk its assets to $60.4
billion from $76.5 billion. It has sold its consumer-finance
subsidiary, mortgage company, investment-managment unit and a
controlling stake in the CIT Group Inc., a major finance
company. Manufacturers has increased its level of assets that
can be readily converted into cash to 29% of total assets
from 16% in 1985, and it has increased its common equity to
4.8% of assets from 3.8% in 1985.
   Nevertheless, Manufacturers needs to show some earnings
growth, analysts say. It has propped up its stock price by
keeping its dividend high, but the heavy payout has kept the
bank's rate of internal capital generation low.
   Manufacturers also needs to pare down its high level of
nonperforming loans. Nonperforming assets at the end of last
year were 7.9% of total loans, the highest level among the
nation's 10 largest banks. The bank's nonperforming assets
were only 2.8% of total loans in 1985.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Great American
   Bank in Dispute
   With Regulators
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GTA
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Great American Bank, which revised its fourth-quarter
results after a dispute with its auditor over loan-loss
reserves, disclosed a dispute with federal regulators over
how it values certain assets, potentially further
complicating the troubled thrift's survival plans.
   In addition, Great American, based in San Diego, reported
a net loss of $1.2 million, or five cents a share, for the
first quarter, compared with profit of $11 million, or 45
cents a share, a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Great American, the nation's eighth-largest thrift with
$15.4 billion in assets, said federal thrift examiners have
questioned how it values certain of its loans, real estate
and other assets, and that the assumptions being used by
regulators would reduce its assets by at least $65 million.
   The company defended its own assumptions, and said
discussions are continuing as the regulators complete their
exam. It added that it didn't know whether it would be
required to incur write-downs, and that "the potential loss
which may be required to be reported cannot reasonably be
estimated at this time." Any impact would likely be reflected
in results for the second quarter, the company said.
   A write-down of $65 million would eliminate about half of
the company's tangible capital, which, standing at $128.9
million as of March 31, was already about $100 million shy of
meeting regulatory standards.
   As reported, Great American has been a victim of the
real-estate bust in Arizona, and must raise at least $350
million in capital by year-end or else face regulatory
sanctions, possibly including seizure. Analysts have been
skeptical about the company's ability to attract that kind of
support, and said the latest disclosure would further
compound the task. The company has conceded that any such
infusion would likely seriously dilute the interests of
current shareholders.
   "I can't think of a more difficult assignment for anyone
than to raise $350 million at this point in time, given the
real-estate uncertainties in their markets," said Allan
Bortel, a thrift analyst at Sutro &amp; Co. in San Francisco.
   Some analysts said Great American's dispute illustrates
the increasingly aggressive approach that regulators have
taken in forcing conservative accounting by banks and
thrifts, based on evidence that seized institutions had
greatly understated the extent of their troubled loans.
   In a statement, Great American asserted that certain of
the regulators' assumptions were "not currently considered to
be in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles."
   Earlier this year, Great American revised its
fourth-quarter financial results after its auditor, Deloitte
&amp; Touche, posed concerns over the adequacy of its loan-loss
provisions. The revisions boosted Great American's net loss
for the quarter ended Dec. 31 to $198.9 million, or $8.30 a
share, from an initially reported $59.3 million, or $2.48 a
share.
   A spokesman said the first-quarter results were unaudited,
but that asset-valuation methods used in the quarter were
consistent with those that Deloitte &amp; Touche had approved in
the preceding quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hanson PLC:
   Interim Pretax Profit Rises
   To $958 Million, a Record
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HAN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hanson PLC, Britain's largest industrial conglomerate,
said interim pretax profit rose 28% to #570 million ($958
million), a record high, for the six months to March 31, with
a record contribution from U.S. operations.
   Although Hanson couldn't be reached for comment on
extraordinary gains, industry analysts said they most likely
related to disposals during the past six months of assets
obtained from the #3.5 billion acquisition of Consolidated
Goldfields PLC in August 1989. So far, the disposal program
has generated #1.1 billion, Hanson said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Goldfields' U.S. operations, which realized a 21% profit
jump to #180 million from #149 million, made their first
contribution to Hanson's half-year results. Last November
Hanson announced the sale of four Arc America companies,
Goldfields assets, for $650 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Borden Inc.:
   Firm Buys Pasta Business
   From Campbell Soup Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BN CPB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Borden Inc. said it acquired a Canadian pasta and pasta
sauce business from Campbell Soup Co. and a South Carolina
producer of foils and papers for laminates.
   The Gattuso pasta business has estimated annual sales of
$14 million; it will become part of Borden's Catelli unit in
Montreal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New York-based Borden also acquired Letron Inc., a maker
of foils, with estimated 1990 sales of $20 million. That
business complements Borden's Orchard Decorative Products
unit, which supplies decorative printed overlays for
wallcoverings, furniture, floor tiles and other applications.
   Borden, with annual sales of $7.6 billion in 1989,
produces foods, non-food consumer products, packaging and
industrial products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   More Companies Starting
   Drug Testing, Poll Finds
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- An increasing number of companies are
instituting or plan to implement programs to test job
applicants or employees for substance abuse, a survey by the
Conference Board found.
   The one-year survey, results of which were released today,
was based on information collected in 1988. The survey found
that 55% of 681 human resources executives polled have
implemented or were about to implement the testing programs.
About nine out of 10 of the companies engaged in drug testing
have issued formal policies on drug and alcohol use in the
workplace.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The executives polled come from a broad range of
industries, and most frequently cited the need to counter
drug problems in the workplace as the reason for the testing
programs. Among other reasons were improving safety,
providing a deterrent to nonusers, preventing legal liability
in drug-related accidents and reducing costs.
   A previous survey reported in 1986 in a trade publication,
Human Resource Management News, found only about 3% of
companies polled were testing job applicants or employees for
drug use before 1984, the current survey report said. The
Conference Board is a nonprofit business research
organization.
   The survey found that testing programs are most prevalent
in manufacturing, mining, public utilities and transportation
sectors, and least prevalent among financial services
companies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Reckoning:
   Safeway LBO Yields
   Vast Profits but Exacts
   A Heavy Human Toll
   ---
   The '80s-Style Buy-Out Left
   Some Employees Jobless,
   Stress-Ridden, Distraught
   ---
   Owner KKR Hails Efficiency
   ----
   By Susan C. Faludi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR SWY
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- On the eve of the 1986 leveraged
buy-out of Safeway Stores Inc., the board of directors sat
down to a last supper. Peter Magowan, the boyish-looking
chairman and chief executive of the world's largest
supermarket chain, rose to offer a toast to the deal that had
fended off a hostile takeover by the corporate raiders
Herbert and Robert Haft.
   "Through your efforts, a true disaster was averted," the
44-year-old Mr. Magowan told the other directors. By selling
the publicly held company to a group headed by buy-out
specialists Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. and members of
Safeway management, "you have saved literally thousands of
jobs in our work force," Mr. Magowan said. "All of us --
employees, customers, shareholders -- have a great deal to be
thankful for."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nearly four years later, Mr. Magowan and the KKR group can
indeed count their blessings. While they borrowed heavily to
buy Safeway from the shareholders, last month they sold 10%
of the company (but none of their own shares) back to the
public -- at a price that values their own collective stake
at more than $800 million, more than four times their cash
investment.
   Employees, on the other hand, have considerably less
reason to celebrate. Mr. Magowan's toast notwithstanding,
63,000 managers and workers were cut loose from Safeway,
through store sales or layoffs. While the majority were
re-employed by their new store owners, this was largely at
lower wages, and many thousands of Safeway people wound up
either unemployed or forced into the part-time work force. A
survey of former Safeway employees in Dallas found that
nearly 60% still hadn't found full-time employment more than
a year after the layoff.
   James White, a Safeway trucker for nearly 30 years in
Dallas, was among the 60%. In 1988, he marked the one-year
anniversary of his last shift at Safeway this way: First he
told his wife he loved her, then he locked the bathroom door,
loaded his .22-caliber hunting rifle and blew his brains out.
   "Safeway was James's whole life," says his widow, Helen.
"He'd near stand up and salute whenever one of those trucks
went by." When Safeway dismissed him, she says, "it was like
he turned into a piece of stone."
   Few financial maneuvers have drawn more controversy than
the leveraged buy-out, or LBO, a relatively old money-making
tactic that was dusted off and put to extensive use in the
1980s, thanks largely to the rise of junk-bond financing.
   In a leveraged buy-out, a small group of investors that
generally includes senior management borrows heavily to buy a
company from public shareholders and takes it private. The
debt is to be rapidly repaid from the company's own cash flow
or from sales of its assets.
   The returns on some such highly leveraged investments have
been astronomical, enriching such financiers as Henry Kravis,
Ronald Perelman and Nelson Peltz to a degree unheard of since
the days of the Robber Barons. Proponents of LBOs argue that
they are good for business and good for America, triggering
long-overdue crash weight-loss programs for flabby
corporations. By placing ownership in the hands of a small
group of investors and managers with a powerful debt-driven
incentive to improve productivity, the argument goes,
companies can't help but shape up.
   The Safeway LBO is often cited as one of the most
successful in this regard. It brought shareholders a
substantial premium at the outset, and since then the company
has raised productivity and operating profits and produced
riches for the new investors and top management. "We could
not have done what we did do without going through the
incredible trauma and pressure of the LBO," Mr. Magowan said
in late 1988.
   But while much has been written about the putative
benefits of LBOs, little has been said about the hundreds of
thousands of people directly affected by the past decade's
buy-out binge: employees of the bought-out corporations. In
the case of Safeway, a two-month investigation of the buy-out
reveals enormous human costs and unintended side effects. The
company dropped tens of thousands of employees from its
payroll, suppliers and other dependent industries laid off
hundreds more, and communities lost the civic contributions
of a firm whose first store had been opened by a clergyman
who wanted to help his parishioners save money.
   When Safeway itself selected a group of its employees to
speak to this newspaper on behalf of the company, not one of
those interviewed praised the buy-out. "I think LBOs are very
ugly," said Carl Adkins, an inventory control clerk who
described himself as happy with his job. "I think they are
harmful to individual working people. I think they honestly
stink."
   Moreover, the evidence doesn't entirely support the
argument that the LBO made Safeway a healthier institution.
The supermarket chain cut plenty of muscle with the fat, both
from its holdings and from its labor force, and deferred
capital improvements in favor of the all-consuming debt. Many
employees find the post-LBO working environment more
difficult -- as a company legendary for job security and
fairness resorts to hardball labor policies and high-pressure
quota systems.
   Just before the Safeway deal was struck in 1986, Mr.
Magowan's mother grew worried about the employees. The
supermarket dowager wanted to be sure the LBO wouldn't damage
Safeway's longstanding reputation as a benevolent employer.
   Will anyone get hurt? Mrs. Magowan pressed her son at the
time, according to company staff members. Will anyone lose
his job?
   No Mom, Mr. Magowan promised, according to the staffers'
account. No one will get hurt.
   "Yes, I was greatly concerned about the people," Mrs.
Magowan recalls today, in her mansion overlooking the San
Francisco Bay. She declines to comment further.
   Mr. Magowan's recollection: "Well, I don't ever remember
such a conversation ever occurred. . . . I might have said
things like, `We're going to do the best we can for our
employees and I'm hopeful that we are going to be able to
keep the vast majority with the new owners.'"
   In any event, before that summer was out, Mrs. Magowan's
son had begun firing Safeway employees. Not long after,
Safeway replaced its longtime motto, "Safeway Offers
Security." The new corporate statement, displayed on a plaque
in the lobby at corporate headquarters, reads in part:
"Targeted Returns on Current Investment."
   ---
   Before the LBO, Safeway was hardly a prime example of the
sluggish, out-of-shape sort of company that LBO proponents
like to target. Founded in 1926, it had grown under Magowan
family leadership to encompass more than 2,000 stores in 29
states and in England, Australia, Canada and Mexico. Mr.
Magowan's father, Robert, had largely built Safeway, and his
mother, Doris Merrill Magowan, is the daughter of a founder
of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., which helped finance Safeway's
growth.
   Many companies, including Safeway, had allowed their
payrolls to become bloated in certain underperforming
divisions, and layoffs were common throughout large American
companies during the last decade.
   But Safeway was already doing -- albeit at a slower pace
-- many of the things LBO experts advocate. It was remodeling
its stores and creating the upscale "superstores" that have
now proved such a big success. It was experimenting with
employee productivity teams, phasing out money-losing
divisions, and thinning its work force with a program that
included some layoffs but generally relied on less painful
methods like attrition.
   All these changes produced earnings that more than doubled
in the first four years of the 1980s, to a record $231
million in 1985. The stock price tripled in three years, and
dividends climbed four years in a row.
   But all that wasn't enough for takeover-crazed Wall
Street, where virtually no company was invulnerable to
cash-rich corporate raiders. When the deep-pocketed Hafts
began buying Safeway shares in the open market and then
offered to buy the company for as much as $64 a share,
management felt it had to take defensive action. Selling to
the Hafts might have cost Chairman Magowan his job and, he
felt, ultimately might have brought a breakup of the company.
   Safeway considered and rejected a plan to fend off the
Hafts through a so-called recapitalization. This was a move
that its supermarket-industry competitor, Kroger Co. would
use two years later to keep the same raiders at bay while
allowing shareholders to realize a big one-time gain.
   The decision to sell to KKR instead brought immediate
benefits to some. Shareholders got $67.50 a share -- 82% more
than the stock was trading at three months before -- plus
warrants that give them a 5.6% stake in the ongoing company.
Employees owned roughly 10% of Safeway shares at the time of
the buy-out.
   Mr. Magowan and other directors and top executives
received $28 million for their shares, $5.7 million of which
went to Mr. Magowan. He and about 60 other top executives
also got options to buy a total of 10% of the new Safeway at
only $2 a share; those options are now valued at more than
$100 million, or $12.125 a share.
   The Hafts made $100 million by selling the Safeway shares
they had accumulated to KKR, and as a consolation prize, they
were also given options to buy a 20% stake in the new
Safeway. The Hafts sold that option back to KKR 2 1/2 months
later for an additional $59 million.
   The three investment banks that worked on the deal made a
total of $65 million. Law and accounting firms shared another
$25 million.
   And then there are Henry Kravis, George Roberts, about a
dozen other KKR employees and the 70 investors KKR brought
into the buy-out. KKR itself charged Safeway $60 million in
fees just to put the deal together. The five KKR partners
then put up a small fraction of the equity funding -- 1.1%,
or roughly $2 million -- and received a 20% share of the
eventual profits from any sale of Safeway.
   KKR's investor group, half of which consists of state
pension funds and which also includes banks, insurance
companies and even Harvard University, got most of the rest.
   Mr. Roberts rebutts the notion that too few people really
benefit in an LBO. He says that some of "our 70 limited
partners represent retired teachers, sanitation workers and
firemen, and 80% of our profits go to them."
   But at the largest of those investors, Oregon's
public-employee pension fund, LBO investments make up only a
tiny portion of investments and thus haven't had "a
significant impact" on retirees' benefits to date, according
to Bob Andrews, fund manager.
   ---
   The immediate gains for some triggered immediate costs for
others. The first employees to be fired shortly after the
buy-out's completion were more than 300 staffers from Oakland
corporate headquarters and a nearby division in Walnut Creek,
Calif. The following spring, the entire Dallas-area division
was shut down, and nearly 9,000 more employees were dismissed
-- employees with an average length of service of 17 years.
   "This is going to kill people," transportation manager
Richard Quigley says he told his boss when he learned that
layoffs would take place.
   On the Friday afternoon before the dismissals went into
effect, Patricia Vasquez, a 14-year systems analyst, heard
that her name was on the list. That evening, Mrs. Vasquez, a
Safeway devotee famous for her refusal to take lunch hours,
packed her service citations in a cardboard box and left
looking pale and drawn. The next morning her two young
children found their single mother on the bathroom floor,
dead of a heart attack.
   That Monday, Mr. Quigley came home with the news that he,
himself, would be fired. His worried wife's blood pressure
began to rise. A diabetic who had been in good health for
years, she was hospitalized by Labor Day weekend -- and dead
by Sept. 5. Rightly or wrongly, Mr. Quigley blames his wife's
death on his Safeway layoff: "She was very traumatized by
it."
   Told of these deaths and several suicides that family
members and friends attribute to the Safeway layoffs, Mr.
Magowan says: "I never heard of this before. If it's true,
I'm obviously sorry about such a tragic thing, but any
attempt to associate this directly with the LBO shows a
disposition to want to believe the worst of LBOs."
   For many at Safeway, firing day was only the first in a
long series of financial and emotional body blows.
   "The dominoes began to tumble and they crashed for a long
time to come," says Ron Morrison, a former corporate systems
manager. When Mr. Morrison lost his 14-year job, his fiance
announced she couldn't marry an unemployed man.
   He found work as a transportation analyst at Del Monte,
but then KKR bought that company, too -- and he was laid off
again, just before Thanksgiving. By the time 1990 rolled
around, Mr. Morrison had not only gone through two KKR-led
LBOs, he had lost his second home and was unemployed again.
   "Right now I pretty much live in a cocoon," Mr. Morrison
says. "You begin to pull in your tentacles because you can't
afford to have any more cut off."
   While at Safeway, Mr. Morrison says, he helped conduct a
transportation study that trimmed millions from the company
transit budget. And he wasn't the only fired employee at
headquarters whose work had brought the company big savings.
Refrigeration engineer Mikhail Vaynberg, a Soviet emigre,
says he invented a new cooling system for the stores that cut
energy costs 35%, saved $1.6 million a year, and was copied
by many suppliers. (A Safeway spokesman says the company
doesn't contest these cost-saving claims.)
   After he was fired, Mr. Vaynberg couldn't find work in his
field and, like many other employees fired at headquarters,
says he couldn't get a current letter of recommendation from
Safeway; he says his boss told him he wasn't allowed to
supply a written reference because "you might use it to sue
the company." (A Safeway spokesman says it is company policy
not to grant reference letters for "good, sound legal
reasons," but maintains that managers were allowed to make
exceptions for employees laid off in the 1986 firings at
headquarters.)
   Mr. Vaynberg says his greatest blow came a few weeks after
the layoff, when his only son dropped out of engineering
school weeks shy of graduation: "The country doesn't want
engineers: Look what happened to you," he told his father.
Now Mr. Vaynberg, still unemployed, spends his days in a
painfully clean living room, prowls the halls at night and
avoids old friends and neighbors. "I am ashamed," he says,
staring at his big empty hands. "I am like an old thrown-out
mop."
   Safeway fired its corporate employees with no notice, cut
off their medical insurance in as little as two weeks and
provided severance pay of one week's salary for every year of
service, to a maximum of just eight weeks. And to get the
pay, many employees say they were told to sign a letter
waiving their right to contest the severance package later.
(A company spokesman says the letter wasn't a waiver but
simply an "acknowledgment" that they understood the terms.)
   Mr. Magowan concedes that many of the people fired at
headquarters in the summer of 1986 were "very good"
employees. The cuts were made in a hurry, as he said later in
a court deposition, so as "to put this whole unpleasant
matter behind us as soon as possible." For such haste,
Safeway would wind up paying $8.2 million to settle a
wrongful termination class-action suit and $750,000 to settle
a separate suit for age discrimination.
   One executive who left headquarters voluntarily was
accorded much better treatment. Safeway president James
Rowland was granted a $1 million bonus when he retired a few
months after the buy-out.
   Mr. Rowland advised Mr. Magowan in a memo to approve the
bonus privately and divide the amount into smaller portions
with labels like "paid consultant." The reason, as Mr.
Rowland wrote: "Peter, I do not want to put you in an
embarrassing situation."
   (Mr. Rowland, reached at his Arkansas home, says he never
got a "million-dollar bonus. I got my regular bonus. I just
don't recall what it was. I'm not going to go back and rehash
all that." He then hangs up. Mr. Magowan says Mr. Rowland
wasn't paid a lump sum of $1 million. He was paid his
previous year's bonus, which he had earned, plus an advance
on consulting work he would do for Safeway, Mr. Magowan says.
"It wouldn't have been some side deal under the table between
Jim Rowland and me that nobody knew about. That's not my
style.")
   ---
   "I wouldn't be surprised if 11,000 jobs were created out
of" the roughly 9,000 jobs lost, Mr. Magowan announced to the
press after he closed the Dallas division. He says he assumed
that other grocery chains would expand to fill the Safeway
vacuum. "What I'm talking about here is a theory of mine," he
says later. "I will get right up front and say I don't have
facts to support it." Mr. Magowan says he has not been back
to Dallas since the closure.
   When the Dallas division shut down, the state unemployment
office had to open on the weekend -- for the first time ever
-- just to accommodate the Safeway crowds. The Dallas
employees had a thin financial pallet to cushion the blow.
Their severance pay was half a week's pay for each year of
service, up to a maximum of eight weeks.
   And their severance checks didn't start arriving until
July 1987, three months after the shutdown. Russell Webb, a
12-year produce clerk and single father with three children,
didn't get his severance check for eight months. Vacation pay
arrived even more slowly: First the union had to go to
arbitration to get it; then, the company didn't start mailing
the checks until February 1989. Safeway says the severance
and other checks arrived late because they weren't part of
the union contract and thus "had to be negotiated."
   In addition to Mr. White's suicide, at least two others
tried to kill themselves. One was Bill Mayfield Jr., a
mechanic in the Safeway dairy since it opened in 1973, who
slashed his wrists, then shot himself in the stomach; the
bullet just missed his vital organs and he survived.
   "I would say {the layoff} devastated about 80% of the
people in the division," says Gary Jones, president of
Safeway's credit union in Dallas, which eventually had to
write off $4 million in loans. "Overnight we turned from a
lending institution into a collection agency." At one point,
more than 250 repossessed cars were sitting in his parking
lot.
   KKR and Safeway blame organized labor for the fall of the
Dallas division. Once the leading grocer in the area, Safeway
had seen its market share fall by nearly half in the '80s.
KKR and Safeway officials say the company was paying too much
in wages, some 30% more than rivals, thus preventing it from
cutting prices, remodeling stores and the like.
   But rival Kroger was also a union shop, and it found a way
to prosper and expand in Dallas by renovating stores and
negotiating lower wages with the union. Its market share was
on the rise. The Kroger case suggests that the Safeway
layoffs might have been necessitated as much by mismanagement
as by labor costs. Some company officials concede that
Safeway had other problems besides wages in Dallas: Its
stores were too small, too old and poorly designed.
   While grocery competitors in Dallas eventually bought more
than half the 141 Safeway stores, they were less eager to
pick up the unionized workers. According to a state-funded
survey of the displaced workers, stores under new management
typically recalled no more than a half dozen of the 40 to 60
former Safeway employees who staffed each outlet.
   And wages fell sharply, no matter where the workers
landed: In 1988, according to the survey, ex-Safeway
employees reported that their average pay had dropped to
$6.50 from $12.09 an hour.
   Cindy Hale, an 11-year Safeway employee, saw her wages
fall to $4 an hour when she took an identical grocery clerk's
job with AppleTree Markets, at an old Safeway store. Her new
employer would only hire part-time, so Ms. Hale, a single
mother, lost her medical benefits. She eventually lost her
house, too, and had to send her son to live with her parents.
   "But it really wasn't as bad for me as the others," says
Ms. Hale.
   For Dallas employees, working for Safeway had often been a
total family experience, and many households lost more than
one income after the buy-out. The Seabolts lost three:
Husband, wife and daughter all got their pink slips on the
same day. Ron Seabolt, who worked in the company's
distribution center for 17 years, searched for months before
taking a job as a janitor. Now he works at the post office.
   Kay Seabolt, a human resources supervisor at Safeway and a
17-year company veteran, counseled ex-employees for a year
under a state job-placement retraining program. The program's
counselors sometimes fished into their own pockets to buy
groceries for those who streamed through the counseling
center, an abandoned Safeway office. When Safeway sold it,
the new owners evicted them.
   Seared into Mrs. Seabolt's memory is the day one tattered
man arrived at the office. A long-timer in the Safeway bread
plant, the middle-aged baker made his way to her desk with a
slow, wincing limp. He apologized for his appearance,
explaining that he had just walked six miles from the
temporary labor pools: His car had been repossessed. He was
living in a homeless shelter. "I gave him a few job leads,"
she recalls, "but he was pretty shabby and I didn't hold out
much hope." Before he left, she slipped him some money for
bus fare, she says. "I never saw him again."
   When the layoff rumors first began circulating, Clara
Sanchez took to praying in the parking lot of Store No. 677.
Her silent pleas went unanswered. On April 24, 1987, she and
her husband, Jesse, lost their jobs. She had been a checker
for 12 years; he had been an order filler in the warehouse
for 18 years.
   Clara could find no work, and is still unemployed; Jesse
searched for eight months before the city hired him to cut
grass for $3.55 an hour. Then he washed cars for $4.50 an
hour. Two months later, he was laid off. Finally, with
$14,000 in unpaid bills, the Sanchezes filed for bankruptcy.
   The church sent canned goods, and Mr. and Mrs. Sanchez
skipped supper some evenings so their children could eat
better. After a while, Mr. Sanchez was too depressed to eat
anyway. "I wasn't a man; I wasn't worth anything as far as I
was concerned," he says. "Why live if I can't support my
kids?" One Friday night, Mr. Sanchez told his wife he was
going to watch a wrestling match, but went to a friend's
house instead with a business proposition: "I told him I
would pay him $100 to take my life. I didn't own a gun or I
would've done it myself." The friend put his gun out of reach
and sent Mr. Sanchez home.
   When Safeway pulled out of Dallas, the shock waves didn't
stop at the supermarket doors. The shutdown led to secondary
layoffs at almost all the big food and beverage vendors in
town, and some construction businesses suffered. For Harry W.
Parks Co., a general contractor, Safeway represented 85% of
annual revenues; Mr. Parks had dropped most of his other
clients to assist Safeway in its big remodeling program in
the early '80s. After the pullout, his company nearly folded,
all but three employees were laid off, and Mr. Parks had a
heart attack and died.
   "Safeway was his whole world," says his son, Harry Jr.
"That's all he cared about for 30 years. When they pulled
out, it was like his whole family died."
   The North Texas Food Bank suffered, too. It lost a
founding member and its leading contributor; Safeway used to
donate 600,000 pounds of food a year.
   "The bottom line," food-bank director Lori Palmer says,
"is fewer people ate."
   ---
   The layoffs in Oakland, Dallas and elsewhere were just one
part of KKR's broad-based plan to cut costs, boost
profitability and meet the stiff interest and principal
deadlines set by the company's lenders and debt-holders.
About 1,000 of the company's stores were sold, as were 45
plants and other facilities.
   Safeway put whole divisions in Kansas, Oklahoma, Arkansas
and Utah among others on the auction block. They were sold to
a few grocery chains, many other LBO investors and, in some
cases, real-estate investors.
   The real-estate investors didn't rehire any Safeway
workers: They converted the properties to video shops, thrift
stores, and in one case a bingo parlor. Some were boarded up.
   While grocery chains bought some Safeway stores just to
shut them down and reduce competition, other chains bought
whole Safeway divisions and kept most of the workers; the
British and Oklahoma divisions are examples of this. In other
cases, new owners retained only selected workers. In
virtually all cases, though, new ownership meant pay cuts.
   In what seemed at first the best deal for employees, the
grocery chain Borman's Inc. bought the entire Safeway Utah
division and hired virtually all the workers. But nine months
later, these 3,000 employees lost their jobs when Borman sold
the division, piece by piece, to local competitors and
investors. Only a few of the stores in the Salt Lake City
area still operate as supermarkets.
   Don Schanche, a Safeway meatcutter in Salt Lake City for
25 years, spiraled downward from his $12.33 hourly pay at
Safeway to a reduced wage scale at Borman's "Farmer Jack"
outlet, to an unsuccessful appeal for any minimum-wage
employment at the same store, which had been bought by his
old manager. Now Mr. Schanche drives by a "for lease" sign in
front of the store, which is empty, having gone belly-up. Mr.
Schanche is making a living as a "job coach" in a
state-funded displaced-workers program -- where he is
currently counseling other ex-grocery store employees
following an LBO involving their employer, Alpha-Beta.
   Mr. Magowan, as Safeway's CEO but no longer the man with
final decision-making authority, was at first opposed to the
extent of the divestiture program, people familiar with the
situation say. He liked being the head of the world's largest
supermarket chain. But KKR officials gave him little choice
if he wanted to stay on board, these people say.
   Mr. Magowan himself says that "no one twisted my arm" over
the restructuring. Still, he says he "regrets" selling
promising divisions, mentioning in particular Los Angeles, El
Paso, Tulsa, and Little Rock.
   Still others point with regret to the loss of the
company's 132-store British division -- a top-performer known
in-house as the "jewel" of the Safeway collection -- and the
sale of Safeway's successful discount chain of liquor stores,
Liquor Barn, which under its new owners (Majestic Wine
Warehouses Ltd.) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection
in 1988.
   Despite such regrets, however, Mr. Magowan is now a
self-professed believer in the LBO concept. For one thing,
his own performance has been rewarded under KKR, which has
increased his annual compensation by about 40% to $1.2
million including bonus. His bonus potential has climbed to
110% of base pay from 40% before the buy-out, and he has
earned the highest possible bonus every year.
   Many things have gone well for the buy-out group.The sale
of the British division alone brought $929 million, part of
the $2.4 billion that KKR got from asset sales -- or 40% more
than KKR officials say they had projected.
   Thanks to sales of some money-losing operations, Safeway's
basic business could earn more without raising prices. The
company's stores are now No. 1 or 2 in most of its markets.
By 1989, operating profit per employee was up 62% from 1985,
and operating margins had increased by nearly half. The
company is producing nearly twice as much annual cash flow as
it needs to cover yearly interest payments. As a result,
Safeway has been able to pay bank lenders ahead of schedule
and negotiate lower interest rates.
   Finally, KKR and Safeway officials also credit a new
combination of incentives and quotas that they say make
workers more entrepreneurial and at the same time more
accountable.
   Mr. Magowan says that employees are thriving in this
post-LBO culture: "I am convinced that today's typical
Safeway employee feels better about the company than he or
she has at any point since the buy-out." Store managers, he
says, "genuinely enjoy this extra responsibility" of meeting
new quotas.
   Not every part of the new Safeway picture is as rosy as
Mr. Magowan portrays it, however.
   The public offering completed recently didn't quite go as
planned. The offering's underwriters knocked the price down
to $11.25 from the $20 a share envisioned last summer. Mr.
Magowan himself concedes, "I think if we had known right at
the start that this was the price that we would've gotten, we
probably wouldn't have come out with our offering." He blames
the much-publicized problems of other leveraged companies for
unjustly tainting Safeway's offering and driving away stock
shoppers.
   But some potential investors say that it was Safeway's own
financial condition that turned them off.
   The company labors under an interest bill of about $400
million a year, a negative net worth of $389 million, and a
remaining $3.1 billion in debt. The company's net income was
only $2.5 million last year (after accounting for
nonrecurring expenses), down from $31 million the year
before. Safeway lost a whopping $488 million in 1987, the
first year of the LBO.
   A large amount of capital improvement has been postponed,
with such annual spending falling from an average $600
million to $700 million in the three years before the buy-out
to an average of $300 million in the years since. The company
estimates it must spend $3.2 billion on store remodeling and
openings over the next five years. And Safeway now has few
assets left that it can justify jettisoning.
   ---
   When Mr. Magowan in 1988 sat down with a group of
specially selected employees to tell them the story of "our
growing success," the workers had a different story to tell
him, as chronicled by the company's own magazine, Safeway
Today.
   "The morale in Richmond {Calif.} right now is down to rock
bottom," Vince Macias, a 25-year trucker, told the boss. He
added that drivers were forced to pull as much as 16-hour
shifts and were so overworked they were "dangerous" on the
highways.
   "The morale is so bad in some of our stores," Christie
Mills, a San Jose employee, told him, that it's driving away
customers.
   "There aren't many of us, and hours are cut back so much,"
said Cheryl Deniz, a bakery clerk. "I don't let the customer
see it, but inside I'm miserable. . . . I want to be happy
when I wait on them. . . . I try my best, but sometimes I'm
so overloaded. It's unfair to the customer, and it's unfair
to the employee. . . . And some of you feel the same way."
   Mr. Magowan looked around the room. "I see everybody
nodding their heads to what you are saying," he told her.
Then he added: "I've heard this before."
   (A Safeway spokesman says the company immediately followed
up on the workers' complaints and that Mr. Magowan personally
wrote letters to those employees who voiced concerns.)
   Certainly many employees have emerged unscathed from the
LBO and feel comfortable working under the new regime. A good
number of them even applaud the company for its rapid
surfacing from the debt depths.
   But among a group of workers that Safeway supplies to this
newspaper as a sampler of "happy employees," no one
interviewed is praising the LBO.
   "We've recovered well," says Jim Ratto, a Safeway liquor
merchandiser. "But personally, I think Safeway would have
been better off if we had never gone through the leveraged
buy-out. It definitely added some problems, and the company
would have been farther ahead now if it had never happened."
   "Safeway's made a beautiful comeback, we're getting on our
feet again, and I have no complaints," says George Voronin,
an affable wine steward who says "I always try to look on the
positive side." But even Mr. Voronin adds, "When someone
comes in and takes all your funds and sells your stores,
isn't that what we in the United States call dishonest?"
   The new esprit de corps trumpeted in the executive suite
is less apparent in the grocery aisles, where store employees
say the KKR-inspired quotas -- based on complex
return-on-market-value formulas -- create anxiety as well as
productivity. And the pressure mounts as one goes down the
chain from manager to checker.
   While Safeway executives call the quota program an
"incentive" plan, some store managers refer to it as "the
punishment system." That's because store managers say if they
don't make the week's quota, they can be penalized. In some
divisions they report that they must work a seven-day week as
penance. Working a month without a day off isn't unusual,
managers in the Washington and California divisions say. In
some stores managers who miss quota say they have to pull 6
a.m. to 6 p.m. shifts.
   Mr. Magowan says corporate headquarters sets no such
penalties. "I have never heard of any such program," he says.
"I simply do not believe for one second that this is any
widespread activity." A company spokesman says that at least
50% of store managers are meeting their quota.
   Even among the list of satisfied employees that Safeway
provides, many aren't profiting from the incentive plan.
Either they are too low on the totem pole to get a bonus
(with a few exceptions, only department heads and higher
qualify), or their departments aren't generating enough sales
volume to meet the demanding quotas. Mr. Voronin, whose wine
department has been on the incentive plan for two years, has
yet to get a bonus. Mary Wise is head of the floral
department, but the company hasn't yet cut her into the plan.
She says she doesn't mind: "I leave feeling good, knowing I
did the job right, and for me, that's my bonus." She adds,
"But I'm one of those people you look at and say, `Oh, why is
she always so happy?'"
   In Seattle, only one of more than a dozen store managers
in one district expects to meet quota this year, managers
say. Last year, none made more than 20% of their bonus
potential, the store heads say. A Safeway spokesman says most
managers in that region are making their quota.
   On Safeway's home turf in the San Francisco area, managers
are "stepping down" and becoming checkers. Some have been
forced to turn in their manager badges when they didn't meet
quota; others say they are voluntarily taking lower status
and pay -- out of exhaustion.
   "A number of store managers have stepped down, this year
particularly," a company spokesman acknowledges. "In recent
years, the job has gotten tougher."
   In the wake of the LBO, the company was able to squeeze
labor concessions from the unions, using the Dallas shutdown
as an object lesson of what can happen when labor costs are
deemed too high. With the debt hovering overhead, you could
"get the labor concessions you deserve," Mr. Magowan says.
   "It was like coming to the table with a gun at our heads,"
recalls Ed Hardy, a United Food and Commercial Workers
negotiator. While the company's average hourly wage rate has
risen slightly in the last three years -- the exact amount is
confidential, Safeway says -- the small increase trails the
inflation rate.
   The strategy of catering to the upscale at many stores has
also enabled KKR to cut service workers' wages even further.
To staff trendy specialty departments, Safeway has hired
"general merchandise clerks," a classification that pays as
little as half the wages of food clerks.
   This disparity troubles even the upbeat floral manager
Mary Wise. "Gosh, you can barely live on what they are paying
them," she says. She broached the subject with Mr. Magowan at
the 1988 meeting. These specialty clerks are performing a job
that requires training and skill, she said, and "Safeway
should pay them accordingly."
   Mr. Magowan's response, as quoted in the company's
magazine: "The problem, Mary, is this. The reason we got the
lower GMC {general merchandising clerk} rate was to allow our
labor costs to be competitive." But he reassured her that the
company was taking steps to make up for the low pay. "What
I've suggested from time to time is saying, `Do you like
weekends off? Do you like to work 8 to 5?' . . . We'll give
you the lower rate but a better schedule.' That might make
them very happy."
   ---
   In one division, Safeway has extended the incentive
program beyond the department manager level in an experiment
aimed at letting all workers benefit in the enhanced
productivity they are generating. Employees in the Denver
division took a 14% pay cut, but were assured that, on
average, the new profit-sharing plan would more than make up
the difference. The company acknowledges this hasn't happened
in nearly half the cases; the union estimates that even fewer
increased their earnings.
   Store employees in Denver also complained about the way
the incentive system was linked -- as it is throughout the
company -- to grievances and work-related medical claims.
"Managers have been saying to people, don't file workman's
comp because it will hurt the bonus," says Charles Mercer,
president of the Denver local of the United Food and
Commercial Workers. Mr. Magowan concedes that the Denver
bonus plan is "not very popular."
   Mr. Magowan's assertion that Safeway's culture is more
collegial now also doesn't always square with the view from
the retail floor. In stores around the country, employees
report that management is pushing out older, skilled and
well-paid employees, turning to cheap part-time help (who
don't get medical insurance and other benefits) and piling
extra work on the remaining staff. Union officials estimate
that the average age of the stores' work force has dropped 10
years since the buy-out; a company spokesman disputes this,
but says Safeway doesn't track age.
   "Safeway used to be one of the best places to work of the
retail grocers," says Rowena Schoos, a middle-aged Safeway
meatcutter in Oregon for five years. "But after the buy-out,
they started cutting hours to the nitty-gritty, the store
managers went into mass panic, and Safeway just turned into a
burnout company."
   Ms. Schoos recently left herself, after she was cut back
to 16 hours a week and lost her medical benefits. Like many
of the older and well-paid meatcutters, she says, she was
relegated to the "extra board," a tour of duty that can
require driving more than 100 miles a day to different stores
to fill in where needed.
   For the older butchers, many of whom suffer physical
injuries from the years of toting and carving, the assignment
is the final shove out the door. Ms. Schoos, for example, has
two herniated discs, which she attributes to years of lugging
100-pound carcasses.
   A Safeway spokesman responds, "That's just another case of
an isolated situation. She was just not performing the job
adequately," and thus her hours were cut.
   The company also says that meatcutters' numbers have been
reduced primarily because a gradual shift to pre-packaged
goods in meat processing has lessened the need. Employees in
the meat department argue that even with the changes, much of
the work still requires a butcher's expertise and that the
cutbacks have been too severe.
   While on the extra-board circuit, Ms. Schoos had the
opportunity to observe the LBO-fallout at many stores. "It
was the same thing everywhere I went," she recalls. "The
managers were desperate to meet quota and the older people
always got it the worst. They'd bust them back to lower
positions. One produce manager was told he had a `choice' --
go back to being a checker or get fired. One lady asked for a
break, and the manager cut her from 40 to eight hours."
   In response, Mr. Magowan produces a recent employee survey
conducted in the Portland, Ore., division that finds that
more than 80% of employees feel Safeway offers advancement
opportunity and other advantages. "These would be good scores
to decertify the union should we ever wish to do so," Mr.
Magowan says, adding, "which we have no intention of doing,
whatsoever."
   Closer to headquarters, at the Market Street store in San
Francisco, employees report a grind of tension and overwork.
Some say they are shouldering as many as nine different jobs.
In the meat department, the butchers' numbers have been cut
back sharply and inexperienced clerks take up the slack.
"Everyone is burned out," says another employee, who points
to a counter where overripe meat is on display, the result of
a hasty stocking effort. "It's a whole new ballgame and
everyone's discontented."
   In the Market Street store, employees complain that
clipboard-toting managers patrol the floors, closely
monitoring performance and filing a blizzard of disciplinary
reports. A company spokesman disputes these accounts: "There
is no ROMV {Return on Market Value} police."
   Last month, at the Market Street store, food clerk Steve
Dolinka lost his job after 25 years of service. His
malfeasance: He says he forgot to pay for the cup of soup and
toast he ate at the deli on his lunch hour. Mr. Dolinka
apologized, shelled out the few dollars that his food cost,
and explained why he was so distracted -- his mind was on a
murder trial that had ended a few weeks earlier. A
gas-station robber was before the court charged with slitting
the throat of Mr. Dolinka's 15-year-old son in 1982 in an
assault that the investigating detective called "the most
brutal in my experience."
   "My wife says I've been forgetting things a lot lately,"
Mr. Dolinka says.
   "In our business, employee theft is a serious problem," a
company spokesman says of Mr. Dolinka's expulsion. "And every
employee is treated the same way."
   Mr. Dolinka says he doesn't blame his manager for the
firing. "The way it works here, I don't think any of the
managers have the freedom to make these decisions. It's all
coming down from company policy, and they have got to follow
it like their bible."
   To all such reports from the store front, Mr. Magowan says
he's skeptical: "Our productivity is up," he points out.
Employees are donating more to Easter Seals, and workers'
compensation claims are down, he says. And when the
earthquake hit, "our employees stayed up all night cleaning
up their stores."
   "Are these acts of a disgruntled work force?" he asks. "I
don't think so."
   George Roberts, one of KKR's two principal partners, notes
that workers at many corporations are being asked to do more,
whether an LBO is involved or not. Employees "are now being
held accountable," Mr. Roberts says. "They have to produce up
to plan, if they are going to be competitive with the rest of
the world. It's high time we did that."
   ---
   David B. Hilder contributed to this article.
   ---
                 The Leveraged Buy-Out Game
                                                                                                       

 Buying a company or a division with a small amount of equity
and a large amount of debt is the hallmark of the LBO. The
debt is repaid out of the company's cash flow. Below, the top
LBOs ranked by dollar value.
                                                                                                       

 DATE        TARGET           ACQUIROR             AMOUNT
 ANNOUNCED    NAME              NAME           (in billions)
                                                                                                       

 10/21/88   RJR Nabisco  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts   $29.57
                                                                                                       

 1/24/88    Federated
            Department
            Stores       Campeau Corp.               7.42
                                                                                                       

 10/16/85   Beatrice Co.
            Inc.         Kohlberg Kravis Roberts     6.20
                                                                                                       

 7/27/86    Safeway      Acquisition group led by
            Stores Inc.  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts     5.65
                                                                                                       

 7/3/87     Southland
            Corp.        Acquisition group           5.10
                                                                                                       

 9/15/88    Hospital
            Corp. of     Acquisition group led by
            America      management                  4.91
                                                                                                       

 4/12/87    Borg Warner  Acquiring group led by
            Corp.        Merrill Lynch               4.23
                                                                                                       

 3/7/88     Montgomery
            Ward (Mobil  Acquisition group led by

                                                                                                       

 10/21/85   RH Macy      Acquisition group led by
            &amp; Co. Inc.   management                  3.71
                                                                                                       

 6/19/89    NWA Inc.     Wings Holdings Inc.         3.65
                                                                                                       

 12/11/86   Owens
            Illinois
            Inc.         Kohlberg Kravis Roberts     3.64
                                                                                                       

 6/22/88    Fort Howard  Acquiring group led by
            Paper Co.    Morgan Stanley              3.58
                                                                                                       

 9/4/86     Allied
            Stores Inc.  Campeau Corp.               3.47
                                                                                                       

 7/5/89     Elders IXL   Acquisition group led by
            Ltd.         management                  3.37
                                                                                                       

 5/21/84    Esmark Inc.  Beatrice Foods Co.          2.71
                                                                                                       

 5/21/87    Burlington
            Industries   Acquiring group led by
            Inc.         Morgan Stanley              2.63
                                                                                                       

 3/17/88    American
            Standard
            Inc.         Kelso &amp; Co. Inc.            2.51
                                                                                                       

 Source: I.D.D. Information Services, Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, May 15, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 1/4% low, 8 5/16% near
closing bid, 8 3/8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.125% 15 to 119 days; 8.10% 120 to 179
days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.225%
30 days; 8.20% 60 days; 8.20% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.81% two
months; 7.86% three months; 7.94% six months; 8.29% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.25% three months;
8.40% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.10% 30 days; 8.08% 60 days; 8.08%
90 days; 8.03% 120 days; 8.03% 150 days; 7.97% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% four months; 8 1/2% - 8 3/8% five months; 8
1/2% - 8 3/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 1/2% six months; 8 3/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 12.25%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, May 14, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.67% 13 weeks; 7.68% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.32%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.25%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.85%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.85%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Citizen Watch Co.:
   Weak Sales of Wristwatches
   Blamed for Lower Results
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.CTW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Unconsolidated pretax profit at Citizen Watch Co. declined
3.5% in the year ended March 31 to 15.14 billion yen ($99.3
million) from 15.69 billion yen a year earlier because of
weak sales of wristwatches.
   Net income was 7.82 billion yen, up 30% from 6 billion yen
a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net sales increased 6.9% to 195.25 billion yen from 182.70
billion yen.
   However, net sales of wristwatches, Citizen's main
business, sagged because of slower demand, the company said.
Citizen reported 105.85 billion yen in net sales of
wristwatches and parts, down 2.9% from 109.05 billion yen a
year earlier. Sales of wristwatches made up 54% of the
company's business in the year.
   Sales were stronger in other areas, including industrial
machinery and equipment, and office equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   CGES GM PLAB NU
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Colonial Gas Co., offering of 600,000 shares, via A.G.
Edwards &amp; Sons, Inc. and Edward D. Jones &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   General Motors Acceptance Corp., a unit of General Motors
Corp., shelf offering of up to $4.3 billion of medium-term
notes, via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

   Photronics Inc., offering of 1,450,000 shares, 1.2 million
of which will be sold by the company and 250,000 shares by
holders, via Prudential-Bache Capital Funding and Tucker
Anthony Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Western Massachusetts Electric Co., a unit of Northeast
Utilities, shelf offering of up to $175 million of first
mortgage bonds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cost of Fighter Is Put
   At More Than $63 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LK BA GD NOC MD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Air Force disclosed that the
radar-eluding fighter it's planning for the 21st century has
a price tag of more than $63 billion.
   The new cost estimate, based on 750 planes, is at least $5
billion higher than the public estimates previously used by
top Pentagon officials.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plane, called the Advanced Tactical Fighter, is
designed to be the first U.S. dog fighter to carry missiles
entirely inside its fuselage, the Air Force said. Officials
also confirmed speculation that the plane will have powerful
twin engines intended to push it to supersonic speeds without
using afterburners, making it more difficult to hit with
heat-seeking missiles.
   The Pentagon apparently hopes that releasing sketches of
the sleek fighters and making more information public about
their capabilities will help deflect congressional criticism
of the program. The Pentagon said it already has spent about
$2.8 billion to develop a pair of ATF prototypes. Two teams
of contractors competing to build the plane have invested
another $1.2 billion.
   One of the teams, led by Lockheed Corp., includes Boeing
Co. and General Dynamics Corp. The other team consists of
Northrop Corp. and McDonnell Douglas Corp.
   But many lawmakers increasingly question the huge price
tag and, just last month, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney
proposed to delay development of the aircraft for two years
and to reduce production rates once the assembly line gets
going.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Basic Patent for Gore-Tex Material
   Struck Down by a Federal Trial Court
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   BCR
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal trial court struck down the basic patent
covering Gore-Tex, the space-age material that helped W.L.
Gore &amp; Associates Inc. grow from its founders' basement into
a world-wide business.
   The decision casts a cloud over Gore, but the closely held
Newark, Del., concern insists that it will pass. The company
plans to appeal the decision and notes that its products are
covered by other patents as well. But if Gore loses on
appeal, it could face new or heightened competition much
sooner than it has banked on.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gore-Tex owes its existence to a remarkable stroke of
luck: On an impulse in 1969, Robert W. Gore gave a quick jerk
-- rather than a slow pull -- to a plastic rod he was trying
to stretch. The surprising result wasn't a broken rod but a
new material. Gore-Tex is used in a host of applications,
including space suits, medical devices, tents and industrial
filters.
   In rejecting Gore's claims of patent infringement against
a maker of vascular grafts, Judge Charles L. Hardy last
Friday essentially ruled Gore's patent invalid. Instead of
losing its basic patent protection upon normal expiration in
three more years, Gore may be without that protection much
sooner.
   Mr. Gore's parents founded the company in 1958 in the
basement of their home. After rapid growth during the past
decade, Gore has about 5,000 employees world-wide and its
sales, which aren't disclosed, are believed to top $700
million a year.
   Now, at least two companies -- C.R. Bard Inc., Murray
Hill, N.J., and Tetratec Corp., Philadelphia -- say they'll
be prepared to jump into more segments of Gore's market if
Judge Hardy's decision is upheld on appeal. Bard already
produces vascular grafts made from Dacron, a different
material from Gore's. Vascular grafts are used to replace
diseased or damaged human arteries. Tetratec already makes
products similar to some of Gore's; it settled a
patent-infringement suit by Gore out of court last year.
   Bard also settled a patent-infringement suit by Gore; the
out-of-court settlement prohibits Bard from using Gore's
material for vascular replacements. Before using the
material, says C.R. Bard Treasurer William Bopp, "We'll
clearly wait until all appeals are exhausted."
   For its part, Gore doesn't see a problem. "We don't think
that losing the patent is an immediate threat to our
business," says Iain Campbell, a patent attorney with the
company. Mr. Campbell says additional patents, unaffected by
the court ruling, protect Gore's products. "We won't have a
flood of people coming into the market because they'll still
have to worry about the subsidiary patents," he says.
   Gore says it will appeal the lower court decision to the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington.
The Court of Appeals is something of a specialty court for
patent cases, and the U.S. Supreme Court generally defers to
its expertise. Moreover, the U.S. Court of Appeals upheld the
Gore patent in a similar case seven years ago.
   Indeed, the company has long sailed through storms over
its patent applications and patents. Though Gore made the
lucky discovery in 1969, it wasn't until August 1979 that the
company, on its fourth attempt, obtained a U.S. patent for
its stretched form of polytetrafluoroethylene resin (the
generic name for Teflon). The patent was delayed by, among
other things, questions raised by a 1967 patent issued in
Japan to Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd.
   In the latest dispute, Gore sued International Medical
Prosthetics Research Associates Inc., or Impra, an Arizona
company founded by surgeons and researchers affiliated with
Arizona State University and Arizona Heart Institute. Gore
claimed patent infringement, and Impra challenged the patent.
   In ruling that Gore's basic patent covering Gore-Tex is
invalid, Judge Hardy rejected the company's original
laboratory test results to support claims that Gore-Tex is
unique. Those results were vague and insufficient for
supporting a patent, he ruled. Patent law requires that an
invention be different from previous ones, so that others can
know what features may be safely used without a license.
   The basic Gore patent, among other defects, "does not
specify the appropriate test for measuring tensile strength,"
Judge Hardy ruled in federal court in Phoenix, Ariz.
   Gore had sued Impra for $72 million in damages.
   Impra's lead attorney, Gerald North of North &amp; Barron,
Phoenix, said he believes the ruling will be upheld. This
case is different from the appeals case won by Gore in 1984,
he says, because Impra had to meet a higher burden of proof
than was required in Gore's 1984 suit against Garlock Inc., a
Rochester, N.Y., manufacturer. Also, Mr. North notes, the
ruling was based on a finding of facts, not an interpretation
of the law. Rulings based on fact are overturned only when
clearly erroneous.
   "Impra will compete more vigorously than before," says Mr.
North. "There was growth in revenues during the period the
case was pending, so we expect greater growth."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Outokumpu Group of Finland:
   Company Agrees to Acquire
   Division of MMR Holding
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MMRHQ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Outokumpu Engineering Enterprises Inc., a U.S. holding
company for the Outokumpu Group of Finland, said it signed a
definitive agreement to acquire H-R International, an
engineering construction company based in Edison, N.J., and
Houston.
   H-R International, which serves the chemical and
industrial process industries, is the engineering division of
MMR Holding Corp., Baton Rouge, La., which is operating under
bankruptcy court protection from creditors. H-R International
wasn't included in the Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Code filing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale is subject to federal court approval. Terms
weren't disclosed. Outokumpu Engineering Enterprises, is
based in Owings Mills, Md.
   The Outokumpu Group is in the copper and base metals
business. It is a major stainless steel producer, with 10
companies in the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Presidential Panel Urges U.S. to Mount
   Military Strikes Against Air Terrorists
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   PN
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A presidential commission, calling for
drastic action against air terrorism, urged that the U.S.
mount military strikes against terrorist enclaves to
discourage the kind of attack that downed Pan American World
Airways Flight 103.
   In a 182-page report, the commission appointed to look
into the Pan Am disaster also called for the reorganization
of aviation-security procedures. The panel concluded that the
Dec. 21, 1988, bombing of the jetliner over Lockerbie,
Scotland, "may well have been preventable" and cited grave
security lapses by the airline and the Federal Aviation
Administration.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Terrorists were able to place a bomb on Pan Am 103 not
because some one thing failed, but because the
aviation-security system failed," said Ann McLaughlin, who
headed the seven-member President's Commission on Aviation
Security and Terrorism. "The system was flawed and didn't
provide an effective defense against sabotage."
   In its report, the commission said the U.S. should plan
and train for "pre-emptive or retaliatory military strikes"
against known terrorist hideouts and take covert action when
direct strikes are inappropriate. "When the perpetrators {of
the Pan Am bombing} are found they should be punished," Mrs.
McLaughlin told a press conference jammed with relatives of
people killed in the attack.
   But the Bush administration isn't likely to launch an
anti-terrorism strike at a time when, according to a recent
State Department report, terrorist acts against the U.S. have
declined. The recent release of two Americans held captive in
Lebanon and signs that Iran and Syria, which are eager to
improve relations with the West, are working to win the
release of other hostages also suggest that the U.S. wouldn't
consider a strike.
   Moreover, the U.S. military also has always been
uncomfortable with the idea of fielding the kind of
special-operations forces required to carry out surgical
strikes.
   The White House embraced the broad outlines of the
terrorism report, but refused to commit itself to carrying
out any of its specific recommendations. "We agree we can
have a more aggressive policy, but we don't want to comment
on how," said White House Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater.
   The commission didn't blame specific countries or
individuals for the Lockerbie bombing, saying that wasn't its
mission. The criminal investigation into the attack, which
killed all 259 people on board and 11 on the ground,
continues.
   However, it is widely suspected that the bombing was
ordered by Iran in retaliation for the accidential downing of
an Iranian jetliner in the Persian Gulf by a U.S. naval
vessel, and that it was carried out by the Popular Front for
the Liberation of Palestine -- General Command.
   The presidential panel made dozens of recommendations to
counter the terrorist threat, including: the establishment of
a new supervisory office -- assistant secretary for security
and intelligence -- within the Transportation Department;
increased importance for the security operation within the
FAA; and the assigning of federal security managers with
direct access to the FAA chief to major international and
domestic airports.
   The panel also urged the government to alert passengers to
credible threats and to establish criteria for when
passengers should be notified. Notification became an issue
after the Lockerbie disaster when it was disclosed that U.S.
embassy workers in Moscow were warned of a possible terrorist
attack on Pan Am flights through Frankfurt, West Germany.
Although the authorities have since concluded the threat was
a hoax, critics say the government practiced selective
notification, warning some citizens and not others.
   In addition, in one of its most controversial suggestions,
the panel called for a halt to the FAA's plan to require the
installation of thermal neutron analysis bomb-detecting
machines at high-risk international airports. The panel said
the equipment, which can detect plastic explosives, isn't
reliable or effective enough, and it recommended that
research and development into other bomb-detecting
technologies be accelerated.
   Since the bombing, the TNA machines have been a major
element in the FAA's stepped-up security program. They have
been installed in airports in New York and Miami, and the FAA
wanted airlines to buy 150 more for 40 more airports at a
cost of $175 million. But the commission said the machine
couldn't reliably detect the small amount of plastic
explosives believed used in the Pan Am explosion.
   The commission said the bombing might have been prevented
had Pan Am done a better job of screening bags, especially
unaccompanied bags, and passengers. "Pan Am's generally poor
performance on security requirements at Frankfurt {where
Flight 103 originated} existed not only for months before the
tragedy but -- incredibly -- for nine months thereafter,"
Mrs. McLaughlin said.
   The report added that the Pan Am security operation in
Frankfurt has been improved and is now a "model" for other
airlines. And it found that the overall state of
international aviation security has improved since the
destruction of Flight 103.
   In a telephone interview, Pan Am Chairman Thomas Plaskett
called the commission's criticism "unfair," adding, "we
believe that prior to the bombing of Flight 103, and
subsequent to it, we were providing a secure transportation
system."
   The commission, which besides Mrs. McLaughlin consisted of
four members of Congress and two former military figures,
reserved much of its harshest criticism for the FAA, which it
described as largely "reactive" and failing to meet the
challenge of international terrorism. "The FAA's performance
was nothing short of dismal," said Sen. Alfonse D'Amato (R.,
N.Y.), a panel member.
   In response, FAA Administrator James Busey acknowledged
that "the system was flawed, mistakes were made," and that he
plans to move forward on the panel's suggestions. But he also
contended that the agency has made some progress in improving
security over the past year, and said that for now, the
thermal-neutron-analysis machines were the best bomb
detectors available.
   The families of the bombing's victims generally praised
the commission, although some took issue with its criticism
of the bomb-detecting machines. In addition, Michael Lemov,
an attorney for Families of Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie,
criticized the report for not urging that aviation security
be taken out of the FAA and assigned to a new, separate
agency.
   ---
   Katherine Walsh contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environment:
   Mobil to Recycle
   The Plastic Bags
   From Groceries
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MOB SONO
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Mobil Corp. is preparing to take back and
recycle those flimsy plastic grocery bags flooding many
American homes, largely in hopes of staving off legislation
to limit their use.
   The oil company, the nation's second-largest maker of the
bags, is expected to announce today a national recycling
effort that will begin at 244 Safeway Stores in California,
Nevada and Hawaii. Mobil is busy wooing other grocery-store
chains, which each year use more than 12 billion of the thin
plastic bags nationwide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mobil plans to tout its program as the first national
effort to recycle such bags, but will probably run into an
immediate challenge from its chief rival as to which company
became environmentally conscious first.
   Sonoco Products Co., the nation's largest manufacturer of
plastic grocery sacks, said yesterday that it has already
initiated bag-recycling programs at 1,500 locations in the
U.S., though it hasn't made any public announcement.
   "We're in almost every major part of the country," said
company spokesman Richard Puffer. He conceded, however, that
Sonoco can't turn the old bags into new ones like Mobil can.
Instead, Sonoco sells the bags it collects to another
company, which makes plastic tubing.
   Regardless of which company is leading this recycling
race, officials for both companies agree that environmentally
conscious consumers and legislators have yet to be convinced
of the value of the plastic bags, which have been replacing
old-fashioned brown paper grocery sacks.
   Plastic bags, as well as plastic containers and bottles,
have been coming under increasing fire from environmentalists
who claim that they're a blight on the land because they
aren't biodegradable. Paper is better, they say. Consumers
also are beginning to ask for paper bags, said Jean Statler
of the Council for Solid Waste Solutions, which is based in
Washington, D.C.
   Nevertheless, plastic bags now make up 60% of all bags
used in grocery stores, a huge jump from 5% in 1982. They
have been welcomed by shopkeepers because they cost half as
much as paper bags and take up 70% less storage space.
   There's also a strong case to be made that paper bags
don't decay very quickly, because current landfills are
sealed and thus lack the microbial activity necessary to
promote decay. But that argument has fallen on deaf ears so
far.
   Currently, there are several hundred legislative proposals
pending at the municipal level calling for a ban on plastic
bags. Moreover, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has
said that consumers must somehow cut back on the amount of
trash being crammed into already-strained landfills.
   "Consumer awareness has grown in the last six months, and
we must have an environmentally acceptable product," said
Allen Gray, a Mobil official familiar with the bag-recycling
program. "It's an important marketing tool."
   Recycling also will give Mobil free plastic to turn into
still more plastic bags. Between 15% and 40% of its consumer
bags are already made of recycled material, but Mobil
currently buys that plastic from other companies.
   During a pilot program in a grocery-store chain here, it
found that shoppers brought back 20% to 25% of Mobil's bags.
If the nationwide program takes hold, "that would be more
than one billion bags," says Greg Auth, Mobil's business
manager of grocery sacks, explaining that the company makes
more than five billion bags annually.
   But picking up public good will is probably just as high
on Mobil's list as picking up free plastic. Less than two
months ago, the oil giant was pressured into withdrawing a
claim that its widely used "Hefty" trash bags were
biodegradable after the claim was challenged by attorneys
general of eight states.
   In the wake of the flap, the company plans to get its
grocery-bag recycling program in motion soon, though "we need
a little lead time to get the {collection} bins ready," Mr.
Auth explains.
   Mobil said that its four polyethylene-products plants have
the technology and equipment to recycle plastic sacks. It
already processes its own plastic scrap in addition to scrap
purchased from outside producers.
   Sonoco said it's trying to recycle scrap, too. It reclaims
the plastic scrap created when it punches handles into its
bags, much the way donut shops recycle their donut holes into
separate munchables.
   Although it means more work for their personnel, grocery
stores are expected to sign on to the recycling campaigns.
Consumers are starting to blame stores and outlets for using
packaging deemed environmentally unacceptable. Explained the
Council's Ms. Statler: "McDonald's has been taking the heat
over its packaging," even though it doesn't make the
offending plastic hamburger containers. As a result, the
burger-giant is starting its own recycling program, setting
up bins at its outlets to collect the plastic packaging, she
said.
   The fate of grocery-bag recycling will depend largely on
the consumer, officials for both Mobil and Sonoco said. Will
the shoppers return enough bags to make the program
economically feasible? What shape will the bags be in? The
dirtier they are, the higher the processing costs. Sonoco's
Mr. Puffer is especially leery. "We found a plastic shower
curtain in one of our bins," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   U S West to Spend $35 Million to Develop
   `Self-Healing' Phone Networks in 5 Cities
   ----
   By Frank Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   USW
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   U S West Inc. said it will invest about $35 million to
develop "self-healing" telephone networks in five cities by
mid-1991.
   Self-healing systems are designed to ensure continuity of
service in case of fire, earthquake or other disruption.
Using loops of optical-fiber cable with huge capacity, they
are aimed at major corporations, government agencies and
long-distance carriers that need to move large amounts of
voice and data traffic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U S West's plan underscores a new industry priority for
emergency-recovery systems. Stakes have escalated since a
fire gutted an Illinois Bell Telephone Co. building in
Hinsdale, Ill., in June 1988, knocking out service to 35,000
customers. A few months ago, a long-distance network collapse
at American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. heightened the sense of
urgency.
   Illinois Bell's parent, Ameritech, announced plans last
month to invest about $100 million over the next two years to
build self-healing networks in seven of its major markets.
AT&amp;T, meanwhile, is spending aggressively to strengthen the
digital "backup" of its network.
   U S West's plans call for building separate fiber systems
to serve about 200 large office buildings and work complexes
in Minneapolis-St. Paul; Denver; Portland, Ore.; Seattle; and
Phoenix, Ariz. The undertaking represents the Denver-based
company's largest product announcement since the breakup of
the Bell system in 1984.
   "This is really our bread-and-butter business. Our
customers can't afford even one minute of downtime," said Bob
Hawk, president of the carrier and information provider
division of U S West's telephone unit.
   Mr. Hawk said plans call for laying a total of more than
180 miles of fiber-optic cable to provide "alternate-route
protection" in the five cities. Guarantees of uninterrupted
phone service will be offered: If any outage occurs, the
customer would receive one month of free service from U S
West, Mr. Hawk said.
   For a single circuit with five miles of alternate-route
protection, U S West proposes to charge about $626 a month.
More elaborate circuitry designed to serve multiple locations
as a private network is likely to cost $25,000 to $46,000 a
month or more.
   For example, International Business Machines Corp. has
hired U S West to install a private version of the
self-healing network at IBM's world-wide computer network hub
in Boulder, Colo. The Boulder center links about 250,000
computer terminals.
   The structure of self-healing networks differs
significantly from that of the regular phone network. In a
regular network, central offices are generally linked
singlefile, like a string of beads. In such an arrangement,
any major problem along the cable or in a central office can
interrupt telephone service down the line.
   At the time of the Hinsdale fire, for instance, the
Ameritech unit's switching station was equipped to shift
automatically only 25% of its load to other hubs. Although
repair crews worked around the clock, service to some
Illinois customers couldn't be restored for a couple of
weeks.
   In contrast, the self-healing network links central
offices with optical-fiber cable in loops, or rings. Central
offices are equipped with a special switch that duplicates
signals and sends them simultaneously in opposite directions,
ensuring that at least one arrives -- even during a
disruption at a point along the ring.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dillard, Limited,
   Penney Post Gains
   In 1st-Quarter Net
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DDS LTD JCP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dillard Department Stores Inc., Limited Inc. and J.C.
Penney Co. posted double-digit earnings gains for the first
quarter, although Penney's increase was largely the result of
a one-time write-down in the year-earlier period.
   Dillard, a department store chain based in Little Rock,
Ark., reported a 50% increase in net income, and Limited, a
specialty apparel retailer based in Columbus, Ohio, reported
a 38% increase in profit for the quarter. Both cited strong
sales as a primary reason behind the increases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Penney, however, said its first-quarter sales were softer
than it had expected, a problem analysts have attributed to
continued disappointing sales of women's apparel. Penney said
net income rose 20.5%, to $154 million, or $1.21 a share,
from $128 million, or 97 cents a share. But the year-earlier
results included a $20 million charge to discontinue an
interactive home television shopping service.
   Penney's sales rose just 5.7%, to $3.53 billion from $3.34
billion. Total revenue, which was reclassified to include
finance-charge revenue from the company's credit-card
accounts, increased 6.3%, to $3.8 billion from $3.58 billion.
   Dallas-based Penney said its department store margins
increased in the quarter, but its overall gross margin fell
to 35.6% from 36% last year because of an unusually high
level of markdowns in its catalog business.
   Daniel Barry, a senior vice president at Kidder, Peabody &amp;
Co., said the company's catalog profits have been hurt for
much of the last year by a lack of fashionable clothing
offerings. But he said the company is expected to improve its
selection in its June book, and catalog margins are expected
to improve later this year. The company also is trying to
improve its women's apparel sales in its department stores by
upgrading fashions and bringing in more brand names.
   Still, the market didn't like Penney's results, and its
stock fell $1.375 to close at $65.25. Dillard, which released
its results after the market closed, was up $3.50 to close at
$86.75, and Limited closed at $45.625, unchanged. All three
trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Dillard's stock is up more than $15 since May 1 on
expectations of stronger-than-projected earnings.
   Limited, citing a "solid customer response," said its net
income rose to $62.3 million, or 34 cents a share, from $45.2
million, or 25 cents a share.
   The retailer attributed the increases to good performances
by Lane Bryant, Express and Victoria's Secret stores and
catalogs.
   Sales for Limited rose 15% to $1.11 billion from $964.6
million. Leslie H. Wexner, chairman and chief executive
officer, said the company will increase store selling space
by 2.8 million square feet in 1990, or 19%, from the 14.4
million square feet the company had at the start of the year.
   Dillard said its net increased to $29.4 million, or 82
cents a share, from $19.6 million, or 61 cents a share.
Analysts had been expecting results of about 72 cents a
share. The company had 35.9 million shares outstanding this
year, up from 32.3 million last year. Sales rose 24.1% to
$742.4 million from $598.1 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   DAL FNG GDW FNM U.NIT F.CNC EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                      CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Delta Air Lines Inc. -- $300 million two-part offering of
debt securities, priced through Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. The first
part, which consists of $175 million of 9 7/8% notes, due May
15, 2000, priced at 99.48 to yield 9.958%. The noncallable
notes were priced at a spread of 130 basis points above the
Treasury's 10-year note. The issue was increased in size from
an originally planned $125 million. The second part, which
consists of $125 million of debentures, due May 15, 2010, was
priced at par to yield 10.125%. The noncallable debentures
were priced at a spread of 150 basis points above the
Treasury's 30-year bond. The issue is rated single-A-2 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and single-A by Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp.
   Fleet/Norstar Financial Group Corp -- $150 million issue
of notes, due May 15, 1993, priced at par to yield 9.95%. The
noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 135 basis points
above the Treasury's three-year note. Rated Baa-1 by Moody's
and single-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   Golden West Financial Corp. -- $115 million of 10 1/4%
subordinated notes, due May 15, 1997, priced at 99.815 to
yield 10.287%. The noncallable notes were priced at a spread
of 160 basis points above the Treasury's seven-year note.
Rated Baa-1 by Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue
will be sold through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPALS

   Texas National Research Laboratory Commission -- $250
million superconducting super collider project general
obligation bonds, Series 1990, due April 1, 1993-2008, 2011
and 2020, apparently won by a Chase Securities Inc. group.
The bonds, rated double-A by both Moody's and S&amp;P, were
priced to yield from 6.30% in 1993 to 7.25% in 2020. Current
interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.30% in 1993
to 7.15% in 2007 and 2008. There is approximately $29 million
of 7 1/8% term bonds priced at 99 1/4 to yield 7.20% in 2011
and $130 million of 7 1/8% term bonds priced at 98 1/2 to
yield 7.25% in 2020.
   New York State Environmental Facilities Corp. -- $166.5
million state water pollution control revolving revenue
bonds, Series 1990 A, New York City Municipal Water Finance
Authority Project, due June 15, 1993-2004, and 2012, were
repriced by a Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. group to lower yields by
nine to 10 basis points. The bonds are now priced to yield
from 6.60% in 1993 to 7.63% in 2012, changed from priced to
yield from 6.70% in 1993 to 7.72% in 2012. Current interest
serial bonds are now priced to yield from 6.60% in 1993 to
7.45% in 2004, changed from priced to yield from 6.70% in
1993 to 7.55% in 2004. There is $95.49 million of 7 1/2% term
bonds priced at 98.67 to yield 7.63% in 2012, changed from
7.63% securities priced at 99 to yield 7.72% in 2012. The
bonds are rated double-A by Moody's and single-A by S&amp;P.
   Hawaii -- $100 million airport system revenue bonds, due
July 1, 1993-2003, 2010 and 2020, tentatively priced by a
Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.45% in 1993 to
7.50% in 2020. Current interest serial bonds are priced to
yield from 6.45% in 1993 to 7.25% in 2003. There is $22.21
million of 7 3/8% term bonds priced at 99.21 to yield 7.45%
in 2010 and $58.77 million of 7.30% term bonds priced at
97.61 to yield 7.50% in 2020. The bonds are AMBAC-insured and
rated triple-A by both Moody's and S&amp;P. Interest on the bonds
will be treated as a preference item in calculating the
federal alternative minimum tax that may be imposed on
certain investors.
   Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, Calif. -- $100
million electric plant revenue bonds, due May 15, 1996-2010,
and 2030, apparently won by a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets
group. The bonds, rated Double-A by Moody's and S&amp;P, were
priced to yield from 6.50% in 1996 to 7.16% in 2030. Current
interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.50% in 1996
to 7.05% in 2008-2010. There is $66 million of 7 1/8% term
bonds priced at 99 1/2 to yield 7.16% in 2030.
   Washington State Housing Finance Commission -- $99.4
million single-family mortgage revenue refunding bonds,
Series 1990 A, due July 1, 2016, and revenue bonds, Series
1990 B, due Jan. 1 and July 1, 1994-2000, July 1, 2010 and
2023 and Jan. 1, 2012, with capital appreciation bonds due
Jan. 1 and July 1, 2001-2005, tentatively priced by a
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. group to yield from 6.65% for AMT
bonds due in 1994 to 7.95% for AMT bonds due in 2023. Series
A consists of a single portion of $19.37 million 7.70% bonds
priced at par in 2016. Series B consists of current interest
serial bonds priced at par to yield from 6.65% in 1994 to
7.25% in 2000. There is $12.63 million of 7.55% bonds priced
at par due in 2010. There is $4.93 million 7.85% term bonds
priced at par due in 2012 and $47.58 million 7.95% term bonds
priced at par due in 2023. Capital appreciation bonds are
priced to yield to maturity from 7.40% in 2001 to 7.75% in
2005. The bonds are rated triple-A by S&amp;P. Interest on the
Series B bonds will be treated as a preference item in
calculating the Federal alternative minimum tax that may be
imposed on certain investors.
   Hillsborough County School District, Fla. -- $98.6 million
general obligation refunding bonds, due Aug. 15, 1990-2000,
2003 and 2005, tentatively priced by a Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets group to yield from 6% in 1990 to 7.15% in 2005.
Current interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6% in
1990 to 7% in 2000. There is $23.71 million of 7.05% term
bonds priced at par in 2003 and $18.54 million of 7.15% term
bonds priced at par in 2005. The bonds are rated single-A-1
by Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P.
   Berks County, Pa. -- $88.03 million general obligation
bonds, Series 1990, due Nov. 15, 1993-2005, 2010, 2015 and
2020, tentatively priced by a Meridian Capital Markets group
to yield from 6.10% in 1993 to 7.30% in 2020. Current
interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.10% in 1993
to 7.10% in 2005. There are $5.95 million 7.10% term bonds
priced at 99 3/8 to yield 7.16% in 2010. There is $33.33
million of7 1/8% term bonds priced at 98.55 to yield 7.25% in
2015 and $47.72 million of 7 1/8% term bonds priced at 97.87
to yield 7.30% in 2020. The bonds are FGIC-insured and rated
tripleA by both Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Baltimore, Md. -- $85.4 million refunding certificates of
participation, due April 1, 1991-2005, 2007, 2010 and 2016,
entatively priced by a Legg Mason Wood Walker Inc. group to
yield from 6.10% in 1991 to 7.34% in 2016. Current interest
serial bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.10% in 1991 to
7.15% in 2005. Term bonds due in 2007 are priced as 7.15%
securities at par and term bonds due in 2010 are priced as
7.20% securities at 99 1/4 to yield 7.27%. Term bonds due in
2016 are priced as 7 1/4% securities at 99 to yield 7.34%.
The bonds are rated MBIA-insured and rated triple-A by both
Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Los Angeles, California -- $72 million improvement
election revenue bonds, 1989 Series A, due Sept. 1,
1991-2010, were won by a Prudential-Bache Capital Funding
group. The bonds, rated triple-A by Moody's and double-A,
were priced to yield from 5.90% in 1991 to 6.88% in
2007-2010.
                                                                                                       

                    MORTGAGE-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Ryland Acceptance Corp. -- $315 million of Remic mortgage
securities, offered in 13 classes by Kidder Peabody &amp; Co. The
offering, Series 94, is backed by Ginnie Mae 10% securities,
with a weighted average remaining term to maturity of 29
years.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $190 million of
Remic mortgage securities, offered in five classes by First
Boston Corp. The offering, Series 1990-66, is backed by
principal-only strips from Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities from
existing Fannie Mae's strips trusts 1 and 43.
                                                                                                       

                        EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Nordic Investment Bank (agency) -- 100 million Canadian
dollars of 13% Eurobonds due June 14, 1993, priced at 101.90
to yield 12.78% pc less fees, via Scotia-McLeod. Fees 1 3/8.
   Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (France) -- 20 billion
yen of 7.4% Eurobonds due Sept. 7, 1993, priced at 101 3/8%,
via Mitsui Taiyo Kobe International.
   General Motors Corp. (U.S.) -- 100 million Swiss francs of
7 1/2% public bonds due April 5, 1995, priced at 102 via
Credit Suisse.
   Bradford &amp; Bingley Building Society (U.K.) -- 50 million
pounds portion of floating-rate notes due October 1999,
priced at 99.37, via Credit Suisse First Boston. Interest
rate for first month is 1/16 point above the one-month London
Interbank Offered Rate; thereafter 1/16 point above
three-month Libor. Fungible with 150 million pound issue
outstanding.
   Council of Europe (agency) -- 100 million European
currency units of 10 1/2% Eurobonds due June 5, 1992, priced
at 101 1/8 to yield 10.5% less fees, via Merrill Lynch
International. Fees 1 1/8.
   Inter-American Development Bank (agency) -- 100 million
Swiss francs of 7 1/2% public bonds due June 25, 2000, priced
at 102 via Swiss Bank Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Live Entertainment Inc.:
   First-Period Net Rose 17%;
   Sales to Burger King Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LIVE CRC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Live Entertainment Inc. said first-quarter net income rose
17%, largely because of about $17 million in Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles videocassette tape sales to Burger King.
   Yesterday, Live shares rose $1.25, to close at $21 a share
in national over-the-counter trading. Live's stock price had
dropped to $13.25 a share following news last August that the
company's chairman and chief executive officer, Jose
Menendez, was slain along with his wife Kitty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Los Angeles-based company, which distributes
videocassettes and sells entertainment software, reported net
income for the first quarter of $1.8 million, or 15 cents a
share, compared with $1.6 million, or 12 cents a share, a
year ago. Sales increased 99% to $148.3 million from $74.6
million last year. The company's weighted average number of
shares outstanding increased to 11.9 million from 10.2
million a year earlier.
   The company said that the quarter's results were reduced
because of a $3.7 million reserve taken on amounts owed its
Lieberman Enterprises unit from Ames Department Stores Inc.,
which has filed for bankruptcy law protection.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arthur Andersen Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Arthur Andersen &amp; Co., an accounting firm,
said it combined its Malaysian operations with those of
Hanafiah Raslan &amp; Mohammed, or HRM, a Malaysian accounting
firm.
   Andersen said the combination would create an organization
with 18 offices and close to 1,000 employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Banque Nationale de Paris:
   Institution to Take Control
   Of Troubled Banque Arabe
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.BNP EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Banque Nationale de Paris announced yesterday that it will
take control of troubled Banque Arabe et Internationale
D'Investissement, which was hobbled by the steep decline in
world crude oil prices during the latter half of the 1980s
and bad loans in developing countries.
   BAII, based in Paris, was created in 1973 with 50% of its
shares held by Arab banks and 50% held by non-Arab financial
institutions. It was one of several banks founded during the
1970s to act as a conduit for the recycling of petrodollars
amassed by the Arab members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BNP will buy all shares outstanding of the bank it doesn't
already own at a price to be set later. The French
state-owned bank will then inject 600 million francs ($108.4
million) of fresh funds into BAII.
   Following the capital boost, BAII's capital structure will
be modified once again, such that BNP will cede a portion of
the bank's shares to other unnamed future shareholders while
retaining a majority stake for itself.
   The operations of BAII will be reorganized, BNP said, but
the focus of its business will remain within the countries of
the Maghreb and the Middle East.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index Drops on Profit-Taking
   But Rising Stocks Top Losers; London Is Lower
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei index softened Tuesday, finishing
well below its midday high as the yen's slide in late
afternoon spawned profit-taking.
   A slowdown in buying in late afternoon permitted arbitrage
selling to pull down the index, traders said, but the
majority of stocks managed to end the day higher.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   London shares ended slightly lower in listless trading.
   At Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 issues edged down 45.61
points to close at 31997.04. The move followed a 531.88-point
gain Friday and a 530.51 advance Monday.
   The recent climb of the yen and the prospect of lower
interest rates kept sentiment bullish, observers said.
   Encouraged by the strength of the yen, an afternoon rally
led by dealers and some investment trust funds pushed up the
Nikkei index as high as 32323 points, absorbing selling
linked to index-futures arbitrage, traders said.
   But as the yen fell back to the 151-yen-to-the-dollar
level later, dealers and some other investors quickly took
profits, participants said.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index
eased 56.86 points to 31940.18.
   Tuesday's volume on the first section was estimated at 900
million shares, up from 824 million Monday.
   Winners outnumbered losers, 642 to 347, while 139 issues
remained unchanged.
   The broader-based Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all
issues listed in the first section, which surged 41.35 points
Monday, was up 8.46 points at 2398.78.
   The second section index, which rose 25.64 points Monday,
inched up 3.32 points, or 0.09%, to close at 3848.78. Volume
in the section was 18 million shares, remaining at the same
level with Monday.
   Market attention is focused on the foreign exchange rates,
which are seen as the key to determining the direction of
domestic interest rates.
   Takamori Matsuda, head of research at Dresdner-ABD
Securities, said the recent recovery of the yen against the
dollar stemmed from the U.S. economy's prospects, but added
that it's also a reaction of the foreign exchange market,
which decided the yen's decline to the 160-yen-to-the-dollar
level in April was too extreme.
   In the long run, the dollar will be supported against the
yen as capital flow from Japan to foreign nations will
continue, Mr. Matsuda said.
   Koji Kamemura, manager of the fund managing division at
Yasuda Mutual Life Insurance, said the dollar is likely to
stabilize in a range between 150 and 155 yen. Domestic
long-term interest rates may turn down to a certain level, he
said. But he suspects that lower long-term rates might not
necessarily pull down short rates.
   The rapid move in currency and bond markets is tempting
institutional investors to leave the sidelines, Mr. Kamemura
said. But active institutional buying will be mainly
conducted by institutions with high cash positions, he added.
   Recent signs that interest rates may have peaked out
helped push up interest rate-sensitive stocks, such as
construction and housing shares, which had been heavily sold
as rates climbed sharply since the beginning of this year,
traders said.
   Outstanding winners Tuesday included Kajima Corp., which
gained 40 yen (26 cents) to 1,820 yen; Daiwa House, which
rose 100 to 2,350, and Misawa Homes, which went up 90 to
2,540.
   Nonferrous metal stocks rallied, due mainly to trading by
dealers for their own accounts, participants said. Sumitomo
Metal Mining advanced 60 to 1,600, while Nippon Light Metal
gained 22 to 930.
   London shares closed slightly lower, running out of steam
after a strong rally on Monday.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index
finished down just 2.3 points at 2212.2, although above its
intraday low of 2204.1 and slightly below the high of 2216.1,
posted around midday.
   The narrower FT 30-share index closed down 1.9 points at
1731.6. Volume was a moderate 402.4 million shares, compared
with the scant 375.1 million on Monday.
   In the futures markets, the June FT-SE 100 index closed at
2246, down from 2252.
   With movement in London shares closely tied to Wall
Street's performance, a weak opening in New York didn't leave
much room for gains, traders said.
   Although there were indications earlier in the day that
London might be consolidating from its 38.6-point advance
Monday before moving higher, dealers turned skeptical by the
end of the session on the market's upside potential.
   "The market is tired," said one trader. "It's had a big
rally up and there's nothing behind it," he added.
   Amid fundamentally bearish tidings for the U.K. economy
and uncertainty about the economic direction of the U.S.,
dealers said they see no good reason for players to pile into
the London market now.
   Traders said shares might experience limited upward
movement in the short term because of a shortage of stock and
a need among bears to cover short positions. But a dealer
said "you can't change your mind overnight" about the wisdom
of committing to fresh positions with a grim overall economic
climate.
   Several bullish corporate results hit the market, with
drinks concern Allied-Lyons posting the day's strongest gains
after a 12% rise in pretax earnings for the year ended March
3 brought them in line with market expectations.
   A bullish outlook for the future helped push the company's
shares up 15 pence (25 cents) to 453 pence. Whitbread rose in
sympathy, adding 7 to 399.
   Food retailer Sainsbury added 3 to 260 on the back of a
20% rise in pretax profit for the year, far outstripping
market expectations.
   Industrial conglomerate Hanson was unchanged at 226 1/2,
after coming out with interim results showing pretax profit
at the high end of market forecasts.
   Food and drinks company Grand Metropolitan lost 4 to 587
over investor worries that interim results scheduled for
release today might be poor, dealers said.
   Brewer Bass fell 9 to 988 after announcing the sale of its
Crest hotel chain to Trusthouse Forte for #300 million ($504
million) in cash, a figure slightly below analysts'
expectations. Trusthouse Forte finished the day up 2 to 259.
   Stock prices closed higher in Amsterdam, Brussels and
Milan and lower in Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich and Stockholm.
South African gold stocks closed lower.
   Share prices closed lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore
and Seoul and higher in Taiwan and Wellington; Manila shares
ended little changed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                                 May 14   May 11    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ........................  326.8    324.4  +  0.5
   Britain .....................  656.3    645.1  -  9.0
   Canada ......................  389.0    389.3  - 10.0
   Japan ....................... 1353.8   1329.7  - 18.2
   France ......................  583.9    584.4  +  3.0
   Germany .....................  298.6    302.9  +  4.6
   Hong Kong ................... 2230.0   2216.8  +  6.3
   Switzerland .................  214.0    215.5  -  3.1
   Australia ...................  307.9    301.5  -  7.0
   World index .................  515.9    510.6  -  9.1
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cincinnati Milacron Inc.:
   Firm to Supply Equipment
   For Toyota Plant in U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMZ TOYOY
</CO>
<LP>
   Cincinnati Milacron Inc. said it received a contract for
more than $6 million to supply plastics molding equipment to
Toyota Motor Manufacturing USA, a unit of Toyota Motor Corp.
of Japan.
   Both Milacron and Toyota said the contract is a
breakthrough because it marks the beginning of a long-term
supplier relationship between Milacron and Toyota's plant in
Georgetown, Ky. The plastics machinery currently in operation
at Georgetown was purchased in Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three large injection molding machines and related
equipment will be supplied by the Cincinnati company. The
machines will be used to make large interior plastic parts
for Toyota Camry sedans and a new station wagon that Toyota
will introduce in 1992.
   The machinery is to be installed at the Georgetown
facility in May 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CBOT Trader Agrees
   To Pay $250,000 Fine
   Over CFTC Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A Chicago Board of Trade member paid $250,000
to settle Commodity Futures Trading Commission charges that
he made a series of noncompetitive trades in 1986.
   Without admitting or denying the commission's allegations,
Keith M. Rudman, a trader in the exchange's Treasury bond
futures pit, agreed to the fine and a six-month trading
suspension. Mr. Rudman couldn't be reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Rudman was one of 22 Treasury bond traders charged
last year with making noncompetitive trades via a practice
known as "ginzy trading." The remaining 21 traders are the
subject of a commission hearing here this week concerning the
allegations.
   Mr. Rudman was fined $25,000 by the commission for similar
alleged violations in 1985 and was ordered to cease and
desist from making noncompetitive trades.
   In ginzy trading, exchange members profit by giving
customers two different prices for the same buy or sell
order. The effect of ginzy trading is to give a customer a
net price for a trade that falls between the quoted bid and
ask prices in a particular market.
   While some traders say the technique can result in the
customer getting a better price than under normal trading
practices, the commission maintains that ginzy trading
violates federal commodity laws banning noncompetitive or
prearranged trades.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bass PLC:
   Sale of Crest Hotel Chain
   To Trusthouse Is Completed
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BAS U.TRS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bass PLC, a major British brewing company, said it
completed the sale of its Crest Hotel chain to Trusthouse
Forte PLC, a U.K. hotels group.
   Bass said Trusthouse Forte will pay #300 million ($504.5
million) in cash, lifting the total proceeds from Bass's
hotel sales thus far this year to #400 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bass said the sale is the "most significant step" so far
in its continuing program of disposing hotel properties that
no longer fit into its long-term strategy of focusing on the
development of its Holiday Inn brand world-wide.
   Last August, Bass bought the Holiday Inn hoteliers in the
U.S. for $1.98 billion. It has also held a number of Holiday
Inn franchises in the U.S. since acquiring Holiday Corp.'s
operations outside North America in 1988.
   The transaction with Trusthouse Forte will involve the
sale of 43 hotels, while Bass will retain four hotels in the
U.K. and four in continental Europe.
   Trusthouse Forte's chief executive, Rocco Forte, said the
deal was an "excellent purchase," which is expected to make a
positive contribution to profits in the current financial
year. "The Crest Hotels we are buying are in very good
condition and are well managed," he added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bombardier Inc.:
   Unit of Lufthansa Places
   First Firm Order for Jet
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   BBD.A G.LHA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bombardier Inc. said Lufthansa German Airlines' DLT
Deutsche Luftverkehrs G.m.b.H. unit placed the first firm
order for the Montreal-based transportation equipment and
aerospace concern's 50-seat Regional Jet.
   DLT, a West German regional airline, ordered 13 RJs,
valued at about US$250 million, including spare parts and
training, and took options for 12 additional RJs, subject to
Lufthansa board approval. The passenger plane is a stretched
version of the Challenger jet developed and made by
Bombardier's Canadair unit. RJ deliveries are to begin in
1992. The DLT purchase contract brings to 139 Bombardier's
orders and options commitments for the RJ. Since the RJ
program was begun in November 1988, eight other airlines have
signed order commitments and taken options.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts expect the market for small commercial jets such
as the RJ to explode in the next few years. Airlines are
expected to increase so-called long thin routes bypassing hub
airports as they reach maximum capacity; the RJ is the first
jet designed for such routes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Penrod Drilling Corp.:
   Investor Group Completes
   Its Takeover of Company
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ESV MHC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
</IN>
<LP>
   In a move that completes its takeover of Penrod Drilling
Corp., an investment group that includes Texas financier
Richard Rainwater said it purchased the 31.8% of Penrod debt
and equity that it didn't already own for about $161.3
million.
   The transaction pushes the total price tag for the huge,
Dallas-based drilling concern to about $430 million and marks
the end of a heated bidding war over one of the world's
largest and most modern fleets of offshore rigs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The buyers, an investment group that also includes
Houston-based Energy Service Company Inc. (Ensco) and R.D.
Smith &amp; Co., a New York brokerage and investment concern,
have said they plan to restructure Penrod. "We see the value
here in Penrod as an operative, going concern," said C.
Christopher Gaut, Ensco's chief financial officer. He
declined to provide restructuring details or say whether the
investors planned to sell any portion of the 84-rig Penrod
fleet.
   Ensco said closing of the current transaction is subject
to financing and may occur anytime prior to Oct. 31, 1990.
The purchasers have agreed to pay the sellers interest on the
$161.3 million purchase price from May 11 until the closing.
If the transaction is completed as outlined, Ensco and its
affiliated partnerships will own 58.6% of Penrod and R.D.
Smith and its affiliates will own about 41.4%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tiffany &amp; Co.:
   Retailer Reports 29% Rise
   In Net for Its First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TIF
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tiffany &amp; Co., a New York-based retailer of fine gifts and
jewelry, reported net income for its first quarter ended
April 30 rose 29% to $5.4 million, or 35 cents a share, from
$4.2 million, a 27 cents a share, a year earlier.
   Sales increased 27% to $93.2 million from $73.2 million.
Year-earlier share net is adjusted to reflect a 3-for-2 stock
split paid in July 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tiffany's international retail sales more than doubled,
mainly because of strong demand in Asia and Europe, the
company said. But U.S. retail sales remained roughly flat,
"which we believe reflected consumer caution in certain
regions of the U.S.," Tiffany Chairman William R. Chaney
said.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Tiffany shares closed at $43.25, up $1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Atrix Laboratories Inc.:
   Company Files for Exchange
   Of Common-Stock Warrants
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   ATRX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Atrix Laboratories Inc. said it has filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for an exchange offer
wherein 646,875 common-stock purchase warrants will be
offered by the company to holders of currently outstanding
common-stock purchase warrants.
   The company, based in Fort Collins, Colo., develops and
produces therapeutic drugs for periodontal disease.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the exchange, one new warrant will be swapped for each
outstanding warrant. Current warrant holders aren't required
to accept the offer.
   Each new warrant to be issued will entitle the holder to
purchase one share of common stock at the price of $2 until
Aug. 15, 1990, the company said.
   In over the counter trading yesterday, Atrix closed at
$3.438, bid.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- International Monetary Exchange:
   Singapore to Offer Trading
   In Euroyen Futures Options
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Singapore International Monetary Exchange said it will
launch a Euroyen futures options contract June 19.
   The new contract will provide hedging and trading
opportunities for market players currently trading the
Euroyen cash and futures contracts, said Simex.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The exchange also trades three-month Eurodollar deposit
rate futures, currency, gold, the Nikkei stock index futures
and fuel oil futures.
   Simex said First Continental Trading Inc. will be a
market-maker for the Euroyen options contract.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Medtronic Inc.:
   Acquisition of Bio-Medicus
   For Stock Swap Proposed
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDT BMDS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Medtronic Inc. made what it called a "friendly offer" to
acquire Bio-Medicus Inc. through a stock swap that values
Bio-Medicus at about $167.8 million. Both companies are based
in Minneapolis.
   Medtronic, a biomedical devices maker, owns 5.5% of
Bio-Medicus, which makes blood pumps used in open-heart
surgery. Under the bid, Bio-Medicus holders would receive one
Medtronic share for each 3.3 Bio-Medicus shares. The bid was
disclosed after the market closed yesterday. In New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, Medtronic shares closed at
$71.75, up 25 cents; under the 3.3-for-1 exchange plan, this
places an indicated value of $21.74 on Bio-Medicus shares,
which closed unchanged at $16.625 in national
over-the-counter trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Medtronic said its bid is subject to a merger agreement
and approval by regulators and Bio-Medicus holders, among
other conditions. Bio-Medicus said it expects the proposal
will be considered at a regular board meeting scheduled for
tomorrow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Pluralism Takes Hold in Mexico's Baja
   ---
   Rival-Party Governor Learns
   To Coexist with PRI
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   TIJUANA, Mexico -- As many of the world's former one-party
states rush headlong toward political pluralism, Mexico is
moving more deliberately, gradually opening its political
system, which is marked by the longest reign of a single
political party in the noncommunist world.
   Last July citizens of the Mexican state of Baja California
Norte elected Ernesto Ruffo as Mexico's first opposition
governor in 60 years of rule by the Institutional
Revolutionary Party, or PRI. The victory of Mr. Ruffo, of the
conservative National Action Party, or PAN, was seen as a
step toward a system like that of India, where the ruling
party allows the opposition to control some regions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in Baja, ingrained attitudes are proving hard to
change. Mexico's wild west has long been dominated by
gangsterish political strongmen, known as caciques. That
tradition of arbitrary, top-down rule is anathema to the
unassuming Mr. Ruffo, whose motto is "less government and
more society."
   Mr. Ruffo, a 37-year-old former corporate executive, has
emphasized good-government reforms within the bureaucracy.
The racketeering chief of the judicial police has been
jailed. Policemen are now required to take drug tests.
Traffic-fine collections have soared, possibly because
motorists think twice about bribing cops, who evidently think
twice about accepting bribes. Tax collections have more than
doubled.
   What's more, Mr. Ruffo has enjoyed surprising rapport with
the PRI-dominated federal government, which was expected to
harass the breakaway state at every turn. "I've found
communication at all levels," says Mr. Ruffo, who has had
more trouble with rifts within the PAN.
   But there's a sense of disillusionment in Baja. It's
visible on Tijuana's manic Boulevard Agua Caliente, where a
bankrupt toyshop shaped like a medieval castle has its mock
drawbridge chained shut. A sign appeals for help from the
governor -- not from customers. It's also evident in a poll
by the political magazine Zeta, which showed a decline in Mr.
Ruffo's popularity since his electoral triumph, though it
also showed him winning if the election were held again.
   "I think the people have very great expectations, they
want immediate results," says Mr. Ruffo. "But there's no
money."
   The state budget is tight as a drum, the result of the
country's economic crisis and the entrenched PRI patronage
system. Mr. Ruffo's budget makers say the public sector is
about 30% overmanned, with most posts protected by PRI-linked
unions. As a result, more than half the state budget goes to
payroll and only 11% to public works urgently needed in
Mexico's fastestgrowing state.
   Mr. Ruffo learned to slip out of such fiscal traps in his
prior post as mayor of the port of Ensenada. When enemies in
the PRI-controlled state government cut off the city's
funding, Mr. Ruffo took his program of government to the
streets. He made the most of an obscure law allowing the
government to solicit funds for refurbishing neighborhoods if
80% of residents assented. Residents were skeptical, but
eventually chipped in so much money that Ensenada paved more
streets than all the cities in the rest of the state
combined.
   In one middle-class barrio of Ensenada, Jose Maria Perez
looks with satisfaction on a new cement street. "To get
support as our mayor, Ruffo fixed the streets," he says. "But
to get support as governor, he must show he wants to fix this
whole corrupt system."
   For Mr. Ruffo's do-it-yourself brand of democracy to take
hold outside his hometown, many analysts say he must prove
himself a bigger man than the caciques suspected of
complicity in two much talked-about criminal cases: a
misappropriation of government funds and a murder of a
prominent reporter.
   A recent audit of deficit-ridden state finances confirmed
that the previous government had funneled about $9 million in
state funds into the PRI's gubernatorial campaign. "So many
people could have had a house, drainage, electricity," says
Mr. Ruffo.
   So far, some midlevel budget officials of the prior
administration have been prosecuted. But 81% of respondents
in the Zeta poll thought former governors should also be
called to account. Mr. Ruffo says he will pursue the
investigation wherever it leads, though he frets about
possible confrontation with the federal government.
   An equally delicate problem is the murder two years ago of
the state's most prominent political columnist, Hector Felix
Miranda. A worker at the local race track has been detained
as the alleged triggerman. But public scrutiny has focused on
the track's operator, Jorge Hank Rhon, a frequent target of
the columnist's barbs. The case has profound political
overtones because Mr. Hank Rhon is the son of Carlos Hank
Gonzalez, Mexico's agriculture minister, and one of the most
powerful political bosses in the country.
   "Because of the people that are in the spotlight of this
problem, it's probable that it's going to cause very intense
political problems," says Mr. Ruffo, who insists he won't
allow the case to die.
   Residents of Baja aren't so sure. Only 24% of respondents
to the Zeta poll think the murder will be solved.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology and Health:
   Flour-Mill Workers Face Increased Risk
   Of Lymph Cancer, Federal Study Shows
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A higher-than-expected number of cancers of the lymph
system was uncovered among maintenance workers in the
nation's flour mills.
   The new finding by researchers at the federal National
Cancer Institute raised suspicions that the chemicals used by
flour mills to fumigate grain and grain bins may be
carcinogenic. The fumigants are used to thwart insect
infestations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new study, published in the current issue of the NCI's
semimonthly Journal, follows up on a preliminary study in
1987 that indicated an unexpectedly high death rate from
cancers of the pancreas, blood and lymph systems among
members of the American Federation of Grain Millers union.
The members include those working in grain storage elevators,
soybean, potato and animal-feed processing plants as well as
in flour mills.
   To pinpoint exactly which union members were at risk the
NCI researchers did a detailed analysis of nearly 23,000
members and former members of the union's life insurance
program. Overall, there were fewer deaths in the previous 30
years among the grain handlers than among American white
males of the same ages, a not-unexpected finding when
particular occupational or geographical groups are compared
with the general population.
   But, the researchers found, there was a concentration of a
cancer known as non-Hodgkins lymphoma among flour-mill
workers. Of the 24 lymphoma deaths among the grain handlers,
21 occurred in flour-mill workers. Moreover, the risk of
dying of the lymphoma increased as length of employment in
the flour mills increased; 12 of the dead men had worked 20
or more years in a flour mill while only two had worked less
than 10 years in the mills.
   A breakdown of the lymphoma deaths by the department found
that workers in the mills' maintenance departments had an
eight-fold higher risk than other flour mill workers of dying
of non-Hodgkins lymphoma, epidemiologist Michael C.R.
Alavanja and his colleagues reported. Workers in the mills'
grain elevators had an almost three-fold higher risk of dying
of the cancer.
   Suspicion of what might be causing the cancer is focused
on the chemical fumigants since a survey found twice as many
flour-mill workers had handled these pesticides as workers in
other segments of the grain industry, the researchers said.
   "Since workers in the maintenance department are
responsible for maintaining and repairing machinery and
equipment in every department of a flour mill, they would
tend to have the most diverse occupational exposures" to the
chemical fumigants, they noted. The elevator workers are most
likely to have applied the fumigants to the stored grain and
thus are most likely to have been directly exposed to the
chemicals.
   Flour mills have switched chemical fumigants several times
over the last 40 years so its uncertain which, if any, of the
chemicals might be responsible. However, since the 1960s
aluminum phosphide pellets, which release phosphine gas on
exposure to moisture in the grain bins, have been widely used
by the mills, the researchers noted. A recent study at the
University of Minnesota found that among workers who applied
pesticides, those that were exposed to phosphine had evidence
of increased genetic damage in their white blood cells during
the pesticide application season. Lymphoma is a cancer of the
white blood cells.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kent Electronics Corp.:
   Holder Rights Plan Adopted
   To Deter Hostile Takeovers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KEC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kent Electronics Corp., Houston, said it adopted a
shareholder rights plan intended to deter a hostile takeover.
In connection with that plan, the company declared a
distribution of one preferred stock purchase right on each
Kent common share outstanding. The distribution will be made
on May 24, 1990, to holders of record on that date, the
company said.
   The rights are exercisable if any person or group acquires
20% or more of Kent's common stock, or announces an offer to
acquire 30% or more of the common stock. Each right entitles
shareholders to buy one one-hundredth of a share of Kent's
Series A preferred stock, $1 par value per share, for $40.
Each right also entitles shareholders to purchase Kent
commmon stock, or securities of an acquiring entity, at half
of market value.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the actions were designed to assure that
all shareholders receive fair treatment if any person or
group attempts a takeover of the company. The company said it
was not aware of any takeover plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Sell
   $16.8 Billion in Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $1.13 billion in
new cash with the sale Monday of about $16.8 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $15.67 billion in maturing bills.
   The Treasury offering will be divided evenly between
13-week and 26-week bills maturing on Aug. 23 and on Nov. 23,
1990, respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- J.P. Morgan &amp; Co.:
   Primary-Dealer Status Won
   For Italian Bond Market
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JPM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. of New York is the first non-Italian
bank to be named a primary dealer in Italian government
securities. Morgan received final approval from the Bank of
Italy and will begin quoting prices today on the screen-based
trading system for the secondary bond market.
   Daily turnover on the regulated market, in which liquidity
is estimated to have doubled in the past year, is about 1.4
trillion lire ($1.16 billion), according to banking sources,
while over-the-counter volume has been estimated around four
trillion lire, though exact figures aren't available.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hundreds of banks, including other foreign banks, deal in
the secondary market, but Morgan is one of 20 authorized by
the Bank of Italy to quote bid and offer prices continuously
for Italy's government paper. These banks meet minimum
capital requirements set by the central bank.
   Morgan said it believes the Italian market holds
unrecognized potential for international investors. It cited
high yields, new confidence in the lira, and Italy's
liberalization of foreign exchange barriers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Black &amp; Decker Picks
   Hammes of Chrysler
   To Lead Largest Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   BDK WNEWS C
</CO>
<LP>
   TOWSON, Md. -- Black &amp; Decker Corp., as expected, named
Michael N. Hammes, Chrysler Corp.'s vice president of
international operations, to the post of executive vice
president.
   Mr. Hammes, 48 years old, will head Black &amp; Decker's
largest unit, the $2 billion Power Tools and Home Improvement
Group. Mr. Hammes, who joined Chrysler in 1986 after almost
30 years with Ford Motor Co., has extensive experience in
international operations and joint-venture activities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Black &amp; Decker has been searching for an executive with
global experience to fill the job since February when George
M. Sherman left the company to become president of Danaher
Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Parsons Elects Pieroni
   Chairman as Leonhard
   Retires From Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PASADENA, Calif. -- Leonard J. Pieroni became chief
executive officer and was elected chairman of Parsons Corp.,
succeeding William E. Leonhard, who retired after 15 years at
the helm.
   Mr. Pieroni, 51 years old, was elected chairman at a board
meeting, when he also assumed the chief executive title. He
had been named to that post in April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Pieroni has held various positions at Parsons since
joining one of its subsidiaries more than 17 years ago. Last
year, he was named executive vice president in charge of
corporate planning. Those duties will be divided among other
executives, Parsons said.
   Mr. Leonhard, 75, joined Parsons in 1966, was named chief
executive in 1975 and chairman in 1978. The engineering and
construction company was acquired by its employees in 1985.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mellon Bank to Sell
   Finance Unit to Ford,
   Widens Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MEL F
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Mellon Bank Corp. said it agreed to sell its
consumer finance subsidiary, Mellon Financial Services Corp.,
to Associates Corp. of North America, a unit of Ford Motor
Co. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Separately, the bank holding company said its board
authorized it to purchase as many as 250,000 of its common
shares, as part of a plan announced last October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transaction involving the consumer finance unit, which
is subject to regulatory approval, is expected to close by
June 30 and to result in a one-time $75 million gain, Mellon
said. In 1989, Mellon earned $210 million, or $4.01 a share,
including an extraordinary credit of $29 million from
retirement of debt.
   Assets covered by the transaction include 96 consumer
finance offices in 17 states, mainly in the Midwest and
western U.S., as well as $460 million in secured and
unsecured consumer finance loans. Mellon said it will retain
about $90 million of its commercial finance portfolio.
   Mellon noted that the sale reflects its strategy to
concentrate on retail banking in the Central Atlantic region.
It said proceeds from the sale will help finance Mellon's
recent acquisition of Meritor Savings Bank.
   Associates Corp., based in Dallas, is one of the nation's
largest finance companies, with assets of more than $15
billion.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Mellon shares closed at $27.50, down 25 cents, giving the new
buy-back authorization a current indicated value of about
$6.9 million.
   Under the buy-back program, Mellon said it previously
purchased 250,000 of its common shares in connection with
benefit plan requirements. As of March 31, the company had
43.9 million common shares outstanding.
   Under the latest buy-back authorization, Mellon said it
can make purchases from time to time in the open market or
privately negotiated transactions. Shares bought back will be
added to the corporation's treasury shares and used to meet
Mellon's current and near-term common stock requirements for
its benefit plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEWSPAPERS: The Forward, a national English-language
weekly Jewish newspaper, is expected to be launched on May
25. Being published by Forward Publishing Co., the paper
initially will be distributed in the New York metropolitan
area and will begin national distribution on Sept. 14. Seth
Lipsky, a former Wall Street Journal editor, will be
president and chief executive officer of Forward Publishing
Co. and editor of the Forward.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   WHO'S NEWS: Atlantic Records, a unit of Time Warner Inc.,
named Senior Vice President Melvyn R. Lewinter to the
additional post of chief financial officer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Research Sells
   A Majority Stake
   To Information Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   F.CAP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MORRISTOWN, N.J. -- The management consultant firm United
Research said it has sold a majority interest in itself to
Cap Gemini Sogeti, the Paris-based information technology
service company.
   The transaction is part of a pattern of mergers between
consulting firms and information technology firms, said
industry analysts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is the first time in the world that a major
management consulting firm and a major information technology
firm have joined forces," said David Teiger, United's
chairman. Mr. Teiger declined to disclose terms of the
transaction.
   United Research, which specializes in strategy and
operations consulting, had combined domestic and overseas
revenue last year of $80 million, according to David Lord,
managing editor of Consultant News, a Fitzwilliam, N.H.,
newsletter.
   Cap Gemini had world-wide revenue of $1.3 billion,
including $213 million in this country.
   Mr. Lord said the sale is consistent with similar
marriages of consultants and information technology
companies, including the purchase by Computer Sciences Corp.,
El Segundo, Calif., of the Index Group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Warning Flag Is Raised as Stock Market Hits New High
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- As the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index has
surged to a multiple of 16.3 times earnings, Wall Street has
had an explanation for it all.
   The reason stock prices have been climbing while earnings
have been falling, analysts say, is that interest rates have
also gone into a swoon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But according to one significant yardstick that compares
stock multiples with interest rates, the S&amp;P 500 is more
expensive now than at any time since before the October 1987
crash.
   "Relative to the bond market, stock prices look 15% to 20%
overpriced," says Leon G. Cooperman, chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management.
   Despite the recent bond rally, yields on government bonds
are up considerably -- more than 0.6 of a percentage point --
since year-end. All things being equal, that should warrant
lower stock prices. But the S&amp;P 500 index is up marginally
from its year end close of 353.4.
   "In my view, bonds represent a very good alternative to
equities," says Abby Joseph Cohen, the chief strategist for
Barclays de Zoete Wedd, the brokerage arm of Barclays Bank.
   A good proxy for the relative worth of stocks and bonds is
what Salomon Brothers terms the "earnings/yield gap." The
term sounds arcane, but the concept is basic.
   The earnings yield on stocks is the return (defined as the
annual corporate earnings) divided by the share price. If a
company earning $1 a share sells for $100, the yield to
investors, whether paid out in dividends or kept as retained
earnings, is 1%. (The earnings yield is also equal to one
divided by the price/earnings multiple.)
   The earnings/yield gap is obtained by starting with the
rate prevailing on 10-year government bonds and subtracting
the earnings yield of the S&amp;P 500 stocks. Right now, this gap
amounts to 2.48 percentage points.
   In other words, the 8.6% interest that investors can
collect on 10-year government bonds is almost 2.5 percentage
points higher than the earnings yield on stocks. Today's gap
is still far narrower than the precrash extreme of 4.67
percentage points. Yet it is wider than at any time since
just before Black Monday.
   Michael Belkin, the Salomon analyst who tracks the yield
gap, says "it's probably the best `quick and dirty' measure
of the relationship between stock prices and interest rates."
   When the yield gap widens, it signals that stocks,
relative to the risk-free returns available in the government
bond market, are becoming pricier. Bargain-priced stocks are
more likely to be found when the gap is narrow.
   In the bear market of the 1970s, the yield gap was often
negative -- meaning that bonds were yielding less than
stocks. In the early 1980s, a period of double-digit interest
rates, the gap briefly widened to more than four percentage
points. It narrowed in the mid-1980s, and then roared to a
record high just before Black Monday.
   "If the gap is too large compared to its historical range,
it probably means that stocks are vulnerable," Mr. Belkin
says, adding: "Stock prices can't shrug off interest rates
forever."
   But Mr. Belkin isn't among those who believe that the gap
today is so large as to suggest that stocks are overvalued.
Looking back to the early 1980s, he says the gap is well
within its historical range.
   Japan's stock market, despite its recent slide, is more
expensive than the U.S. market, Mr. Belkin adds. In fact, by
this measure, he says, Japanese stocks are more overvalued
than they were at year end -- when prices were 20% higher --
because interest rates in Japan also have risen.
   "Even with the recent stock market slide, Japanese stocks
don't reflect the rise in Japanese interest rates," Mr.
Belkin says. The yield gap in Japan is 5.02%, compared with
4.22% at year end.
   Stock market savants say it's indisputable that, at some
level, a rising yield gap spells trouble. The hard part?
Determining when.
   "The problem is, you're taking a snapshot at one instant
in time," says George Michaelis, president of First Pacific
Advisers. "Stocks have earnings growth, and interest rates
can be very volatile." In the early 1980s, he says, a large
yield gap obscured the fact -- observable in retrospect --
that stocks held "tremendous value."
   Charles Clough, chief investment strategist at Merrill
Lynch, agrees that stocks are overvalued relative to bonds
but, he adds: "Over the past 20 years the normal boundary has
been rising. It has taken higher values of overvaluation to
stop the market."
   Investors, he says, have become more optimistic about
earnings growth as the economic expansion has continued --
pushing up price/earnings multiples and also such measures as
the yield gap. Thus, to some extent, the yield gap can be
considered a measure of investors' expectations for earnings
growth.
   Investors are still sanguine, Mr. Clough says dryly, "even
though there is no sign of an earnings bottom." Dillon Read
research chief Joseph McAlinden says stocks aren't overvalued
relative to bonds, because he expects corporate earnings to
rise.
   Goldman's Mr. Cooperman, computes what he says is a more
dynamic version of the yield gap. Mr. Cooperman's model
factors in a "risk premium" for owning stocks and assumes
that, over the long haul, corporate earnings will grow 7% a
year.
   He also concludes that, relative to bonds, stocks are
overvalued. Over time, Mr. Cooperman says the balance between
markets should be rectified in one of three ways. He expects
"a drop in stock prices, a further decline in interest rates,
or the passage of time, allowing earnings to catch up."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Sun Introduces
   Its PC-Priced
   Workstation
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- Sun Microsystems Inc. introduced
a computer workstation priced at $4,995, setting a new
standard for high-powered desktop computing at relatively low
prices.
   Sun's new computer, called the Sparcstation SLC, is likely
to cement Sun's lead in the workstation market, one of the
fastest-growing segments of the computer industry. While
Sun's chief competitors in workstations, Hewlett-Packard Inc.
and Digital Equipment Corp., vow to introduce similarly
priced but more powerful workstations, some analysts think
Sun's new machine will confound competitors for many months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This makes it difficult for DEC and HP to keep up with
Sun in the workstation business," said Vicki Brown, an
analysts at International Data Corp.
   Sun declined to estimate future sales of the machine,
though it said it had already received orders for 5,000
units.
   However, Ms. Brown said Sun's newest computer is expected
to lift sales of its year-old Sparcstation family
significantly. She said sales of all three models, including
the SLC, will probably total 95,000 units this year, roughly
three times last year's sales.
   Besides helping Sun satisfy its traditional engineering
and scientific customers, the new machine will add momentum
to the company's assault on the market for personal
computers, generally used by white collar workers.
   "The battle today is on the desktop," said Scott McNealy,
Sun's chief executive officer, referring to the company's
plans to butt heads with such PC makers as Apple Computer
Inc.
   While Sun may steal some PC sales, the new SLC lacks a
hard-disk drive, the basic storage device for PCs, and it
can't be upgraded with accessories that improve performance.
   But the machine operates at blazing speeds -- 12.5 million
operations a second -- because it has at its heart Sun's own
Sparc microprocessor. The extra speed is useful in, for
instance, financial modeling or electronic publishing, where
PCs often lack the horsepower to carry out complex tasks.
   Sun is expected to introduce an even faster Sparcstation
before the end of the year, putting further pressure on
competitors. That machine might even share the same packaging
as the SLC, which is designed so that its circuitry shares
the same housing as its 17-inch monitor.
   The packaging is crucial to Sun's profit margins on the
computer, which may sell for as little as $3,000 when
purchased in large quantities. Ms. Brown said Sun spent $1
million on tooling for the computer and managed to design the
machine without a fan, which reduces the computer's noise and
manufacturing costs.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Sun shares
closed at $29.25 apiece, down $1.25 on heavy volume of about
1.9 million shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MCEG Sets Revamp
   Of Loan From Kidder
   In Exchange for Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCEG GE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Management Co. Entertainment Group Inc.
said it agreed in principle with Kidder, Peabody Group Inc.
for the General Electric Co. unit to restructure its $72.5
million bridge loan in exchange for as much as a 28% stake in
MCEG, a financially troubled motion-picture producer and
distributor.
   MCEG said Kidder agreed to replace the loan MCEG used to
acquire Virgin Vision Ltd. last August with $55 million of
two-year notes and $17.5 million of five-year notes. The loan
was initially due May 29.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In return, MCEG will issue warrants or convertible bonds
to Kidder, allowing the New York investment banking firm to
buy 12 million of its common shares for $3 each. MCEG said
Kidder will receive warrants to purchase an additional eight
million shares at $3 each if the company hasn't repaid the
five-year notes by Dec. 31.
   The arrangement could give Kidder a stake of as much as
28% in the company, MCEG said, assuming it had 64 million
shares outstanding at year end on a fully diluted basis.
   The financing arrangement is subject to a number of
significant conditions, including approval by MCEG's board.
   MCEG shares were quoted at $2.8125, bid, in
over-the-counter trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Byrd Gets Backing
   For a State Project
   In Aid Maneuvers
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration, anxious to free up
its $720 million aid package for Central America, is quietly
throwing support to a bid by Senate Appropriations Committee
Chairman Robert Byrd to add $185 million for a crime facility
in his state of West Virginia.
   The maneuvering appears to be part of an effort to strike
a legislative alliance with the powerful chairman. It also
reflects Budget Director Richard Darman's penchant for
pork-barrel politics even as he argues for a line-item veto
to reduce the deficit. The proposed facility -- a national
fingerprint repository for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation -- could cost at least twice the initial $185
million inserted by Mr. Byrd. In remarks early this month,
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady made reference to the item
as a example of how Congress adds unrequested appropriations
to spending bills.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though state and local police forces have lobbied for a
fingerprint facility, no money was requested by the
administration in either the current supplemental 1990
spending bill of more than $3.3 billion or the FBI's budget
for fiscal 1991, beginning Oct. 1. In a letter this month to
the House Appropriations Committee, Mr. Darman listed the
Byrd amendment among the many "unrequested provisions" adding
to discretionary spending. But his office has now sanctioned
an appeal by FBI Director William Sessions for the money.
   Mr. Sessions, artfully choosing his words, describes the
item as an "emergency supplemental" to avoid "the dire
consequences of a lack of one central system." The letter was
cleared with the Office of Management and Budget and
substantially strengthens Mr. Byrd's position as talks resume
today with the House on the underlying bill.
   The Central America funding -- $420 million for Panama and
$300 million for Nicaragua -- isn't in dispute. But a major
question is whether the appropriations panels will attach
necessary legislative waivers sought by the State Department
so the money can be quickly distributed. President Bush
personally telephoned House Speaker Thomas Foley this week,
but House liberals have balked at releasing the Central
America funds until the administration agrees to impose
conditions on separate military aid to El Salvador.
   Mr. Foley signaled a willingness yesterday to move
substantially toward the administration's position, but he
may have conceded more than many Democrats are prepared to
accept. The question could be tested in a floor fight as
early as tomorrow and -- whatever alliances are struck with
Mr. Byrd in the appropriations negotiations -- a final
arbiter is House Rules Committee Chairman Joseph Moakley, who
can slow the Panama and Nicaragua funding if no agreement is
reached on El Salvador. "They will still have to come to me,"
said the Massachusetts Democrat.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Im Bank and AID
   Plan $500 Million Pool
   To Help Exporters
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Export Import Bank said it and the
U.S. Agency for International Development will jointly create
a $500 million pool to assist sales by U.S. exporters in
highly competitive Third World markets.
   The funds will back U.S. exports in markets where other
governments engage in "extensive, trade-distorting tied-aid
activities," the Ex-Im Bank said. "Tied-aid" is credit given
on the condition that the recipient country uses it to
purchase goods and services from the country supplying the
credit. The new U.S. lending pool will operate on the same
principle.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. generally opposes use of tied-aid. Eugene Lawson,
the Ex-Im Bank's vice chairman, said the kitty will be used
to protect U.S. commercial interests while Washington is
attempting to negotiate a comprehensive international accord
restricting the use of tied-aid.
   The Ex-Im Bank said the markets where the funds may be
used include Indonesia, Pakistan, the Philippines and
Thailand. Among the projects to be assisted are
telecommunications, transportation, power and construction
equipment.
   The pool will be drawn from existing Ex-Im Bank and AID
programs. Pool applicants have to meet AID's standards and
country priorities, the bank said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Pitney Bowes Realigns
   Officers in New Units
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   PBI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Pitney Bowes Inc. named four officers
to head new units in what the business equipment, supplies
and financial services company called a "strategic
realignment."
   Hiro R. Hiranandani, 52 years old, previously president,
business systems, international unit, was appointed
president, mailing systems, a new unit combining U.S. and
international operations. Mr. Hiranandani succeeds James L.
Bast, 54, formerly president, U.S. business systems, who left
the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Carole F. St. Mark, 47, formerly president, business
supplies and services, was named president, logistics systems
and business services.
   Marc C. Breslawsky, 47, formerly vice president and chief
executive officer, Dictaphone Corp. and facsimile and copier
systems, was appointed president, office systems.
   Douglas A. Riggs, 45, formerly vice president, corporate
communications and external affairs, was named vice
president, corporate planning, communications and external
affairs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Flexible Bond Trust Inc.:
   Board Proposes Converting
   To Open-End Investment
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLX
</CO>
<LP>
   Flexible Bond Trust Inc. said its board plans to take
steps to convert the New York-based closed-end fund to an
open-end investment company.
   The proposed conversion and related matters are expected
to be submitted to shareholders for a vote at a special
meeting scheduled for Sept. 6. If approved, the conversion
would become effective in the 1991 first quarter. The fund
now pays monthly income dividends; it expects to continue
this policy after the conversion. As of March 31, the fund's
assets were valued at $66 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Open-end mutual funds issue and redeem shares on demand
and these trade at a price based on their asset value.
Closed-end funds issue a fixed number of shares that trade
publicly at a premium to or a discount from their asset
value. Since it went public, Flexible Bond Trust has been
traded at varying discounts; the conversion would eliminate
these discounts.
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Flexible Bond Trust shares closed at $7.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dravo Pleads Guilty
   To Mail Fraud Count
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DRV
</CO>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Dravo Corp. has agreed to enter a guilty
plea to one count of mail fraud in connection with a criminal
filing prepared by the U.S. Attorney for South Carolina.
   The government's filing, which Dravo revealed in a report
to the Securities and Exchange Commission, stems from
improper charges for steel pipe provided in 1985 by a former
Dravo division to the U.S. Department of Energy's Savannah
River, S.C., plant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In agreeing to enter a guilty plea, Dravo said it would
reimburse the Department of Energy for $165,000, the amount
improperly billed.
   Dravo noted that while a fine may be imposed as part of
the sentence, the company does not believe that either the
fine, or restitution, will have a material effect on the
company's financial performance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Panel Approves
   Federal Reserve Board
   Nomination of Mullins
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Banking Committee unanimously
approved the nomination of David Mullins to the Federal
Reserve Board.
   The nomination of Mr. Mullins, who is the assistant
Treasury secretary for domestic finance, now goes to the full
Senate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Mullins, a former Harvard Business School professor,
was a principal author of the Bush administration's plan to
bail out the savings-and-loan industry. Before coming to the
Treasury, he was a top staffer on a task force set up by
former President Reagan to investigate the 1987 stock market
crash.
   If approved by the Senate, Mr. Mullins would serve out the
term vacated by Robert Heller, who left the Fed last year to
become an executive vice president of Visa International, the
credit card company. The term expires in 1996.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Northern Telecom Ltd.:
   Concern Expected to Build
   Research Facility in Ottawa
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NT BCE
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Northern Telecom Ltd., New York, is expected to announce
today a $100 million project to build a new research and
development facility to house its research and development
operations in the Ottawa area, according to individuals
familiar with the company's plans.
   Northern, which has been seeking ways to cut overhead,
declined to comment on its plans. But the telecommunications
equipment manufacturer currently maintains satellite research
and development operations in three leased sites in the
Ottawa area. These work with its main Bell Northern Research
Center in Nepean, Ont., in a building that is owned by
Northern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new facility will be built next to the existing BNR
lab in Nepean, and will add 600,000 square feet to the
operation, bringing the total space to 1.3 million square
feet, the individuals said. Northern currently employs 4,500
workers in its Ottawa research and development operations.
   They said the consolidation into the new site won't lead
to a work-force reduction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Inches Up Amid Profit-Taking;
   Biotechnology Stocks Take Center Stage
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investors in over-the-counter stocks throttled back
yesterday after the record two-day price surge on Friday and
Monday.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 0.89, a 0.2% gain, to
442.50. Volume remained brisk at 162.3 million shares, down
from 177.2 million. However, declining shares overtook
advancing stocks, 1,019 to 906, as investors began to take
profits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's breathing time," said Jerry Newman, a San
Francisco-based institutional trader with Cowen &amp; Co.
"There's a little backing and filling and profit-taking going
on," he said, adding that the market may ease today on
continued profit-taking.
   OTC stocks continued to be supported by investors with
cash they need to commit and by traders covering positions
they sold short in expectations of a market decline, said
Dick Holden, an OTC trader with Alex. Brown &amp; Sons in
Baltimore. He added that the market may slide if today's
monthly consumer price index report doesn't meet
expectations.
   MCI Communications continued its advance, gaining 5/8 to
41, and led the Nasdaq utility index, which outpaced other
indexes with a 0.5% gain. Traders said insurance and other
interest-rate sensitive stocks moved higher amid anticipation
that interest rates may decline. The Nasdaq index of 100
large financial stocks gained 0.4%, the insurance index added
0.2% and the index of smaller financial shares rose 0.3%.
   Sun Microsystems lost 1 1/4 to 29 1/4. As expected, the
Mountain View, Calif., computer manufacturer introduced a
low-cost computer workstation.
   Laserscope was the most active, falling 1 to 20 5/8 on 2.1
million shares, which included a block of 780,000 shares, or
12.7% of the company's 6.2 million outstanding shares. Alfred
Merriweather, chief financial officer of the San Jose,
Calif., maker of surgical laser systems, said that Du Pont
sold part of its estimated 18% holding.
   Shares of biotechnology issues stepped into the spotlight,
as investors anticipate that treatments for cancer developed
by several companies will be discussed next week at the
annual meeting in Washington of the American Society of
Clinical Oncology.
   Prudential Bache biotechnology analyst Stuart Weisbrod
said that Monday afternoon he repeated his "buy" opinions on
the stocks of four companies whose products will be reviewed
at the meeting: Amgen, which gained 1 1/4 to 66 3/4; Cytogen,
which added 1/8 to 7; Immunex, which rose 1/4 to 17 1/2 and
Cetus, which was unchanged at 15 3/8. Genetics Institute,
also scheduled to have data reviewed at the meeting, rose 1
to 35 1/4.
   Mr. Weisbrod said in an interview that next Monday an
independent researcher will discuss studies of Amgen's white
blood cell stimulating factor, G-CSF, used in chemotherapy to
reduce bone-marrow toxicity. On Tuesday, researchers are
scheduled to review Interleukin-2, an anti-cancer product
developed by Immunex, and a color-imaging product developed
by Cytogen to detect ovarian and colorectal cancer.
Throughout the week, he said, researchers will discuss a drug
developed by Cetus used in combination with other products to
treat kidney cancer and melanoma.
   Nike raced to an all-time high of 75 1/4, up 3 1/2, after
analysts repeated bullish comments about the footwear maker
as the end of its May 31 fiscal year nears, Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report said. Yesterday, Shearson Lehman
Hutton analyst Josie Esquivel repeated the brokerage's top
rating on the Beaverton, Ore., company; on Monday, Salomon
Brothers analyst Heidi R. Steinberg repeated her purchase
recommendation.
   Nike is due to report fourth-quarter and year-end earnings
July 9 in New York. Ron Parham, Nike's investor relations
manager, said the company isn't discouraging estimates of
annual earnings ranging from $6 to $6.20 a share, up from
$4.45 a share in 1989.
   Earnings reports fueled gains in several issues, among
them: Motor Club of America, rose 1 1/8 to 8 1/4; Florida
Employers Insurance gained 1 to 9 3/4; ECI Telecom advanced 1
3/8 to 18 1/2.
   Late Monday, Motor Club, a Newark, N.J., provider of
automobile, insurance and financing services, reported net
income for the first quarter ended March 31 of 51 cents a
share, up from 12 cents a year earlier.
   Florida Employers Insurance reported Monday net income for
the first quarter ended March 31 of 36 cents a share, down
from 44 cents a share a year earlier. Based in Grand Cayman,
British West Indies, the provider of reinsurance, claims
management, brokerage and other services to the insurance
industry also boosted its quarterly dividend to seven cents a
share from six cents.
   ECI Telecom Ltd. hit a new 52-week high after reporting
Monday net income for the first quarter ended March 31 of 55
cents a share, including a one-time gain of seven cents. A
year earlier, the Israeli maker of telecommunications systems
earned 19 cents a share.
   Environment Control Group advanced for the second day
after the Maple Shade, N.J., provider of asbestos abatement
services announced Monday a new financing agreement including
a $23 million line of credit. The stock jumped 1 to 5 1/2.
   POP Radio lost 1/4 to 17 1/2 after the New York
broadcasting concern reported late Friday a loss for the
third quarter ended March 31 of $12,000, compared with a
profit of $455,000 in the year-earlier quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Loral Corp.:
   Firm Posts Flat Earnings
   For Fiscal Fourth Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LOR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Loral Corp. reported flat net income for its fiscal fourth
quarter, but fourth-quarter earnings from continuing
operations jumped 49% from a year ago.
   The New York-based defense electronics concern said it
earned $25.1 million, or $1 a share, in the latest
three-month period ended March 31, the same as in its
year-earlier fourth quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All of this year's fourth-quarter net income was from
continuing operations. In the year-ago period, however, the
company earned $16.8 million, or 67 cents a share on
continuing operations, and $8.3 million, or 33 cents a share,
on discontinued operations.
   Sales rose 36% to $444.7 million, from $326.8 million in
the quarter.
   For the full fiscal year, Loral earned $78.2 million, or
$3.11 a share, down 11% from $87.6 million, or $3.50 a share.
On continuing operations, earnings for the fiscal 12 months
rose 28% to $77.5 million, or $3.08 a share, from $60.3
million, or $2.41 a share.
   Results for the latest full year include a $10.5 million
pretax charge covering costs related to the company's guilty
plea to charges arising from a Justice Department
investigation into Pentagon contracting abuses.
   Sales for the 12 months climbed 6.7% to $1.27 billion from
$1.19 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Munsingwear Inc.:
   Firm Plans to Sell 2 Units,
   Ends Its Talks With Jacobs
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   MUN WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Munsingwear Inc., saying talks broke off with Irwin Jacobs
about the investor's proposal to take control of the
struggling apparel maker, announced plans to seek buyers for
two of its three units and to focus on menswear.
   Minneapolis-based Munsingwear, which got its start in the
men's underwear business 104 years ago, also said Charles J.
Campbell was appointed president and chief executive officer.
Mr. Campbell, 45 years old, joined the company last year as
president of the men's division and was responsible for the
introduction of its "Grand Slam" line of golf clothes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Campbell succeeds Lawrence L. Horsch as chief
executive. Mr. Horsch, 55, will continue as chairman while
the company seeks buyers for its LeRoi Princeton and
Munsingwear Canada divisions, which make infants' clothes and
women's sportswear, respectively. But Mr. Horsch's role will
be greatly reduced.
   Munsingwear and Mr. Jacobs said talks were terminated by
mutual agreement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Trans World Airlines:
   Loss Widened Significantly
   During the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   TWA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Trans World Airlines reported a first-quarter net loss of
$143 million, significantly wider than the $83.1 million net
loss a year earlier.
   The financially troubled company, which Chairman Carl
Icahn took private in 1988, said that revenue rose 2.5% to
$1.01 billion from $989.7 million a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It said operating expenses rose more sharply. Costs rose
by 9.3% to $1.1 billion from $1.02 billion during the
year-earlier quarter.
   The Mount Kisco, N.Y., company attributed most of the jump
to a 35.7% rise in the price of jet fuel. It said the average
jet fuel price rose to 73.7 cents a gallon from 54.3 cents a
gallon during the first quarter of 1989. TWA said the
increase cost the company an additional $52.9 million in fuel
expenses compared with the year-earlier period.
   It said the remaining $41.9 million jump in expenses was
related to increased capacity and service changes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trump's Casinos Had
   A Loss of $12 Million
   During First Quarter
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Donald Trump's casinos, traditionally among the real
estate mogul's biggest winners, lost a combined $12 million
during the first quarter of 1990. In the year-earlier quarter
the casinos had a gain of $2.2 million.
   The unaudited figures, released yesterday by the Casino
Association of New Jersey, indicate that Mr. Trump's
properties may have started suffering from a slow Atlantic
City, N.J.-market even before his $1 billion Taj Mahal opened
in April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citywide, the industry lost $4.3 million on gross revenue
of $729.9 million compared with a first-quarter loss of $3.8
million last year on revenue of $730.4 million.
   Trump Plaza lost $3.7 million and Trump's Castle lost $8.3
million.
   The first quarter results are significant because they
reveal for the first time what effect Mr. Trump's intense
marketing strategies, which raised revenue for the Trump's
Castle, have had on the bottom line.
   Mr. Trump could not be reached for comment.
   Analysts said the Trump Plaza results, while poor, were
distorted by a loss of $6 million to a single baccarat player
in January.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Yen Strengthens Against Dollar, Mark;
   Traders Nervous About U.S. Economy
   ----
   By John Bader and Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The yen racked up further gains against the
dollar and the mark as the Japanese unit capitalized on
market uncertainty surrounding the direction of the U.S.
economy and German political developments.
   The U.S. unit fell almost two yen on worries about recent
mixed signals on the U.S. economy and nervousness about the
possibility of lower interest rates, traders said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lingering worry over the effect of losses by West German
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian Democrats in Sunday's
state elections caused selling of the mark, especially
against the resurgent yen, they said.
   The yen was helped in its rise against the dollar, mark
and other major currencies by fading concern about the
Japanese stock market as Japanese share prices generally
recover, said Gabriel Grippo, senior foreign exchange trader
at Manufacturers Hanover Trust in New York.
   Traders said that turmoil in the Japanese stock market,
now receded, was seen as the most important factor blocking
an increase in Japanese interest rates by the Bank of Japan,
a step that could strengthen the yen. They noted, however,
that with the yen on the rise, such an increase may not be
necessary.
   The Nikkei stock index finished Tuesday in Tokyo at
31,997.04 points, down a slight 45.61 points on late
profit-taking. The index rose 530.51 points Monday and 531.88
points Friday.
   Interest-rate concerns are now weakening the dollar, as
participants try to gauge which way the U.S. economy is
headed, Mr. Grippo and other participants agreed.
   The market's interest in today's Consumer Price Index
figure for April stems from the focus on interest rates, they
said.
   Although most participants believe the Federal Reserve
will maintain a neutral stance on interest rates for the time
being, the CPI is being watched for any sign that pressure
for lower rates might be building. For that reason, it's
anticipated that a lower-than-expected CPI number would hurt
the dollar, traders said.
   In the general view of traders, the U.S. economy offers
the status quo, while both the West German and Japanese
central banks promise change. "There's a conviction that the
Bundesbank will tighten some time soon," said J. Paul Horne,
international economist with Smith Barney, Harris Upham in
Paris. "And we think the Bank of Japan has got to tighten,
too."
   That expectation is beginning to clear the air after a
period of uncertainty over the Japanese currency. In the past
three weeks, investors in yen-based bonds have fared well.
"Most of the flows have been going into the yen," said George
Magnus, economist with S.G. Warburg Securities in London.
"And it's not sure that move is over."
   Sales of the mark against the Japanese unit were
responsible in large part for a modest rise by the dollar
against the West German currency, said Erik Lehtis, senior
dealer at Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank in New York.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6465 marks, up from 1.6425 marks late Monday, and at
150.80 yen, down from 152.47 yen late Monday. Sterling was
quoted at $1.6740, down from $1.6825 Monday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the U.S. currency was
quoted at 152.05 yen, up from Tuesday's Tokyo close of 151.30
yen. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.6480 marks.
   "The (West German) election news inspired a lot of
profit-taking," Mr. Lehtis said, noting that the mark's
recent peak around 96 yen had left the West German currency
vulnerable to a correction on technical grounds.
   The West German unit ended the New York day around 91.61
yen, off from 92.83 yen late in New York Monday.
   The mark was also hurt by a denial by West German monetary
authorities early in the day of a published report that the
Bundesbank might issue mark-denominated bonds to help finance
unification.
   The issue of such bonds by the central bank would have
been positive for the mark because of the added funds they
would have generated for the West German government during
unification, traders said. The denial of plans for an issue
depressed the mark a bit by removing a potential source of
strength for the currency, they said.
   Dealers' long-term mark bullishness remained unshaken
however, with some crediting a statement by Mr. Kohl late in
the European day favoring an all-German election "at the
earliest possible date" with limiting the mark's losses.
   Furthermore, most traders remain confident that German
unification plans will bring about a high-interest-rate
stance from the Bundesbank. "A strong Deutsche mark --
perhaps heading toward parity against the U.S. dollar in the
mid-1990s -- will take the inflationary sting out of high
East German growth," said Shearson Lehman Hutton in a recent
report. "But to ensure the Deutsche mark rises, the
Bundesbank will need to keep real interest rates very high."
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $370.90 an ounce, up $2.50. Estimated
volume was a moderate 3.7 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted at $370.50 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   McDonnell Douglas
   Helicopter Co. Unit's
   President Quits Post
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   MD WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- William P. Brown resigned as president of
McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Co. in the wake of the company's
continuing poor financial performance.
   The decision was announced by the company's St.
Louis-based parent, McDonnell Douglas Corp. Spokesmen there
and at the helicopter company in Mesa, Ariz., refused to
speculate on the reason for the resignation, which is
effective Friday. Mr. Brown wasn't available to comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   McDonnell Douglas said a successor will be named in a few
weeks. Until then, William S. Ross, president of the St.
Louis-based McDonnell Aircraft Co. unit, will take on the
additional duty of overseeing the helicopter company.
   Mr. Brown, 57 years old, will become a consultant to the
parent company and will work out of an office in the Phoenix,
Ariz., area, said a spokesman for the helicopter unit. The
executive joined the company in 1980 as chief engineer on the
Army's Apache helicopter program before the company was
acquired by McDonnell Douglas.
   Mr. Brown played an important role in smoothing the
company's move in 1986 to Mesa from Culver City, Calif.,
McDonnell Douglas said. During his tenure, he also launched
three helicopter programs and implemented a reorganization
plan.
   Last year, the helicopter company had a $137 million
write-off, mainly related to the Apache program, which
accounted for about 80% of the company's revenue. In
February, the company said it was trimming its work force and
making other spending cuts to improve its financial
performance and lessen the effect of reductions in defense
spending.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Perkin-Elmer Sells
   Chip Technology
   To a U.S. Group
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   PKN J.NIK SVGI IBM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Perkin-Elmer Corp. said it sold to a U.S. group a
semiconductor-equipment business that had become the focus of
concerns about Japanese inroads in the U.S. semiconductor
market.
   Nikon Corp. of Japan had expressed interest in
Perkin-Elmer's so-called optical lithography technology, used
to produce semiconductors. Nikon's move drew fire from U.S.
semiconductor companies because of fears that U.S. makers of
chip-production equipment are dying off or are being bought
up by their overseas competition, especially the Japanese.
That could mean U.S. semiconductor makers would wind up
buying equipment from their overseas competitors, worsening
the U.S. industry's already precarious position. While
industry executives have said the likelihood of a sale of the
Perkin-Elmer business to the Japanese was overstated, they
said the concerns are legitimate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday's announcement illustrates the sorts of joint
efforts that U.S. companies apparently are prepared to enter
into in coming years as they try to keep the U.S.
semiconductor-equipment business alive.
   Silicon Valley Group Inc., a small company based in San
Jose, Calif., bought a two-thirds interest in the business,
which Perkin-Elmer has been trying to sell for more than a
year. International Business Machines Corp. will also have an
equity interest in the business, which will be renamed SVG
Lithography Systems Inc. Perkin-Elmer, Norwalk, Conn., will
retain slightly less than a 20% stake. The value of the
transaction was not disclosed.
   IBM, Armonk, N.Y., has promised to invest heavily in the
business's research and development in return for early
access to the results. Sematech, a group of U.S. companies
and the government, has also entered into a joint development
agreement with SVG.
   In addition, IBM has pledged to buy a substantial amount
of the equipment, which uses the optical-lithography
techniques.
   Some semiconductor makers have reservations about the
technology. While it is useful for making larger chips, they
say, it is more expensive and less efficient than other
systems for almost all types of chips now in use.
   Jack Kuehler, president of IBM, believes the Perkin-Elmer
optical-lithography technology will become very important in
the next generation of semiconductors. He said the devices,
called Micrascans, can use ultraviolet light, with its short
wavelengths, to etch extremely thin lines on silicon wafers.
Mr. Kuehler said the Micrascans can also expose larger
segments of a wafer at one time than can systems now in wide
use, allowing for the production of larger chips and for
faster production of chips.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Executive
   Cash Outflow
   Is $1.33 Billion
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- First Executive Corp. said it paid more
than $1.33 billion in the first quarter to holders
surrendering insurance policies and annuities, creating a
vast cash outflow for the insurance holding company.
   However, company officials said the tide of policy
surrenders slowed markedly this month and in April. The
officials added that company reserves of cash and short-term
securities totaled $2.4 billion as of March 31, enough "to
meet any foreseeable policyholder obligations in a timely
manner."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A bulge in policy surrenders had been expected at First
Executive, whose $859 million fourth-quarter write-down of
junk bonds stirred policyholder concerns about its financial
health. But the latest figure is more than twice the $559
million of payments for surrendered policies earlier reported
for January and February. The sharp difference suggests that
requests for surrenders didn't necessarily rise in March, but
that payments resulting from earlier requests swelled at the
end of the quarter.
   The disclosure of surrender volume was made in a
Securities and Exchange Commission filing with the company's
first-quarter results.
   The company earned $45.4 million, or 32 cents a share,
compared with a net loss of $44.1 million, or 52 cents a
share, a year earlier. The year-earlier result included a
$112 million pretax write-down of First Executive's
investment in its insurance unit, which was partially offset
by a one-time gain of $55.8 million for an accounting change.
Revenue climbed 24% to $554.5 million from $448.1 million.
   First Executive said that, given its financial condition
and outlook, its board "will periodically review the
continued advisability of paying preferred stock dividends."
In the first quarter, First Executive paid $10.8 million in
dividends to holders of three classes of preferred stock.
   As previously reported, First Executive has hired First
Boston Corp. to explore a financial restructuring that could
include the sale of one or more of its operating units. Among
other things, the company said in its filing, it had been
considering a sale of more common stock. That proposal was
opposed by a major shareholder, First Executive said, without
naming the holder.
   The company's quarterly report was filed after the market
close. First Executive stock closed at $2.875, unchanged, in
national over-the-counter trading.
   Details in the SEC filing show that First Executive
continued a major reworking of its investment portfolio,
selling long-term securities and stocks and maximizing
liquidity. The company said it sold about $1.58 billion net
amount of securities in the latest quarter, including $1.33
billion of bonds and preferred stock and $232 million of
equities.
   First Executive's remaining investments include bonds with
a book value of $11.59 billion but a market value of about
$1.57 billion lower and equities with a cost of $603.7
million and a market value of $605.5 million.
   First Executive warned that, should surrenders resume at
first-quarter levels, it could be compelled to sell
securities and realize further capital losses.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   FIRST EXECUTIVE Corp. intended to seek approval of an
increase in its authorized capital stock at its annual
meeting later this year. The plan met with objections from a
major shareholder. Wednesday's edition incorrectly said the
company had been considering a sale of common stock.
   (WSJ May 18, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Castle &amp; Cooke Inc.:
   Spinoff of Dole Food Unit
   Gets Delayed Indefinitely
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CKE
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Castle &amp; Cooke Inc., Los Angeles, said that its planned
spinoff of its Dole Food Co. unit has been delayed
indefinitely because of financing concerns and uncertainty
over the tax treatment of the transaction.
   The spinoff to shareholders is intended to split Castle &amp;
Cooke into two separate companies, one containing the Dole
operations and the other, Castle &amp; Cooke's smaller
real-estate development operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Castle &amp; Cooke proposed the spinoff in February, it
said the transaction would be completed by the end of next
month, subject to various approvals, including an Internal
Revenue Service ruling that the transaction would be tax-free
to the company and to its shareholders.
   "The revenue ruling has not yet been received and very
recently there has been a substantial tightening of credit
available for companies in the real-estate industry," Castle
&amp; Cooke said.
   The company said its board decided against proceeding with
the transaction as long as "acceptable bank financing" isn't
available to the independent real-estate development company
that would be created.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Warnaco Managers
   Lead the Acquisition
   Of Activewear Lines
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WRC U.PTL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Warnaco Inc. said a management group bought
out 95% of the apparel company's Activewear division, which
includes the Speedo swimwear line, for $85 million plus
assumption of about $5 million of debt.
   The move marks the first major asset sale for Warnaco,
which was taken private in a leveraged buy-out in 1986, said
Linda J. Wachner, the parent's president and chief executive
officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The $18 million gain on the sale ensures that for 1990,
Warnaco will post its first full-year profit, Ms. Wachner
said, adding that the parent also expects to operate
profitably for the rest of 1990.
   The 44-year-old Ms. Wachner also becomes chairman and
chief executive officer of the new company, which is expected
to be named Speedo/Activewear Inc. and based in Van Nuys,
Calif.
   Also taking an equity stake as part of the investor group
is a subsidiary of Pentland Group PLC of London. Warnaco will
retain 5% of the new company.
   The Activewear unit accounted for $85 million, or 13%, of
Warnaco's $650 million of sales in 1989.
   For 1989, the company posted a $20 million loss,
reflecting $13 million of noncash write-offs of certain
apparel lines and amortization of $20 million of intangible
assets.
   The company is current on interest payments and in
November will begin paying down about $390 million in
subordinated debt from the original leveraged buy-out, Ms.
Wachner said.
   In 1989, Warnaco reduced bank debt to $94 million from
$133 million; bank debt now sits at about $50 million, Ms.
Wachner said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Facing Raiders, Kroger Took Another Path
   ----
   By Susan C. Faludi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- "Kroger Is Gone, Analysts Predict," was the
dire headline in the Cincinnati Post. Hostile bidders, the
Hafts and KKR, had descended on the nation's second largest
grocery chain.
   When the September 1988 story came out, "people were
crying in the hall," says Joseph Pichler, Kroger's president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "`Make this go away,' they told me. I said, `I wish I
could.'"
   He did. Faced with much the same threat to its
independence as rival Safeway faced two years earlier, Kroger
chose a very different path. Instead of going private in a
KKR-led LBO, Kroger officials countered by offering
shareholders a hefty dividend and employees a significant
ownership stake in what remains a public company.
   While Kroger had to take on $4.1 billion in debt and it
had to cut costs, it sold far fewer assets than Safeway did
and reduced its work force by about 3%, while Safeway reduced
its by about a third. Yet today Kroger has about the same
operating-profit per employee as Safeway.
   In some ways, Kroger's story undermines two LBO articles
of faith: That a company under attack from raiders has to go
private to ward them off, and that, after an LBO, labor
forces have to be cut severely to support the resulting
interest burden.
   This isn't to suggest, however, that an LBO can't be
structured to share ownership more broadly or to cut costs in
a less severe manner than Safeway, or that recapitalizations
are panaceas. Harcourt Brace Jovanovich plunged into crisis
after its recapitalization when it couldn't sell assets for
enough cash to pay down its huge debt.
   But the recap seems to have worked so far for Kroger. "We
kept asking ourselves the question, if it's so good for an
outside group of investors to come in, leverage up a company,
peel off underperforming assets, pay down debt and walk off
with the equity themselves, why shouldn't it be equally good
for our existing shareholders to benefit from exactly the
same transaction?" Mr. Pichler recalls.
   Safeway says it looked at the same question two years
earlier but chose to do an LBO because it would free the
company from having to please shareholders with short-term
profits and from future takeover threats. Certain tax breaks
since rescinded also made the LBO option more attractive in
1986 than in later years.
   For Kroger, the call to action came when the Hafts offered
$55-a-share for a "business combination." Then KKR made an
unsolicited bid -- despite its reputation as a "white knight"
-- to buy out the company for $58.50 a share. When Kroger
turned a cold shoulder, KKR upped its offer to $64.
   Kroger quickly unfurled its plan: Shareholders would get a
$40 a share cash dividend, plus an $8 junior subordinated
debenture and a remaining interest in the company, called
stub stock. The package was valued by Kroger at $57 to $61 a
share. The recap plan also liberalized stock options so that
all employees, rather than a thin slice at the top, could
increase their ownership: Employees could go from owning 6%
to more than 25% of Kroger's shares; corporate officers'
ownership, on the other hand, could rise only from 1% to 3%.
   The recap lagged by at least 5% to 10% behind KKR's $64
final bid. Even so, the board approved the recap on September
23 and the company remained public. Investors and employees
reacted favorably to the offer. The value of the stub stock
initially more than doubled but has since slipped to $14,
still well above the initial offering price of $9.13. And
Kroger workers took ample advantage of the new stock options.
By 1990, Kroger increased employee ownership even more, to
35%.
   The recap yielded them tens of millions of dollars for
senior managers. Lyle Everingham, the chairman, got an
estimated $10.5 million in cash and another $2.3 million in
debentures. Mr. Pichler got $3.5 million in cash and $763,000
in debentures. And Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., made $25 million for
advising Kroger.
   In the aftermath, Kroger too was faced with a
multi-billion-dollar debt. It laid off 314 people from
headquarters, and with the subsequent asset sales, purged
more than 4,000 employees from the payroll.
   But the Kroger severance package was more generous than
Safeway's. Fired employees received a month's salary for
every year of service to a maximum of nine months, compared
with a maximum of eight weeks salary at Safeway. They also
got medical benefits for one year, while Safeway employees
lost their benefits in as little as two weeks.
   Kroger's generosity shouldn't be overstated, though:
Kroger cut costs by cutting average hourly salaries of $8.12
(or $11.39 with fringe benefits) in 1985 to $7.07 (or $9.84
with benefits) in 1989. Kroger, like Safeway, saved money by
paying its specialty department workers a lower rate. And
Kroger has also negotiated two-tier pay scales and raised
eligibility requirements for medical benefits.
   In selling assets, Kroger sold less-prized properties and
a total of 100 stores, only 10% of its operations. Safeway,
on the other hand, sold 1,100 of its 2,325 stores. Kroger
also turned to employees who generated thousands of
cost-saving steps.
   Like Safeway, Kroger has adopted an incentive bonus plan,
but it appears to be more democratic than its Oakland
rival's. Kroger's new bonus system extends to secretaries and
the plan adjusts for factors beyond employees' control-such
as working in a store in a high-crime neighborhood.
   "We're fairly excited about Kroger's bonus plan," says Ed
Hardy, a national negotiator for the United Food and
Commercial Workers Union. "It's more of a gain-sharing plan
than a bonus based on profits."
   While Kroger has improved its profit-sharing plan, Safeway
stopped contributing to its plan in 1987. At the same time,
Safeway also tried unsuccessfully to raid surplus funds in
its employee retirement account, which provides retirees with
an average pension of less than $400 a month. Retirees
retained counsel to halt the raid, and Robert Van Gemert,
retired Safeway general counsel, did some research and
discovered that the original Safeway pension charter in fact
grants the surplus to the retirees.
   So far, Kroger seems to be faring competitively at least
as well as Safeway. In fiscal year 1989, its first year after
restructuring, Kroger's cash flow rose 22% -- better than the
16% gain the company originally forecast at the time it
restructured. Kroger, like Safeway, hasn't raised prices-and
in some markets has lowered them. And Kroger, like Safeway,
managed to refinance its bank-credit agreement and lower
interest expenses.
   But Kroger also now supports 60,000 more workers than
Safeway, while maintaining a similar operating profit as a
percentage of sales.
   Kroger also has increased its charitable cash
contributions since the recap to $3.6 million last year from
$2.1 million in 1987, while Safeway trimmed its corporate
cash giving to $2.7 million last year from $3.2 million in
1986.
   Thanks to the massive debt, Kroger operated at a net loss
of $72.7 million in 1989; Safeway's net loss was $488 million
its first year after the buy-out. (The two chains are fairly
comparable in number of stores and in sales.) By the first
quarter of 1990, Kroger's net loss had shrunk to $10 million,
a 46% improvement from the same period a year earlier. And
analysts are estimating earnings for next year.
   "Kroger is an extremely strong company today, with very
strong cash flow and very strong markets," says Debra Levin,
a retail analyst who follows Kroger for Salomon Brothers. "If
they had been taken over (in an LBO), they might not look all
that different from the way they look today, but I don't know
that they would have gotten that same motivation level from
their employees."
   (See related story: The Reckoning: Safeway LBO Yields Vast
Profits but Exacts A Heavy Human Toll The '80s-Style Buy-Out
Left Some Employees Jobless, Stress-Ridden, Distraught Owner
KKR Hails Efficiency -- WSJ May 16, 1990)
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   KROGER Co. doesn't have as high an operating profit per
employee as Safeway Stores Inc. The comparison was misstated
in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ May 17, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BALTIC UNREST FLARED as Baker arrived in Moscow for
arms-control talks.
   Soviet loyalists converged on the Parliament in Estonia
and briefly raised the hammer-and-sickle flag. The breakaway
republic's premier broadcast an appeal to stave off a "coup
attempt." In Latvia, anti-independence demonstrators clashed
with a group supporting a secession bid. It was the first
glimpse of political violence in the Baltic republics, and
came as the U.S. secretary of state began a four-day visit to
Moscow aimed at concluding superpower arms agreements for
signing at the Bush-Gorbachev summit, which begins May 30 in
Washington.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gorbachev will visit Minneapolis and San Francisco after
talks with Bush to meet with business executives,
agricultural leaders and ex-President Reagan.
   ---
   A PRESIDENTIAL PANEL URGED drastic action against air
terrorism.
   In a 182-page report, the commission appointed to look
into the December 1988 bombing of a Pan Am flight over
Scotland called for the U.S. to mount military strikes
against terrorist enclaves to discourage the kind of attack
that killed 270 people. The panel, concluding that the
Lockerbie incident "may well have been preventable," called
for the reorganization of aviation-security procedures,
citing lapses by the airline and the FAA.
   The head of an organization representing the families of
British victims of the bombing expressed opposition to the
panel's call for military retaliation.
   ---
   West Germany plans a $70.02 billion special unity fund
financed by credits to help pay for the reconstruction of
East Germany's economy through 1994. Establishment of the
financing vehicle for German reunification depended on the
willingness of 11 state governments to commit to a 50% share
of the fund.
   ---
   Striking Nicaraguan workers defied Managua's call to
return to work and riot police clashed with pro-Sandinista
government employees occupying two ministries. Thousands of
people joined the walkout for higher pay. In Washington, the
White House was considering a request from Chamorro for a $40
million short-term loan.
   ---
   Rehnquist criticized proposals by senators on changing the
law on appeals to federal courts by state death-row
prisoners. Addressing the American Law Institute in
Washington, the chief justice said there is a "serious
malfunction" in the capital-punishment system, leading to
uncertainty and endless delays.
   ---
   Van Gogh's "Portrait of Dr. Gachet" sold for $82.5 million
at Christie's auction house in New York, a world record price
for a work of art. The oil-on-canvas painting of the artist's
physician and friend, completed a few weeks before van Gogh's
suicide, reportedly was bought by a gallery in Tokyo.
   ---
   Philippine Communist rebels claimed responsibility for the
weekend slaying of two U.S. airmen. Manila's government,
meanwhile, in a procedural step that paves the way for a
possible new accord, served official notice to terminate in
1991 the current 25-year pact over six U.S. military bases in
the Philippines.
   ---
   The Justice Department said about 90 of the roughly 680
U.S. bank accounts that were frozen at its behest last month
are still thought to contain illegal Colombian drug profits.
The other 590 accounts have been "unfrozen" as prosecutors
have discovered they were either empty or contained
legitimate assets.
   ---
   Washington's Mayor Barry pleaded innocent to six new drug
charges alleging he used cocaine over a five-year period. The
charges were brought last week. He previously pleaded
innocent to charges brought in February of cocaine-possession
and lying to a grand jury. A trial is set for June 4.
   ---
   Serbian Borisav Jovic took over as head of Yugoslavia's
collective presidency, a change that could exacerbate
political and ethnic tensions. The 62-year-old Communist
hard-liner said the nation was close to civil war, and that
Belgrade would "resolutely oppose" any move to abandon
socialism.
   ---
   Israel's legislature opened debate on bills calling for
the direct election of the prime minister, part of electoral
changes demanded during recent protests. Separately, police
fired tear gas at Jewish settlers who rampaged through Arab
neighborhoods in the Jerusalem area, and Palestinians in the
occupied lands staged a general strike.
   ---
   Rival Christian forces ignored a ceasefire call by
Lebanon's Maronite Catholic leaders and dueled with artillery
in eastern Beirut and the surrounding countryside. Moslem
factions fought street battles in western Beirut. Lebanese
police said at least 24 people were killed in the fighting.
   ---
   Nepal's King Birendra agreed to share power with an
interim government led by Prime Minister Bhattarai. In a
statement issued in Katmandu, the monarch also said he would
dissolve a constitutional committee that had threatened the
Himalayan country's recent steps toward democracy.
   ---
   Iraq denied that it was trying to build a giant gun
capable of firing shells hundreds of miles, and demanded that
Italy compensate Baghdad for about 90 tons of steel parts
seized in Naples last week. Britain, West Germany, Greece and
Turkey also have confiscated Iraqi-bound gear in recent
weeks.
   ---
   Police in Atlanta arrested five anti-abortion protesters
belonging to the group Operation Rescue after they entered an
abortion clinic and chained themselves together in defiance
of a court order barring such demonstrations. The Georgia
injunction was upheld Monday by the U.S. Supreme Court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE BUDGET DEFICIT is now expected to reach $128 billion
to $140 billion for fiscal 1991, even if the cost of the
thrift bailout is excluded, the White House said. The latest
forecast, which came as Bush opened deficit talks with
congressional leaders, suggests negotiators need to find up
to $66 billion to avoid automatic spending cuts under
Gramm-Rudman.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Circle K filed for Chapter 11 protection after failing to
get creditor agreement on a debt restructuring. The nation's
No. 2 convenience store chain said it is trying to get vendor
cooperation to keep stores stocked.
   ---
   A key bank-regulatory policy was struck down by a federal
appeals court, which said the Fed doesn't have the power to
force bank holding companies to help ailing units. The case
involved Dallas-based MCorp.
   ---
   First Executive said it paid over $1.33 billion in the
first quarter to holders surrending insurance policies and
annuities, creating a vast cash outflow for the Los
Angeles-based insurance holding company. But officials said
the pace of policy surrenders slowed sharply this quarter.
   ---
   The Justice Department is pushing a bill to expand
prosecutors' ability to freeze assets of defendants in fraud
cases before trial and permanently seize their assets after
conviction.
   ---
   Manville's trust fund for asbestos victims came under fire
as two judges ordered the trust to account for a huge
shortfall in funds. The judges also indicated they may order
the fund to pay damages more quickly.
   ---
   Perkin-Elmer sold to a U.S. group a
semiconductor-equipment unit that was the focus of concerns
about Japanese inroads in the chip market.
   ---
   Blue-chip stocks edged higher, pushing the the Dow Jones
industrials up 0.92, to a record 2822.45. But the broader
market declined due to profittaking. Bonds fell modestly,
while the dollar was mixed.
   ---
   Former law partners of the defunct firm of Finley Kumble
can be sued by a bankruptcy trustee over debt payments, a
judge ruled.
   ---
   Industrial output fell 0.4% in April, reflecting a sharp
drop in the auto industry and declines in most other sectors.
Factories, utilities and mines operated at 83% of capacity,
off from 83.5% in March. The reports were a further sign the
economy is weak.
                                                                                                       

   Car and truck sales fell 8.4% in early May, damping hopes
the industry's year-long slump will end soon. Many dealers
have cut new-car orders amid uncertainty that sales will
start to rebound anytime soon.
   ---
   Manufacturers Hanover's head of investment banking,
Douglas Ebert, resigned after failing to win the top spot in
a newly combined commercial and investment banking unit.
   ---
   Nobel Industries agreed to acquire Spectra-Physics, a
major U.S. producer of lasers, from Ciba-Geigy for an
estimated $325 million.
   ---
   Corn futures prices declined on unfounded rumors about a
worsening political upheaval in the Soviet Union, a major
grain buyer, and broad selling by commodity fund managers.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 165,730,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2822.45, up 0.92; transportation 1177.10, off 3.55; utilities
217.24, up 0.12.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3347.40, off
8.75.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.19, off 0.32;
spot index 134.95, off 0.47.
   Dollar: 150.80 yen, off 1.67; 1.6465 marks, up 0.0040.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Circle K Corp.
   Asks Protection
   Of Chapter II
   ---
   Move Follows the Refusal
   Of Creditors to Agree
   To Junk Restructuring
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CKP
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Circle K Corp., the nation's second-largest convenience
store chain, filed for bankruptcy court protection last night
after failing to get creditors to agree to a restructuring of
its $1.1 billion in high-yield, below-investment-grade "junk"
debt.
   Circle K President Robert A. Dearth Jr. told Circle K
employees that management will continue to run the chain,
based in Phoenix, Ariz., and that it is contacting key
vendors, seeking their cooperation to keep stores stocked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The filing under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code
marks the end of a hard-fought battle by William Franke and
other outside directors to win lender approval of a plan to
avoid a bankruptcy-law filing. The efforts were supported by
Circle K's largest shareholder, the Cincinnati investor Carl
Lindner, whose American Financial Corp. holds 38% of the
stock and is a large Circle K creditor. The moves were aimed
at gaining enough time to sell assets, generate cash, and
design a new competitive plan.
   Indeed, the company last month averted a default on its
debt by signing a preliminary accord with senior creditors
and Mr. Lindner that provided a seven-month moratorium on
debt and interest payments. And earlier this month, Circle
K's widely criticized chairman, Karl Eller, resigned.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Linguistic Lazarus:
   Cornish Language Is
   Back From the Dead
   ---
   Spelling of Long-Lost Words
   Inflames Local Passions;
   When `Unified' Just Isn't
   ----
   By Glynn Mapes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   A man who has lost his tongue has lost his land.
   -- 18th-century Cornish proverb
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   MOUSEHOLE, England -- She has been dead for over two
hundred years, but Dolly Pentreath, a combative fishwife from
this tiny village in Cornwall, is still something of a
heroine around here.
   Dolly was the last native speaker of Cornish, a
once-thriving Celtic language that died when she did, in
1777. In her last days, sought out by an English antiquarian,
she gave vent to a few well-chosen words of Cornish that the
historian later deciphered as "I will not speak English . . .
you ugly black toad]"
   Like Dolly Pentreath, the Cornish people today are a
fiercely proud and stubborn lot. Which helps to explain two
developments in this remote, starkly beautiful corner of
southwest England: The Cornish -- against all odds -- have
brought their language back from the dead. And they are
fighting with one another about it tooth and nail.
   That there's anything to fight about is something of a
linguistic miracle. Only one other lost tongue has been
successfully revived to everyday use -- Hebrew -- and it had
the full weight of the state of Israel behind it. Cornish
isn't in the same league. Though the numbers are growing each
year, only a few thousand have studied Cornish, of whom maybe
150 are completely fluent.
   But the small number of speakers hasn't prevented a
brouhaha, complete with hate mail and even a death threat.
"What a glorious mess]" exclaims David Green, who is covering
the dispute for a local newspaper. "The whole county is
involved in an enormous row over an obscure language that
hardly anyone can speak." Readers of Mr. Green's newspaper,
the Western Morning News, have vented their outrage in
letters to the editor. A sampling: "this load of codswallop,"
"a tragic schism" and "utter rubbish]"
   What's at the bottom of all this?
   Spelling.
   It seems there are now at least two spelling systems for
the revived Cornish language. The old way, called "unified"
Cornish, was developed by native Cornish scholars who started
the revival in the 1920s. It is based on how the language was
spelled in medieval literature and draws from the many
Cornish words that oldtimers from West Cornwall mixed into
their English conversation and from the huge numbers of
Cornish place names that still exist.
   Then, about four years ago, a new spelling system called
"phonemic" Cornish started gaining adherents. Based on a
linguist's 1984 doctoral thesis, it attempts to simplify the
sometimes-illogical spelling of unified Cornish, in hopes of
making it easier to learn. For example, phonemic Cornish
abandons the letter "c," substituting "k" and "s" for hard
and soft consonant sounds, it introduces double consonants
for stressed syllables, and it makes clear distinctions
between "y" and "i" sounds. After a power struggle, the
phonemic camp, some of whom are not nativeborn Cornish,
gained control of the language's governing body, the Cornish
Language Board.
   The dispute remained in the ivory tower until January,
when it emerged with a vengeance. John King, a member of the
Cornish Language Board and of the town council of Camborne,
persuaded the highway authorities to erect a road sign
reading "Welcome to Camborne" and, in phonemic Cornish,
"Kammbronn a'gas dynnergh."
   Born in London, Mr. King is an ardent Cornish speaker who
teaches the language in a local school. But he didn't reckon
with the sensitivities of those long used to the
unified-Cornish spelling of "Cambron," the old name still
widely known. Irate phone calls and mail poured in to him and
to the press. He was called an Englishman -- an insult
hereabouts -- and accused of making a laughingstock of the
language and of giving the town a German name. One letter
writer, he says, threatened to kill him.
   "It's a terribly racist view of what Cornishness is all
about," Mr. King declares. "Proponents of unified Cornish are
identified with blood Cornishmen. I've lived in Cornwall for
20 years, yet I'll always be seen as an outsider."
   There are overtones here of the nationalist fervor that
swept Wales and Scotland in the 1970s, though Cornwall has
avoided the violence that plagued those regions. "Those who
want to steal our language think they know better than the
people born here," says Len Truran, a proponent of unified
Cornish whose small publishing house puts out textbooks,
poetry and novels in Cornish. Adds James Whetter, head of the
Cornish Nationalist Party. "If we don't hang on to our land
and language, Cornwall could sink into London suburbia by the
sea."
   Cornishmen's distrust of outsiders goes back a long way,
to the fifth and sixth centuries. Their Celtic ancestors, who
occupied most of southern Britain and spoke a language called
Brythonic, were steadily driven westward by tribes of
Germanic invaders, the Angles and the Saxons, ending up in
Cornwall and Wales and splitting the language into Cornish
and Welsh. A third group of Celts fled to Brittany on the
continent; some 300,000 people there still speak a language
very similar to Cornish called Bretton.
   Among more-recent invaders of Cornwall are
upper-middle-class Britons seeking country homes away from
the hurlyburly of London and its environs. Their arrival has
pushed real-estate prices beyond the reach of many born and
raised here.
   Crowds are drawn to Cornwall by the land's haunting
loneliness. With the sea on three sides, it is almost severed
from the rest of Britain by the River Tamar.
   In the mid-19th century some 50,000 miners hauled tin out
of deep shafts around the county, continuing a tradition of
underground work going back to the Bronze Age. That industry
is nearly all gone now, leaving Cornwall one of the poorest
counties in England. Like the ruins of some lost
civilization, the remains of rough-stone pumphouses and
smelter chimneys dot the windswept moors and perch on sea
cliffs.
   Only a few decades ago, the language lay in ruins, too.
Now, proponents run evening classes and correspondence
courses, and speak Cornish at regular get-togethers in homes
and pubs. A number of state and parochial schools teach the
language, and a state-administered exam for secondary-school
students is graded in both the unified and phonemic systems.
There are church services in Cornish as well as summer camps
and play-groups for children. Banks here even accept checks
written in Cornish, though often grudgingly.
   Nonetheless, there's worry that the spelling dispute may
slow, or even kill, the language's comeback. "Cornish can't
afford an academic debate right now," says Diarmaid
Breathnach, administrator of the European Bureau of Lesser
Used Languages, a European Community agency in Dublin that
provides financial support for some 30 small, indigenous
tongues like Cornish. "Our reaction is, my God, your language
is in enough danger without splitting it apart yourselves."
   Such worries seem far away from a recent Sunday afternoon
get-together of Cornish-speaking families near the town of
Liskeard. As their parents chat in the backyard, the children
play cricket in an adjoining sheep meadow, shouting happily
in Cornish. All of the eight or so youngsters are being
raised bilingually and seem at home in both tongues.
Eleven-year-old Lowena Sandercock says she would much rather
speak Cornish than English to her blond friend Tristan
Jenkin, age 20 months. Tristan's first word was "tikkidiw,"
Cornish for butterfly. (Pronounced TICKee-doo, its literal
meaning is "beautiful little thing of God.")
   Tristan is a third-generation Cornish speaker, one of the
few in Cornwall. His grandfather, Richard Jenkin, was
instrumental in the language's rebirth and remains a vocal
advocate of unified Cornish. But Tristan's mother, Loveday
Jenkin, is on the opposite side of the fence: She's a teacher
of phonemic Cornish.
   Richard Jenkin, who says he tries to avoid heated
arguments with his daughter, isn't optimistic that the
language battle will be resolved soon. "It's a sad thing
that's dividing friends from friends," he says. "I can't see
either side giving up its beliefs."
   Loveday Jenkin takes a broader view. "It's largely an
academic problem, irrelevant to the many people who just want
to learn to speak," she says. "If the Cornish people are
arguing about it, it's proof the language is alive and
thriving."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Fleet/Norstar Financial Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FNG
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   FLEET/NORSTAR FINANCIAL GROUP Inc. sold $150 million of
9.95% notes at par. The notes will mature on May 15, 1993.
The Providence, R.I.-based financial-services company said it
will use the proceeds for general corporate purposes. The
issue was co-managed by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and
Salomon Brothers Inc. The notes were issued as a portion of a
$1 billion shelf registration made with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in 1988. Following the current offering,
about $234 million of debt securities will remain in
registration, Fleet said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Ratings Fall
   Spurs Shifts
   At `Today'
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- NBC News, hoping to reclaim viewers who have
turned away from the "Today" show in droves, said that it is
adding a third host and that the program's senior executive
is stepping aside.
   The show, which had long held the No. 1 spot in the
morning ratings race, has been in turmoil since co-anchor
Jane Pauley left in January. She was succeeded by Deborah
Norville, and the show's ratings have fallen steadily since
then. They are now 18% below year-ago levels, according to
the A.C. Nielsen Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a move that has never been tried by the other networks,
and which NBC experimented with briefly but abandoned more
than five years ago, the General Electric Co. unit will put a
third anchor on the broadcast alongside Ms. Norville and
Bryant Gumbel. For that slot, the network is bringing back
one of the program's stars from its golden years --
sportscaster Joe Garagiola.
   At the same time, NBC News Senior Vice President Dick
Ebersol, who is also president of NBC Sports, said he is
leaving his post as senior executive in charge of the "Today"
show. Mr. Ebersol engineered the removal of Ms. Pauley and
the promotion of Ms. Norville, who had been a news reader on
"Today." He will continue to work on program development for
the news division.
   One senior NBC official said the network hopes Mr.
Garagiola, 64 years old, will add a "mature presence" to the
program and balance the relative youthfulness of Ms.
Norville. Ironically, the network initially wanted to add Ms.
Norville, 32, because of concern that the broadcast needed a
younger image. Ms. Pauley is 39.
   The moves come two weeks before NBC is scheduled to meet
with its affiliates -- a meeting that is expected to be an
unusually contentious one between the No. 1 rated network and
the 200-plus stations affiliated with it. The NBC stations,
according to interviews with general managers, are furious
that the ratings for "Today" have plummeted since Ms.
Norville succeeded Ms. Pauley.
   The show's ratings slide translates into millions of lost
advertising dollars for the network and the stations. Last
week in New York, for instance, "Today" finished last in the
ratings, not only behind its competition from the two
broadcast networks, but also behind cartoons on independent
stations and a news/talk show on News Corp.'s Fox
Broadcasting Co.'s station.
   At a meeting of NBC News personnel in Princeton, N.J., in
April, NBC News President Michael Gartner acknowledged that
there had been discussions about removing Ms. Norville,
according to people who were at the session. Mr. Gartner
didn't return calls seeking comment. Ms. Norville's agent at
William Morris Agency Inc., Jim Griffin, also declined to
comment.
   In an interview, Mr. Ebersol, who was brought to NBC News
last July, said he had been contemplating leaving "Today" for
the past month. "I felt strongly that in order to stop the
soap opera, I had to be one who stepped forward and took
responsibility for the events of last fall," he said. "It's
clear from research that the viewers are mad at us."
   The decision to add Mr. Garagiola, who hosted "Today" from
1969 to 1973, was discussed a month ago by Mr. Ebersol, Mr.
Gartner and "Today" executive producer Tom Capra, according
to people familiar with the discussions. Mr. Ebersol declined
to comment and Mr. Capra couldn't be reached. Mr. Ebersol
said he hoped the move would give Ms. Norville, whom he
described as a "talented journalist" a chance to grow in the
role.
   Mr. Garagiola said he was "thrilled" to be back at the
show. "Those were the happiest days I ever had on TV," he
said. "I'm just glad they thought of me. I feel like the
manager has put me in the lineup."
   Both Mr. Gumbel and Ms. Norville have high negative rating
among viewers, according to research by rival CBS Inc. NBC
News hopes to balance the two with Mr. Garagiola.
   At NBC News, Mr. Ebersol will serve on a new committee for
program development and be in charge of all news coverage
from the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. NBC has broadcast
rights for the Summer Olympics.
   Also added to "Today" were Faith Daniels, co-anchor of
"CBS Morning News," who will be news reader. Katie Couric, an
NBC News correspondent, will be national correspondent for
"Today," based in Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Canada Expects
   Fewer Vehicle Sales,
   Cites Slow Economies
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   F FC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKVILLE, Ontario -- Ford Motor Co. of Canada said it
expects to report Canadian car and truck sales of 1,390,000
vehicles in the 12 months ending March 31, 1991, down about
6% from calendar 1989.
   Ford Canada said it expects Canadawide car sales of
920,000 in the 12 months and truck sales of 470,000. It said
its target for the period is to have 20% of the car market
and 30% of the truck market. The company attributed the
decline in sales to slowdowns in the Canadian and U.S.
economies and high interest rates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kenneth W. Harrigan, president and chief executive officer
of Ford Canada, added that Canada's proposed goods and
services tax, to take effect Jan. 1, would result in
"abnormally lower volumes" in the fourth quarter of this
year, which is why the sales estimate was made for the year
ending March 1991.
   "But what we lose in the fourth quarter of this year we
will gain in the first quarter of next year," he said.
   The company also said it intends to build a new paint
facility here, pending final approval of funding by the
boards of Ford Canada and Ford Motor Co., which holds 94% of
the Canadian company. The company said the facility would
paint the Ford Tempo and Mercury Topaz models that are
produced at the Oakville plant.
   Ford Canada said such a plant "would represent the largest
amount spent on a single project in our 86-year history." A
company spokesman said the facility would cost approximately
C$500 million (US$424.8 million).
   Preliminary work on the plant has begun and the project
would be completed in May 1992, the company said.
   The proposed 7% consumption levy is designed to replace
the current 13.5% manufacturers sales tax. Consumers are
expected to put off purchases of manufactured items until the
new year when they can take advantage of the saving.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cineplex Odeon Posts
   Loss of $11.9 Million
   For Its First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Losses at Cineplex Odeon Corp. continued in the
first quarter of 1990, with the beleagured movie theater
chain reporting a net loss of $11.9 million, or 25 cents a
share, on revenue of $139.7 million.
   In the first quarter of 1989, Cineplex reported net income
of $10.7 million, or 23 cents a share, on revenue of $128.5
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While the loss narrowed from Cineplex's fourth-quarter
loss of 91 cents a share, analysts note that the loss from
continuing operations of $32.1 million, or 67 cents a share,
was considerably higher than the market had been expecting.
   The biggest blow to Cineplex's first-quarter results came
from a $15 million charge, a provision for estimated losses
on asset sales now under negotiation. The company said those
sales are expected to close during the second quarter. That
charge offset a $15 million gain on the sale of Cineplex's
residual interest in Universal Studios Florida.
   Lisbeth Barron, vice president of research at S.G. Warburg
&amp; Co. in New York, said that the size of Cineplex's loss
wasn't surprising.
   "It takes a while to turn around operations like this; it
can't be done quickly," she said.
   The interest payable on Cineplex's bank debt rose from
$12.2 million in the first quarter of 1989, to $14.3 million
in the first quarter of 1990, the company said, despite a
decrease in long-term debt of $46.1 million in the same
period. Cineplex said it currently has $531.9 million in
long-term debt.
   Cineplex reported an 18% increase in box office revenue
for the first quarter, compared to a U.S. industry average
gain of 2%. Allen Karp, president and chief operating officer
of Cineplex, said he is "particularly encouraged" by the
surge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Van Gogh Work
   Draws Record Sum
   Of $82.5 Million
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   U.CHR BID
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The world's record for a work of art was
shattered last night at Christie's International PLC's major
spring art auction as Vincent van Gogh's "Portrait of Dr.
Gachet," fetched $82.5 million.
   The heartbreakingly beautiful oil-on-canvas of the
troubled painter's physician and friend, which formerly hung
in the Metropolitan Museum of Art on loan from its owner, was
reportedly purchased by Kobayashi Gallery of Tokyo. It had
been expected to sell for $40 million to $50 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Christie's, the packed saleroom erupted in applause as
the fevered bidding broke $50 million, appearing to put to
rest concerns that the art boom, at least regarding the great
works, is history. However, while the sale was by-and-large
successful, with the majority of the artworks selling, the
prices fetched tended to be at or below Christie's lowest
presale estimate. The prices indicated a cooling of the
recent art market frenzy. But while bidding wasn't quite as
frantic as in recent years, it proceeded at a fast clip.
About 19% of the art works went unsold.
   The record price for the van Gogh eclipsed the previous
record for van Gogh's "Irises," which was set at Sotheby's
auction house in November 1987 and was later tainted by the
disclosure that the purchaser, Australian businessman, Alan
Bond, had never paid for it. "Irises" was later sold to the
Getty Museum in Los Angeles, for a price that wasn't
disclosed.
   The attention now turns to Sotheby's Holdings Inc.'s
auction Thursday evening. The centerpiece of the Sotheby's
auction is Pierre-Auguste Renoir's "Au Moulin de la
Gallette." It is expected to sell for $40 million to $50
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wilfred Lists Assets
   As Twice Liabilities
   In Chapter 11 Filing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WAE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Wilfred American Educational Corp., the
beauty-school operator that on Monday sought protection under
the bankruptcy laws, listed in its petition assets totaling
nearly twice liabilities before stockholder equity.
   Of the $22.7 million of assets at March 31, $15.3 million
are listed as "intercompany receivables," funds owed to
Wilfred units by other units. Wilfred's $11.9 million of
liabilities before stockholder equity include $2.5 million of
current-maturity long-term debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wilfred's largest creditor is the Philadelphia National
Bank unit of CoreStates Financial Corp., which is owed more
than $2.2 million, the petition says.
   The petition, filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan,
says the company was pinched by "certain cash-flow problems,
difficulties in obtaining adequate financing," and litigation
and disputes tied to the company's participation in federal
student-aid programs.
   Wilfred, which has been in business for more than 70
years, derives much of its revenue from reimbursements under
such aid programs. The company operates more than 20
cosmetology and business schools. Ten Wilfred subsidiaries
also filed petitions under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code.
   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Prudence Abram yesterday entered
orders allowing Wilfred to, among other things, continue to
use its bank accounts, pay pre-filing wages and expenses, and
operate and manage the schools, said William F. Gray Jr.,
attorney for Wilfred at the law firm Webster &amp; Sheffield.
   On Monday, Wilfred said that it settled a dispute with the
U.S. Education Department, agreeing to accept nearly $2.9
million for reimbursement claims that totaled nearly $8
million. Wilfred said it settled to meet its cash needs and
to avoid the expense of litigation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Defense Industry
   Figure Is Accused
   In Massive Fraud
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and Edward T. Pound
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.FNT
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Government officials alleged that defense
contractor James Guerin masterminded a scheme to create more
than $1 billion of fake weapons contracts to defraud banks,
companies and untold numbers of investors around the world.
   In documents and sworn testimony, government agents
alleged that Mr. Guerin, along with a group of associates,
used a host of phony front companies, fraudulent profit
reports and 39 bank accounts in Switzerland and the U.S. to
carry out their scheme over a 12-year period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Philadelphia federal court, Amy Zelnik, an Internal
Revenue Service agent, said Mr. Guerin "directed" the scheme
that defrauded a large British defense electronics company,
Ferranti International PLC, and forced it last year to write
off $365 million, or almost half its net worth.
   Mr. Guerin, who was profiled in a front page Wall Street
Journal story in January, hasn't been formally charged and
has denied violating any law. But he has been discussing a
plea bargain with federal prosecutors, according to people
familiar with the talks. Moreover, one of the companies he
controlled, Parent Industries Inc., agreed to plead guilty to
a federal racketeering charge and agreed to pay the
government $4.4 million. Mr. Guerin's attorney, Joseph Tate
of Philadelphia, couldn't be reached for comment.
   Mr. Guerin has been under investigation by prosecutors and
a task force of investigators for more than two years. The
court testimony and filings mark the first time that the
government laid out some of the evidence it has accumulated
againt Mr. Guerin, once a revered figure in Lancaster, Pa.
   Mr. Guerin built a backyard business, International Signal
&amp; Control, into a global conglomerate. His troubles, however,
surfaced after he sold International Signal to Ferranti in
1988 and internal auditors began questioning the legitimacy
of some of his largest contracts.
   Federal prosecutors and agents charged that Mr. Guerin and
the other alleged conspirators concocted contracts with
Pakistan, the United Arab Emirates, and various South African
customers.
   In an affidavit, a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent
alleged that Mr. Guerin and his associates hid their actions
through a maze of bank accounts and phony customers before
and after the sale to Ferranti. The affidavit indicated that
the government had obtained the cooperation of Mr. Guerin's
former chief financial officer, Robert Shireman.
   "The losses to victims of the fraud are extensive," the
FBI affidavit said. Moreover, a federal prosecutor, Robert
Goldman, said after yesterday's hearing that the evidence
presented to the court showed that stockholders of
International Signal and later Ferranti were defrauded. He
added that Ferranti, primary victim of the scheme, relied on
"fictitious" financial statements in acquiring International
Signal.
   Ferranti has filed civil suits againt Mr. Guerin and
others seeking $600 million in damages, according to the
government.
   In painting a picture of intrigue inside Mr. Guerin's
corporate empire, the government indicated that Mr. Guerin's
former general counsel, William Clark, had threatened to
disclose his superior's questionable activities. Prosecutors
went into court to block Mr. Clark's efforts to obtain a $2
million severance payment from Mr. Guerin. The government
alleged that Mr. Clark used "blackmail" to obtain the
agreement. Mr. Clark, who has previously denied acting
illegally, declined to comment.
   The government didn't provide any details on one important
facet of its inquiry: allegations that Mr. Guerin smuggled
navigational technology for fighter planes and electronics
parts to South Africa, where he began doing business in the
1970s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900516-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900516-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Florida Firm Charged
   With Misrepresenting
   Commercial as News
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Trade Commission charged a
Florida company with misrepresenting a paid television
commercial touting bee-pollen products as a consumer news
show and making unfounded claims.
   The agency said TV Inc. of Largo, Fla., and its president,
William Thompson, entered a proposed consent agreement to
settle the charges. TV Inc. produced the commercial. The
action is part of the FTC's crackdown on "infomercials," or
program-length advertisements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among other things, the proposed order would require TV
Inc. and Mr. Thompson to refrain from producing any
commercial that appears to be an independent program, and it
would require them to provide explicit notice during
commercials that run 15 minutes or longer that they are paid
advertisements.
   Mr. Thompson said the commercial was withdrawn in July
1989 after FTC lawyers indicated there was a problem with it.
"We happen to agree with what the FTC is doing," he said.
"Agencies such as ours need to be more responsible. Just
because a client says a product provides certain benefits, we
shouldn't automatically use it. We need more due-diligence."
   The proposed consent agreement also would order TV Inc. to
send each customer who bought the bee-pollen products a
letter informing them of the FTC action.
   The FTC said the 30-minute "TV Insiders" commercial, which
was carried over cable television networks and independent
stations, pitched Mountain-High bee-pollen products,
including Bee-Young tablets, Mountain-High Royal Jelly and
Pollen Energy 520 capsules.
   The agency said the false material included claims that
bee-pollen products have successfully treated allergies; that
Alpine Supreme Brand Arthritis-Strength Pain Relief is an
effective pain killer; and that eating bee pollen can't
produce an allergic reaction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
