<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0206
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0206.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stokvels Helping
   Blacks Make Gains
   In South Africa
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   SOWETO, South Africa -- To get a good look at the
economics of black South Africa, join the party at Thulane
Siza's house.
   Music tumbles out into the street. Empty bottles of beer
and soft drinks overflow in the trash can. Steaks sizzle on
the grill out back. In the kitchen, the host adjusts his bank
balance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I should collect at least 2,000 rand (about $800) today,"
says Mr. Siza, a factory worker. "First thing tomorrow, it's
all going into the bank."
   It may look like an ordinary party, but this is a stokvel,
a rotating credit union among Mr. Siza and his friends. On
this Sunday, Mr. Siza collects at least 75 rand from each of
the other 11 members of his stokvel, in addition to the
profit from the sales of drinks and food to anyone from the
neighborhood who drops by. Next week, another member will
host, and so it goes every Sunday until each member has had
his turn. Then the cycle starts again. In a good month of
work, with overtime, Mr. Siza will earn about 1,000 rand. A
good stokvel will double that.
   "It's the only way we're able to save," he says.
"Individually, with my wages, it is very difficult. But with
the help of the group it is easy." By the end of the year,
Mr. Siza hopes to have put enough away for a down payment on
a better house.
   Stokvels are a traditional means of selfhelp in the
impoverished black community: friends and neighbors banding
together to make ends meet. (Stokvel is an Afrikaans word
meaning "cattle fair," an old rural bartering system.) But in
the past few years, stokvels have become sophisticated
instruments of high finance, helping South Africa's black
majority crash the gates of First World economics, long the
exclusive domain of the privileged white minority.
   Until very recently, the country's apartheid, or racial
segregation, laws prevented blacks from owning property,
which meant they had no collateral, which in turn meant they
had little access to capital. Stokvels give them this access
and are the major financing method for everything from
washers and dryers to cars and houses. Many black
entrepreneurs use stokvel savings as the venture capital that
banks are unwilling to provide. In one stokvel, called the
High Flyers, six women, all of them nurses or teachers, save
money for an annual vacation. Last year, they jetted off to
Hong Kong.
   "We have to pull ourselves up with our own bootstraps,"
says Jabu Mabaso, the coordinator of the National Stokvel
Association. "The stokvels are our major bootstrap."
   For South African whites, who dominate the country's
business sector, the success of the stokvel system has been a
real eyeopener, illustrating the black community's economic
clout. A recent survey by a market research group estimated
that 24,000 stokvels in the major urban areas accumulate more
than 50 million rand a month. The stokvel association says
this amount is only the tip of the iceberg, considering the
legions of rural stokvels. Perm, a division of NedPerm Bank
Ltd., is the first white-owned institution to set up a
special "club account" to deal with stokvels; it has more
than 50,000 such accounts with about 100 million rand in
savings. Soon, Perm may accept club account membership as
security for loans.
   With the purchasing power of the black majority finally
pulling even with that of the white minority (by the turn of
the century, blacks are expected to possess the greatest
share of disposable income), many white businessmen view
stokvels as their source of future growth. I&amp;J Ltd., a
frozen-foods company, has in the past dealt with the black
market through wholesale agents. Now, it is thinking of
dealing directly with stokvels.
   "It's a matter of pure logic and statistics," says Tim
Goudie, I&amp;J product manager, quoting figures on purchasing
patterns and population growth, all of which favor blacks.
While handing out food samples at a recent stokvel
association fair, he whistles and shakes his head as he
thinks of the potential. "It really is a big, big market," he
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0205
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0205.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   USLife Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   USH WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   USLIFE Corp. (New York) -- Dale V. King, previously
regional sales manager at Kentucky Central Life Insurance
Co., was named to the new position of senior vice president,
field marketing, a new post at this life insurance company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0204
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0204.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S., Swedish
   Firms Get Share
   Of Japanese Job
   ---
   AT&amp;T, Motorola, Ericsson
   Picked to Help in Project
   By Nippon Telephone
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica and John J. Keller
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTT MOT T ERICY JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Corp. named the
companies selected to help it develop a digital mobile
telephone system. The inclusion of two U.S. concerns raised
U.S. hopes for greater access to Japan's multibillion-dollar
telecommunications market.
   NTT, after reviewing proposals from domestic and foreign
firms, invited American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s AT&amp;T
International Inc. unit and Motorola Inc., along with Telefon
AB L.M. Ericsson of Sweden, to join seven Japanese concerns
in developing base-station equipment and telephone sets for
the system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There was concern that NTT wasn't living up to a
procurement accord with the U.S., dating back to 1981.
However, NTT's announcement prompted U.S. officials to praise
the company for trying harder to abide by its commitment to
order equipment in a "nondiscriminatory" manner.
   "This is another signal that Japan is providing adequate
opportunities for foreign companies to participate in this
sector," said Juan Benitez, deputy assistant secretary of
commerce for science and electronics. "At the very least, I'd
welcome it."
   In Tokyo, an NTT spokesman denied that the contract
represented any change in the company's procurement policy.
NTT has been seeking foreign suppliers since the Japanese
telecommunications market was deregulated in 1985, he said.
"The policy is fair and open procurement," the spokesman
added. "We will procure from domestic and overseas companies
if they have good products and cheap products."
   NTT plans to finish the development phase of its digital
system by 1992, but the spokesman said the company doesn't
know when it will begin procurement. The spokesman said it is
possible that the foreign companies that received the
development contracts will receive procurement contracts as
well.
   The U.S. isn't likely to have more than a modest share of
the project, whose value hasn't been disclosed. However,
Allen Frischkorn, president of the Washingtonbased
Telecommunications Industry Association, predicted the
project could earn U.S. concerns substantial collateral
business as they gain experience in the hardto-crack Japanese
market.
   Some U.S. officials, however, said they want to see
further indications of a widening Japanese market. "This is
something that the Commerce Department will be looking at
very carefully as the process continues," said Michael
Farren, undersecretary of commerce for international trade.
   In December, the NTT procurement accord was renewed for
three years despite some complaints that it wasn't
stimulating enough purchases of U.S. equipment. NTT ordered
$350 million in U.S. equipment in the Japanese fiscal year
that ended in March, but this amount was equivalent to only
4% of NTT's total procurement of $8.75 billion. Mr.
Frischkorn said he hopes U.S. vendors eventually will attain
20% of NTT's procurement business.
   Japan's mobile phone market is still relatively
undeveloped, with penetration only about one-fourth that of
the U.S. and Britain, according to some studies. Analysts say
that opening up the market to more competitors, in addition
to moving to the more advanced digital technology, may help
cut prices and spread use.
   Traditionally, NTT has rarely publicly disclosed
development projects, instead quietly farming them out to
Japanese companies. But, under U.S. pressure, NTT in recent
years has been trying to demonstrate publicly it is opening
up its procurement process to foreign companies.
   The Bush administration also is encouraged by NTT's
apparent willingness to give U.S. concerns a role in
supplying future-generation equipment. "This aspect is as
significant as the money involved," said another U.S. trade
official.
   Tom L. Powers, president of AT&amp;T's Network Systems'
Cellular Systems unit, said that while the "initial contract
awards will be small, {about} $10 million over the next few
years," getting a piece of the NTT project is still an
important win. "This is the way you solve trade problems," he
said. "Not by big contracts but an accretion of hundreds and
hundreds of smaller deals such as this."
   The AT&amp;T unit has been chosen to supply radio
transmitters, receivers and amplifiers, which are used to
pass calls from one phone to another in a cellular network.
   The agreement on cellular equipment is not AT&amp;T's first in
Japan. In the past few years the company's Network Systems
Group has received orders from NTT totaling $350 million for
computerized network management systems and fiber-optic
transmission gear. It is also one of several owners of Japan
Enhanced Network Services, a data network service.
   A Washington-based Motorola spokeswoman said the company's
part in the project could involve supplying NTT with its
newest voice-coding and decoding technology. U.S. vendors
previously complained that NTT reserved such high-value
orders for its domestic suppliers.
   AT&amp;T and Motorola already are among NTT's leading U.S.
suppliers, along with International Business Machines Corp.
and Digital Equipment Corp. However, Ericsson's participation
represents an even bigger symbolic win for European
suppliers. The company said its share of NTT's order was the
biggest so far for a European telecommunications concern in
Japan. It didn't provide further details about the contract.
   Lars Ramqvist, Ericsson chief executive officer, said the
order "is of utmost strategic value since Japan was the only
large important market in the world where Ericsson isn't
present with mobile phone systems."
   Ericsson had been one of the leading suppliers of analog
cellular systems and claims a 40% global share of such
cellular systems installed to date. Some analysts had
expected that share to dwindle amid tougher competition for
new-generation digital cellular systems.
   The U.S. trade official said NTT's increasing purchases of
U.S. equipment are a direct result of trade negotiations.
"This didn't happen by itself," he said.
   In addition to nondiscrimination, the NTT procurement
accord commits the corporate giant to conduct its contract
awards in a "transparent" manner.
   ---
   Jacob M. Schlesinger in Tokyo and Stephen D. Moore in
Stockholm contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0203
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0203.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Vulcan Materials Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS VMC
</CO>
<LP>
   VULCAN MATERIALS Co. (Birmingham, Ala.) -- Robert A. Wason
IV, 38 years old, was named to the new position of senior
vice president and general counsel of this chemicals concern.
Mr. Wason had been vice president and general counsel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0202
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0202.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Turner Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TUR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TURNER Corp. (New York) -- Harold J. Parmelee, 53 years
old, president and chief executive officer of the Turner
Construction Co. subsidiary, was elected to the additional
post of president of this construction company, succeeding
Alfred T. McNeill, who remains chairman and chief executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0201
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0201.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Managers
   See Sales, Profit Rise,
   D&amp;B Survey Reports
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM FREST EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- International business leaders expect sales
and profits to rise this quarter, reversing a recent trend of
pessimism, according to Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp.'s latest
survey of 10,000 executives from 12 countries.
   The prospects were felt to be bleakest in Brazil,
Australia and England; while optimism ran highest in Italy,
Switzerland and West Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The survey, which included the U.S. and Canada, said
expectations for increases in selling prices and unemployment
were unchanged from the first quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0200
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0200.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   American Southwest Mortgage Investments Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   ASR
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN SOUTHWEST MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS Corp. said it
boosted its monthly dividend 20% to six cents a share from
five cents, payable June 15 to stock of record May 31,
marking the third time since last September that the Tucson,
Ariz., real estate investment trust has increased the payout.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0199
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0199.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Tiffany &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   TIF
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   TIFFANY &amp; Co. said it increased its quarterly dividend 40%
to seven cents a share from five cents, payable July 10 to
stock of record June 20. The New York-based retailer of fine
gifts and jewelry said the increase reflects its "world-wide
growth strategies, strong financial position and optimistic
outlook."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0198
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0198.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tricky Roll-Out:
   Rich in New Products,
   Monsanto Must Only
   Get Them on Market
   ---
   Fake Fat, Cow Hormone Pose
   Challenge for a Firm Used
   To Selling Petrochemicals
   ---
   Flap Over a New Ulcer Drug
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MTC PG MO
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Inside its massive palace of research here,
Monsanto Co. is placing a billion-dollar bet on
biotechnology. From these laboratories eventually may come
such breakthrough products as tomato plants that engender
their own insecticides, potato plants "vaccinated" against
viruses and a hormone that makes pigs yield leaner pork.
   But Monsanto is getting a rocky reception for the first
product to come out of these labs. Last month, Wisconsin's
Gov. Tommy Thompson signed into law a one-year ban on
commercial use of BGH, a bovine growth hormone that boosts
cows' milk production, after an outcry from the very market
the company had hoped to tap -- dairy farmers. Some small
farmers feared the hormone would cause an oversupply of milk,
forcing prices down.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As the brouhaha indicates, product introduction can be as
tortuous and time-consuming as product research -- a fact of
special note at Monsanto. The diversified chemicals company
spent most of the last decade stuffing its new-product
pipeline. "There has never been a time since I've been with
the company, when we've had this array of things coming,"
says Richard Mahoney, a 27-year Monsanto veteran and its
chief executive.
   The reckoning will come in the 1990s. Largely a
petrochemicals concern until a decade ago, the company is
increasingly vying in the drug and food markets, in which a
product can be destroyed by a promotional misstep or by
political or regulatory difficulties. Genetic engineering
ventures, in particular, typically spark passionate debates.
   Many believe Monsanto will manage to pull it off. Wall
Street analysts believe some of its new products could be
blockbusters. They forecast annual sales of $100 million to
$200 million for BGH, $300 million to $500 million for a new
fat substitute to be sold by Monsanto's NutraSweet Co., and
$500 million for an ulcer drug marketed by the G.D. Searle &amp;
Co. unit. Monsanto won't comment on the projections.
   But there have been some setbacks. Monsanto had expected
to be selling BGH in the U.S. by now, but sales so far are
limited to Czechoslovakia. NutraSweet is scrambling to get a
jump on some giant competitors that are about to follow it
into fake fats. And Searle, once praised by the Food and Drug
Administration for developing a life-saving ulcer drug,
recently had a spat with the agency over its advertising of
that drug, Cytotec.
   A sense of urgency pervades the company, whose mainstay
products face growing competition. Patents are running out on
its glyphosate herbicide, known as Roundup; on its aspartame
low-calorie sweetener, NutraSweet; and on an
anti-hypertension drug, Calan SR. Together, these compounds
account for about 20% of sales and about 40% of profit.
   Last year, Monsanto's profit rose 15% to $679 million.
Sales increased 4.7% to $8.68 billion. But first-quarter
profit was down 13%, a dip Monsanto attributed to a weaker
market for its plastics and to farmers' delayed purchases of
herbicides. The stock has been volatile in recent weeks. In
Big Board trading, it closed yesterday at $102.50, up $1.25.
   A closer look at three of Monsanto's most important new
products -- BGH, Simplesse fat substitute and Cytotec --
provides some insights about the often rough road to market.
                                                                                                       

   Bovine Growth Hormone
                                                                                                       

   Monsanto is counting on BGH to be the first to generate
some return on the more than $1 billion it has invested in
biotechnology. A protein like one cows produce naturally, BGH
is made by genetically engineered bacteria and then injected
twice a month. In farm trials, milk yields have shot up by
10% to 25%.
   But Wisconsin's move to ban BGH temporarily may embolden
farmers in other states who also fear a milk glut.
Wisconsin's suspension, in effect until June 1, 1991, has
triggered a one-year ban in Minnesota. Anti-BGH groups are
vowing to step up campaigns elsewhere. But a proposed ban
failed this week to get through the Vermont Legislature.
   How long the moves might delay sale of the hormone remains
unclear, since FDA marketing approval isn't expected until
next year anyway. FDA officials say milk from BGH-treated
cows is safe. But the bans could lead to other problems for
Monsanto.
   James Tobin, a BGH marketing manager for Monsanto,
acknowledges that opponents may press for other measures,
such as laws that would require milk from treated cows to be
labeled. That, Monsanto fears, could alarm consumers, who are
increasingly concerned about food safety.
   Mr. Tobin asserts that the bans could lead other farmers
eager to boost milk production to demand BGH. Clearly, there
are dairy farmers looking to use the hormone, although
surveys by the company and BGH opponents vary sharply.
Monsanto maintains that BGH won't bring about a sudden milk
glut, because it will gain use gradually. Because BGH offers
a quick return on investment, the company says, it won't
favor big farmers over small.
   But many small farmers, having endured wrenching changes
in the farm economy, remain leery. "This will devastate rural
communities and small farmers," asserts John Kinsman, a
farmer who has helped to spark the protest in Wisconsin.
   John Musick, who directs an anti-BGH group in Minnesota,
says he is hopeful opponents of the hormone will succeed --
if not in keeping it off the market, then in turning
consumers against it. A BGH scare "could be just like the
Alar situation," he says, referring to the scare last year
over a chemical used on apples. "Suddenly organically grown
apples were in demand."
   The FDA has approved the sale of milk from BGH trials.
However, some big grocery-store chains, including Kroger Co.,
have refused to sell the milk. The chains say they are trying
to size up consumer attitudes on the matter.
   Another genetically engineered new product is also
generating some controversy. Monsanto is conducting field
trials of cotton and soybean plants designed to resist its
Roundup herbicide, which generated sales of about $1 billion
last year. Such plants might greatly expand the market for
the herbicide; it now kills crops and weeds alike, so farmers
have to use it before crops break through the soil.
   But some environmental groups say herbicide-resistant
plants would keep farmers heavily dependent on chemicals.
They are seeking to have tax credits for this type of
research eliminated. Monsanto contends the continued use of
Roundup -- generally acknowledged to be one of the safer
herbicides -- and the introduction of Roundup-resistant crops
would mean less use of more-harmful herbicides.
   Selling Roundup-resistant crops would assure Monsanto of a
strong market for the herbicide, which has lost patent
protection in a few countries so far. It will lose such
protection in many many more starting in 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Simplesse
                                                                                                       

   Monsanto's NutraSweet Co. scored a coup in marketing its
aspartame sweetener. Among other things, it sold it to food
producers with the proviso that the ingredient's logo appear
on the final product, thus winning consumer loyalty for a
mere ingredient. The question now is whether the company can
pull off the same trick with its fat substitute, Simplesse.
   Monsanto's strategy: Introduce Simplesse, a blend of milk
and egg-white protein, in a food item that millions crave,
albeit guiltily because it is fattening: ice cream. Hence the
fat-free Simple Pleasures. In February, the FDA gave
NutraSweet approval to sell the frozen dessert, which the
company expects to get into grocers' freezers by summer.
   In the case of Simplesse, however, NutraSweet is taking
the unusual tactic of manufacturing the dessert itself,
rather than selling the fat substitute to food concerns.
NutraSweet's reasoning is that it wants to maintain control
over crucial decisions, such as flavors. Simple Pleasures
will come in six, including chocolate and rum raisin.
   Simplesse will face tough competition in the dairy case.
Even Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream Inc., a main distributor of
Simple Pleasures, has recently brought out a fat-free
dessert; Dreyer's ice cream is aimed at a lower-priced
market, however.
   Some marketing titans may soon be weighing into this food
fight with their own new products. Kraft General Foods Inc.,
a division of Philip Morris Cos., is seeking FDA approval for
a fake fat similar to Simplesse. Procter &amp; Gamble Co. wants
approval of one that is more versatile; its fake fat can be
used in hot and cold foods.
   An already heated contest for shelf space is likely to
sharpen. The ice cream buyer for Jewel Food Stores, a
Chicago-area chain, says of Simple Pleasures, "We're kind of
dragging our feet on it, because shelf space is so tight."
   NutraSweet is seeking FDA approvals to use Simplesse in
other foods, including mayonnaise, salad dressings, sour
cream, dips, margarine, butter, cheese. The company hasn't
ruled out making some of these foods itself.
   NutraSweet has had extraordinary success with aspartame,
now used in some 3,000 food and beverage items. Last year,
including the tabletop sweetener Equal, sales reached $869
million.
   Robert Shapiro, the company's chief executive, insists the
sweetener still has a bright future. Yet in countries where
aspartame has lost patent protection, the company has
preserved market share only through drastic price reductions.
In December 1991, patent protection ends in the the biggest
market, the U.S.
                                                                                                       

   Cytotec
                                                                                                       

   Searle won high praise in regulatory circles last year
when it introduced its ulcer drug, Cytotec, in the U.S.
Recently, though, Searle ran afoul of the FDA -- over its
advertising.
   The FDA recently forced the drug maker to take out an
embarrassing ad in medical journals. It read, in part,
"Published To Correct a Previous Advertisement Which The Food
And Drug Administration Considered Misleading."
   The FDA said a previous Cytotec ad falsely suggested that
the drug could be used to treat a broader, typically younger,
group of patients than the agency had recommended. One of the
FDA's concerns: The earlier ad featured a photo of a woman
Searle said was 62. But the FDA thought the model looked too
youthful. Searle said it didn't intend to mislead.
   The flap suggests the difficulties of aggressively
marketing the drug. Purchased by Monsanto in 1985 for $2.75
billion, Searle has revived its research and development,
which had withered. The company intends to introduce over the
next decade a steady stream of new drugs, of which Cytotec is
the first. U.S. sales started strong, then hit a plateau. In
recent weeks, Searle says, sales have begun to climb again.
   Searle is seeking to carve out a unique role for Cytotec
amid such big-selling ulcer drugs as Glaxo Holdings PLC's
Zantac and SmithKline Beecham PLC's Tagamet. Cytotec is aimed
especially at arthritis patients who are on nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs. Such patients often develop stomach
ulcers. Cytotec, a synthetic prostaglandin, is believed to
help protect the stomach lining.
   Cytotec sometimes has side effects, like abdominal cramps
and diarrhea, so doctors tend to be cautious in prescribing
it. Doctors sometimes advise patients to take only half a
tablet.
   Searle is trying to fine-tune Cytotec. It is seeking to
develop a sustained-release formulation that lessens side
effects. The company is performing other studies to determine
whether the drug could be used to treat other conditions.
Searle forecasts world-wide Cytotec sales this year between
$80 million and $90 million, up from $60 million last year.
   Meanwhile, the makers of Zantac and Tagamet are eyeing the
Cytotec market. Both are undertaking studies in an effort to
win regulatory approval for use in treating the same
condition.
   ---
        Monsanto: Trying to Deliver on Commitments
                                                                                                       

               Now a Diversified Company
                                                                                                       

       Chemicals ......................  47%
       Crop chemicals .................  18%
       Pharmaceuticals (Searle Division) 13%
       NutraSweet .....................  10%
       Fisher controls ................  10%
       Animal sciences ................   2%
                                                                                                       

             Producing for shareholders
                                                                                                       

     1989 return on shareholders' equity, in percent
                                                                                                       

        Union Carbide ..........   24%
        Chemical industry avg. .   17.9%
        Monsanto ...............   17.6%
        Du Pont ................   15.9%
        B.F. Goodrich ..........   14.8%
        W.R. Grace .............   14.7%
        American Cyanamide .....   12.6%
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE U.S. PATENT on the aspartame sweetener of Monsanto
Co.'s NutraSweet Co. unit expires in December 1992. The date
was misstated in Friday's edition.
   (WSJ May 21, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0197
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0197.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   It's Time to Talk About the S-Words Too
   ----
   By Martin Feldstein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   For the past five years the political taboo against
discussing tax increases has made it impossible to negotiate
any serious reduction in the budget deficit. Now that a tax
increase is on the table, a significant budget deal looks
quite likely. It's time now to consider adjusting the future
growth of Social Security benefits as well.
   Only by considering Social Security benefits as well as
taxes can the negotiating process produce a serious and fair
long-term plan to eliminate the budget deficit. And extending
the Gramm-Rudman process to include parallel automatic
adjustments to taxes and Social Security benefits could be
the centerpiece of a reformed budget process that limits
spending increases and guarantees an eventual budget balance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The budget deficit has been stuck at $150 billion a year
since 1987. The Office of Management and Budget's new
estimates confirm what private analysts have been saying for
a long time. Without tough budget action, the deficit will be
as high next year and will continue to be at least $100
billion a year in the future, keeping real interest rates
high and depressing our national rate of investment in
productivity-increasing plant and equipment.
   But even the new OMB estimates make no allowance for
accumulating a real Social Security trust fund. Instead, all
of the projected Social Security surpluses are devoted to
offsetting deficits elsewhere in the budget.
   Social Security should instead be removed from the
ordinary budget and the surpluses accumulated to finance
future benefits when the baby-boom generation begins to
retire. By 1996, such a safeguarding of the Social Security
surpluses would add $140 billion to the annual budget
deficit.
   Combining this Social Security accumulation with the
projected budget deficit implies that the appropriate
deficit-reduction goal for 1996 is about $250 billion. With
that much to be done, it's important to have a long-term
plan. The budget negotiators should be aiming for $50 billion
a year of reliable deficit reductions over each of the next
five years. A new Gramm-Rudman framework could ensure such
reductions by adding automatic adjustments in tax revenue and
Social Security benefits to the current across-the-board
sequestration cuts. Unlike the current talk about cutting
$100 billion in 1991 alone, such a gradual and predictable
multiyear reduction would not upset the pace of year-to-year
economic expansion.
   It is impossible to achieve such reductions by spending
cuts alone. The substantial reduction in defense spending
that now appears to be justified by the current military
conditions can make a major contribution to deficit
reduction. But even a massive 20% cut in current real defense
spending -- reducing defense outlays to the lowest share of
GNP in more than half a century -- would provide less than
one-third of the needed $250 billion a year.
   Nondefense spending other than Social Security and
interest on the national debt will exceed $500 billion by
1996 if there are no changes in existing programs. That much
spending should provide opportunities for substantial
savings. But although I have my favorite list of cuts, I'm
not optimistic about the amount that Congress will accept.
And many of the savings in existing programs will undoubtedly
be used to fund increased spending on an array of programs
that the public feels has received too little support during
the past decade.
   Turning to taxes, opinion surveys show that raising excise
taxes on alcohol and tobacco would meet relatively little
opposition from an increasingly health-conscious public.
Doubling the 16-cents-a-pack tax on cigarettes and adding a
dollar in tax to the price of a six-pack of beer and a bottle
of wine would yield about $15 billion a year in revenue. An
extra 10 cents a gallon on gasoline would reduce air
pollution and add $10 billion a year to revenue.
   The combination of major cuts in defense and nondefense
outlays and the general increase in excise taxes would also
have an important favorable effect on the government's annual
interest bill. Even without any fall in interest rates, the
gradual reduction in annual deficits would cut the projected
national debt by enough to knock $30 billion off the
government's 1996 interest outlays. And if the smaller budget
deficits bring the interest rate down by one percentage
point, the additional interest savings would be $25 billion a
year.
   But even with all of these outlay cuts and revenue
increases, the annual deficit in 1996 would still be about
$75 billion. What should be done to fill this remaining gap?
   A simple and fair way to fill the remaining deficit gap
would be to modify the indexing of both the Social Security
benefits and the personal income tax. A basic approach would
be to adjust benefits and tax brackets by the excess of
inflation over 2% instead of by the full inflation rate as
required by current law. With a 4.5% inflation rate, benefits
and tax brackets would be raised by 2.5% instead of the full
4.5%. Even if lower-income beneficiaries and taxpayers are
exempted and each individual is limited to no more than a
cumulative 10% adjustment, this inflation-minus-2% rule for
taxes and Social Security would shrink annual deficits by $70
billion in 1996 and beyond.
   Although most politicians have been understandably
reluctant to suggest any modification of Social Security
benefits, any program of deficit reduction that can be
described as fair must include a slowing of the growth of
Social Security outlays. Ways and Means Committee Chairman
Dan Rostenkowski recognized this when he proposed a total
freeze on Social Security benefits as part of his own 1991
budget plan.
   Unlike most other government transfer programs, the vast
bulk of Social Security benefits go to individuals who are
not poor. Indeed, benefits are higher for those who have had
the highest earnings during their working years and who are
therefore most likely to have substantial private pensions.
Full adjustment of Social Security benefits for inflation has
become increasingly unfair after a decade in which average
wages have failed to keep up with inflation. Since 1975, real
wages per worker have fallen more than 10% while real average
Social Security benefits per retiree have increased by nearly
20%.
   Modifying the adjustment of income-tax brackets by the
same inflation-minus-2% rule would raise the growth of tax
revenue by about the same amount that it cuts the growth of
Social Security outlays. There is also enough ambiguity in
this tax change to satisfy most politicians: The
inflation-minus-2% rule raises revenue without a tax increase
and reduces benefit outlays without lowering anyone's
benefit.
   The inflation adjustment of income-tax brackets and Social
Security benefits also provides a good way to expand the
Gramm-Rudman automatic mechanism to keep the proposed budget
declines on track. If the deficit is greater than the target
level in some future year, the traditional Gramm-Rudman
spending cuts could be supplemented by a reduced inflation
adjustment to benefits and tax brackets.
   The narrow range of budget categories that are now the
only eligible items for the Gramm-Rudman sequesters has
implied such draconian reductions in individual programs that
Congress and the administration have preferred to use phony
numbers to avoid painful real deficit reductions. Broadening
the range of automatic deficit cuts to include tax and Social
Security adjustments would make Gramm-Rudman more effective.
   President Bush has emphasized that he regards a reform of
the budget process to be an important goal of this year's
negotiations. A two-year budget cycle and some form of
enhanced rescission authority would help to make the budget
process more rational. But expanding the Gramm-Rudman
fail-safe procedure to include the inflation adjustments to
both tax brackets and Social Security benefits is the best
way to achieve declining budget deficits and to make certain
that broad and fair reductions in the growth of spending are
the centerpiece of that deficit reduction.
   ---
   Mr. Feldstein, former chairman of the president's Council
of Economic Advisers, is a professor of economics at Harvard.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0196
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0196.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chrysler Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS C
</CO>
<LP>
   CHRYSLER Corp. (Highland Park, Mich.) -- Arthur C.
Liebler, 47 years old, previously executive director,
corporate communications and marketing services, was named
vice president, communications, at this auto maker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0195
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0195.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Prices of Sugar Futures Decline as F.O. Licht
   Increases Its Estimate of Season's Production
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- World sugar futures declined following an
increased estimate of global production.
   The July contract ended with a loss of 0.22 cent a pound
at 14.46 cents after trading as low as 14.36 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   F.O. Licht, the West German sugar statistical firm,
increased its estimate of world sugar production for the
1989-90 season ending Aug. 31 by 1.2 million metric tons from
its January estimate, to 107.7 million tons. A metric ton is
equal to 1.1 U.S. short tons, or 2,204.6 pounds.
   The firm said declines in output in some areas were more
than offset by a one-million-metric-ton increase in Indian
production. Licht also noted that supplies will remain tight
next season, despite a production increase of between three
million and five million tons.
   After the close of trading, Reuter reported that Brazil is
not expected to produce enough ethanol from its 1990-91 sugar
crop, which will begin being harvested June 1, to satisfy
domestic demand, according to the director of the Society of
Alcohol Producers in Brazil.
   The official estimated that Brazil would produce 12.8
billion liters of sugar-based ethanol from the 1990-91 sugar
crop, up 7.6% from 11.9 billion liters during the current
season. However, he said ethanol use during 1990-91 is
estimated at 13.5 billion liters. A liter is equal to 0.264
gallon.
   Brazil is scheduled to buy three million hectoliters of
wine alcohol from the European Community on May 29. Pedro
Luis Toddling, sugar adviser at Brazil's Trader Coordinating
Bureau, would not comment on reports that Brazil might seek
to buy another three million hectoliters later on, Reuter
said. A hectoliter is 100 liters.
   The report that Brazil would buy wine alcohol from the EC
first circulated on Wednesday. It might have had some
price-depressing effect on sugar prices, on the belief that
importing alcohol could help the release of Brazilian sugar
for export, analysts said. However, one analyst said
yesterday that countering this rumor was the belief that
Brazil had pledged not to increase its sugar exports. No
mention was made of Brazilian sugar exports in yesterday's
news report.
   Stephen Platt, analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds, Chicago,
observed that Brazil's action in importing alcohol makes
sense, because "it frees up sugar for exports, and they can
make a greater profit from sugar at current prices."
   The expansion of alcohol use in Brazil has far outstripped
available supplies, Mr. Platt said, and the imports will
relieve the situation somewhat.
   However, Brazil still continues to have a serious problem
in trying to satisfy the sugar producers and exporters, which
want to have sufficient sugar to export but are losing a lot
of it to alcohol, as well as the alcohol industry, which
represents a heavy investment and also wants to draw from the
same sugar supply, he said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK and MEATS: Pork belly futures prices closed up
the two-cent-a-pound daily price limit for the second day in
a row, and the rally isn't over yet, analysts said. The rally
was a continuation of the similar move Wednesday in the most
heavily traded monthly contracts; that rise was sparked by a
weekly report on pork belly stocks in commercial freezers
outside Chicago that indicated a tightening of belly
supplies. "There's been panic buying the past two days as
people have tried to get back into the market" following a
sustained sell-off last week, said Thomas Morgan, a principal
of Sterling Research Corp., Arlington Heights, Ill. Pork
belly futures for July delivery gained two cents to close at
66.37 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Hog
futures prices also rallied. "Hog marketings haven't been up
to expectations," said Walter Kowalski, a futures analyst
with Lind-Waldock Inc. in Chicago. "There's no surplus to
talk about, and that situation could prevail for the rest of
the year," lending support to both hog and pork belly futures
prices, he said. July hog futures gained 0.75 cents a pound
to close at 64.42 cents.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: It was a lackluster day in the petroleum pits
yesterday as the June crude oil contract on the New York
Mercantile Exchange drifted 16 cents a barrel lower in light
trading. Products finished slightly higher, with heating oil
outpacing gasoline, perhaps because it has lagged behind
gasoline in moving higher in recent trading sessions,
analysts said. Some traders said the gains in product prices
helped keep crude prices from dropping further. June crude
closed at $18.87 a barrel. Outer months were higher. Trading
seemed unaffected by reports that Shell Oil, a unit of Royal
Dutch/Shell Group, shut down a crude oil pipeline system
following a tanker-barge collision. The pipeline, which moves
crude oil from the Gulf Coast to the Midwest, is expected to
be operating again this afternoon.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices rose, particularly
platinum, which reacted to reports of labor unrest in South
Africa, the world's leading producer of the metal. July
delivery platinum was up $5.30 an ounce to $492.90. Analysts
said there were reports that platinum miners had walked off
their jobs on Wednesday and that gold miners did the same
yesterday. One analyst said the labor unrest that had been
feared apparently is materializing and added that if the
trend increases, platinum could be strongly affected. South
Africa accounts for over 80% of the world's platinum
production and any disruption would seriously be felt, he
said, more than for gold, which is produced in larger
quantities by a greater variety of countries. South Africa is
also a major gold producer. A significant feature in gold,
the analyst said, was that it had divorced itself from its
relationship with the dollar that had prevailed most of last
year and is now responding more to more-traditional
supply-demand factors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0194
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0194.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Wholesale Prices Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BERN -- Switzerland's wholesale price index rose 0.2% in
April from March and 1.5% from April 1989, the government
said.
   The figures approximated the expectations of some
analysts, who had expected a slowdown due to the resurgence
of the Swiss franc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The measure of wholesale import prices rose 0.1% month to
month in April and declined 1.3% from April 1989, while the
gauge of domestic wholesale prices rose 0.2% from March and
increased 2.6% from last April.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0193
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0193.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   S&amp;P 500 Index to Drop Norton
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CTB NRT
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it will drop
Norton Co. from its S&amp;P 500 index of stocks, replacing it
with Cooper Tire &amp; Rubber Co., effective at the close of
trading next Thursday.
   Norton, an abrasives maker based in Worcester, Mass., is
being acquired by French glass maker Compagnie de Saint
Gobain. Cooper Tire is a tire maker based in Findlay, Ohio.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S&amp;P generally announces changes in the composition of its
S&amp;P 500 index a week in advance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0192
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0192.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toyota to Produce
   Vehicles in Colombia
   With Renault, Mitsui
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5E
</SO>
<CO>
   F.RNA MITSY TOYOY LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Toyota Motor Corp. announced it will manufacture
commercial vehicles in Colombia in a joint project with a
subsidiary of France's Renault and Mitsui &amp; Co., a major
Japanese trading house.
   Toyota officials said their company, Japan's biggest car
maker, has signed agreements with Sociedad de Fabrication de
Automotores Renault S.A. (SOFASA-Renault) and Mitsui. They
said Toyota has also obtained necessary government approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, they said, Bogota-based
SOFASA-Renault will add Toyota's Land Cruiser and Hilux
models to the line of Renault cars it has been producing.
   The partners plan to make 4,000 Land Cruisers a year,
beginning in October 1991. Production of the Hilux model is
set for April 1992, at a rate of 3,000 a year, according to
Toyota officials.
   The two Toyota models will be marketed through a new
Toyota dealership network that SOFASA-Renault will set up in
the future.
   Under the accord, Toyota and Mitsui will also acquire
stakes in SOFASA-Renault. Toyota will pay $10.5 million, and
Mitsui $4.5 million. As a result, Toyota officials said,
SOFASA-Renault will be 74.7% owned by Renault, 17.5% by
Toyota, 7.5% by Mitsui, and the rest by others.
   Investment in plant and equipment totaling some $7.3
million will be made for production of the Toyota models,
according to officials.
   SOFASA-Renault, employing about 1,600 people, produced
approximately 11,000 cars last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0191
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0191.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.K. Public Sector Borrowing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The public sector borrowing requirement, the
most widely used measure of Britain's government deficit or
surplus, showed a deficit of #2.12 billion ($3.56 billion) in
April compared with a deficit of #1.73 billion in March and a
surplus of #890 million in April 1989, the British Treasury
said.
   Market expectations had been for a deficit of about #1.25
billion. The government is projecting a surplus for the year
ending March 31, 1991, of #7 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0190
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0190.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cost of Living in Chinese Cities
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   BEIJING -- The cost of living in Chinese cities rose 4.6%
in April, compared with April 1989, China's State Statistical
Bureau reported. It was the biggest monthly inflation climb
so far this year.
   The bureau said the increase was caused mainly by a 14.1%
rise in vegetable prices and a 15% rise in service charges.
The cost-of-living increase for the first quarter was 4.4%
over the 1989 level.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A brief report on the bureau's statistics carried by the
official Xinhua News Agency didn't link the stepped-up
inflation to a recent government loosening of its tight
credit policy. The government pullback was credited for a
slight pickup in industrial production in April after a
stagnant first quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0189
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0189.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campbell Soup Posts
   25% Increase in Profit
   For Its Third Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPB
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMDEN, N.J. -- Campbell Soup Co. reported a 25% increase
in third-quarter earnings as improved cost controls in North
American operations and higher profits in Argentina offset
continuing problems in the U.K. and Europe.
   In the third quarter, ended April 29, the food company
earned $54.6 million, or 42 cents per share, on sales of
$1.52 billion. In the 1989 quarter, net income was $43.5
million, or 34 cents a share, on sales of $1.45 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Campbell International's operating earnings were up 45%,
to $16.7 million, compared with last year's third-quarter
profit of $11.5 million. Sales for the division were $460
million, compared with $418 million a year ago. Profitability
improved in Campbell's Argentine beef operations, but the
company said its British frozen-food unit and Italian biscuit
operations continued to have "earnings difficulties."
   The company's largest division, Campbell U.S.A., reported
a 10% increase, to $91.3 million, in third-quarter operating
earnings, up from $83 million last year. Sales for the
division, which makes such products as V8 vegetable juice,
soup and Prego spaghetti sauce, were $881 million, up only
4%, from $847 million last year. Campbell attributed the slow
sales growth to general weakness in retail sales and an
unusually warm winter soup season.
   Nine-month earnings were $242.8 million, or $1.87 per
share, on sales of $4.77 billion. In the 1989 period,
Campbell earned $207.8 million, or $1.61 per share, on sales
of $4.37 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0188
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0188.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Malaysia Industrial Production
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- Malaysia's first-quarter
industrial production rose 11.1% from the same period last
year, the Statistics Department said.
   The department added that the March index at 160.8, was
15% higher than the February index at 139.8, and 10.4% above
the March 1989 index of 145.6.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The department attributed the increase in the index to
significant gains in all three major divisions. The
manufacturing index rose 16.3%, to 172.0 in the first
quarter, from 147.8 in 1989's first quarter; while the
electricity index rose 12.8%, to 153.8 from 136.4; and the
mining index rose 2.4%, from 129.5 to 132.6.
   Fourteen of the 16 industrial groups under the
manufacturing division recorded increases in first-quarter
production indices. The leader was transport equipment,
followed by electrical machinery and nonmetallic mineral
products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0187
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0187.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Equipment Investment
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Despite recent worsening investment conditions,
including higher interest rates and falling stock prices,
many Japanese companies plan to spend more money in fiscal
1990 in upgrading production and other equipment, a
government advisory panel said.
   In a report submitted to Minister of International Trade
and Industry Kabun Muto, a subcommittee of the Industrial
Structure Council said its survey of 1,466 companies
conducted between February and March showed equipment
investment will climb 13.1% in fiscal 1990 that began in
April from the previous fiscal year to 17.715 trillion yen
($116.8 billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Financial institutions as well as insurance and
communications companies were excluded from the survey.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0186
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0186.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Malaysia's Coal Reserves
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- Malaysia's coal reserves of
about 770 million tons, mostly located in Sarawak in Borneo
island, should be tapped to meet energy demands, an official
at the Ministry of Energy said.
   The Secretary-General of the Ministry of Energy,
Telecommunications and Posts, Helmi Mohamad Noor, said that
until now, Malaysia was not a significant consumer of coal,
and effort should be made to tap and use this resource.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He said, "The cement industry began converting to coal in
the early 1980s, and by 1987, imported coal and coke
contributed 3.3 % to the final energy mix. However, it was
reduced to 1.8% in 1988 due to cement plants reverting to
cheaper fuel oil."
   Mr. Noor said the development of domestic coal brought
benefits in the form of support for regional development and
the creation of employment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0185
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0185.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kroger Says Pichler
   To Get Added Title
   Of Chief Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   KR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Kroger Co. said Joseph A. Pichler, president
and chief operating officer of this food store operator, was
elected chief executive officer and will assume the post June
17.
   Pichler, 50, succeeds Lyle Everingham, who has held the
position since 1978. Mr. Everingham, 64, will continue as
chairman until his planned retirement in early 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the company's annual meeting Mr. Everingham told
shareholders that the changeover is "part of an orderly
process designed to ensure continuity and direction. Joe and
I share the same goals and objectives for Kroger."
   In 1989 Kroger posted a loss of $72.2 million, or 92 cents
a share, after a charge of $56.5 million related to early
retirement of debt. Sales last year were $19.1 billion.
   Kroger took on debt of more than $4 billion two years ago
in a recapitalization that fended off two unsolicited bids.
   Mr. Pichler has been president and chief operating officer
of Kroger since October 1986. He was named to Kroger's board
in January 1983, following the company's merger with Dillon
Cos.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0184
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0184.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   It's Sad to Think This Deadly Ash
   Now's Crassly Being Sold for Cash
   ----
   By Paula L. Stepankowsky
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   TOUTLE, Wash. -- How do you commemorate an eruption?
That's easy; you let off steam.
   This tiny logging town, 25 miles west of Mount St. Helens,
will pull out all the stops as it holds its traditional
Volcano Daze festival this weekend to mark today's 10th
anniversary of the eruption that caused widespread
destruction and about 60 deaths.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Initially staged by local residents as a way of fighting
their post-disaster depression, the annual festival has
itself been a disaster of sorts in recent years, because of
apathy, high liability-insurance rates and laissez-faire
planning. Moreover, purists believe that sales of souvenirs
-- ashtrays and vials of volcanic ash, among others -- have
commercialized the event.
   "The last one was sort of an eyesore," recalls local
newspaper editor Terri Lee Grell.
   So this year, besides the chili cook-off,
chain-saw-carving contest and tacky souvenirs, organizers
have gone highbrow, bringing in five "logger poets" to read
poems of the Northwest woods. "I guess sailors like poetry,
so why not loggers," says festival volunteer Ben Benjamin.
   It isn't Tennyson, and the jargon can be a bit puzzling,
but logger poetry is more established than is generally
understood, devotees contend.
   Only college types are surprised that loggers write
poetry, says poet/logger Lon Minkler. "They didn't have
radios or TVs in the early days, so they made up their own
poetry and recited it in the woods," explains poet Woodrow
Gifford, who has published a book entitled "Timber Bind and
Logger Rhythms."
   An example of logger poetry is this verse by 84-year-old
Robert E. Swanson, a pal of the late Canadian poet and
novelist Robert Service:
                                                                                                       

   "Out in the brush with the rigging crew,
   I sit me down on a chunk.
   And I heed the call of the hooker's bawl,
   I'm an expert whistle punk."
                                                                                                       

   (A "hooker," in this instance, is a foreman on a logging
crew. A "whistle punk" is a young logger assigned to a
train.)
   Organizers aren't sure how logger poetry will go over with
the Volcano Daze crowd. But Mr. Swanson, who is coming from
Vancouver, British Columbia, to read his works, expects a
good reception. "Loggers are very human; they wear their
hearts on their sleeves," he says. "They call a spade a spade
and a log a log."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0183
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0183.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Central Newspapers Expects Revenue
   To Match '89 Record but Profit to Drop
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5F
</SO>
<CO>
   ECP
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   INDIANAPOLIS -- Central Newspapers Inc., beset by a soft
advertising market, expects that 1990 revenue will match
year-earlier levels but that earnings are likely to decline,
President and Chief Executive Officer Frank E. Russell said.
   In 1989, the company had record net income of $38.5
million, or $1.45 a share, on record revenue of $436.2
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Russell also said Central is negotiating over the
possible purchase of two newspapers on the West Coast, but
declined to disclose any details. He did say, however, that
"If these talks aren't concluded in 1990," there won't be a
deal.
   Central, which went public in September 1989, draws the
bulk of its revenue from its daily newspapers in Phoenix,
Ariz., and Indianapolis. In addition, it operates smaller
papers in two Indiana towns, and a Phoenix business weekly.
   "We expect ad linage to be flat or down," in the current
year, Mr. Russell said. This will be partly offset by price
increases for advertising, he said. He declined to provide
specific earnings projections.
   H.D. Brous &amp; Co. analyst Howard Rosencrans says he expects
Central's pershare earnings will slip 25 cents to $1.20;
other analysts projecting a smaller decline of 5-10 cents a
share are "too optimistic," he says.
   Many newspaper publishers have seen advertising linage
decline since mid-1989 amid a weakening economy.
   There had been speculation that Central might try to cut
costs by folding morning and afternoon papers into one paper
in each of its principal markets. But Mr. Russell said
Central has "no plans whatsoever" to carry out such a
consolidation. "Like all other metro papers," he added,
"we're watching our costs closely, and will continue to do
so."
   Indianapolis has fared better than many Midwestern cities,
which were more damaged by the protracted erosion in
smokestack industry jobs. But the once-booming Sunbelt town
of Phoenix, site of Central's other principal operation, has
seen its economy significantly weaken in recent years. Some
analysts have said that Central's profitability hinges on a
resurgence of the Arizona city's fortunes. Mr. Russell said
"all the experts I talk to" have pushed back their
projections for a comeback to 1991 from earlier expectations
of a rebound for the city this year.
   Mr.Russell says he's confident the historically
up-and-down Arizona economy will snap back again: "We're
betting $128 million on it," he added, in a reference to a
second printing plant on which Central recently began
construction in suburban Phoenix. The city's morning and
Sunday papers are "still showing growth," he said, and the
added capacity will come on line in 1992 "just in time" to
avoid any production undercapacity.
   Brous &amp; Co.'s Mr. Rosencrans says that, when the city's
upturn does occur, Central is "ideally positioned to
benefit."
   Central's damped advertising revenue has been partially
offset by lower costs for newsprint. Mr.Russell says he
thinks the newsprint industry's plans to raise prices in June
by $35 a ton, or about 5%, will hold, although he noted that
other publishers think it might fail, or deteriorate to a
smaller increase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0182
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0182.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy Commercial Vehicle Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- New commercial vehicle sales in Italy rose 0.4%
in April from the year before and were up 7.2% in the first
four months of 1990, according to figures released by the
Italian Federation of Auto Manufacturers, Anfia.
   Sales of the commercial vehicles, which are small buses
and trucks weighing up to 3.5 tons, totaled 13,501 in April,
compared with 13,448 in April 1989, Anfia said. During the
first four months of the year, commercial vehicle sales
totaled 59,260, compared with 55,297 in the first four months
of 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domestic manufacturers controlled 49.8% of the market,
while Ford Motor Co. was a leader among foreign manufacturers
with a 14% market share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0181
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0181.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   International Broadcast Systems Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS IBTVA
</CO>
<LP>
   INTERNATIONAL BROADCAST SYSTEMS Ltd. (Dallas) -- Gary
White, 35 years old, chief financial officer, vice president
and treasurer of this broadcasting concern and Sidney L.
Shlenker, 53, president and chief executive officer of
Pyramid Cos., were elected to the board increasing its size
to five.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Asean Trade With Australia
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SINGAPORE -- The Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(Asean) wants more trade and investment from Australia,
Acting Foreign Minister Peter Sung said yesterday.
   Trade between Australia and Asean has risen to 6.7 billion
Australian dollars (US$5.1 billion) in 1988-89 against A$2.9
billion in 1980-81.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, Australia's trade with the U.S., Japan, Europe,
South Korea, Taiwan, and Hong Kong has grown much more than
with Asean, he said but did not give figures.
   Mr. Sung said, "Asean's exports to Australia have
continuously faced stringent import regulations such as
import licensing; labeling, packing, health, and safety
standards; quarantine restrictions; and antidumping and
countervailing action."
   Singapore, Brunei, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines,
and Thailand are members of Asean.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kansas City Southern
   Plans Tender Offer
   For the Rest of DST
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KSU DSTS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Kansas City Southern Industries Inc.
said it plans to make a $14-a-share, or $34.5 million, tender
offer for the 12.9% of DST Systems Inc. that it doesn't
already own.
   The railroad and financial services data-processing
concern said the offer for the Kansas City financial services
company is subject to certain conditions, but won't include a
requirement for tender of any minimum number of shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kansas City Southern said certain of its officers and
directors holding 1.3% of DST shares plan to tender their
shares in connection with the offer.
   Kansas City Southern said that since DST went public in
1983, the public market for DST shares hasn't met
"expectations for providing liquidity or in causing a
transfer value to be reflected in the market for Kansas City
Southern stock."
   The company, which owns 16.6 million shares, or 87.1% of
DST, said that upon completion of the offer, it will acquire
all remaining shares, also at $14 each.
   DST said its board will make its recommendation regarding
the proposed tender offer following receipt of the opinion of
a special board committee's investment adviser.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   `Massachusetts Miracle' Turns Unholy
   ---
   New England's Economic Dive
   Sparks Travel Plans
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5H
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Patrick Dolan runs an antique wholesale
dealership. Jim Miller works in a suburban Boston bank. Ricky
Troped runs a residential appraisal firm.
   The three men grew up in the Boston area. And now, two
have firm plans to leave Massachusetts, while the one is
considering leaving.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The quality of life here has deteriorated significantly,"
says the 35-year-old Mr. Dolan, who is planning to move to
North Carolina. His wife, Laurie, adds, "It's just too
expensive to live up here. We have two kids, and I really
wanted to stay home {with them.}" With Mrs. Dolan having
given up her job after the recent birth of their younger
child, "It's just too hard to do anything," she says.
   The Dolan's story, while somewhat extreme, illustrates how
sharply public sentiment has swung in New England as the
region's economy has slowed and state fiscal problems have
spread. Where many residents just two years ago were still
bursting with pride over the "Massachusetts Miracle" and the
presidential run of Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, the mood now is
one of glum resignation to a future that no longer looks
bright.
   How many other families are considering leaving is
impossible to say. There is no sign of a mass exodus from New
England; nor, demographers say, is that likely to occur even
if the region's economy remains weak.
   But there is evidence that a steady outflow of people from
the region, which temporarily slowed during the economic boom
of the mid-1980s, has resumed. While retirees continue to
sell their homes and move to warmer, less expensive regions,
the high-tech, banking and construction industries are no
longer providing jobs to attract people to New England. The
outflow of people from the Northeast picked up sharply after
mid-1988, according to George Masnick, a former professor of
Harvard University's Joint Center for Housing Studies who now
runs a consulting service on demographic trends.
   United Van Lines, in its annual survey of interstate
migration patterns, showed outbound household shipments from
Massachusetts surging to 56.3% in 1989 from 50.7% in 1988 and
49.7% in 1987. Last year was the first time since 1980 that
Massachusetts was classified as a "high out-migration" state
-- one in which out-bound shipments were higher than 55% of
total interstate moves. In New Hampshire, which had shared in
Massachusetts' economic boom in the mid-80s, United recorded
a surge in outbound traffic, to 57.8% of the total from 51.2%
in 1988.
   Like the Dolans, Mr. Miller has just put his suburban
Boston house on the market. He's planning to move this summer
to Tucson, Ariz., where his father -- who was laid off from
two Boston-area companies in the past three years -- has
recently started a heating and air-conditioning business.
"The way the economy is going, it's just getting too
expensive to live in this state" at a time when "job
opportunities are decreasing," he says.
   Mr. Miller, who is 27 years old and has two children,
lived in Texas for several years before moving back to
Massachusetts in 1987 -- when "things were looking good"
here. "When I left Texas, everything {in Texas} was like it
is now in Massachusetts," he says.
   Most economists play down such comparisons, noting that
the Massachusetts economy is more diverse than that of
oil-dominated Texas. But there's no denying that job
opportunities -- one of the most closely watched indicators
of regional economic health -- have fallen sharply in New
England in the past couple of years.
   The Conference Board's index of help-wanted advertising in
New England has fallen by more than 50%, from a peak of 186
in mid-1987 to 84 in March 1990. For the nation during that
period, the help-wanted index declined far more modestly, to
139 from 153, according to the New York-based business group.
   Many New Englanders continue to believe the region's
strengths, such as its high education levels and
entrepreneurial tradition, will enable it to get back in the
economic fast lane sooner or later. But some aren't sure they
want to wait for that day to come.
   "We just seem to be stagnant here," says Mr. Troped, who
had nearly 20 appraisers working for him full-time four years
ago, and now has "only a couple." "We all think it's going to
get better; the question is whether we can hang on 'til it
does." Mr. Troped is scouting opportunities in Florida,
California and Nevada, and is "giving serious thought" to
moving to any area where prospects look brighter than in
Boston.
   "I can't remember the state being this screwed up," says
Bob Weiss, who has lived in Massachusetts for all of his 50
years. Mr. Weiss, who owns a doughnut franchise and works
part-time as a real-estate agent in a Boston suburb, cites
the state's $1 billion budget deficit, rising water bills,
insurance bills, and likely increases in state and local
taxes. "My wife is not enamored of the idea" of moving
elsewhere, says Mr. Weiss. But, "if the business climate gets
worse, I'm probably going to sell my business anyway."
   Others even perceive reflections of the economic slump in
the region's cultural scene. "I do feel that Boston is drying
up -- creatively," says Susan Slovinsky, a 40-year-old
graphic designer from Needham, Mass. Ms. Slovinsky, Mr.
Troped's cousin, is planning to move to Santa Fe, N.M., for a
couple of years, because "now it seems that the newer ideas
-- let's say, in design -- are coming more from Southern
areas than Northern areas."
   Mr. Masnick, the demographic consultant, says most
out-migration comes from retirees and young people who
haven't yet started families. And it does seem clear that
more young people these days are deciding Massachusetts is
not an attractive place to launch a career and start saving
for a home, he says. Families such as the Dolans, Millers and
Tropeds are likely to remain a relatively small part of the
flow, he says.
   But Mr. Masnick's own story suggests that such people
aren't simply alarmists or escapists. Mr. Masnick and his
wife, their houses in suburban Boston and in New Hampshire
having appreciated "far beyond our expectations," sold out
and moved to Montana with their baby in 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raytheon's Beech Aircraft Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN
</CO>
<LP>
   LEXINGTON, Mass. -- Raytheon Co. said its Beech Aircraft
division has agreed to join with Pilatus Aircraft Ltd., of
Switzerland, to vie for a U.S. military contract for trainer
airplanes.
   Beech and Pilatus will propose a version of Pilatus's PC-9
turboprop trainer for selection in the Joint Primary Aircraft
Training System of the Navy and Air Force. Beech will be team
leader. The contract also includes simulators and training
systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies said that if Beech obtains a contract,
Pilatus will produce a significant portion of the planes,
with final assembly in Beech plants in Kansas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Bourse
   Studies Possibility
   Of Options Market
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Options trading could start in Hong Kong
sometime next year if a preliminary study being carried out
by the stock exchange finds sufficient market interest.
   Brisk interest in stock and index options has been
expressed so far by most of the brokerage houses, investors
and regulators surveyed so far, according to John Parry, a
consultant with Trimedia Communications Ltd., a Swiss firm
that is making a two-month study of the issue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The study is seeking to establish whether options would be
used by investors, how they would affect the colony's
financial market and what kind of training and promotional
programs they would require.
   "The reaction we've had so far has been very promising,"
Mr. Parry said. "It does suggest at this stage there is
certainly considerable interest."
   If the exchange decides to go through with the project,
the colony would become the fourth financial center in the
Asia-Pacific region to offer options trading, joining Sydney,
Tokyo and Singapore. The move is widely seen as part of the
exchange's effort to expand its products, which have grown
over the past year and a half with the addition of listed
debt instruments and unit trusts.
   But the expansion has come amid generally shallow turnover
on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, and the failure of the
colony's futures exchange to regain much life after its near
failure following the October 1987 market crash.
   Robert Gilmore, an executive director at the Securities
and Futures Commission who has worked in options markets in
Chicago and Philadelphia, said stock options could give the
underlying market a boost, judged on patterns elsewhere.
   "History has proven to us that options aid in cash-market
liquidity," he claimed, adding that the U.S. options market
is responsible for a substantial amount of trading in the
underlying stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
   He also argued that Hong Kong must come up with new
instruments to serve increasingly sophisticated investors or
risk losing its attractiveness as a major financial center.
   It would probably take the colony 12 to 15 months to come
up with the regulations and operating framework for options
to be traded if the preliminary study were accepted,
according to Mr. Parry. Among the changes is the alteration
of a law that currently prohibits options trading; that would
require approval by the colony's legislative council.
   One issue centers on how many local stocks have adequate
liquidity and capitalization, as well as sufficiently
widespread shareholding, to be suitable for options. Many
local concerns are controlled by single owners who often run
their day-to-day operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merry-Go-Round Enterprises Is Rolling
   Ahead, Aided by Woes of Big Retailers
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5F
</SO>
<CO>
   MGR
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aided by the troubles of bigger retailers, Merry-Go-Round
Enterprises Inc. expects to report first-quarter earnings of
$5.8 million to $6.2 million, or 26 cents to 28 cents a
share, substantially exceeding analysts' estimates, said
Michael D. Sullivan, president and chief executive officer.
   Analysts' estimates for fiscal first-quarter earnings
ranged from 10 cents a share to 17 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales for the first quarter of fiscal 1991, which ended
May 5, were about $120.5 million. In the year-ago quarter,
the Joppa, Md., retailing chain posted earnings of $1.7
million, or eight cents a share, on sales of $73.9 million,
after restating for three stock dividends. In the current
year, Merry-Go-Round has about 6% more post-split shares
outstanding.
   A key factor in Merry-Go-Round's present financial
performance, Mr. Sullivan said, is the boom environment for
mall-based specialty apparel stores -- a consequence of the
financial difficulties of large retailers like Campeau Corp.
and Ames Department Stores Inc.
   With tightened credit from vendors, the large chains can't
stock new merchandise, Mr. Sullivan said. "If you can't get
fresh goods, you're like a person in quicksand. You're going
to go down. It's just a matter of when."
   Merry-Go-Round, on the other hand, has been turning
inventory at a rapid rate, about six times a year. "You have
to turn the goods to be in the fashion business," Mr.
Sullivan said. "You can't sit on dead stock," particularly
with the 15-to-25-year-olds who are the company's target
customers.
   To help avoid missing changes in consumer tastes,
merchandise staffers sit down every Monday morning and
examine what sold -- and what didn't -- in the previous week.
"It's not totally risk-free, but it's also not the total
crapshoot everyone thinks it is."
   Mr. Sullivan attributed some of Merry-Go-Round's
first-quarter earnings gain to a weak year-ago quarter, when
the company was saddled with start-up costs for a new
360,000-square-foot distribution center. In addition, the
company's April 1989 acquisition of 120 Silverman's stores
from Retail Ventures Inc. and Natco Industries Inc. increased
costs and diverted inventory from other stores.
   Although the remaining quarters won't show such a dramatic
improvement, Mr. Sullivan said he also sees strong earnings
growth for the rest of the year. He called analysts' 1991
earnings estimates of $1.35 to $1.40 a share "very attainable
and probably on the conservative side." Indeed, Mr. Sullivan
said he expects earnings for the fiscal year to be more like
$1.50 a share, or about $33.5 million, on sales of $600
million. In fiscal 1990, Merry-Go-Round earned a restated
$22.2 million, or $1.04 a share, on sales of $478.9 million.
   Merry-Go-Round's growth has left the company with $40
million in cash and a desire to expand further. This fiscal
year, the company plans to open 50 to 55 new stores and
expand others.
   And with the Silverman's acquisition well digested --
April same-store sales more than doubled at the chain -- Mr.
Sullivan is fishing for even more real estate. "It puts us in
an excellent position to look for opportunities," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Graham's Sales Outlook for '90
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GHM
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BATAVIA, N.Y. -- Officials of Graham Corp., a designer and
maker of vacuum and heat-transfer equipment, told
shareholders at the annual meeting that sales this year will
increase about 18% to about $80 million from $67.8 million
last year.
   The company didn't make a specific earnings forecast, but
said it expects each of its units to be profitable.
Executives said they expect continuing strength in the
company's principal markets, including chemical and
petrochemical process industries and co-generation power.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Graham said shareholders voted to double the number of the
company's authorized common shares to six million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cisco, Cabletron Joint Project
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CSCO CS
</CO>
<LP>
   MENLO PARK, Calif. -- Cisco Systems Inc. said it will
develop a computer networking product with Cabletron Systems
Inc., Rochester, N.H. Cabletron makes software hardware for
computer networking.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Household to Maintain Growth Strategy
   Despite Threat to HFC Unit Debt Rating
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   HI
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PROSPECT HEIGHTS, Ill. -- Household International Inc.
faces as much as a two-notch downgrading on the debt of its
main finance unit by Moody's Investors Service Inc., but
Household said it won't curb the aggressive growth plans that
have worried the debt rating agency.
   Kenneth J.H. Pinkes, a director at Moody's, following a
meeting last week with Household's management, said the
company's big Household Finance Corp. unit's debt could be
lowered two steps from its current A-1 level.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's hasn't made a final decision on the ratings of
$9.5 billion debt of Household and its units, which has been
under review since April 12 for possible downgrading. But Mr.
Pinkes said the two-notch downgrading for HFC is now under
consideration because of the overall increase in risk in the
parent company's balance sheet.
   The parent company's debt is rated A-3 by Moody's and the
HFC unit has enjoyed a rating two notches higher because of
its relatively strong capital and earnings. However, Mr.
Pinkes said the level of risk elsewhere in the company and
the potential that HFC could be called on to help support
other operations had Moody's considering bringing the unit's
rating closer to its parent's.
   Household International has a big troubled portfolio of
commercial real estate loans, a big though currently healthy
portfolio of leveraged buy-out loans, and its level of
reserves for loan losses in all lending areas is considered
possibly inadequate by Moody's. "At the minimum, there's a
need for a greater amount of capital," Mr. Pinkes said. "At a
maximum, there's a need for additional reserving."
   No one single thing led to the debt review for possible
downgrading, Mr. Pinkes said. Rather, Household
International, under Donald C. Clark, chairman and chief
executive officer, is a company trying to do too many things
too quickly, Mr. Pinkes said.
   Mr. Clark, in an interview, said that Household
International plans to operate in coming years with more
leverage instead of less, and he insisted the company's
capital and reserves are adequate to support its aggressive
growth plan.
   "It's not as if we're telling people here's what we're
going to do and we've done miserably in the past," he said.
Household International has been consistently and highly
profitable.
   For this year's first quarter, its profit was $52.2
million, or $1.36 a share, against $55.2 million, or $1.51 a
share, a year earlier. The year-ago results include $11
million of profit from discontinued operations, and on a
continuing-operations basis first-quarter profit increased
18%.
   Household International has invested heavily in a consumer
banking operation, targeting higher-income people that its
HFC offices typically deal with. HFC is also growing rapidly.
Overall, from 1988 to 1993, Mr. Clark plans to double the
parent company's assets, which means growing 15% compounded
annually. The company's assets at March 31 were $27.75
billion.
   "I'm totally convinced it's going to be a success," Mr.
Clark said of the consumer banking operation, which has yet
to turn a profit. The business, which operates largely under
savings and loan charters, runs at a higher level of leverage
-- roughly $20 in loans to $1 in capital is Household's goal.
   But that degree is leverage without solid profits worries
Moody's. "I don't think we would be against 20-to-1 leverage
if he had superb profitability in that organization," Mr.
Pinkes said.
   Household stock has languished in recent months because of
loan-quality and debt-rating concerns. It closed yesterday at
$46.50, up 50 cents.
   Mr. Clark said the capital investments of about $300
million during the past two years will pay off in coming
years, and that the consumer banking operation, known as
Household Bank, will reach the company's goal of 15% return
on equity in about four years.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Clark expects he may have to tangle from
time to time with rating agencies. "Moody's is representing
the creditors. A credit rating agency would love every
company to have 10 times more equity than debt. It's a
professional manager's job to balance the needs of the
{stockholder} and the debt holder."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   State Jobless Claims Rose
   To 353,000 During Week
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Initial claims for regular state
unemployment benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 353,000
during the week ended May 5 from 349,000 the previous week,
the Labor Department said.
   The number of people receiving regular state benefits in
the week ended April 28 rose to a seasonally adjusted
2,440,000, or 2.3% of those covered by unemployment
insurance, from 2,398,000 the previous week, when the insured
unemployment rate was also 2.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Counting all state and federal benefit programs, the
number of people receiving unemployment benefits during the
week ended April 28 fell to 2,463,000 from 2,492,800 a week
earlier. These figures aren't seasonally adjusted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Fed Credit Policy Is Left Unchanged
   At Latest Meeting, Official Indicates
   ----
   By Alan Murray and Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Faced with conflicting economic signals, the Federal
Reserve apparently decided to leave credit policy unchanged
at its meeting on Tuesday.
   Edward G. Boehne, president of the Philadelphia Federal
Reserve Bank, said yesterday that the Fed hasn't changed
monetary policy since right before Christmas. Other Fed
officials wouldn't comment directly, but didn't challenge Mr.
Boehne's comments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A few weeks ago, signs of rapid inflation were leading
some Fed officials to talk as if they might be ready to
tighten policy, and nudge up interest rates. But government
statistics released over the past week suggested the economy
was weaker and inflation less threatening than previously
thought.
   As a result, Fed officials now seem to think their best
policy may be to stay put. "The risk to the economy is fairly
even between a further slowdown and inflation," Mr. Boehne
told the Philadelphia Association of Retired Bankers.
   Mr. Boehne is currently a voting member of the Fed's key
policy committee, which is made up of five district reserve
bank presidents plus the members of the Fed's board of
governors.
   Some market analysts have in recent days begun to
speculate that the Fed may soon ease credit to help boost the
economy. But for his part, Mr. Boehne seems pleased with
current slow-growth rates. He said the economy has achieved
the hoped-for soft landing, and is now growing "at a moderate
pace that is sustainable."
   "I am reasonably optimistic about the whole economy as we
go forward," he said.
   The Fed eased monetary policy several times late last
year, with the most recent move occurring shortly before
Christmas. At the time, Mr. Boehne said, there was
considerable concern about recession. But despite the recent
weak economic numbers, he said, fears of recession have
receded.
   Earlier this year, the Fed was under heavy pressure from
the Treasury to bring down interest rates. Treasury officials
thought high U.S. rates were partly responsible for
attracting foreign investors and thus driving up the value of
the dollar relative to the Japanese yen. In the last few
weeks, however, the dollar's value has fallen significantly
against the yen, easing the Treasury's concerns.
   Mr. Boehne said that when the Fed does decide to move
again, it will continue to be in the small steps that have
characterized the central bank's action under the
chairmanship of Alan Greenspan. "Federal Reserve policy is
one of prudence," he said, "steady as she goes."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Panel
   Offers Solution
   In Quebec Dispute
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- A Canadian parliamentary committee unanimously
recommended a plan to overcome a Canadian constitutional
impasse that has revived independence demands in Quebec.
   The impasse arose over proposed constitutional amendments
that would recognize Quebec, a largely French-speaking
province, as a "distinct society" within Canada and grant new
powers to provinces in areas such as immigration.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Much of the public's opposition to the changes has focused
on the proposed distinct society designation for Quebec, even
though constitutional lawyers have questioned whether the
clause would have much legal meaning.
   Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said designating Quebec a
distinct society doesn't mean the province "is privileged or
gains any special powers. It simply confirms the obvious:
that Quebec is different and that that difference is very
much worth conserving."
   The parliamentary committee, which held public hearings
across the country, said the constitutional proposals, known
as the Meech Lake Accord, should be left intact and ratified
by June 23, a legal deadline. But the panel also recommended
that the federal Parliament and the 10 provincial
legislatures also adopt a companion resolution addressing
concerns about the proposed distinct society designation for
Quebec and other constitutional issues.
   The parliamentary committee said that although the
distinct society clause won't give Quebec any additional
powers, the companion resolution, to allay public concern,
should declare that the province's special designation "in no
way" infringes the constitution's charter of rights.
   Mr. Mulroney said that "what is in dispute over the Meech
Lake Accord is very modest." But he said sentiment is so
strong that "the stakes involved in our constitutional
deadlock are enormous." The Meech Lake Accord, which was
negotiated in 1987 at Meech Lake, Quebec, was designed to
meet Quebec's "minimum" constitutional demands.
   A public opinion poll published earlier this week said 60%
of Quebecers now favor Quebec's becoming politically
independent while maintaining "an economic association with
the rest of Canada."
   The parliamentary committee's proposals provide a basis
for a resolution of the constitutional dispute by the federal
and provincial governments, said the committee's chairman,
Jean Charest. Three provinces, Manitoba, Newfoundland and New
Brunswick, oppose the Meech Lake Accord.
   Newfoundland Premier Clyde Wells said the committee has
made some recommendations that "point in a helpful
direction." New Brunswick Premier Frank McKenna also welcomed
the committee's report, saying it addressed New Brunswick's
concerns.
   Mr. Mulroney said he will "spare no effort to develop a
consensus and break the deadlock, if at all possible." But he
said he would call the provincial leaders to a constitutional
conference only if "there are reasonable prospects of
success."
   The parliamentary committee's recommendations included a
new, more flexible constitutional process for revising the
federal Senate, the appointed chamber of Parliament. Senate
overhaul is a major goal of several provinces.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Group's Tender Offer
   For Debt of Allegheny
   International Expires
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   PROVIDENCE, R.I. -- Japonica Partners, a New York investor
group trying to take over Allegheny International Inc., said
it's cash tender offer for debentures of the troubled
consumer products concern expired yesterday.
   Japonica said it accepted for payment all of Allegheny's
9% subordinated sinking-fund debentures due 1989 at a price
of 39.8% of their principal amount; the 10 3/4% subordinated
sinking-fund debentures due 1999 at 41% of their principal
amount; the 10.4% subordinated sinking-fund debentures due
2002 at 27.7% of their principal amount, and the 9%
sinking-fund debentures due 1994 of Allegheny's Chemetron
unit at 83.8% of their principal amount that were tendered.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Based on a preliminary count, Japonica said the following
were tendered; $6.7 million principal amount of the 9%
subordinated sinking-fund debentures due 1989, representing
56% of such debentures outstanding; $47.7 million principal
amount of the 10 3/4% subordinated sinking-fund debentures
due 1999, representing 72% of such debentures outstanding;
$15.1 million principal amount of the 10.4% subordinated
sinking-fund debentures due 2002, representing 39% of such
debentures outstanding; and $6 million principal amount of
Chemetron's 9% sinking fund debentures due 1994, representing
36% of such debentures outstanding.
   Allegheny and several subsidiaries, including Chemetron,
have been operating under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enimont Plans
   Offer for Firm
   Yet to Be Named
   ----
   By Guy Collins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   I.EMT MNT I.ENI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- Italian chemical joint venture Enimont S.p.A.
disclosed plans for a large-scale offer for an unidentified
company as it registered a 12% drop for 1989 net income.
Enimont originally had estimated an earnings increase of at
least 18%.
   Managing Director Sergio Cragnotti, at a news conference
following a seven-hour board meeting here, gave no hints as
to the target of the offer. However, he said it would be
announced Monday and that the planned acquisition would be
financed through a $1 billion issue of bonds with warrants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition move comes as Enimont remains enmeshed in
a bitter dispute for control between its two core
shareholders, the private-sector group Montedison S.p.A. and
state energy group Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi. Enimont's
business also has been hit by a downturn in the chemical
industry.
   Enimont posted total consolidated net of 740 billion lire
($612 million) for last year, its first year of operation.
Net excluding minority interests was 716 billion lire. Sales,
which rose 4.7%, were 15.35 trillion lire.
   This compared with a pro forma total net for 1988 of 844
billion lire and 817 billion lire for net excluding minority
interests; 1988 pro forma sales were 14.66 trillion lire.
These figures relate to the activities in 1988 of companies
allocated to Enimont by the two founding shareholders at the
start of 1989.
   "The results are a bit worse than expected," Paolo-Filippo
Lardera, Italian analyst at London broker UBS Phillips &amp;
Drew, commented. However, he noted that analysts' forecasts
had been revised downward recently following the company's
own more pessimistic statements.
   Last September Enimont executives were predicting a profit
for the year in excess of one trillion lire. This has since
been criticized by analysts as too optimistic.
   Mr. Cragnotti said the sharpness of the downturn in the
chemical sector had surprised the company. "It wasn't a
gradual decline . . . I think we did a good job. I don't
think the market can complain," he said.
   What has been concerning international investors is the
dispute between ENI and Montedison both over who should
control the company and what its long-term strategy should
be. The dispute has severely disrupted day-to-day management.
   Montedison and ENI each hold 40% of Enimont shares, with
the remaining 20% publicly traded. However, many of the
publicly traded shares have been bought by allies of
Montedison President Raul Gardini; they have used their votes
to secure a 7-to-5 majority for him on the Enimont board.
   The move was achieved by adding two new seats to the
original evenly balanced 10-member board and has been
contested by ENI, so far unsuccesfully, both at shareholder
meetings and in court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Wins Army Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   BA LIT FMC
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Boeing Co. won a $33.5 million Army contract
for air defense systems.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Litton Systems Inc., a unit of Litton Industries Inc., was
given a $33.2 million Navy contract for aircraft navigation
systems.
                                                                                                       

   FMC Corp. received a $26.3 million Army contract for
armored vehicle support.
                                                                                                       

   National Beef Packing Co. was awarded a $10.1 million
Defense Logistics Agency contract for chilled beef.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mellon Bank, Merrill Link Up
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MEL MER
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Mellon Bank and Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets said they established an independent corporation that
will purchase receivables from Mellon's corporate customers.
   Three Rivers Funding Corp., as the entity will be called,
will issue as much as $500 million of its commercial paper
through Merrill Lynch and use the proceeds to buy trade,
credit-card and other corporate receivables from Mellon
customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By selling receivables to Three Rivers, Mellon corporate
customers will be able to remove those receivables from their
balance sheets and finance them at commercial paper-based
rates.
   Mellon Bank is a unit of Mellon Bank Corp., a bank holding
company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Grand Metropolitan PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GME WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GRAND METROPOLITAN PLC (London) -- Robert J. Stetson, 39
years old, chief financial officer of the Miami-based Burger
King Corp. unit, was named chief operating officer of the
fast-food chain, succeeding C. Ronald Petty, who earlier
resigned. Mr. Petty's title of president wasn't filled, nor
was a new chief financial officer immediately named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Caisse Des Depots et Consignations
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CAISSE DES DEPOTS ET CONSIGNATIONS (Paris) -- Gordon I.
Miller Jr., previously senior vice president, fixed-income
risk management, at the Chase Manhattan Bank unit of Chase
Manhattan Corp., was named executive vice president and
treasurer of CDC Capital Inc., the New York subsidiary of
this financial group, which has interests in banking, asset
management, brokering, public finance and life insurance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Xerox Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   XEROX Corp. (Stamford, Conn.) -- Four executives who
continue in their current responsibilities were named
corporate vice presidents. They are Patricia C. Barron,
director, corporate-information management; John Seely Brown,
a vice president of the corporate-research group in charge of
advanced research at the Palo Alto Research Center; Philip D.
Fishbach, vice president, finance, for the U.S. marketing
group; and Charles P. Holt, vice president of the systems
reprographics development unit. Xerox is a business-machines
and financial-services company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   International Paper Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS IP
</CO>
<LP>
   INTERNATIONAL PAPER Co. (Purchase, N.Y.) -- J. Alan Day,
previously vice president-quality management, environment and
health, was named vice president-environment, health and
safety for this paper and forest-products company. Newland A.
Lesko, manager-manufacturing, coated papers and pulp, was
named staff vice president and director of quality
management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Tailoring Taxes to Promote Growth
   ----
   By Bruce Bartlett
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   For many years tax policy played little or no role in
development economics. Textbooks barely mentioned the
subject. To a large extent, this followed from a lack of
attention paid to the incentive effects of taxation in the
industrialized nations following the triumph of Keynesian
economics. Many developing countries simply adopted wholesale
the tax systems of their colonial rulers without ever asking
themselves whether a tax system that may be appropriate to an
advanced industrial country is really appropriate to the
special problems of a small developing country.
   As a consequence, most developing countries, as well as
the industrialized nations, have had extremely high marginal
tax rates on both capital and labor. Although little, if any,
revenue was collected by such rates, they satisfied the
political desire to be egalitarian and justified the
imposition of high tax rates on the general population. Until
a few years ago it was not at all uncommon to find top
marginal tax rates of 90% or more throughout the
industrialized world. Even the U.S. had a top marginal income
tax rate of 91% until 1964.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This has now changed, partly as the result of the decline
of Keynesian economics and changing intellectual fashions,
and partly because of real world experience. It is now very
rare to find top marginal income tax rates above 50% in the
major industrialized countries. Even Sweden hopes to get its
top rate down to this level shortly. Many Third World
countries also have adopted important tax reforms that
lowered the marginal tax rate, broadened the tax base and
rationalized the tax treatment of capital and labor. In this
respect, Bolivia, which now has essentially a 10% flat-rate
tax, may be the quintessential example.
   "Worldwide Tax Reform: Case Studies of Developed and
Developing Countries" (ICS Press, 332 pages, $29.95),
published under the auspices of the International Center for
Economic Growth in San Francisco and edited by Michael J.
Boskin and Charles E. McClure Jr., tells the story of how
this radical change in policy happened. The editors are
particularly well-suited to the task: Mr. Boskin was a leader
in the analysis of the incentive effects of taxation while a
professor of economics at Stanford and is now chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers, while Mr. McClure was deputy
assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax analysis during
the Reagan administration, during which time he helped
develop the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which lowered the top
marginal income tax rate to 28%.
   Messrs. Boskin and McClure have assembled some of the
leading tax experts from around the world to examine cases of
tax reform in developed and developing countries. Among the
former are the U.S., Australia, Canada, Israel, Japan, Sweden
and the United Kingdom. The latter includes China, Colombia,
Indonesia and Mexico.
   Of special interest is an introductory essay by Arnold
Harberger of the University of Chicago on "Principles of
Taxation Applied to Developing Countries: What Have We
Learned?" Mr. Harberger has long been recognized as one of
the world's leading authorities on taxation and development
economics. The theme of his essay, as well as the individual
case studies, is that high marginal tax rates, heavy taxation
of capital, and distortionary tax systems are deleterious to
growth. The goal of tax policy, in developed and developing
nations, should be to have low marginal tax rates, low
taxation of capital, and as level a playing field as possible
so that different assets, factors of production and forms of
income are taxed similarly. In general, the authors have high
praise for the value-added tax and strongly support
integration of the corporate and individual income tax
systems, inflation indexing of tax systems, and elimination
of distortionary tax incentives, such as tax holidays.
   The essays are generally of high quality and for the most
part free of economists' jargon and mathematical equations.
As such, they are accessible to policy-makers as well as
academic tax experts. To the extent there is an unevenness in
the essays, it is due to the unevenness of the tax reform
efforts surveyed. In Sweden, reform efforts are still under
way, while in China they are in the midst of being undone.
   One would have preferred to see more of a discussion of
tax reform in the Third World. The tax reform efforts of the
major industrialized countries are fairly well known and have
been well-covered in other recent books. Tax policy in the
less developed countries, however, is an area where little is
known and where the greatest need for reform exists. There
are far too many cases, among them Zambia, where the
economically active population faces tax rates of 70% or more
at the margin, contributing to misallocation of resources,
growth of the underground economy, capital flight, and a
"brain drain" from the Third World.
   Although much more needs to be done, "Worldwide Tax
Reform" is an excellent introduction to what has been done
and what we now know about designing a tax system to
encourage growth.
   ---
   Mr. Bartlett is deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury
for economic policy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Blaming the Voters First
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   It has become fashionable to complain that less than half
of Americans now vote in national elections. We share that
concern, but we can't subscribe to the spreading theory that
national apathy is primarily the fault of the voters. Rather
it's a natural reaction to a political system that has
increasingly isolated itself from the electorate.
   The latest example of the "blame-the-voters-first"
syndrome is a report recently issued by the Markle Commission
on the Media and the Electorate. It claims that American
democracy is threatened by voters who are so indifferent and
apathetic that we face a "citizen abdication of the electoral
process."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The commission members have their own ideas on how to fix
the system, such as establishing an American Citizens
Foundation (to "monitor American political conduct") and
having Congress "direct the FCC to call upon the networks" to
educate the electorate on the democratic process. Candidates
should also "pledge to conduct clean campaigns." (The
commission members conclude that the Bush campaign
advertising set a tone voters found "distasteful.")
   But the commission's report is more interesting for its
tone than for its analysis or recommendations. "American
voters today do not seem to understand their rightful place
in the operation of American democracy," the commission says.
"When the nation was founded, the looming question was
whether a ruling class would be perpetually in control of the
new government, not whether the people would some day abandon
it."
   Well, an increasing number of Americans believe a separate
class has indeed developed in this country. A political
complex has grown up around Washington for the purpose of
transferring money from the taxpayers to targeted interest
groups. As a Wall Street Journal reader wrote us recently in
defense of this new system, "We are now a nation of pressure
groups." She may be right.
   Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster, says, "People don't
feel any sense of ownership over the federal government. It
isn't them and it isn't theirs."
   A new book, "Politics By Other Means" by Cornell
University political scientists Benjamin Ginsberg and Martin
Shefter, says there is a reason why voters no longer feel
connected to the political process. They argue that the U.S.
is entering a "post-electoral" political order as electoral
competition declines. Rather than engage the voters directly,
competing interests have taken political combat inside the
Beltway, using weapons such as congressional investigations,
media revelations and judicial proceedings. The authors term
the most popular tactic RIP: revelation, investigation and
prosecution.
   These new arenas of political conflict have little room
for the average voter. The American people have responded to
being sidelined from the real political struggles in
predictable fashion: They stay home on election day.
   At the same time that fewer voters are bothering to
involve themselves in national politics, one party has
controlled the House of Representatives for 36 straight
years, a dominance rivaled only by Mexico, South Africa and
the Soviet Union. The average House incumbent won 73.5% of
the vote in 1988, and one in five was not opposed by a
major-party candidate.
   However, none of this is to say that people are no longer
interested in their community or country. Citizen activity
and interest may have declined in national politics, but it
is vibrant and growing at the local level, where
volunteerism, charitable giving and neighborhood associations
are thriving. The American people are fulfilling their civic
duty in areas where they believe they can have an impact.
Washington, on the other hand, might as well be Mars.
   But there are also hopeful signs that voters may start to
insist that political power once again be decided by
elections and not by special prosecutors, federal lawsuits or
abstruse regulatory proceedings. A bumper crop of initiatives
will appear on state ballots this year on everything from
cutting taxes to allowing voter confirmation of judges. The
developing campaign to limit terms of Members of Congress is
supported in polls by two-to-one, with backing from liberals
and conservatives, blacks and whites, the rich and poor.
   The American people aren't naturally apathetic and
indifferent to civic concerns. They no doubt would very much
like to have more control of their government. The more
relevant question is whether the Beltway ruling class will
let them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Continental Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CIC
</CO>
<LP>
   CONTINENTAL CORP. (New York) -- Anne Wexler, chairman of a
Washington, D.C., government-relations and public-affairs
company, and Henry Kates, president and chief executive
officer of Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co., Kansas City,
Mo., were elected directors of this insurance holding
company. The elections fill one vacancy and increase the size
of the board to 16 from 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Management Co. Entertainment Group
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MCEG
</CO>
<LP>
   MANAGEMENT CO. ENTERTAINMENT GROUP (New York) -- Raymond
H. Godfrey Jr., 45 years old, formerly a managing director
and senior vice president, investment banking, at Rodman &amp;
Renshaw Capital Group Inc., was named president and chief
operating officer, filling a vacancy at this company, which
manages actors and actresses and finances, and produces and
distributes entertainment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commercial Banks Curb
   Lending to Third World
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5H
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BASEL, Switzerland -- The developed world's commercial
banks continued to restrict lending to Third World countries,
according to a new report on banking activity covering the
fourth quarter of last year.
   The banks' claims on Third World countries that aren't
members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
declined by $4.7 billion, with $3.2 billion of that reduction
in Latin America alone.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, developing countries substantially
increased their deposits in the banks, said the report by the
Bank for International Settlements. Asian countries paced
these new deposits, which rose by $14.6 billion in the fourth
quarter from growth of $9.6 billion in the third quarter.
Deposits totaled $58.2 billion at the end of 1989.
   While new net lending of $100 million in the fourth
quarter doubled from the year-earlier period and rose by $10
billion from the third quarter, it occurred mostly within the
industrial area covered by the BIS report. The U.S. and Japan
were the largest borrowers.
   The good borrowing demand in the developed area stemmed
from "strong economic growth, merger and takeover activity
and tightening credit conditions in the domestic markets,"
according to the report.
   Total net international bank lending for all of 1989 rose
a record $330 billion, after a rise of $225 billion in 1988.
At the end of 1989, net international bank lending totaled
$2.64 trillion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Capital Cities/ABC's Burke
   Takes Chief Executive Post
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CCB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRISTOL, Conn. -- Thomas S. Murphy, presiding over his
last annual shareholders meeting as chairman and chief
executive officer of Capital Cities/ABC Inc., handed over the
chief executive duties to his longtime No. 2, Daniel B.
Burke, as expected.
   Capital Cities/ABC's board, meeting privately after an
uneventful annual meeting at the company's ESPN sports
channel, approved Mr. Murphy's recommendation to give the
chief executive title to Mr. Burke, who remains president and
chief operating officer. The duo has run the company together
for 18 years, and Mr. Murphy will remain chairman and will
stay active in the affairs of the ABC Television Network, in
particular.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Burke told shareholders that ABC this year is expected
to log the highest sales and profits of any year since the
merger four years ago of the former Capital Cities
Communications Inc. and the old American Broadcasting Cos.
ABC earned about $165 million in pretax profit for 1989.
   But ABC, which earlier this year agreed to pay $900
million for four more seasons of "NFL Monday Night Football,"
may run a loss on the football contract. "We aren't certain
we can recover all the costs. It is just too early to say
what the financial ramifications will be," Mr. Burke said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Bankruptcies
   In Japan Fell 22% in April
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The number of corporate bankruptcies in Japan
fell to 525 in April, down 22% from 677 the year before, a
private credit research agency reported Thursday.
   But because of a substantial retrenchment in Tokyo stock
prices since the beginning of the year, the failed companies
posted heavy losses in equity holdings, bringing the total
value of their liabilities in April to 211.23 billion yen
($1.39 billion), more than double the 84.95 billion yen of
last year, Teikoku Data Bank Ltd. reported.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to the agency, April's decline in corporate
bankruptcies marks the 64th consecutive month of year-on-year
declines. Moreover, it said the sharp rise in the value of
liabilities marks the highest level this year and the first
time in nine months that the total has risen above 200
billion yen.
   The number of bankruptcies was up 4.4% from 503 in March,
with the value of liabilities close to triple the 73.2
billion yen of March.
   The number of bankruptcies due to losses on capital
assets, including stock and land holdings, jumped to 12 from
eight in March and only one in both January and February.
Meanwhile, the liabilities involved totaled 118.09 billion
yen, compared with 6.4 billion yen in March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amrep to Sell Utility Systems
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GWCC AXR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Amrep Corp., a builder of communities and
international distributor of magazines, said it agreed to
sell water and sewer utility systems serving Rio Rancho and
Santa Fe, N.M., to a subsidiary of GWC Corp., a Wilmington,
Del., water utility holding company, for more than $36
million.
   Of the proceeds, about $20.5 million will be used to repay
utility debt, and part of the remainder will be applied to
reduce other debt, with the balance to be added to working
capital.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale, subject to approval by the New Mexico Public
Service Commission, includes the Rio Rancho water and sewer
system and the small water utility serving Amrep's Eldorado
subdivision in Santa Fe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Second-Oldest Fund
   For Stocks Is Ready
   For New Money
   ---
   Industry Eyebrows Raised
   By State Street's Move
   After 45-Year Closure
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Is this a sign of a stock-market top?
   After 45 years of shutting out new investors, the nation's
second-oldest stock fund has finally opened its doors again.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the move by the $575 million State Street Investment
Trust, which was launched in 1924 and has been closed to new
money since 1945, raised eyebrows among some mutual-fund
executives. That's because it comes just as the stock market
has climbed a wall of worry to record highs.
   Met Life-State Street Investment Services Inc., the fund's
distributor, plays down the timing; officials say investors
simply were clamoring for them to reopen the ancient fund.
   "It's not immune to market cycles, and we recognize that
it can't time the market short-term with precision," said
portfolio manager Peter C. Bennett. But he added, "This fund
has been through thick and thin."
   Mr. Bennett, who has run the Boston-based fund for two
years, said investors who plunked down $10,000 in the fund in
1924 would have $28 million today. Last year, the fund rose
32.1%, compared with the 31.6% gain in the Standard &amp; Poor's
500 stock index. But in the 10 years ending March 31, the
fund rose 289%, far less than the 410% gain in the S&amp;P index,
according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc.
   When State Street Investment Trust closed, the nation was
still in World War II, and the fund's assets stood at a
then-bloated $55 million. With the New York Stock Exchange
trading just one million shares a day, the fund had the
equivalent of a $6 billion portfolio today, fund executives
said. The 45-year hiatus is the longest period a fund has
been closed to new investors; many stock funds haven't been
around for that long.
   The fund's 10 largest holdings make up 45% of assets; the
fund holds just 50 stocks. Its biggest holding, Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., represents 7% of the fund. Overall, Met
Life-State Street manages a total of $16 billion, mostly in
pension funds; it manages about $3 billion in mutual funds
spread among 25 portfolios.
   The fund's reopening has stirred a debate as to which fund
actually is the nation's oldest. Massachusetts Investors
Trust, incorporated in May 1924, is widely considered the
first. But the founders of the State Street fund, which
incorporated in July 1924, were managing money in 1923, State
Street officials say.
   "We actually had the money first; our three founders were
managing an investment club that later became the fund," said
William P. Rich, Met Life-State Street president.
   "It doesn't matter when you started managing money,"
countered a spokesman for Massachusetts Financial Services,
adviser to Massachusetts Investors Trust. "What matters is
when you started an open-end mutual fund -- and Massachusetts
Investors Trust was the first."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Quixote Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   QUIX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   QUIXOTE Corp. (Chicago) -- David S. Ruder, former chairman
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and currently
a partner in the Chicago office of the law firm Baker &amp;
McKenzie, was named a director of this maker of stenographic
equipment and safety devices, increasing board membership to
seven.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Software Maker Finds Wheels of Justice Grind
   Slowly When Justice Department Is the Accused
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Like a labyrinthine lawsuit out of Charles
Dickens's "Bleak House," the case of Inslaw Inc. v. U.S.
Department of Justice threatens to drag on forever, growing
more opaque with age.
   The story began happily enough in 1982, when William
Hamilton, a computer software inventor who owns and runs
Inslaw with his wife, Nancy, landed a $10 million contract to
provide the Justice Department with a computer program to
track court cases. The dispute over precisely what happened
next has spawned a cottage industry for Washington lawyers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In seven years of claims and counterclaims, two federal
courts have affirmed the Hamiltons' basic assertion: The
Justice Department under Attorney General Edwin Meese stole
Inslaw's "Promis" case-management software, which almost half
of the regional U.S. attorneys' offices continue to use. The
Hamiltons' tiny Washington, D.C., company was awarded more
than $6 million in compensatory damages, but the government
hasn't paid a penny while it has appealed the case for a
second time.
   After years of no-holds-barred legal defense, the Justice
Department has lately shown interest in quietly resolving the
case. It now proposes turning the dispute over to a
court-appointed mediator.
   But the Hamiltons refuse to settle. They want a public
airing of their allegations that a conspiracy reaching all
the way to then-Attorney General Meese's office aimed to
drive Inslaw out of business and make off with its software.
The department, Mr. Meese and other current and former
officials have denied the charges.
   The Hamiltons' best hope for a complete hearing may come
from the House Judiciary Committee, which has been
investigating the Justice Department's computer-procurement
practices. In addition to the Inslaw dispute, the committee's
staff is examining alleged irregularities in the Justice
Department's biggest high-tech overhaul ever. Project Eagle,
as it's known, is expected to cost at least $212 million over
eight years, and possibly much more.
   In Judiciary Chairman Jack Brooks, the Hamiltons have a
potential champion. The crusty Texas Democrat likes nothing
better than a good scrap with a big bureaucracy --
particularly during a Republican administration. The Inslaw
mess, he contends, has already set back computer
modernization at the Justice Department by "as much as 10
years."
   Widely considered a technological backwater, even by
government standards, the Justice Department badly needs
outside supervision of its computer operations, contends
Terry Miller, a Falls Church, Va., high-tech consultant.
"Justice ranks among the worst" federal agencies in this
regard, he asserts.
   Though they claim things are improving, department
officials admit that most of the agency's numerous bureaus
and subdivisions use incompatible equipment, resulting in
lost time, money and occasionally even lawsuits. Until
recently, some prosecutors "were getting whipped in court" by
private lawyers armed with more sophisticated research and
word-processing support, says Stephen Colgate, a senior
department administrator.
   The department hired Inslaw in 1982 to begin to address
the problem with its Promis computer software, which remains
the leading commercially available legal case-management
program. Almost immediately, the contract became tangled in
technical disputes, prompting Justice to cease certain
payments and ultimately driving Inslaw into bankruptcy court.
   The Judiciary Committee is investigating whether this was
an example of hamhanded federal procurement or, as the
Hamiltons allege, evidence of a massive conspiracy.
   The courts, without directly addressing the role of Mr.
Meese or his top aides, have ruled for Inslaw. In 1987, a
federal bankruptcy judge found that midlevel Justice
Department officials, by means of "trickery, fraud and
deceit," stole the Promis case-management software and
purposely tried to force Inslaw's liquidation. Judge William
Bryant last November affirmed the decision, noting
enigmatically that testimony and depositions indicated
"Inslaw performed its contract in a hostile environment that
extended from the higher echelons of the Justice Department."
   The department has exonerated itself in two internal
reviews, prompting conflict-of-interest allegations from the
Hamiltons. They have asked the federal court here to order a
new criminal investigation. (A Senate government affairs
subcommittee investigation last year failed to find proof of
a criminal conspiracy against Inslaw. But the subcommittee's
staff said they had been hindered by Justice Department
employees fearful they'd lose their jobs if they talked.)
   Based on privately funded detective work, the Hamiltons
say they believe that investors with personal links to the
Reagan administration conspired with Meese Justice Department
officials to ruin Inslaw. The investors' alleged goal was to
acquire Promis -- possibly at Inslaw's liquidation sale --
and use the valuable software to win a bigger prize: the
Project Eagle contract to deliver at least 12,000 new
computer workstations, complete with software, to some 200
Justice Department sites nationwide.
   "This is corruption, and it deserves to be prosecuted,"
contends Mr. Hamilton, who, with his wife, has resuscitated
Inslaw, which now sells updated versions of Promis to private
and municipal customers.
   The Hamiltons' conspiracy theory is receiving
point-by-point attention from the House Judiciary Committee
investigators, in part because of Rep. Brooks's belief that
government agencies periodically punish contractors who cross
them. The committee staff also is considering questions the
Hamiltons have raised about Project Eagle.
   Among these are why, after the protracted battle over
acquiring the Promis software, Project Eagle doesn't include
a uniform case-management program for all of the Justice
Department's branches. "It just doesn't make any sense at
all," says Mr. Miller, the private computer consultant.
Lawyers in the department's Washington headquarters can't tap
into a common data base to tell if someone in a regional
field office is working on the same case, confirms Tony
Salvemini, a technology analyst with the General Accounting
Office, a congressional watchdog agency.
   Taking a dark view, the Hamiltons allege that the missing
case-management system was supposed to be the pilfered
Promis. Justice Department officials insist that the Eagle
contract, awarded last June to Tisoft Inc. of Fairfax, Va.,
doesn't include a uniform case-management system for a more
mundane, bureaucratic reason: Each of the department's major
components wants to design its own.
   Frustrated to find his own small company under
congressional scrutiny and associated with the Inslaw
controversy, Tisoft's owner and chief executive officer,
Patrick Gallagher, says he doesn't know anything about the
Hamiltons' charges or about their software. He adds, "I feel
like we're caught up in a storm that has a life of its own."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Consolidated Rail Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CRR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CONSOLIDATED RAIL Corp. (Philadelphia) -- Claude S.
Brinegar, former secretary of transportation, and vice
chairman and chief financial officer of Unocal Corp., was
elected a director of this freight railroad company, filling
a vacancy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Siemens Signs Agreement
   With East German Concern
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SIE EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Siemens AG said it has signed a
letter of intent to cooperate with
Starkstrom-Anlagenbau-Rostock, an East German
power-technology company, in the field of electricity
distribution.
   The West German electronics group said SAR has a strong
presence in the northern parts of East Germany. Last week,
Siemens signed virtually the same accord with
Starkstrom-Anlagenbau Leipzig-Halle, a power technology group
in southern East Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If these cooperations are realized, Siemens will receive
a full market presence for energy transfer and distribution,"
Siemens said in a news release.
   SAR has around 1,200 employees.
   Since the beginning of the year, Siemens has signed a
series of preliminary cooperation agreements with East German
partners covering telecommunications, power engineering and
other segments of electrical engineering.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   U.S. Ignoring
   Colombian Aid,
   Official Charges
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOGOTA, Colombia -- A senior official of Colombia's
beleaguered government charged that restrictive U.S. trade
policies and failure to deliver on aid is impeding Colombia's
ability to fight the drug war.
   In an interview here, the official, who requested
anonymity, disclosed that Colombia sent the Bush
administration a "package of trade, technical and financial"
assistance requests more than two months ago and has received
no reply from the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plan, the official said, was sent in the wake of an
anti-drug summit in the Colombian coastal city of Cartagena
in February that brought together President Bush and the
leaders of the three Andean nations, Colombia, Peru and
Bolivia. At the summit, the U.S. agreed to place more
emphasis on trade and aid to help wean the Andean countries
from their economic dependence on cocaine, rather than
provide mostly a military and police response. But, the
official said, the U.S. isn't living up to its promise.
   "We were very hopeful, especially after Cartagena," the
official said. But now, Colombia feels a "negative attitude"
from the U.S., he said, adding, "It looks like they're not
interested." Alluding to recent U.S. decision to start a $35
million military aid program in Peru, the official said: "The
response of the U.S. is the traditional response to these
problems -- more military, more U.S. troops, more aircraft
carriers, not practical solutions on the ground."
   In Washington, the White House disputed claims that the
administration hasn't followed through on commitments made in
Cartagena. "We have been communicating with the Colombians
and doing things for them, so to imply that we haven't been
responsive is incorrect," said a White House spokesman.
   He said the requests alluded to by the Colombian official
are a "very broadbased list of things, most of which would
require special legislation to give special advantages to the
Colombians." The suggestion that these requests, many of them
trade-related, can be accomplished in a matter of months
"shows a lack of understanding of the U.S. political system."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sweden Central Bank Cuts
   Its Discount Rate to 11%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Sweden's Riksbank, or central bank, cut its
discount rate to 11% from 12%, signaling a stabilization of
monetary policy which had tightened substantially amid a
political crisis here in mid-February.
   At that time -- with capital markets closed by a bank
strike, pressure mounting on the krona, and the minority
government paralyzed by repudiation of its economic policy --
the Riksbank took emergency action and drove up money-market
rates by 2.25 percentage points to a lofty 15.25%. In
following weeks, it kept liquidity of financial markets under
tight control with a steady stream of so-called repurchase
agreements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The pressure finally began to ease early last month after
a bipartisan accord on economic policy rescued the
government. Riksbank Gov. Bengt Dennis, noting that benchmark
money-market interest rates are back to levels that prevailed
before the February flap, said the discount rate had been
reduced "to show a new lower interest-rate level has been
established."
   But he warned Swedish rates would remain unusually high as
a result of continued economic imbalances -- in particular
inflation and wage increases that remain far above rates
prevailing in other industrial countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Style: Father of the {ED} Look
   ----
   By James P. Sterba
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- As clothes horses go, we would have to put
ourself a furlong or two behind the nattier newsroom nags we
know, but not nearly as close to the glue factory as some of
them suggest that we routinely venture, dudswise.
   It's true that we've gone through life by and large
questionably "accessorized," as they say in the rag trade:
Our ties were narrow in wide-tie times and vice versa; we
broached braces but never really embraced them; we wear
loafers too much.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So, naturally, we were more than a little nervous the
other morning as we stared into our closet and tried to
figure out what to wear to a midday rendezvous with the man
who dressed Gordon Gekko.
   It was no time for a Full Cleveland.
   Mr. Gekko, you recall, was the corporate raider played by
Michael Douglas in the 1987 movie "Wall Street" who somehow
came across as a slimeball greedhead instead of the
public-spirited American hero free-marketers knew him to be.
   OK, so he said stuff like, "I bought my way in and now all
these schmucks are sucking my kneecaps." And, after a
big-profit real estate deal, "It was better than sex." And,
of course, the classic, "Greed is good."
   But he didn't really have to say those things. He didn't
have to open his mouth to talk. His clothes talked. They said
something we can't say here, but it consists of two words
that imply a somewhat hostile negative response. People
called it the {Expletives Deleted} look.
   The man who made those clothes talk is a 44-year-old
menswear designer named Alan Flusser. We had an appointment
with him -- for our '90s fashion update -- at his new Wall
Street (actually 50 Trinity Place) shop, above a McAnn's bar
and a My Daddy's Pizza parlor across the street from the rear
of Trinity Church.
   Downstairs, a Sicilian slice costs $1.50, and the
atmosphere is canned mushrooms and pepperoni. One flight up
is another world -- a world in which a custom-tailored
Flusser suit starts at $1,195. You'll want to finish off your
Sicilian slice before climbing those stairs because Mr.
Flusser's store looks more like a 1930s men's club, with old
chairs and tables, than a store. It has a cognac-and-cigars
sort of feel to it, a hide-out for men who hate to shop.
   While Mr. Flusser is a very nice man, he did make us
fidget a bit when he characterized suits sold in Barney's,
Brooks Brothers and Dunhill as "serviceable body cover" and
dismissed Hong Kong suits as lacking in grace, thereby
consigning our entire wardrobe to Nerdland. (We really don't
have a Full Cleveland, which, for you bicoastals, consists
more or less, of white belt, fake white Gucci loafers,
burgundy stretch doubleknit polyester trousers and a white
and burgundy houndstooth doubleknit sport coat.)
   Mr. Flusser's meat-and-potatoes suit made its debut in
1982 as a chesty British-looking, soft draped single or
double-breasted 1930s style garment first worn by the then
Duke of Windsor. It had side vents, pleated trousers, an
egg-shaped arm-hole. He sold 3,000 of them -- with subtle
refinements -- last year.
   Today's version of that suit is even more conservative,
and it's hot, mainly because FASHION GARMENTOS are trying at
this very moment to ram slouchy double-breasted Italian
stallion suits down our throats and the Flusser version is --
as we fashion lingoists say -- an elegant safe haven.
   "What we really sell today is very understated stuff," he
says. "People come for elegance, but they don't want to
scream it."
   Mr. Flusser didn't design Gordon Gekko's clothes for
safety. He went for sartorial arrogance and overkill: wide,
bead-striped single-breasted suits with peak-lapels and
turned back rollback cuffs; the shirts with bold, heavy and
wide stripes and extra-long and spread white collars; French
cuffs; foppish braces; and ties. Outfits that said, to clean
up the language a bit: "I've got it made. I don't have to
dress to please anybody but ME."
   After the movie came out, Mr. Flusser's phone started
ringing. In the next year or so, his business doubled. A lot
of men out there wanted the ED look -- men OUT THERE, in
small towns in places like Kansas and Idaho, who wanted that
look NOW and were ready to jump on a plane to New York for
fittings. Some did, and we could imagine them out there --
little Gekko echoes -- running around the country saying,
"Greed is good."
   Then things changed.
   Mr. Flusser's business is still booming, with a new shop
just opened in Washington, D.C., a Bergdorf Goodman space in
New York and Neiman-Marcus space in San Francisco coming
soon. But it turns out that your average high-powered Wall
Street tycoon of the '90s doesn't want his clothes to say
what Gordon Gekko's said.
   We thought this might be because the '90s is supposed to
be the DECENCY DECADE. Then somebody explained to us that in
this new post-Drexel, post-junk-bond, post-Milken world,
there's a lot of hiding going on out there, but not
necessarily less stealing.
   Say you're running a company, and Securities and Exchange
Commission sleuths are strip-searching your data bases and
the feds are readying indictments and you just gave yourself
a $4.2 million bonus and the board of directors wants to know
why. Do you want your clothes at that meeting to say what
Gordon Gekko's said?
   Just to get a second opinion, we called up another
sartorial swami for advice on today's outfit. Said he:
   "It should say strong, serious, tasteful, demure. It
should speak of being together, not sloppy. It should be
about caring and carefulness. Not fastidiousness. Not drab.
But not indistinct. Not fey or flighty, and not as if you're
reaching out to be fashionable.
   "Sincere colors, nothing that looks slick. No retro or
art-deco ties. Shoes dark and polished. No heavy gold cuff
links and chunky watches. No rings with gemstones. No pinkie
rings. No bracelets. No sunglasses indoors. No suntan."
   Not all of today's CEOs will want to follow that advice,
but it is what Stanley S. Arkin, a New York criminal lawyer
who has defended a lot of Wall Street guys accused of abusing
the free-market system, wants his clients' outfits to say
when they are presented to a jury.
   ---
   Mr. Sterba is a senior writer for the Journal in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   SCEcorp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   SCE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SCECORP. (Rosemead, Calif.) -- Harold B. Ray, vice
president, nuclear engineering, safety and licensing, at this
holding company's Southern California Edison Co., was named a
senior vice president of the unit, retaining the same
responsibilities. Charles M. McCarthy Jr., also a vice
president, was elected a senior vice president of the unit.
H.E. Morgan was elected a vice president of the unit and site
manager at the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, where
he is station manager. The appointments all are effective
June 1. SCEcorp. has interests in utility, energy, land,
electric power and financing businesses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   UDC-Universal Development L.P.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UDC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   UDC-UNIVERSAL DEVELOPMENT Limited Partnership cut its
quarterly 29% to 50 cents a share from 70 cents, payable July
5 to stock of record June 15. Just three months ago, the
Tempe, Ariz., builder of residential communities increased
the quarterly to 70 cents a share from 60 cents, and declared
a special distribution of 50 cents a share. UDC said the
reduction reflects "increased uncertainty related to the
economy and the timing of realization of revenues from new
subdivisions, particularly those in California." UDC also
declared quarterlies of 93.75 cents a share on its Series A
preferred, and 90.625 cents a share on Series B preferred,
both payable July 5 to stock of record June 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Prime-Time Game Shows
   To Make Comeback on ABC
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB SNE KWP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Prime time network television is rediscovering
the format that dotted its landscape in its infancy: the game
show.
   Capital Cities/ABC Inc.'s TV network is scheduling two
half-hour game shows, "Super Jeopardy]" and "Monopoly," to
run Saturdays at 8 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. beginning June 16.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The shows are produced by Merv Griffin Enterprises, a
division of Columbia Pictures Entertainment, in association
with King World Productions Inc. King World, the most
successful distributor of syndicated shows -- including
"Wheel of Fortune," "Jeopardy]" and "The Oprah Winfrey Show"
-- has been trying to launch "Monopoly" in syndication for
three years, but so far hasn't been successful in syndication
distribution.
   King World said it has a 13-week commitment from ABC for
both shows; it is possible that the shows could be renewed
for the 1990-91 TV season.
   Stephen Palley, chief operating officer at King World,
said, "We have been beating the drums for a long time that
game shows are great programming." ABC, said one King World
official, first approached the distributor about filling a
Saturday programming void. ABC declined to comment.
   This is the first time that game shows have appeared in
prime time since 1970, when ABC aired two Saturday series,
"Let's Make a Deal" and "The Newlywed Game."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unemployment Rose
   In Britain in April;
   Rate Policy Is a Factor
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Britain's seasonally adjusted jobless total rose
in April, the first monthly increase in nearly four years and
further evidence that the government's policy of high
interest rates is damping the country's economic growth.
   However, other data show that the slowdown isn't yet
having any impact on high wage pressures. Along with other
recent figures showing relatively firm retail sales and rises
in factory gate prices, the latest batch of reports tended to
confirm that inflation pressures remain strong. "These
inflation problems are going to be with us through this
year," said David Owen, an economist at Kleinwort Benson &amp;
Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unemployment data showed a 1,200 increase in the
number of unemployed to approximately 1.6 million, the first
rise recorded since the jobless total started to fall from a
high of more than 3.1 million in July 1986.
   Mr. Owen said most of the losses came in the manufacturing
sector, which is being hardest hit by the slowdown. Elsewhere
in the service sector, he noted, the labor market remains
"quite tight."
   Michael Howard, the Secretary of State for Employment,
pointed out that the rise wasn't unexpected given the lower
economic growth forecast this year. Nevertheless, Mr. Howard
added, "the interruption in the downward trend in
unemployment need only be short term, but much depends on the
behavior of wage negotiators."
   So far, though, there is little sign that wages are
anywhere near starting to fall in line with the leaner
economic outlook, economists said.
   The underlying annual rate of average earnings for March
held firm at 9 1/2% in March as it had in February. The
underlying rate remained high although several large wage
boosts announced in March have yet to be included in the
figures.
   Several economists, including Mr. Owen, say the strong
trend for high wage settlements, both in the service and
manufacturing sectors, will probably push the underlying rate
up to 10% in the next few months and keep it up there for
some time to come.
   "We will need to see a larger shakeout in the job market"
before wages settlements start falling, he said, forecasting
that unemployment could rise to as much as 1,750,000 by the
end of this year and head for two million next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   FDA Thinks Ragu Has Lots of Sauce
   To Claim Its New Product Is `Fresh'
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   UN UL
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   Ragu Fresh Italian, the newest combatant in the
spaghetti-sauce wars, has rivals and regulators in a stew
over what constitutes freshness.
   Ragu Foods Inc.'s $20 million campaign to promote the
product includes splashy print ads and prime-time television
spots of plump red tomatoes being sliced for the bottled
sauce. But the Food and Drug Administration is vigorously
challenging the freshness claim, and all of Ragu's hard work
could go down the drain if the agency persists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sauce itself, made from heat-processed tomato
concentrate reconstituted with water, is fine, says the FDA.
But calling it "fresh" isn't accurate. Indeed, the term is
"false and misleading," the FDA wrote in a recent letter to
Ragu, a unit of the Anglo-Dutch Unilever Group.
   Agency rules prohibit use of the term "fresh" for any
heat-processed food that isn't refrigerated. So the FDA has
ordered Ragu to correct the violations promptly or face
"regulatory sanctions such as seizure and/or injunction."
   Ragu, the leader in the keenly competitive pasta-sauce
market, with a 45.9% share by volume, is sticking by its
sauce. The battle is important: Americans spent about $1.1
billion on pasta sauces last year, and since the mid-1980s
the market has been growing by about 7% yearly.
   Ragu maintains that "Fresh Italian" is just a trade name,
like the trade names of other products, such as Poppin' Fresh
biscuit dough, made by Pillsbury Co., a unit of Grand
Metropolitan PLC, of Britain; and Contadina Fresh
refrigerated pasta sauce, made by Carnation Co., a subsidiary
of Nestle S.A., of Switzerland.
   To bolster its claims, Ragu has given the FDA a list of
about 500 processed products that use "fresh" in their names.
If the FDA refuses to allow Ragu to use "fresh," hundreds of
other products may have to be renamed, the company says.
   Besides, boasts Ragu, the Fresh Italian version is thicker
and fresher than competing brands and other Ragu products.
Consumers apparently agree. In the first six months of its
national rollout, the Fresh Italian line has captured about
8.2% of the spaghetti-sauce market. It also has become the
centerpiece of Ragu's strategy to recoup market share from
Campbell Soup Co.'s Prego, the No. 2 brand with a 24.9%
share. Since Campbell introduced Prego in 1981, Ragu has lost
an average of one percentage point of market share a year.
   Ragu accuses Campbell and a group of small tomato
processors of seeking to use the FDA to bolster their
competitive positions. "The complaints are coming from folks
who are using the same processes," the Ragu spokeswoman says,
adding that Campbell markets a Prego sauce with "fresh"
mushrooms. "We think it's very unfair to single out Ragu."
   Campbell concedes it put the FDA onto Ragu in the first
place -- but only to prevent Ragu from gaining an unfair
advantage. When Campbell saw early samples of Ragu's "fresh"
product last summer, the company asked the FDA if Campbell
could use "fresh" on its Prego line of sauces, which are also
made from concentrate. When the FDA said no, Campbell
complained. "How come they can do `fresh' and we can't?" asks
Robert Subin, sector general manager for grocery products.
   After an investigation, the FDA warned Ragu in September
that the sauce would violate labeling regulations. Ragu,
convinced it was in the right, went ahead with the
introduction anyway.
   Since then, however, several consumer organizations and
small tomato processors have complained. And at least four
states -- Texas, New York, Florida, and Tennessee -- have
threatened to take their own legal actions if the FDA doesn't
do something soon.
   With several food-labeling bills also being considered in
Congress, the FDA concedes that it is obliged to give Ragu
and its parent, Unilever, more than a slap on the wrist.
"There is such pressure for the agency to do something on
food labeling," says an FDA spokeswoman. "And the FDA is
right: This is not a fresh product."
   But the agency says it is still mulling its options,
ranging from negotiating a mutually satisfactory name or
label change to outright impounding of the sauce.
   Meanwhile, the prospect of Ragu wasting $20 million to
establish a brand that may soon be pulled off the shelves has
Campbell licking its lips. "We were astounded," says Mr.
Subin. "With that kind of forewarning" from the FDA, "it was
probably a foolish effort to go through and spend that much
money."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Retiring Isn't Driving Issue
   For Chrysler Chief Iacocca
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lee A. Iacocca said
he hasn't "made up my mind yet" about exactly when he will
retire from the No. 3 U.S. auto maker.
   But he told shareholders at the annual meeting here
yesterday that his contract with the Highland Park, Mich.,
company expires at the end of 1991, and that sticking to the
contract is "the plan I have at the moment."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Iacocca turned 65 years old last year, but agreed in
1987, when he signed his current employment contract, to stay
on as chairman and chief executive officer beyond that age.
   In answer to a shareholder's question, Mr. Iacocca said
Chrysler doesn't anticipate sweetening pension payments for
its executives. General Motors Corp. recently proposed
changes in its plan that would nearly double pensions for
3,350 executives, including Chairman Roger B. Smith, who is
to retire this summer. "We do not intend to follow GM," Mr.
Iacocca said.
   Replying to another question, Mr. Iacocca said he is "not
interested" in a leveraged buy-out and "I don't think our
board's interested in it." Rumors of such a move have
circulated periodically in the past few years.
   Mr. Iacocca also said Chrysler doesn't plan to cut its
quarterly dividend, despite a widespread cost-cutting program
at the company. Chrysler's current annual payout rate is
$1.20 a share, which Mr. Iacocca said translates into about a
7.1% return. Chrysler shares closed yesterday at $16.50, down
37.5 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
"Barring a disaster," he said, Chrysler doesn't "intend to
touch the dividend."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Report on Mutual Fund Industry
   Sees Slow Growth in Next Decade
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The boom years may be over in the mutual fund industry,
according to a confidential report prepared for the
Investment Company Institute, an industry trade group.
   The final report won't be released until this summer. But
already, word of it is causing a stir among fund executives
because it predicts a slower growing and less profitable
mutual fund industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among the conclusions: In the 1990s, the annual boost in
fund industry assets coming from new money will amount to
3.1% a year, down from nearly 10% in the past 15 years.
   The report's author is Heidi Fiske, a New York financial
consultant and former reporter with Institutional Investor
magazine. She was hired by the Investment Company Institute
in early 1989 to prepare a special report on "The Environment
for the Investment Company Industry in the 1990s."
   "We conclude . . . that the extraordinary boom which the
industry experienced in the 1980s was in many respects an
aberration, created by factors such as the long rise in the
stock market and the explosion of money market funds," Ms.
Fiske wrote in a confidential interim report dated Jan. 15.
"The industry can look forward to moderate growth . . . but
to expect that the growth rates of the 1980s will persist
into the next decade appears unrealistic."
   Until Ms. Fiske's final report is out this summer, the
Investment Company Institute is allowing only a small group
of fund executives to see the report. But Ms. Fiske presented
some of the report's highlights at last week's ICI general
membership meeting.
   "Virtually all observers expect a margin squeeze in the
decade ahead," Ms. Fiske wrote. She expects intensified
competition from banks, insurers and foreign firms,
particularly the Japanese.
   Many fund executives might hope that a slowdown in the
number of new funds would ease pressure on profit margins.
But Ms. Fiske reckons the proliferation of new funds may
continue, and that the fund industry will also face
intensified competition from other financial products such as
bank common trust funds and "wrap" accounts that allow
investors to hire a personal money manager even though they
have relatively small amounts to invest.
   Fund industry assets jumped tenfold in the 1980s, but Ms.
Fiske's report predicts much slower growth over the coming
decade. The report suggests that fund industry assets will
grow from $1 trillion today to $3.5 trillion in the year
2000. Money will pour in at a rate of just $58 billion a
year. That means three-quarters of the industry's asset
growth will come from appreciation of existing assets.
   Though money-market funds now account for almost half of
fund industry assets, Ms. Fiske's report suggests they will
shrink to 31% of assets by the end of the decade. Stock and
bond funds will account for the remaining 69%, though the
report doesn't spell out exactly how industry assets will
divide up between bonds and stocks.
   But Ms. Fiske clearly thinks stock funds could turn out to
be the industry's big winner in the 1990s. She reckons
investors, worried about money for retirement and their
children's college education, will turn to stocks in search
of higher investment returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Rebels in Pacific Declare
   Independence -- Via Fax
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Call it the first Fax of Independence.
   Last June, secessionist rebels on the bejungled South
Pacific island of Bougainville closed down one of the world's
largest copper mines, the Panguna mine principally owned by
CRA Ltd., Australia's largest mining company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Thursday, Reuters news agency reported, the rebels
declared their independence from the nation of Papua New
Guinea by sending a facsimile message to government offices,
foreign missions and to the news agency.
   It began: "I, Francis Ona, interim president of the
Republic of Bougainville, do hereby proclaim" the island to
be "a sovereign democratic and independent nation."
   Government officials say they'll ignore it.
   Mr. Ona, a former mine surveyor, is a 35-year-old
Bougainvillean and rebel leader. Fighting between the rebels
and government troops over the last 18 months has taken
nearly 100 lives.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quantum Corp. Order
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   QNTM
</CO>
<LP>
   MILPITAS, Calif. -- Quantum Corp. said it received an
order for hard-disk drives worth from $20 million to $25
million over the next 12 months. Leading Edge Products Inc.,
a maker of personal computers, placed the order.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Interco Threatens a Chapter 11 Filing
   To Pressure Bondholders On Debt Plan
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel and George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ISS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Interco Inc. threatened a bankruptcy-law filing in an
attempt to pressure bondholders into accepting its plan to
restructure almost $900 million in debt.
   The troubled St. Louis furniture and shoe company, which
borrowed heavily to recapitalize in late 1988, said it
doesn't intend to seek court protection from creditors under
Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code "unless the
restructuring cannot otherwise be accomplished."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, the
company said publicly for the first time that it viewed a
"prepackaged" Chapter 11 reorganization plan as an
"alternative method for accomplishing the restructuring."
   Bondholders have been grumbling about the plan, announced
last week. It offers little in the way of new interest-paying
bonds and, instead, relies heavily on issuing more Interco
common stock. As a result, some bondholders have suggested
they might fare better if they could push Interco into
Chapter 11.
   A company spokesman said, however, that Interco's Chapter
11 proposal involves "exactly the same offer with respect to
the terms we're offering to debenture holders and
shareholders." The only difference, he said, is that Chapter
11 requires approval by holders of two-thirds of each class
of bonds -- far fewer than the 90% needed for the debt-swap
offer.
   Moreover, he said the company's bank lenders wouldn't be
affected by the prepackaged bankruptcy filing. The banks, as
reported, are negotiating terms of an agreement that would
stretch out payments on $500 million in loans into 1992. The
banks already have extended until Oct. 1 the due date on
certain loan payments while they are in talks about amending
Interco's existing credit agreements.
   But disgruntled bondholders still could scuttle the plan.
If they fail to approve it in sufficient numbers, Interco
could still face a standard Chapter 11 filing that would
involve lengthy negotiations with all parties.
   Yesterday, in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, Interco shares closed unchanged at 46.9 cents each.
   Interco and its advisers, J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. and Smith
Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co., are believed to hope that a
prepackaged Chapter 11 filing could bring the company out of
bankruptcy-law proceedings within four months. In contrast, a
standard Chapter 11 petition could mean two years in
bankruptcy court.
   "The value of the business would almost certainly
depreciate substantially," if the company spent two years in
Chapter 11, according to one person familiar with the
restructuring. Interco makes Lane and Broyhill furniture and
Converse and Florsheim shoes.
   Interco sketched an optimistic financial picture if its
restructuring is accepted and its debt burden lightened. The
company said it could show net income of $55 million for the
year ending Feb. 29, 1992, and rising profits thereafter.
Operating cash flow -- net income plus taxes, interest and
depreciation, minus capital spending -- would cover its
interest bill by 1.67 times or better. Currently, Interco is
running losses and lacks the cash flow to service its debt.
   But Interco's projections require a lot of favorable
breaks, including steady annual sales growth of about 6%,
cost cuts of $75 million a year, and no big new
capital-spending projects. Bondholders with doubts about
Interco's prospects may decide that the restructuring plan
"isn't attractive," said Jerry Hirschberg, an analyst at
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
   Rather than swap bonds for equity in the
post-restructuring company, bondholders may press for more
cash from Interco. Otherwise bondholders may just "strap on
the hand grenades," reject the restructuring plan and see how
they fare in a full Chapter 11 filing, said Craig Davis, an
analyst at R.D. Smith &amp; Co.
   Interco's troubles date from its 1988 recapitalization,
when it borrowed almost $2 billion to pay shareholders
special dividends in cash and securities to fend off a
takeover threat from the Rales brothers of Washington D.C.
But asset sales have taken longer and generated less cash
than the company had expected. And its operations have fallen
short of expectations.
   Interco's bonds have sunk to such low levels that the
filing threat had little impact on bond prices. Interco's 13
3/4% debentures were quoted at about 26 cents on the dollar;
its two subordinated issues were quoted at about five cents
on the dollar.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Fidelity to Set Aside $300 Million
   For Bad Loans and Cut Dividend 40%
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FFB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAWRENCEVILLE, N.J. -- Seeking to get to the bottom of its
barrel of loan problems, First Fidelity Bancorp. said it
expects to set aside as much as $300 million for past-due
loans in the second quarter and slash its dividend 40%.
   As a result, analysts said that they expect the parent of
New Jersey's largest bank to post a loss of about $130
million, or $2.25 a share, for the quarter. The bank didn't
forecast results. First Fidelity earned $63.3 million, or
$1.03 a share, a year earlier. For 1989, profit was $159.5
million, or $2.51 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bad news, the result of a stem-to-stern review of the
$20 billion loan portfolio ordered by the new chairman,
Anthony P. Terracciano, wasn't as dire as some had feared.
Some analysts had expected the bank to eliminate its dividend
-- not just cut it to 30 cents a share from 50 cents a share.
In response, First Fidelity shares staged their best showing
in recent months, climbing $1.875 to close at $19.50 a share
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   In essence, the second quarter gives Mr. Terracciano, who
previously helped resurrect Pittsburgh-based Mellon Bank
Corp., a free shot at any loan made by the previous
management under former Chairman Robert R. Ferguson Jr. With
those loans behind him, he now must demonstrate that a
turnaround is under way and show some gains in the company's
listless core earnings and high overhead costs.
   Michael Plodwick, an analyst with C.J. Lawrence, Morgan
Grenfell, said: "This is where the honeymoon ends. Now
whatever happens is his."
   Once a hot "superregional" bank that was a darling of
investors, First Fidelity had been rudderless since late 1988
when problem loans were uncovered in Philadelphia and London
and the company posted a $176 million loss in that year's
fourth quarter. Mr. Ferguson's heir apparent, Harold Pote,
then president and chief executive officer, was forced to
resign as a result.
   Since taking the reins in January, Mr. Terracciano has
brought in fresh talent to newly created top positions, fired
about 10% of the work force, or 1,400 employees, and begun
consolidating back offices and more than 550 branches.
   Nevertheless, analysts remain worried about the direction
of the New Jersey-Pennsylvania economy and are holding off
recommending First Fidelity until the earnings outlook
becomes clearer.
   "Tony can do a lot, but he can't change the local
economy," said Felice Gelman, an analyst for Dillon, Read &amp;
Co.
   Mr. Terracciano said the increase in problem loans
reflects a weakening real estate market, a slowing economy,
and tougher examination standards being imposed by
regulators. He added that a significant portion of the $240
million or so increase in problem loans are ones on which
interest and principal payments are current. Normally banks
classify loans as nonperforming only when they are 90 days or
more past due; however, that practice has changed as
regulators have interpreted the term more conservatively.
   Even so, Mr. Terracciano said: "We presently anticipate
that the loan loss provision will return to a more normal
level in the third and fourth quarters. Thus, we expect First
Fidelity's performance in the second half of the year to more
clearly reflect its core earnings capacity."
   First Fidelity's capital and reserve levels aren't a cause
for concern. With nonperforming loans expected to rise to as
much as $850 million from $604 million as of March 31, First
Fidelity's reserves will stand at 75% of that amount even if
charge-offs double. The company's ratio of equity to assets
will drop to 4.2% from 4.7% but will remain above the 4%
level required by regulators.
   In a related move, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. placed First
Fidelity's long-term and short-term debt issues under review
for possible downgrades. About $750 million of debt is
affected.
   Separately, First Fidelity said that it is seeking buyers
for its Fidelcor Business Credit Corp., an asset-based lender
in New York City, and Latimer &amp; Buck, a commercial mortgage
firm in Philadelphia. Mr. Terracciano said the units are
profitable but don't fit the company's long-term plans. The
sales are expected to be completed this summer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Darker Forces Behind Romania's `Front'
   ----
   By Peter Keresztes
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BUCHAREST -- The spectacular December upheaval blasted
away the top of the pyramid of Romania's Communist
dictatorship, but most of that massive structure stands
intact. Five months later, Ion Iliescu's National Salvation
Front, the engineer of the alteration, wants popular
endorsement for the project. Even the Front's foes think it
will get it.
   The students who have been holding rallies on University
Square demand the acceptance of Article 8 of the Timisoara
declaration -- which would bar most of the Front, as former
Communists, from politics for six years. But the students
seem to be playing into Mr. Iliescu's hands. He has called
them "hooligans" and has not yielded in any way to their
demands to postpone Sunday's national elections.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Front spokesman, Adrian Nastase, claims protesters are
trying to "invalidate" the election results before the
election. Thus, he insists, they are violating the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. He also casts a few warning
words at Romanian television, controlled by the state, for
allowing itself to be "manipulated" by the students. He
regards the Front's willingness to give the students a
"speakers' corner" as a generous gesture.
   Generosity has its limits, particularly in the provinces,
out of range of most of the world press. Ion Ratiu, the
septuagenarian presidential candidate of the "rejuvenated"
Peasants Party, and Radu Campeanu, the somewhat younger
prospect of the Liberal Party, repeatedly ran for their lives
when Frontists in Tirgu Mures, Ordea and Braila physically
dispersed their audiences. The two have returned from many
years of self-exile in the West to lead the two parties that
are the main -- though apparently distant -- challengers
among the more than 80 groups taking on the Front.
   Mr. Nastase frowns on such incidents but asserts that the
culprits "act in their own capacity as private citizens" and
that the Front also has been hassled. Washing its hands of
such "police problems," it blames the murdered dictator
Nicolae Ceausescu and his predecessors back to 1938 for
having suppressed self-expression for too long.
   The Peasant and Liberal parties believe that the
international team of observers is too small to prevent
manipulation of the election results. That is plausible. But
risk of manipulation could be academic if the Front is as far
ahead as everyone seems to think. It has successfully
portrayed itself as Romania's savior.
   A less lofty purpose is beginning to emerge, however.
Romania Libera, an independent Bucharest daily, claims that a
transcript of a Front meeting shows the Front had been
preparing a takeover for at least six months before the
December explosion. Minutes after the Ceausescus fled, Petre
Roman, the current prime minister, was at party headquarters
-- to be joined shortly by Mr. Iliescu, Nicolae Miliearu, the
Front's first defense minister, Victor Stanculescu, the
current defense minister, and at least five others who were
to play a role in the Front. Diplomats say the Front's
18-point proclamation was too sophisticated to have been
produced on the spur of the moment. The Front was in touch
with the Soviet Embassy during the crisis, Romania Libera
claims.
   The Front's sincerity is also called into question by its
initial declaration that it would set up only a transitional
government and would not transform itself into a political
party. When it did, some supporters quit and nonstop protests
and hunger strikes began. In the wake of the Tirgu Mures
clashes between Transylvanian Hungarians and Romanians, the
Front ordered up a fact-finding committee. But it lost no
time in accusing the Hungarian government and travelers from
Hungary of having provoked the incidents.
   The most telling indictment of the regime, however, is the
fact that refugees are once again pouring out of Romania. The
flow had practically stopped in the first two months
following the fall of the Ceausescus. The average daily
number of arrivals in Hungary since mid-March has been 400 to
500. Austrian camps are jammed, so Austria has closed its
borders to Romanian refugees. The reasons for the flood
include the feeling in Romania that political intolerance
will intensify, exploitation of tensions among nationalities
will increase and the economy will weaken.
   Telephone taps have resumed, diplomats and politicians
swear. Literature once again is confiscated at the borders. A
guard who takes some of my historical reference books into
custody states that while it isn't illegal to bring them to
Romania, "it is inadvisable to do so now. In better times
this will not be necessary." So much for Prime Minister
Roman's ceremonious endorsement of the Helsinki document that
refers to the "free flow of ideas."
   The apparatus of repression is still intact. The
Securitate operates within the military under a new name,
Siguranta. The political police and the armed forces became
part of the Front's government as early as December,
according to a diplomatic veteran in Bucharest. The students'
suspicions about Front claims that "communism in Romania died
forever" seem well placed.
   Front nationalities policies fall short of the hopes its
rhetoric raised in December. Romania's rulers, like all
beleaguered regimes, continue to need what the Bucharest
diplomat calls an "enemy element" to serve as a distraction
from political and economic ills. In Romania, the more than
two million Transylvanian Hungarians fill most of this role.
In the wake of what they thought was their revolution too,
they proposed the restoration of their historic university in
Cluj along with the resumption of teaching in their mother
tongue in public schools. The response to such requests
included the formation of Vatra Romanesca, an
ultra-nationalist Romanian movement.
   Vasile Aileni, a vice president and council director of
the Front, says Vatra reflects Romanians' sensitivity over
Transylvania, which has been part of Romania since the end of
the first World War (except between 1940 and 1945 -- when
much of the province was annexed to Hungary). Hungary had
ruled the region for about a millennium. "Every country needs
a common language," he says. "And in Romania, the common
language is Romanian. If a Hungarian wants to study in his
language, he can go to Budapest, since everyone now has a
passport."
   To be sure, some things have improved. Since December the
cities are not as dark at night. People can and do criticize
politicians at the tops of their lungs. Food lines are fewer.
People can start small service businesses; they can own a
little land. Everyone has a passport (although no access to
hard currency for travel). And they now can vote.
   But the uncertainty is over what those votes are worth. As
Sunday's elections approach, a lot of Romanians think not
very much.
   ---
   Mr. Keresztes is deputy editorial-page editor of The Wall
Street Journal Europe. A related editorial appears today.
{See: "Review &amp; Outlook (Editorial): Reading Romania's
Future" -- WSJ May 18, 1990}
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Universal Matchbox Group Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS UMG
</CO>
<LP>
   UNIVERSAL MATCHBOX GROUP Ltd. (Hong Kong) -- Thomas J.
Kalinske, chief executive officer of this toy maker's
Matchbox International Ltd., the U.S. unit based in
Moonachie, N.J., was named to the additional post of
president of the U.S. marketing subsidiary, Matchbox Toys
USA, succeeding Andrew Gatto, who resigned to pursue other
interests. David Yeh, chairman and chief executive of the
parent, assumed Mr. Kalinske's duties as chief operating
officer of the parent. Kenneth A. Bloom, Matchbox
International chief financial officer, also was named
financial chief at Matchbox USA.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brazil Pressures
   Auto Industry
   With New Plan
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM F GM G.VOW FIA TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAO PAULO, Brazil -- Foreign-owned automobile plants,
leading players in Brazil's industrial development, are under
fire from a government that wants to open up the market.
   Brazil recently announced plans to allow the installation
of new automobile plants. The country's big four --
Volkswagen AG, Ford Motor Co., General Motors Corp. and Fiat
S.p.A. -- suddenly have found themselves at a crossroads,
independent automobile industry analysts say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Complicating the situation is a drastic anti-inflation
program that has dried up consumers' money and forced
existing auto makers to slash production and send workers
home.
   Brazil's automobile industry, the world's 11th largest,
"will have to choose between producing better and cheaper
vehicles that can compete internationally or be squeezed out
of the market, most likely by Japanese automobile makers,"
said Amedeo Scabbia, of the Sao Paulo office of Technomic
Consultants International, a consulting firm based in
Evanston, Ill.
   The four automobile companies "have a kind of gentlemen's
agreement to not rock the boat," Mr. Scabbia said. "Since
there is no real competition among them, they don't have to
bother with developing more modern or fuel-efficient cars."
   Before taking office in March, President Fernando Collor
de Mello described Brazilian-made cars as "horse carts"
compared with those in other countries. On May 1, he ordered
a study on the feasibility of having other automobile
manufacturers operate in Latin America's largest country.
   "We have already been informally advised of the interest
of some industries, namely Japanese, to set up operations in
Brazil," said Marcos Caramuru, press spokesman for the
Economy Ministry.
   Mr. Caramaru said the entry of new automobile
manufacturers would break the cartel-like grip Volkswagen,
Ford, GM and Fiat have on the market.
   But industry leaders, such as Jacy Mendonca, president of
the National Automakers Association, say an invasion of
foreign auto makers is unlikely in the short run.
   "When we sold more than one million vehicles in 1979 no
one showed any interest in coming to Brazil," said Mr.
Mendonca, the local auto makers' main spokesman. "Why would
outsiders want to come now, when we expect to sell less than
700,000 units?"
   Mr. Mendonca said Japanese auto makers he consulted
"showed no interest in investing in Brazil. They are more
interested in the U.S., Asia, Mexico and Western and Eastern
Europe."
   Tadatsugu Tanaka, administrative director of the local
subsidiary of Toyota Motor Corp., said that "although we hope
to one day produce passenger cars in Brazil, that day won't
come for quite a while."
   Since starting operations in Brazil in 1958, Toyota has
produced only jeeps and light-duty trucks here.
   Mr. Tanaka said Brazil's local market was too small to
warrant massive investments needed to set up automobile
plants similar to others around the world.
   "For the moment, the investment priorities of Toyota,
Japan are in Europe, the U.S. and Asia," Mr. Tanaka said.
   To produce cheaper and more competitive cars the
government needs to lift a ban on imports of high-tech
components, and lower taxes, which currently represent more
than 40% of the final cost of a vehicle, Mr. Mendonca said.
   Brazil exports approximately 30% of its production, but to
enter First World markets, the Brazilian vehicle must include
several high-tech components that can only be imported if the
automobile is made for export.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Resume Rally, Closing
   At New High of 2831.71 Points
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stocks resumed their latest rally, sending the
Dow Jones Industrial Average to another all-time high.
   Pinnacle West climbed 28%, or 3 5/8, to 16 3/8 after
acknowledging that tireless PacifiCorp had presented it with
yet another acquisition proposal. Pinnacle has rejected three
previous PacifiCorp merger proposals in the past seven
months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eric T. Miller, chief investment officer at Donaldson,
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, says the Pinnacle story is an illustration
that corporate buying is still the most important source of
demand for stock, whether it be through mergers, share
repurchases or the occasional leveraged buy-out.
   Pinnacle's news came against a backdrop of rising stock
prices as the market shrugged off a wider-than-expected trade
deficit for March, reported before the opening.
   Computer-driven buy programs spurred the industrial
average up 25 points before it settled back down to a gain of
12.03 points for the day, ending at 2831.71, a new closing
high for the index.
   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index added 0.47 to 354.47,
while the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index rose 0.35
to 193.49.
   Big Board volume totaled 164,770,000 shares, up from
Wednesday's 159,810,000 shares. Advancers led decliners, 832
to 649.
   Donaldson Lufkin's Mr. Miller said the momentum may carry
over today. Others said, however, that May stock options and
future contracts expire today, leaving the market vulnerable
to unexpected swings.
   The next big psychological hurdle for equity investors
won't come until early June, when the Labor Department
releases data on the nation's May employment.
   The numbers are likely to clarify the economic picture
that was clouded by seasonal factors earlier in the year.
   Alcan Aluminium led the most active list, down 1/8 at 21
1/8 on volume of 5.3 million shares in apparent
dividend-related trading. The stock, which went ex-dividend
on Monday, led the most active list Wednesday on volume of
more than nine million shares.
   Traders said Texas Utilities was also high on the active
list because of trading tied to its dividend. The stock,
which carries an 8% dividend yield, goes ex-dividend May 29.
It rose 1/4 to 36 7/8 on volume of more than 2.2 million
shares. More than two million shares of the stock changed
hands Wednesday.
   Sotheby's Holdings was also high on the list with a 1/4
point gain to 18 7/8. The company held a huge auction of
impressionist and modern paintings last night.
   Safecard Services soared 1 to 8 3/4, a new 52-week high on
heavy volume after Wertheim Schroder recommended the stock.
   Philip Morris was active, easing 1/8 to 44 3/8. The
company's German subsidiary has agreed to acquire a cigarette
plant in East Germany, according to a report by the East
German news service ADN. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Trading in American Stores closed at 69, up 3 1/2 after a
delayed opening. The company has agreed to sell most of its
Alpha Beta stores, ending a 1 1/2 year antitrust battle with
the state of California over American Stores's $2.5 billion
acquisition of Lucky Stores. American Stores will continue to
operate Lucky but will sell 152 of Alpha Beta's 175 stores in
Southern California within the next five years.
   National Westminster Bank added 1 1/8 to 33 5/8. The U.K.
clearing bank is in "exclusive discussions" to buy Europeenne
de Banque from Credit Commercial de France, according to the
Financial Times. The acquisition, if completed, would more
than double NatWest's network in France, where its presence
has lagged behind Barclays and Midland.
   Federal National Mortgage Association added 5/8 to 38 3/4.
An important measure of the association's profitability
widened in April, suggesting that the company's profits got
off to a good start in the second quarter.
   SmithKline Beecham's American depositary receipts gained 1
1/2 to 41 3/4. Prudential-Bache Securities upgraded its
rating on the stock to a "buy" from a "hold," according to
Dow Jones Professional Investor Report.
   Shares of Digital Equipment Corp. slid 1, or 1.8%, to 87
3/8. Traders said the computer company's shares fell because
a trade magazine reported that shipments of Digital's new
VAX-9000 mainframe computer could be delayed a month or more.
A Digital Equipment spokesman acknowledged some delay in the
shipping schedule for the company's VAX-9000 but said it
would have "no revenue impact." Dallas Kirk, director of
public relations, said "the schedule has shifted somewhat,
but it's nothing significant." He also said orders for the
9000 "have been great."
   Hewlett-Packard continued to slide, losing 3/4 to 45 3/8
after dropping 1 7/8 Wednesday. The company's executives were
said to have taken a "cautious" tone in a conference call
with analysts after the release of fiscal second-quarter
results Wednesday, said the investor report. It said several
analysts lowered their 1990 earnings estimates over concern
about Hewlett's shift toward selling more lower-margin
products.
   New Jersey-based First Fidelity Bancorp. jumped 1 7/8 to
19 1/2. The company announced it will pay a reduced quarterly
dividend of 30 cents a share due to an expected loan-loss
provision in the second quarter of as much as $300 million.
The company said its internal loan portfolio review is near
completion.
   Shareholders of HomeFed had a different reaction to news
of a rise in nonperforming assets at HomeFed Bank. HomeFed
fell 2 to 30 after reporting that nonperforming assets rose
10% in April.
   Westpac Banking slid 1 5/8 to 18 5/8. The company reported
that its six-month operating profit fell 8% from a year
earlier.
   Tucson Electric Power fell 1/8 to 10 7/8. The company
raised the possibility that it might be forced to seek
bankruptcy-law protection from its creditors if various
financing plans aren't successful, The Wall Street Journal
reported.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 1.26
to 354.94. Volume totaled 13,760,000 shares compared with
12,190,000 Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money-Fund Assets
   Declined $1.78 Billion
   For the Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Assets of the nation's 507 money-market funds
fell $1.78 billion to $381.71 billion in the week ended
Wednesday, according to the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington trade association.
   Assets of 245 general-purpose funds fell $640.3 million to
$131.53 billion; assets of 102 broker-dealer funds fell $1.41
billion to $158.43 billion; and assets of 160 institutional
funds rose $270.1 million to $91.75 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Yields on money-market funds inched up, and the yield
differential favoring money-market funds over alternative
investment vehicles available to individuals widened by a
few" hundredths of a percentage point, said Jacob Dreyer,
vice president and chief economist for the institute. "And
yet assets in individual accounts declined again as
individuals have drawn on their money-market-fund balances to
pay for stepped-up purchases of equities and equity-fund
shares as well as for Treasury bills and notes bought at last
week's auction."
   The latest drop was the eighth-consecutive week of decline
for money-market-fund assets. The total drop for the eight
weeks was about $10.5 billion, and "I think there are a
couple of pretty good reasons," Mr. Dreyer said. "Until
recently, you had a slight creep-up of
{certificate-of-deposit} rates, which means individuals were
shifting money," he said.
   During the eight-week period, "institutional balances
barely changed," he said. "The whole bloody thing happened in
broker-dealer and general-purpose funds," which are geared to
individuals.
   The second reason Mr. Dreyer cited was tax season, when
"people like me who owed money to the {Internal Revenue
Service} paid at the last moment." And third, "in the past
couple of weeks, we've had an excellent stock market, and
people are dabbling" in stocks and stock funds.
   Mr. Dreyer said that in the first three weeks of January,
assets rose a total $15.5 billion, "so this is not the end of
the world."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Stores
   Agrees to Sell Chain
   To Settle Lawsuit
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   ASC KR WMT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SALT LAKE CITY -- American Stores Co. said it will sell
one of its grocery chains, settling an antitrust action
brought against it by the state of California.
   As part of the settlement, American Stores will sell 161
Alpha Beta stores in southern California. The stores, which
had sales of roughly $1.8 billion last year, were valued at
at least $400 million by analysts. The grocery company has
five years to complete the sale and doesn't have to put Alpha
Beta on the block for six months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A decision by the Supreme Court last month, clearing the
way for California to challenge American Stores' 1988
takeover of Lucky Stores Inc., set the stage for yesterday's
settlement.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
American Stores climbed $3.50 a share to $69 on news of the
settlement, as analysts observed that American Stores was
fortunate it retained its prized Lucky chain.
   "People were expecting the worst," said Robert Roth, an
analyst at Merrill Lynch Research/U.S. "Selling Alpha Beta
{rather than Lucky} is certainly the lesser of two evils."
   American Stores, initially the owner of Alpha Beta Stores
Inc., took over Lucky Stores in June 1988. But California
officials sued to block the merger of the two operations,
arguing it would cost consumers in the state $400 million a
year in higher prices. The state won a federal court order
forcing American Stores to operate the two chains
independently during the state's suit, though the company was
later allowed to integrate its Lucky and Alpha Beta
operations in northern California and Las Vegas.
   A spokesman for American Stores said that "we could not
continue to litigate" because of the effect that years more
of uncertainty would have on its operations.
   The company declined to specify any potential buyers for
Alpha Beta. Jonathan Ziegler, an analyst at Sutro &amp; Co., said
possible suitors could include Atlantic &amp; Pacific Tea Co., a
subsidiary of Tengelmann AG of West Germany, Kroger Co. and
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
   Besides Alpha Beta, American Stores is considering the
sale of Buttrey Food &amp; Drug, a division of one of its
subsidiaries.
   In taking over Lucky, the company's debt soared to $3.1
billion, so "management is really focusing on bringing debt
down," Mr. Ziegler said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CNTO PCG X.NRU
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Benchmark Electronics Inc., initial offering of 1.1
million common shares, via Lovett Underwood Neauhaus &amp; Webb
Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Centocor Inc., offering of 1.3 million common shares, via
Hambrecht and Quist Inc., PaineWebber Inc. and Robertson,
Stephens &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

  Foundation Health Corp., initial offering of 3.3 million
common shares, via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and
PaineWebber.
                                                                                                       

   Micrografx Inc., initial offering of 1.3 million common
shares, 803,434 shares will be sold by the company, 596,566
shares by holders, via Alex. Brown and Sons Inc. and
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp.
                                                                                                       

   National Rural Utilities Cooperative Finance Corp., shelf
offering of up to $250 million of debt securities and
warrants.
                                                                                                       

   Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co., shelf offering of up to $500
million of debt securities. Wet Seal Inc., initial offering
of 2.5 million class A common shares, via First Boston Corp.
and Bear, Stearns &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Wet Seal Inc., initial offering of 2.5 million class A
common shares, via First Boston Corp. and Bear, Stearns &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Latest U.S. Demands for Market Access
   In Japan May Spur Strong Opposition
   ----
   By Christopher B. Wilcox
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The U.S. government intends to push for far
broader moves by Japan to open its financial markets, and the
tack could spur greater political opposition here than
previous discussions.
   In the past, the U.S. has primarily sought specific
openings for U.S. banks and securities firms into Japan's
financial markets on a case-by-case basis. But this time
around, the U.S. is seeking broad deregulation of deposit
rates, widespread direct dealings in the currency markets and
greater opportunity for foreign financial institutions to
manage Japanese cash.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Washington's wider approach may have the potential for big
payoffs to U.S. financial institutions, but there is also
greater risk of the U.S.-Japanese negotiations getting bogged
down in special-interest politics in Tokyo.
   The U.S. negotiating team will be headed by David Mulford,
the Treasury's undersecretary for international affairs,
while Japan's delegation will be headed by Makoto Utsumi, the
Finance Ministry's vice minister for international affairs.
The talks are scheduled for Monday and Tuesday; informal
discussions have been going on for some time.
   Washington's latest demands are viewed as threats by
Japan's smaller banks, its intimate network of money dealers
and its investment management industry. These institutions
have many allies in parliament, the Bank of Japan and the
Finance Ministry.
   "Japanese small- and medium-sized financial institutions
are strongly opposed to quick deregulation of interest
rates," says a bank regulator at the Finance Ministry, noting
that many feel they'll be unable to compete.
   He says the smaller Japanese banks "are very much afraid
that they will follow the path of U.S. savings and loan
institutions," many of which have collapsed in recent months.
   Then there is the question of how Japan's government-run
postal savings system would set rates if they were
aggressively deregulated, officials say.
   If the system chose to compete with the big banks by
jacking up rates, the move would hurt smaller financial
institutions, especially those outside the cities. If the
system set its rates lower, as the less competitive markets
outside the big cities allow, then it would lose market share
in urban centers to big banks.
   Furthermore, the prospect of higher yields in the postal
savings system isn't comforting to the government. If the
postal savings system has to pay higher yields, it
conceivably would have to collect more from its investments,
including the money it lends to the government.
   The potential cost to Japan's government of higher yields
in the postal savings system is just one example of the risk
of deregulating interest rates. Rising yields throughout the
financial system would threaten to push up the government's
cost of borrowing.
   Even though there is talk of a three-year timetable to
allow Japanese institutions to adapt to broad deregulation of
interest rates, that may not be long enough given the number
of Japanese institutions affected and the wariness of
regulators.
   In addition, the alarm of Japanese regulators about the
impact of futures and program trading on the stock market
makes them leery of aggressively pursuing another foreign
initiative. Stock-index futures were lobbied for by U.S. and
other foreign firms and governments, and foreign companies so
far have dominated use of the instrument.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Trade Surplus
   Of Japan Fell
   51.4% in April
   ---
   Effect of Consumption Tax
   Cited; Exports Declined
   5.8% as Imports Rose 15%
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- A sharp rise in imports caused Japan's April
trade surplus to drop 51.4% from the year before, reversing a
widening of the surplus in March.
   The April trade surplus, measured on a customs-cleared
basis, fell to $3.54 billion from $7.29 billion a year
earlier, the Finance Ministry said. Exports fell 5.8% to
$21.87 billion from $23.22 billion, while imports rose 15% to
$18.33 billion from $15.93 billion. In March, the trade
surplus increased for the first time in nearly a year, rising
7.2% to $7.09 billion from $6.61 billion in March 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ministry officials said that both April's sharp decline
and March's increase in the surplus were in large part due to
distortions caused by the imposition of a 3% consumption tax
in April 1989. Imports were unusually low in April last year,
as consumers were discouraged to spend after the new tax made
prices higher. That heightened the increase in the
year-to-year comparison of imports. But a rush of last-minute
purchases in March 1989 had increased imports for that month,
and one result was the upturn in the surplus in March 1990.
   Nevertheless, the narrowing surplus came as a relief to
the Japanese government, which continues to receive U.S.
pressure to correct the bilateral trade imbalance. Both
countries are trying to improve their trade relationship by
removing structural impediments in their economies that
supposedly prevent Japan's surplus and the U.S. deficit from
shrinking.
   In April, the trade surplus with the U.S. declined a hefty
46.2%, to $2.45 billion from $4.54 billion a year earlier.
Exports to the U.S. fell 15.1% to $6.72 billion, while
imports rose 26.8% to $4.27 billion.
   The drop in the trade surplus last month convinced some
economists that the surplus will continue to narrow for a
while longer. Although Japan's surplus had been steadily
shrinking for most of the past year, many had feared that the
drop in the value of the yen against the dollar until
recently would encourage companies to step up exports again,
since dollar-denominated prices of Japanese goods would be
lower. The Ministry calculated April exports at 157.2 yen to
the dollar, compared with 132.12 yen a year earlier.
   The drop in the surplus "lets a little steam off the
argument that the weaker yen will lead to an export boom,"
said Paul Summerville, an economist for Jardine Fleming
Securities Ltd. Pressure from the Japanese government and
slower growth in the U.S. economy will also keep exports from
rising too quickly, Mr. Summerville said.
   But other economists noted that by a different measure,
Japan's trade surplus has been increasing gradually this
year. Seasonally adjusted figures for the first four months
of 1990 showed the surplus to be growing at an annualized
rate of $60 billion, said Hirohiko Okumura, chief economist
for Nomura Research Institute Ltd. In the final quarter of
1989, he said, the surplus grew at an annualized pace of $50
billion.
   In addition, said Mr. Okumura, "the surplus is expanding
despite a recent government import promotion program. That is
something to watch out for."
   Exports in April were especially weak to the U.S.
Shipments of autos to the U.S. fell 33.7% to $1.5 billion,
reflecting slow demand in the American market and increased
local production by Japanese auto makers, ministry officials
said. Exports of videocassette recorders to the U.S. also
dropped sharply.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Americas:
   Leave the Army Out of Colombian Anti-Drug Operations
   ----
   By Maria Jimena Duzan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   BOGOTA -- Colombia's drug-related violence continues
unabated, and neither police, politicians nor civilians are
immune. Six children were among the 27 people killed last
weekend in a series of car bombings that took place while
crowds were shopping for Mother's Day presents in Bogota,
Cali and Medellin. In an effort to stop this madness, the
U.S. sent military aid here to help in the war against the
drug lords. The problem is, those receiving the lion's share
of the aid may be the least able to fight the battle
efficiently.
   In the aftermath of the assassination of Luis Carlos
Galan, the Liberal presidential candidate killed by the drug
lords last September, the Bush administration decided to give
$65 million to the Colombian army to fight the drug war. But
the equipment that arrived was considered "not appropriate
for drug wars" by Colombian police chief Gen. Miguel Gomez
Padilla. Indeed, the jeeps that arrived along with colored
bulletproof vests and eight helicopters -- one was sent from
Peru because it needed repairs -- were better suited to
counterinsurgency operations. Gen. Gomez Padilla reacted with
jealousy. "The drug war is a police matter," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But there was more to this than professional jeaolousy.
What was happening didn't make sense for many Colombians.
True, at one time corruption in the Colombian police forces
had reached the highest ranks. Gen. Guillermo Medina, former
chief of police, was fired by President Virgilio Barco a year
ago because it was alleged that he was being paid off by the
drug mafia after huge bank accounts were linked directly to
him.
   But Gen. Gomez Padilla, along with the chief of the
Federal Police, Gen. Miguel Alfredo Maza Marquez, helped to
purge corruption in the police in the past year. They have
changed almost all the high-ranking officers from the
northern part of Colombia who were under suspicion of being
paid off by the mafia.
   They were so aware of the corruption that they instituted
the "Elite Corps," a special police unit that has
successfully pursued narco-paramilitary squads at great
personal sacrifice. This unit has made many arrests and
seized record amounts of cocaine, including a 19-ton seizure
two weeks ago. During these operations, and as a result of
subsequent assassinations, 70 Elite Corps members have been
killed. In addition, the narcos tried to kill Gen. Maza twice
after he went into middle Magdalena, a region in which the
most powerful narco-paramilitary squads were based, sponsored
by the late Gonzalo Rodriguez "The Mexican" Gacha, and
trained by British and Israeli mercenaries.
   The federal and local police were doing well. So what was
the point of getting the army involved in a fight in which it
was not interested?
   "If we engaged the military in this war they would have to
prove they are not corrupt," a government official who works
with the president once told me. But what if they decide not
to prove anything? What would happen then? "They will be
fired," the official answered.
   So far, there have been no indictments of army officials
on drug-trafficking charges. But recently, President Barco
silently moved to dismiss from office four generals on
grounds that they were not tough enough against drug dealers.
   The subject of military corruption is a difficult matter
for any Colombian president. For ages, the army has made
bureaucratic advances as it moved to control the public
order. It even has autonomy over its own spending. The
police, on the other hand, are far more subject to legal
constraints.
   When rumors were first heard that the military was going
to join the fray in the drug war, some Colombian generals
said they were reluctant to participate because they were
afraid of becoming corrupt and because it would hinder the
only war they have been interested in for 30 years: the war
against several different bands of Marxist guerrillas.
   But what they didn't say was that in order to maintain
their battle against guerrillas, some members of the military
accepted money from the drug bosses, who were willing to
sponsor anti-insurgency efforts. In fact, last May, a colonel
based in the middle Magdalena was suddenly fired after
information that linked him with narco-paramilitary groups
was released to the daily newspaper for which I work, El
Espectador.
   Of course, some of the guerrilla movements have financed
their operations with drug trafficking as well. But few
generals publicly acknowledge that more recently there is an
alliance between the narcos and some big landowners. Fewer
still will admit that in some cases the army has become a
part of this relationship.
   During the past 10 years the drug mafia has bought a
tremendous amount of land, particularly in those regions
where there is a strong guerrilla presence. Today, drug
criminals own about 2.5 million acres of Colombia's 84
million acres of farm land. And their economic model,
although imposed by violent and bloody means, has lifted
important agricultural regions out of an economic depression.
   For many big landowners, the arrival of drug bosses
changed their luck. According to one such landowner, who
approached me after a 1989 seminar in Bogota: "Since the
narcos bought some farms just next to mine, our problem with
the guerrillas is over. We have been able to get back to our
farms and the development of the region is progressing."
Thus, the farmers, the newly landed narco farmers and the
army find themselves curiously aligned against the
guerrillas, who threaten all their interests.
   Certainly in today's Colombia, no institution is
completely clean. But these compromises with the army merely
accentuate the need to recognize Gen. Maza's success in
rooting out corruption and dismantling the narco-military
squads that threaten Colombia's future.
   Nevertheless, the Colombian army has better connections in
Washington than the police. Therefore, it will receive more
money than the police to fight the drug war in the next year.
The declaration of Cartagena Summit says that although the
drug war is regarded as a police matter, the problem is
getting so big that each country according to its
constitution could involve its army in the fight against
drugs. But the effect of this in Colombia is the progressive
militarization of the drug problem. Meanwhile, the
narco-violence has increased dramatically and the
anti-corruption campaign that successfully was being led by
the police has not yet become a reality within the army.
   Recently, Colombians have openly criticized the army's
involvement in the drug battle as well as the larger issue of
corruption. Bogota's El Tiempo newspaper editorialized in
favor of replacing the current defense minister (an army
officer) with a civilian. And the leading presidential
candidate, the Liberal Party's Cesar Gaviria, announced last
week: "We have to govern with a new armed forces." At such a
time, one wonders why the U.S. would choose to involve
Colombia's military in a fight it should not join. This
medicine could be worse than the disease.
   ---
   Ms. Duzan is a reporter for the Bogota-based newspaper, El
Espectador.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- The Fortress Companies:
   Jack Daniel's Hopes the Other Guy's Liquor Is Quicker
   ---
   Firm Has Frisky Whiskey Sales
   Because of Its Bucolic-Booze Image
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   BF.B
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   {Part of a Series}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   LYNCHBURG, Tenn. -- The modern world worships hustle,
energy and Beautiful People. But for 36 years, ads for Jack
Daniel's Tennessee whiskey have evoked the slow-paced life of
the rural South. And year after year, Jack Daniel's sales
stay in the fast lane.
   Before the rustic ad campaign, Jack Daniel's was just
another brand in the pack of premium U.S. whiskeys. The
campaign's success shows how a single marketing gimmick,
relentlessly pursued, can transform a product into a
marketplace fortress.
   Not many famous products pursue an old-fashioned
small-town, small-business image as consistently as Jack
Daniel's has from the days when it actually was a small-town
small business. Ironically, though, the image has given the
brand such cachet that it is now a big business -- and it is
owned by an even bigger one.
   "Lem Motlow, proprietor," reads a line under the
distillery name on the rustic-looking Jack Daniel's bottle
label. Yet the Motlow family hasn't owned the distillery
since 1956, when it sold out to Brown-Forman Corp., a
Louisville, Ky., producer of liquor and other products with
sales of more than $1 billion a year.
   But a cracker-barrel, small-business image can apparently
serve a big corporation as well as a small one. In surveys of
brand awareness, Jack Daniel's ranks first among all
distilled spirits. Among higher-priced U.S. whiskeys, no
brand comes close to Jack Daniel's in sales -- an estimated
$450 million last year. (Official sales figures aren't
released.) "It's the most profitable brand in the industry,"
says Frank Walters, research director for Impact, a
beverage-industry newsletter.
   Jack Daniel's, which Jack Daniel Distillery began making
134 years ago, has attained a seemingly impregnable
marketplace position, even in a difficult market. "These are
dog days for brown goods {liquor}, but this brand hangs in
there," says Tom Pirko, president of BevMark Inc., a Los
Angeles-based beverage-industry consultant. "They are
extraordinarily clever at implanting their message, which
taps into the American consciousness without being too
corny."
   The appeal works overseas, too. Australia, West Germany
and Japan, especially, are becoming Jack Daniel's
strongholds.
   The key to the brand's success lies in the famous ads:
unadorned, black and white photographs of Lynchburg oldtimers
killing time at the local service station, or distillery
workers on an old wooden porch. The message, also conveyed in
a few lines of homespun prose, is unambiguous. Slow is better
when it comes to whiskey making, and readers should drop by
Lynchburg and see for themselves.
   Twenty new ads are created each year. The campaign --
which began before the Brown-Forman takeover -- now runs in
about 80 magazines, with the same ad never appearing twice in
any one magazine. Brown-Forman will spend roughly $5 million
to advertise the brand this year.
   The homespun ads come straight from a St. Louis
advertising agency, Simmons, Durham &amp; Associates. But the
rustic-looking people in the photos are the real thing: Jack
Daniel's workers or Lynchburg residents.
   The rustic ads provide crucial brand identity and
differentiation. To the average palate, premium-priced
bourbons may taste pretty much the same. Still, year after
year, an overwhelmingly male customer base reaches for this
kissin' cousin to moonshine that flaunts, rather than hides,
its hillbilly origin.
   To many consumers world-wide, the squarish bottle with the
black label seems to convey the better qualities of a
vanishing America: a precomputer age when arguments were
settled over a cracker barrel, and a copper kettle and a slow
fire were a rural Southerner's idea of high tech.
   (While the spirits industry lumps Jack Daniel's with
bourbons, the company emphatically notes that the U.S.
government, for tax purposes, accepts the distillery's own
classification as a Tennessee whiskey. The difference is the
extra step Jack Daniel's takes of dripping its whiskey
through a 10-foot layer of charcoal before aging.)
   Beyond the ad campaign, Jack Daniel's works relentlessly
in Lynchburg to promote its image. Each year, between May and
September, more than 200,000 visitors travel to the tidy
village of 668 tucked into the edge of the Cumberland
Mountains, about 90 miles south of Nashville. They come to
tour the Jack Daniel's plant, laid out on 220 acres of
steeply wooded hillside. It is the nation's oldest registered
distillery, founded by Jasper Newton (Jack) Daniel in 1866.
   Slow-talking, veteran employees with a repertoire of
down-home one-liners -- "It was so dry last summer, I saw a
bush chasing a dog." -- lead groups of visitors through the
distillery's 19th-century, red-brick buildings. The guides
point out the safe that Jack Daniel allegedly kicked in a
moment of rage. He broke his toe, infection set in, and he
died of gangrene.
   Arthur Hancock, Brown-Forman executive vice president,
says the thousands of visitors who journey to Lynchburg year
after year have helped build brand loyalty. He says the
company doesn't cover up the existence of its modern,
high-speed bottling plant at the opposite end of town, or the
connection with Brown-Forman, but that visitors seem to be
seeking the Jack Daniel's portrayed in the ads.
   "The consumer isn't dumb," Mr. Hancock says. "They see
Jack Daniel's all over the world and know there's no way we
could bottle it all here in the Hollow. But they go along
with it, without thinking it's contrived."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ernst &amp; Young
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ERNST &amp; YOUNG (New York) -- This international
professional-services firm named Paul Ostling, 41 years old,
vice chairman, human resources, succeeding Donald Jentsen,
54, who is retiring because of an illness. Mr. Ostling was
previously national director, human resources.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Index Funds Emerge as Hot Turf of 1990
   ---
   Marketing Efforts
   Target Individuals
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Just as money-market funds were the hot
product in 1989, so stock-index funds are quickly becoming
the scene of this year's biggest mutual-fund marketing
battle.
   Following the stellar performance of Vanguard Group's
index funds, both Dreyfus Corp. and Fidelity Investments have
weighed in with index funds of their own. In recent weeks,
both funds groups have come out with unmanaged portfolios of
the stocks that make up the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock
index; these funds are designed to closely track the S&amp;P
500's performance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Small investors are just waking up to the virtues of index
investments, which have already attracted about $250 billion
from giant institutions. The oldest and largest of the index
mutual funds, Vanguard's Index Trust-500 Portfolio, notched
up an annualized total return of 17% in the 1980s, putting it
in the top quarter of all stock mutual funds. At the same
time, the average stock fund returned just 15.5% a year.
   As reported here earlier this year, the investment success
of Vanguard's index funds was long ignored by Vanguard's
competitors. Not any more. Both Dreyfus and Fidelity are now
running full page advertisements as they seek to wrestle a
share of the index-fund business away from Vanguard.
   "As far as a mutual-fund manager is concerned, an index
fund is a magical product," says one analyst. "It already has
a performance record -- that of the index. I'm hard pressed
to figure out why they didn't bring these funds out earlier."
   Though it's still early, it seems that Dreyfus's and
Fidelity's index funds are proving a tough sell even though
they are holding down fees. So far, Dreyfus's Peoples Index
Fund has assets of just $3.3 million (including $3 million of
the company's own seed capital). And Fidelity's Spartan
Market Index Fund has $16 million (including $4 million in
seed capital).
   If Dreyfus and Fidelity thought that this year's index
funds would match the popularity of last year's money-market
funds, they have clearly been disappointed. Early in 1989,
both Dreyfus and Fidelity brought out low-cost, money-market
funds, jumping into an area previously dominated by Vanguard.
Dreyfus's Worldwide Dollar Fund has since pulled in $7.3
billion. Fidelity's Spartan Money Market Fund has snagged
$8.3 billion.
   "They are jumping onto the index fund bandwagon, and
they're trying to get some attention by waiving the fees,"
says John Bogle, Vanguard's chairman. "Fees are the only
thing that distinguishes one money-market fund from another.
When you get to an index fund, fees are just one of the
things that affect return. Only a moron would buy a stock
fund to avoid a 0.5% expense ratio for two weeks or two
months. Apparently the market place is smarter than the fund
sponsors."
   Dreyfus Chairman Howard Stein concedes that the Peoples
Index Fund may not be the immediate success that the
Worldwide Dollar Fund was. "Yes, there is an education
problem," he says. "Yes, it will take time." A spokesman for
Dreyfus notes that while the fund group has been advertising
the Peoples Index Fund for some time, prospectuses only
became available on May 4.
   For years, Vanguard has had a virtual stranglehold on the
index-fund market. It offers index funds that track a
bond-market index, two international stock indexes and two
small-company stock indexes. But its biggest winner has been
the 500 Portfolio, which now has assets of $2.2 billion and
so far this year has been the fund group's best selling stock
fund.
   As with its other funds, Vanguard's edge in the index-fund
business comes from its extremely low annual-expense ratios.
The 500 Portfolio charges just 0.2% of assets annually, well
below the 1.5% typically charged by an actively managed stock
fund.
   To compete, both Dreyfus and Fidelity are holding down
expenses on their index funds. Dreyfus is absorbing all
expenses until the end of the year or until the fund hits
$100 million in assets, whichever comes first. Fidelity has
promised to keep its expenses at 0.28% of assets until May 1,
1991.
   ---
               Keeping Up With The Averages
                                                                                                       

   After years of being ignored by the fund industry, index
funds are starting to proliferate. Here are some of the
no-load index funds with the lowest annual expenses.
                                                                                                       

                          ANNUAL    INVESTMENT
                          EXPENSES  MINIMUM*   TELEPHONE
                                                                                                       

 RUSSELL 2000:
 Vanguard Small Company   0.35%      $3,000   (800)662-7447
                                                                                                       

 STANDARD &amp; POOR'S 500:
 Peoples Index Fund
 (Dreyfus)                0           2,500   (800)782-6620

 Spartan Market Index
 (Fidelity)               0.28       10,000   (800)544-6666
                                                                                                       

 Vanguard 500 Portfolio   0.20        3,000   (800)662-7447
                                                                                                       

 WILSHIRE 4,500**:
 Vanguard Extended Market 0.23        3,000   (800)662-7447
                                                                                                       

   *Minimum for IRA accounts may be less
   **Wilshire 5,000 minus the S&amp;P 500 stocks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Columbia S&amp;L
   Deposits Drop
   $243.3 Million
   ---
   Thrift to Omit a Payment
   On Subordinated Debt
   But Sees No Cash Bind
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CSV
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Columbia Savings &amp; Loan
Association said that $243.3 million in retail deposits have
been withdrawn since it reported a huge 1989 loss last month
and that it is omitting a semiannual payment due this week on
$38.8 million in subordinated debt.
   In addition, the S&amp;L said that the Office of Thrift
Supervision has joined the list of regulatory bodies
investigating its junk-bond ties to Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc. and that the probe includes a look at "certain expenses
and activities of former association officers." All the
disclosures were made in the company's first-quarter report
to the OTS.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The April deposit outflow, combined with total
first-quarter withdrawals of $200 million, means the thrift
has lost about 16% of its $2.8 billion retail-deposit base at
year end.
   Columbia experienced an additional $733.4 million in
withdrawals through April because of maturing brokered
deposits and faces a further $1.2 billion in withdrawals of
such deposits in the rest of the year. Retail deposits are
considered a more crucial indicator of investor confidence,
however, and are also a generally cheaper and more stable
source of funds.
   Nonetheless, Columbia officials said the thrift is highly
liquid and does not foresee a cash squeeze.
   "Columbia and its subsidiaries have liquidity which is
nearly two times the legal requirement," said a spokesman.
"We continue to be encouraged by the confidence shown by our
depositors at this time. We believe we have sufficient
liquidity to meet all foreseeable liquidity requirements."
   Columbia had about $1.1 billion in cash or cash
equivalents at March 31 to cushion further withdrawals. The
company is also raising cash by selling assets. It is also
believed to be examining other strategies for raising funds
in light of a number of new restrictions placed on the
institution because of its financial troubles. Under federal
law, Columbia, insolvent since Feb. 28, is prohibited from
taking or rolling over brokered deposits, which have
historically accounted for about 60% of its deposits. In
addition, the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco
recently put restrictions on its ability to obtain further
advances from it.
   The payment omission on its 11.5% subordinated debt could
be more ominous for the company's common shareholders than
the debt holders themselves, some of which have already
marked down the debt about 90% of face value.
   Some analysts believe Columbia will likely attempt to swap
the debt for equity in an attempt to help boost capital
levels. In the OTS filing, for instance, the thrift confirmed
previous reports that it plans to offer to swap some $72.9
million in other subordinated debt outstanding for new
preferred stock, a plan that could further gut the interests
of common shareholders. The spokesman declined to comment on
any plans for the 11.5% debt.
   The company also declined to comment on the OTS
investigation, which according to the filing, was initiated
late last year but only recently came to Columbia's
attention. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Manhattan U.S. attorney's office have been inquiring into the
possible existence of an illegal "stock-parking" arrangement
between Drexel and Columbia. Parking is essentially a sham
sale of a security that is designed to hide the true owner
for tax or disclosure purposes. Columbia was one of Drexel's
biggest junk-bond clients.
   The company also declined to comment on the OTS expense
probe. According to proxy materials for the company's June 5
annual meeting, Columbia paid its top executives $4 million
in bonuses last year, the huge operating loss
notwithstanding. Former Chief Executive Thomas Spiegel's pay
as a consultant to the company has been reduced to $1 a year
-- from a $500,000 annual rate -- because of regulators'
objections.
   For 1989, Columbia reported a net loss of $591.1 million,
or $30.11 a share. It reported a net loss for the first
quarter of $293.3 million, or $14.62 a share. The company
hopes to stem the flow of red ink by selling its $2.9 billion
junk-bond portfolio, which has eroded in value by about $1
billion since last year, triggering all the losses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- May Department Stores Co.:
   St. Louis Concern's Profit
   Rose 27% in First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   May Department Stores Co. said profit rose nearly 27% in
the fiscal first quarter.
   The St. Louis retailer reported net income of $80 million,
or 58 cents a share, compared with $63 million, or 45 cents a
share, a year earlier. The year-ago figure includes a loss of
$1 million, or one cent a share, on the company's
discontinued discount store operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   May Chairman David C. Farrell said the results indicate
that the company "is off to a good start for 1990." Sales in
the quarter ended May 5 rose to $2.19 billion from $2.05
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Watch:
   White House
   Schmoozes Way
   To Race Quotas
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Bush White House has a mind as open as the sky, so it
shouldn't surprise anyone that this week it assembled its own
Rainbow Coalition.
   To discuss a new civil rights bill (known as
Kennedy-Hawkins) George Bush met with -- take a long breath
-- liberal blacks, Hispanics (subdivided into Cubans,
Mexicans and Puerto Ricans), reform and orthodox Jews,
Asian-Americans (Japanese and Chinese but no Koreans),
Catholics, disabled, multiple women's groups and even a few
token conservatives. (Native Americans, somehow excluded,
should sue for redress.)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such loud public listening is often covering fire when
someone is about to abandon principle, which is what George
Bush may soon do on civil rights. That principle, affirmed
last year by the Supreme Court, is that policies of "racial
preference" are doubtful as both law and morality. Now the
civil rights establishment and some in Congress want to
topple those court judgments and preserve a racial spoils
system. A fight is on to prevent them, but principle is
likely to be snapped under the force of racial politics.
   And make no mistake, the politics is hardball. Benjamin
Hooks, the quick-to-judge head of the NAACP, walked out of
his White House meeting to declare the Kennedy-Hawkins bill a
"litmus test" of Mr. Bush's support for blacks. Mr. Hooks was
as always presuming to speak for all blacks. Arthur Fletcher,
Mr. Bush's own appointee to the U.S. Civil Rights Commission,
declared "a battle for the president's mind" -- as if Mr.
Bush would morally offend him if he vetoed the bill.
   Messrs. Fletcher and Hooks have allies among GOP politicos
who hope to banish the ghost of Willie Horton. The
president's approval ratings are close to 70% among blacks,
out of sight for a Republican. Some aides say accommodation
will keep those numbers high. Come 1992, Mr. Bush might
double his share of the black vote to 20%. So they --
communications aide David Demarest, for one -- arranged the
photo-op with Ben Hooks and other civil-rights liberals.
   The dissenters include a few administration conservatives,
but, more important, many blacks. Bob Woodson, the black
self-help activist, showed up Monday and asked,
impertinently, what this civil rights bill had to do with the
needs of poor blacks. Affirmative-action helps only the black
middle class, he said.
   "I don't want to see poor blacks sacrificed on the altar
of affirmative action to expand the base of the Republican
Party," Mr. Woodson said later.
   Buster Soaries, a Baptist minister, pointed out that the
student drop-out rate where he lives, in Trenton, N.J., is
53%, and most drop-outs are black. "The passage of the civil
rights bill won't affect that," he said.
   The Civil Rights Commission's Mr. Fletcher was so
flustered by these points that he dismissed the dissenters as
"superconservatives." (Remember when activists for the poor
were liberals?) Later, on the White House driveway, one of
his colleagues tried to cut Mr. Woodson off from the press by
declaring the session "closed." Earlier, the liberal civil
rights leaders had threatened to boycott the meeting with Mr.
Bush if black conservatives Thomas Sowell or Alan Keyes were
also invited. The White House bravely acquiesced.
   This debate among blacks speaks volumes. Mr. Fletcher,
like so many of Mr. Bush's black advisers, is well-to-do.
He's prospered on the federal payroll. Joshua Smith, another
influential black Republican, is a rich Maryland businessman.
A third, Thaddeus Garrett, is an upper-middle-class
Washington consultant. They all fiercely defend policies of
racial preference. Their opponents are blacks who work with
the black poor, who've learned that most of the racial spoils
go to someone else.
   Mr. Bush has at least objected to racial quotas. He may
have been impressed by Evan Kemp, his Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission chairman, who argued passionately on
Wednesday that quotas merely enshrine discrimination. Quotas
induce employers to hire the least disabled of the disabled,
or the most employable blacks, and no more. While Messrs.
Fletcher and Hooks deny that Kennedy-Hawkins contains quotas,
Mr. Kemp insists it does. But even if this quota problem is
only partly solved, most sources agree that this
split-the-difference president will be loath to veto
Kennedy-Hawkins.
   This is a shame, because Mr. Bush's goodwill among
minorities gives him a chance to shape a new and better
civil-rights consensus. That consensus would still redress
specific acts of discrimination, but bar reverse
discrimination. The current rash of racial violence, in New
York City and elsewhere, should disturb everyone. Mr. Bush
can do much to soothe it.
   But race-conscious remedies -- the quotas, "goals," and
set-asides of Mr. Hooks' agenda -- are sparks on dry tinder.
They breed condescension and complacency among whites,
resentment among blacks, and cause both to discount real
black achievement. A colorblind vision, however imperfect in
practice, is the only sustainable guiding principle for a
polyglot society.
   Listen to Buster Soaries: "The 1965 bill was a universal
civil rights bill that helped all blacks. But the Kennedy
bill is not about civil rights. It is about helping people
who have already made it. I fear it will only persuade whites
that they've done all they can for poor blacks. What we don't
need is another backlash that damages our cause."
   On civil rights, as on so much else, Washington lives in a
time warp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oerlikon-Buehrle to Post Profit in '90,
   Now Fears Possible Takeover Attempts
   ----
   By David Plott
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.OEB ML
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ZURICH -- Just when Oerlikon-Buehrle Holding AG appears on
the verge of posting a slight profit for the first time in
over four years, company management has begun worrying about
the possibility of a takeover attempt, managing director
Michael Funk said yesterday.
   "Several different raiders, some of them known to us and
some of them hidden, have expressed an interest over the past
six months in taking us over," Mr. Funk said. "As a result,
we'll have to devote more time to these takeover questions."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Funk didn't specify the possible raiders, but said
they include foreigners as well as Swiss, and they appear
interested in buying parts of the diversified arms,
industrial and consumer products group.
   Mr. Funk, at a press conference, insisted, however, that
the company has no plans to sell off any units, adding that
such a move would only take place "at our own initiative."
   Analysts reacted with skepticism that the company, or any
of its units, might become the target of a hostile takeover
attempt, given the fact that about 45% of the company's
capital is in the hands of the Buehrle family.
   "I really don't think there's a threat of an unfriendly
takeover, because of those family shares," said Heinz Waech,
head of investment research at Zuercher Kantonalbank.
   Mr. Funk, in commenting on the outlook for 1990, said that
"thanks to substantial reductions in losses in the military
sector, and an anticipated increase in profitability at {the
consumer goods division} Bally, the whole group has budgeted
for a slight profit."
   Although company officials stressed that the profit would
likely be small, it would mark the first time since 1985 that
Oerlikon-Buehrle has operated in the black.
   In 1989, the group lost about 42 million Swiss francs
($29.9 million) compared to a loss of 35.5 million francs in
1988. The loss posted in 1989, however, was sharply narrower
than the forecast of a loss of 50 million to 100 million
francs, made by the company at a press conference last
October.
   Analysts said the company forecast for a slight profit in
1990 is within expectations, although at least one analyst
said he wouldn't be surprised if the company merely broke
even.
   At Thursday's press conference, Mr. Funk said that the
military sector would continue to operate in the red in 1990,
but didn't provide a figure. The sector lost about 100
million francs in 1989, and has lost a total of 1.1 billion
francs over the past 10 years, Mr. Funk said.
   The company said the performance of its military division
continues to be hampered by costs associated with the
development of its anti-aircraft weapons system, ADATS, which
it is developing jointly with Martin Marietta Corp. of the
U.S.
   In October, Oerlikon-Buehrle restructured its military and
industrial divisions in an effort to streamline operations,
increase competitiveness and make joint ventures in both
areas easier. The military activities are now housed under
the name Gruppe Oerlikon-Contraves, while the industrial
operations, including electronics, engineering, computers and
system technologies, are housed under the name Gruppe
Oerlikon Industrien.
   Mr. Funk said that Gruppe Oerlikon Industrien would likely
post a loss in 1990, but didn't provide a figure.
   Board Chairman Dietrich Buehrle, in the company's 1990
annual report, said the company's new structure would focus
on resorting more to joint ventures and partnerships in the
development of products, rather than going it alone.
   "The traditional approach of developing complete systems
entirely at our own risk can no longer be maintained," he
said. "The development of major systems can only be achieved
through collaboration with partners, or through common
projects within a joint venture."
   Oerlikon-Buehrle announced Thursday that its Pilatus
Aircraft unit, Switzerland's largest aerospace company, and
Beech Aircraft Corp. of the U.S. have agreed to jointly
compete for a U.S. Air Force and Navy contract for a trainer
jet. If the contract is awarded, Pilatus "will produce a
major portion of the Beech-Pilatus Trainer for Beech, with
final assembly occurring at Beech's Kansas facilities,"
according to a prepared statement released here.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Xerox to Post
   Lower Profit
   For This Year
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX RTN
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Xerox Corp. will post lower profit in 1990 than in 1989,
even before taking into account a $375 million post-tax
write-off for bad real-estate investments, chairman and chief
executive officer David Kearns told the company's annual
meeting in Rochester, N.Y.
   In a separate statement, President Paul Allaire, who will
take over from Mr. Kearns as chief executive Aug. 1, made
Xerox's first public comments about a new line of
multi-functional office equipment that the company plans to
unveil later this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kearns was also bullish on the Stamford, Conn.-based
company's future, but conceded that continued growth in
Xerox's core office-equipment business won't offset a rapid
deterioration in its financial-services arm in 1990.
First-quarter revenue from financial services sagged 5% from
year-ago levels, while profit plummeted 84%, from $67 million
to $11 million, on weak results from insurer Crum &amp; Forster
Inc.
   Mr. Kearns, whose remarks didn't come as a surprise to
analysts, said this weakness in financial services will
continue, and added that Crum &amp; Forster's capital gains
aren't likely to reach the heights of last year, when they
contributed $359 million to Xerox's bottom line.
   Nonetheless, he said Xerox's financial-services
subsidiaries aren't for sale, and are well-positioned for
improved profitability when the battered insurance sector
recovers. But he noted that "alternatives to our strategy may
or may not be necessary."
   On the office-equipment side, Mr. Kearns said the effects
of recent government austerity measures in Brazil, where
Xerox does substantial business, remain unclear. Xerox did
better than expected in Brazil during the first quarter, he
said, but will likely do worse for the remainder of the year.
   For the first quarter, Xerox reported a
larger-than-expected loss of $254 million, or $2.93 a share.
That included the $375 million charge, which related to
Xerox's abandonment of its investments in VMS Realty
Partners, a troubled real-estate concern.
   Since those results, most analysts have forecast a drop in
1990 earnings. In 1989, Xerox earned $704 million, or $6.41 a
share, on revenue of $17.6 billion. In composite trading on
the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, Xerox shares closed
unchanged at $49.875.
   Mr. Allaire's comments focused on Xerox's future strategy,
and in particular on a new line of multi-functional office
equipment slated to be announced later this year. Though he
gave few details, he said these machines will be a departure
from Xerox's current copiers, which view documents as
transient images.
   Instead, he said, the new devices will store documents in
digital form -- as a series of electronic impulses
representing ones and zeroes. Users will be able to
manipulate these "digital documents" with computers, then
print them out in different locations.
   In essence, the technology will combine copying, scanning,
printing and facsimile capabilities in one machine that may
be called a Hydra.
   In a related development, Xerox said it will unveil
Tuesday four models of a multifunction machine that can copy
and fax, with some document-editing features. While the
machine demonstrates many of the features Mr. Allaire spoke
of, a Xerox spokesman said emphatically that "this isn't the
Hydra."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Hall of Shame Spot
   Isn't Wasted on Rogers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   In regard to your hallucinatory editorial-page article of
April 19 about Kenny Rogers's well-earned place on Rolling
Stone's "Environmental Hall of Shame" list:
   Mr. Rogers called Greenpeace USA Chairman David Chatfield
(whom your researchers might have discovered was the "guy in
San Francisco" had research been a priority for you) in
February 1989 and identified himself as an "investor" in
Summit Cement Co.'s toxic-waste-incinerator project. Mr.
Chatfield never gave the "off-the-record" approval attributed
to him, and your reporter committed journalistic malpractice
by making no effort to verify that statement (or even verify
the identity of the person who said it).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Summit Cement, whose waste is both "toxic" and
"hazardous," chose to build a plant in the Bahamas to escape
the community opposition that has become commonplace in the
U.S. due to the poor track record of waste handlers. Summit
Cement's stated goal, according to papers filed with both the
EPA and the Bahamian government, was to import up to 88,000
tons of waste from the U.S.
   The project was not killed by "environmentalist
roadblocks," but by the Bahamian government's denial of
permission to import the waste. For his flacking for such an
ill-advised project, Kenny Rogers deserves his spot in the
Environmental Hall of Shame. Your editorial page rates an
even higher ranking.
   Jim Vallette
   International Waste Trade Coordinator
   Greenpeace
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italian Economy Gets
   Forecast of Growth
   With Lower Inflation
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- The Italian economy can look forward to continued
brisk economic growth and easing inflation between now and
the end of 1991, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD) said.
   But the Paris-based organization issued a strong warning
that Italy's swelling government deficit and its regional
imbalances could have "damaging consequences" for the economy
in view of the approaching integration of European Community
(EC).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The OECD predicted gross domestic product (GDP) will grow
a real or inflation-adjusted 3.2% in 1990 and 3.0% in 1991,
compared with 3.4% in 1989. Although the pace of growth is
thus expected to ease moderately from last year, the "outlook
for real economic growth between now and end 1991 remains
relatively good," the OECD said in its annual report on the
Italian economy.
   The OECD confirmed the forecast it made for the Italian
economy made in the Economic Outlook published in December.
   Inflation is expected to ease to an average of 5.5% in
1990 and to 5.2% in 1991 from 6.2% at the end of 1989. But
the 24-member organization noted the reduction probably won't
be enough to narrow the gap between the inflation rates of
its European counterparts significantly. Furthermore,
uncertainties still surround price and wage developments, the
report said. Although labor relations have improved, the
result of wage negotiations in key sectors is still unclear
and could pose a risk for inflation.
   "Despite this protracted period of expansion (between 1983
and 1989 average annual GDP growth was 3.2%), traditional
imbalances in the Italian economy have persisted," the report
said. The OECD's foremost concern is that the government
deficit has continued to grow, aggravated by the constant
increase in the cost of servicing the debt burden.
   In 1989 the cost of servicing the government debt was 9%
of GDP, while the total public debt was estimated to be about
100% of GDP.
   Although the government has set a goal of eliminating the
budget deficit net of interest payments by 1991, economists
have predicted that the current targets will be overshot if
additional budget measures aren't taken quickly.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   X-Rite Inc. Unveils Product
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   XRIT
</CO>
<LP>
   GRANDVILLE, Mich. -- X-Rite Inc. introduced an instrument
used for measuring shades of color in the graphic arts
industry.
   Production of the so-called X-scanning densitometer is
expected during the fourth quarter of 1990, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, X-Rite said it is adding 30,000 square feet
of specialized production area to its existing facility to
cover an expected increase in sales of instruments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Is There a Conscience
   Beneath the Image?
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   With regard to John F. Budd Jr.'s April 16 Manager's
Journal: Plaudits to Mr. Budd for an excellent article. It
should be required reading for every corporate executive.
Clearly, when even senior managers do not trust their CEOs,
we have a serious problem.
   This is, however, not difficult to understand. When we
have been exposed to the arrogance of Exxon following the
Valdez incident and the incompetence of the Drexel Burnham
Lambert crowd, how can we feel kindly toward large
corporations? When we have seen some of our major trademarks
sold at auction by the likes of Henry Kravis, T. Boone
Pickens and Frank Lorenzo, is it not difficult to believe in
the social conscience of businessmen? When GM lost more than
10% of the world auto market in the past decade, how do we
continue to accept that "What is good for General Motors is
good for the USA"?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reputation of our politicians was damaged seriously by
the Watergate incident. Will the believability of our
executives suffer the same fate as a result of incidents such
as those mentioned above? Yes, corporate America needs to
improve its image. It also needs to improve its act or its
attempts at image enhancement will be only meaningless PR
gestures.
   Richard A. Gwennap
   Pittsburgh
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shearson to Split Its Banking and Brokerage Operations
   ----
   By William Power and George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- After years of trying to mesh its warring
parts, Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. is about to
reshape itself, splitting its investment banking business
from its big brokerage network.
   Shearson, the nation's second-biggest securities firm, is
expected as soon as next week to announce a series of
organizational changes that could include a new corporate
name and the uncoupling of Shearson's two main businesses:
its brokerage business for individual investors and its
investment-banking and institutional trading operations. The
new investment-banking unit is likely to resurrect the
magical Lehman Brothers name, employees briefed on the
realignment said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We need a new identity," said one senior manager, one of
many who have been briefed and debriefed in recent weeks by
McKinsey &amp; Co., a management consultant that has encouraged
the splitting of Shearson into two main business halves.
   People familiar with Shearson's plans say that the firm
probably will change its name to Shearson Lehman Holdings
Inc. or SLH Holdings Inc., with two separate divisions under
it, and that each might eventually have its own internal
profit-and-loss statements.
   One division probably would be Shearson's retail brokerage
business for individual investors; it would have nearly
10,000 stockbrokers and retain the Shearson name. The other
division, which would include investment-banking and
capital-markets operations, might operate under a resurrected
name of Lehman Brothers.
   Shearson, the struggling American Express Co. unit,
acquired the venerable Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb Inc.
investment bank in 1984; that was after Lehman's traders and
investment bankers split the firm in a civil war. Former
Lehman partners never fully integrated into Shearson's
corporate culture; some still announce themselves as "Lehman
Brothers" bankers. And Shearson retains a separate Lehman
brokerage operation for rich investors.
   Some Lehman veterans -- there are about 1,000 still at
Shearson, including brokers -- aren't hiding their desire to
resurrect their old firm, at least in name. "The Lehman name
stands for something in investment banking and capital
markets," said James Stern, a Shearson Lehman investment
banker and Lehman veteran. "As for the Shearson name, I'm not
sure it's the greatest name in the world. It's better than
the ayatollah's."
   But some senior managers of Shearson are against the
splitting of the brokerage business from investment banking,
if only because it will fan speculation that Shearson's
parent, American Express, is splitting up Shearson as a
precursor to selling it.
   Shearson executives briefed on the expected changes said
such speculation is erroneous, although the timing of the
split-up is nevertheless unfortunate. "I think the timing is
wrong, but the philosophy is good," said one senior manager.
   As part of the reorganization. Sherman R. Lewis Jr.,
Shearson's head of investment and merchant banking, and
Richard S. Fuld Jr., head of capital markets, are expected to
head the Lehman Brothers entity, people familiar with the
plan said. (Mr. Lewis has Shearson roots, and Mr. Fuld is a
Lehman veteran.)
   The realignment would play down a separate identity for
what remains of E.F. Hutton &amp; Co., the well-known but deeply
troubled brokerage firm that Shearson acquired in 1988, just
after the stock-market crash. About 6,500 Hutton employees,
mostly stockbrokers, remain at Shearson; many of them, too,
have chafed at being part of Shearson. Most of the new
Shearson names under consideration don't include "Hutton."
   Howard L. Clark Jr., a former American Express official
installed as Shearson's chairman earlier this year, is known
to favor a decentralization of authority at Shearson similar
to the management philosophy at American Express. He declined
to comment yesterday. A Shearson spokesman said: "We are
considering a number of options on how we could regroup our
businesses. We're still considering options."
   In recent months, Shearson has been struggling to deal
with financial and management problems, made worse by Wall
Street's recession. American Express was forced to inject
more than $1 billion into Shearson to prop up its capital
levels. The parent has also had to increase its stake in
Shearson, buying virtually all of it, rather than pulling
away, as American Express has long wanted.
   American Express plans to acquire the remaining publicly
traded shares of Shearson, subject to a shareholders' vote
expected in June.
   Shearson took a huge restructuring charge in the first
quarter to pay for thousands of layoffs, the closing of 67
U.S. branch offices and other cost-cutting efforts. That gave
Shearson a $915 million first-quarter loss, a record for a
U.S. securities firm. Shearson said that no new restructuring
charge will be required for its latest changes.
   Shearson officials said that under the expected
realignment, Shearson's big Boston Co. money-management unit
probably will report directly to the new Shearson holding
company. A number of Shearson administrative staffers would
report directly to the holding company as well.
   How will the Shearson split-up play on Wall Street? The
stock market has hammered Shearson's stock price to less than
half of its 1987 issue price of $34. In New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday, Shearson stock closed
at $13.875 a share, down 12.5 cents.
   The initial reaction from a top securities-industry
analyst was positive. "You know, one of their goals is to
keep good people," said Lawrence Eckenfelder of
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. "Well, if you create a
seperate investment bank, like the old Lehman, you could give
guys incentives to stay. By giving them an identity, I just
think you would help, longer term, as far as stemming some
defections."
   Some Lehman bankers are already hoping that Lehman is
eventually taken public by American Express. "It gives
{American Express} a hell of a lot more flexibility" as far
as splitting off Lehman down the road, said Mr. Eckenfelder.
American Express has vehemently denied it currently has any
plans to sell Shearson or any of its parts.
   American Express stock closed at $29.50 a share, up 25
cents in Big Board trading yesterday.
   Mr. Eckenfelder said the Shearson changes should be "a
positive" for American Express stock. American Express stock
rallied earlier this week on renewed rumors that Shearson or
part of it might be sold. American Express "categorically"
denied the speculation.
   Shearson's Mr. Clark also has discouraged such
speculation. In an interview last month, he said: "I was not
sent down to Shearson by American Express to fix it, package
it and sell it; I was sent to run it."
   Still, one top Shearson manager said he wishes the
reconfiguration plan were put off. "Why now, when we have so
many other problems?" he said. "There should be some good
news {about Shearson} first." Some Shearson investment
bankers said that some corporate clients recently have denied
Shearson investment banking business with the explanation
that they are just too unsure of where Shearson is headed.
   In recent months, finger-pointing has abounded within
Shearson Lehman as various divisions blame the firm's overall
losses on other departments. "I don't want to start the war
between the investment bankers and the traders or the retail
business all over again," said one former Lehman partner.
"But each group here thinks it's been successful. Everyone
thinks they made money last year. They all believe
{Shearson's troubles} are the other groups' fault."
   The McKinsey study is being led by McKinsey director Peter
Flaherty. McKinsey earlier had persuaded Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.,
the nation's biggest brokerage firm, to separate its Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets operation from the retail-brokerage
side of the firm. But Merrill's separation is much more
cosmetic than the one envisioned at Shearson. Mr. Flaherty
didn't return phone calls.
   Shearson is expected to break even for the second quarter,
analysts said. Even without the big $787 million
restructuring charge, the firm would have lost money on an
operating basis in the first quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   `Coming to America'
   Suit Comes to This:
   $58 Million Gap
   ---
   Sum Underscores Divergencee
   In Claims of Buchwald
   And Paramount Pictures
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Columnist Art Buchwald is out to prove that
Paramount Pictures Corp.'s accounting doesn't add up.
   Preliminary audit figures on the Eddie Murphy hit "Coming
To America" were released this week by attorneys for Mr.
Buchwald and his co-plaintiff, producer Alain Bernheim, as
part their continuing legal battle against Paramount over
profits from the film. What their audit shows is a $58
million difference between their calculations of the film's
bottom line and Paramount's.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Buchwald team says "Coming To America" earned a "net
profit" of $39.8 million. Paramount says the film had a "net
loss" of $18 million. The issue is an important one because a
state court here ruled in January that Mr. Buchwald had
provided the story idea for the film and was therefore
entitled to be paid part of the proceeds under a contract he
had signed with Paramount.
   Though the numbers might indicate otherwise, Paramount
isn't saying "Coming To America," which took in $275 million
in revenue world-wide, didn't make money. Instead, the studio
is arguing that Mr. Buchwald knowingly signed a contract that
explicitly spelled out the formula for "net profits" under
which he would be entitled to a piece of the proceeds. That
contract defines net profit as what's left after the
deduction of certain costs, expenses, and so-called "gross"
participations for the star and director.
   Paramount says that the film had income of $125.3 million
and that after distribution fees of $42.3 million,
distribution expenses of $36.2 million, interest expenses of
$6.3 million, and production costs of $58.5 million, the net
loss was $18 million. Mr. Buchwald's attorneys say their
audit shows income from the film was actually $160.9 million;
distribution fees were $54.8 million, distribution expenses
were $43.1 million, interest was nil, and production costs
were $22.9 million, for a net profit of $39.8 million.
   Robert M. Schwartz, an attorney with the Los Angeles law
firm O'Melveny &amp; Myers, which is representing Paramount, says
Mr. Buchwald's attorneys "went off in a fantasy world and
cooked up these numbers . . . . They are completely at odds
with the contract."
   The Buchwald camp maintains that Paramount and others in
the industry inflate such expenses and costs, and the
contracts themselves virtually guarantee that writers,
directors, producers and actors who sign them won't make any
money.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Regulation Cop Walks
   The Beat in Sunshine
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   At the outset of his April 13 Potomac Watch column, Paul
A. Gigot acknowledges that the Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) is a job "that sounds obscure but
has real power." On this point, his analysis is impeccable.
Indeed, I have long believed that OIRA and more generally the
Office of Management and Budget, of which OIRA is a part,
hold a position of power perhaps second only to the
president's. I dare say this fact is not fully appreciated
"outside the Beltway."
   But Mr. Gigot significantly errs in the remainder of his
piece. He asserts that I am "pushing legislation that would
strip {OIRA} of much of its power." The OIRA bill, authored
by Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D., N.M.), is currently before the
Committee on Governmental Affairs, which I chair, and would
provide for the funding of OIRA through the reauthorization
of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill, according to Mr. Gigot, "would in effect cancel
{OIRA's} current power to review paperwork demands every
three years." Nothing could be further from the truth. The
bill contains language that provides for OIRA to cancel
automatically a federal agency's information-collection
authority at the end of three years, unless the agency seeks
renewal for that authority from OIRA. I made changes to the
bill that would make this "sunset" provision more explicit,
including a clarification that it covers all such
information-collection authority, i.e., whether engendered by
a regulation or not.
   I have sought to keep OIRA intact, indeed to make it more
effective. But at the same time, have I attempted to make
sure that this "regulation cop" walks his beat out in the
open? You bet I have. I strongly believe there is a need for
a single entity to coordinate and manage the executive
branch's making of regulatory policy in line with statutes as
they are passed by Congress and signed into law by the
president. Like other areas of government, regulatory
initiatives often overlap with or work at cross purposes to
one another, with the result being diminished American
international economic competitiveness, endangered public
health and safety, or other consequences.
   But in exchange for bestowing on OIRA this type of
powerful franchise, OIRA's actions, like those of a utility,
must be publicly accountable. Accordingly, the bill provides
for greater "sunshine" over OIRA's activities. Importantly,
by the same token, I have made changes to the bill that will
cast greater "sunshine" over regulatory agencies' activities
as well.
   Apparently Mr. Gigot, and possibly others, believes that
greater public accountability will "gut" OIRA. I believe that
not only is public accountability required to make OIRA more
effective, but also that it is the proper system of
governance.
   Sen. John Glenn (D., Ohio)
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Goodrich Unit Opens 2 Plants
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GR
</CO>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- B.F. Goodrich Co.'s aerospace subsidiary
said it opened two two facilities to service commercial and
civil aircraft wheels, brakes and tires in Louisville, Ky.,
and London.
   The Louisville facility will support United Parcel Service
under an existing contract, as well as additional customers,
Goodrich said. The London plant represents an expansion into
the European market, with Air Europe as the initial customer,
Goodrich said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Goodrich also produces chemicals and plastics.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Copperweld Special Meeting
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   COS F.IME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Copperweld Corp. said it rescheduled its
special stockholders' meeting to July 10.
   Shareholders of record June 8 will vote on Copperweld's
agreement to be acquired by Imetal, Paris, which has agreed
to acquire the 34.8% of Copperweld it doesn't already own for
$17 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Vengeance Is Rightfully Ours
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   In your April 25 article on Michael Milken ("Reactions to
Milken: Villain or Victim?"), lawyer Joe Jamail explained
that he would be troubled by a stiff prison sentence that
punished "for vengeance's sake." As a law student, I do not
wish to presume more knowledge than a practicing lawyer.
However, my understanding of modern criminal law is that we
do punish for punishment's sake. The notion of
rehabilitation, while noble, has long since been abandoned as
the primary goal of the U.S. punishment system. In this
light, Mr. Milken clearly deserves more than a financial slap
on the wrist.
   Barry M. Freiman
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Certified Public Accountant
   Law Student
   Washington College of Law
   American University
   Chevy Chase, Md.
   ---
   I predict that someday -- when laws that make it a crime
to succeed at business are gone -- Michael Milken will be a
hero in the history books as the most spectacularly innocent
victim of a witch hunt.
   Cynthia Gillis
   Brooklyn, N.Y.
   ---
   A few reactions to the "Reactions:"
   For Charles H. Keating Jr., executive: Of course "you
don't put Michelangelo or da Vinci in jail." But Michael was
no Michelangelo, and you're no da Vinci. Maybe you and
Michael can be cellmates.
   For Rabbi Arnold Wolf, who commented, "He should be hung
by his thumbs for years and years and years. He's a very
terrible person." Come on, Rabbi -- don't hold back, tell us
what you really think.
   For Stephen A. Wynn, CEO, Golden Nugget, who says Michael
doesn't belong in prison: You roll the dice and take your
chances.
   For Rep. John Dingell, who questions the settlement: The
Milken crimes pale in comparison with the fraud committed by
the U.S. Congress on the American public in cooking the
government's books each year. Our children and grandchildren
should have us all put away.
   For The Wall Street Journal: I missed your reaction, or
perhaps you were too busy wiping the egg off your faces with
your old editorials.
   Gary A. Cutson
   Marietta, Ga.
   ---
   As always, history as written will be what the historian
says it is. It is to be hoped that the reason of gentlemen
like H. Ross Perot will be the loudest -- "Don't govern your
life by what's legal or illegal, govern it by what's right or
wrong." Simple but clear words that can be used as a guide to
live by.
   With thoughtfulness and honesty, history will, I hope,
expose the rationalization of gentlemen such as Mr. Keating
as what it truly is -- pure and unadulterated bunk. To
suggest that the monkeys be put in charge of the peanuts is
to deny the reality of the situation. Mr. Milken did not cop
a plea because he is faultless. For his crimes he must be
held accountable. After he pays his debt to society he very
well may be able to contribute to worthwhile causes. To cast
him as a victim, suggest he be placed in a position of public
trust and place him in the category of Michelangelo and da
Vinci is at best weak and self-serving.
   Scott F. Guertin
   Weymouth, Mass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Morgan Stanley
   To Get New Chief
   At End of Year
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- One of Wall Street's biggest investment banks
will soon have a new chief.
   S. Parker Gilbert, for six years chairman of Morgan
Stanley Group Inc., said he will resign at year end from the
securities firm, which has been thriving while many other
firms struggled.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new chairman will be Richard B. Fisher, 53 years old,
who as the firm's president has played a major role in the
firm's strategic direction in recent years.
   A big winner stands to be Robert F. Greenhill, currently
vice chairman, who is slated to be elected president. Both
men are longstanding members of management and have worked
together with Mr. Gilbert for 28 years. They said Mr.
Gilbert, 56, told them several months ago of his plans.
   The moves suggest that Morgan Stanley's recent strategy of
focusing on areas with fat profit margins will continue. The
firm's major strategic push for the 1990s centers on its
international strengths, including trading for its own
account, mergers and acquisitions, investment banking and
custodial operations.
   Despite the firm's success, Mr. Fisher said in an
interview that he expects the securities business to stay
tough for awhile.
   "Whether it's trading or financing volume or M&amp;A, we're in
one of those lull periods," he said, adding that the pressure
is intensified by Wall Street's overstaffing of as much as
25%. "It will take another six to 18 months to work through
the capacity problem."
   Mr. Gilbert's resignation surprised the New York Stock
Exchange, which had planned to nominate him as Big Board vice
chairman at the meeting of new board of directors next month.
Mr. Gilbert isn't any longer eligible to be vice chairman
because only chief executives are allowed in the post.
   A leading candidate to replace Mr. Greenhill as vice
chairman is managing director Joseph G. Fogg III, Morgan
Stanley insiders say. Mr. Greenhill and other Morgan Stanley
officials declined to comment on his successor. The firm's
board will formally vote on the changes in July.
   Morgan Stanley recently has been among the most profitable
Wall Street firms. Its return on equity currently stands at
about 27%, the largest among publicly traded investment
banks. Record trading revenue in the first quarter -- up 41%
from a year earlier -- more than offset the firm's lowest
investment banking revenue since the fourth quarter of 1987.
   The executive suite at Morgan gives little sign of Wall
Street's recession. Messrs. Gilbert, Fisher and Greenhill
received cash compensation of $5,475,000 apiece in 1989, a
24% jump from the $4,425,000 they each made in 1988.
   Mr. Greenhill, who is 53, shrugged off analysts' concerns
that Morgan made much of its money in the first quarter from
trading for its own account -- and not customary businesses
such as investment banking. "We focus on making money, not
being heroes in traditional securities businesses," he said.
   Mr. Gilbert will remain closely affiliated with the firm
as a director of Morgan Stanley Group and as chairman of its
advisory board. In a statement, he said: "The ongoing
partnership of equals between Dick and Bob in the leadership
of the firm is a powerful combination for continued
successful growth of our business around the world in the
1990s."
   A 30-year veteran at Morgan Stanley, Mr. Gilbert first
worked in marketing and corporate finance before being
elected a partner in 1969. He has been a managing director
since 1970 and a member of the firm's management committee
since it was formed in 1974. He was elected president in
1983.
   Mr. Fisher has been president for six years; before then,
he was director of the firm's capital-markets division. Mr.
Greenhill, director of Morgan Stanley's investment banking
division, was elected vice chairman last year. Each of the
two men graduated from Harvard Business School in 1962 as a
Baker Scholar with High Distinction. They have risen in the
ranks together. Both became managing directors in 1970.
   Some say Mr. Gilbert's resignation marks a turning point.
"Parker was the symbol of the old guard at Morgan," says Roy
C. Smith, professor of finance at New York University
Graduate School of Finance and a limited partner at Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co., noting that Mr. Gilbert's father was a partner
in the old days at Morgan. But Messrs. Fisher and Greenhill
take a different view. "After 28 years, we're pretty hard to
differentiate from the old guard," Mr. Greenhill says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Star Banc Buys Verona Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   STRZ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Star Banc Corp. said it completed the
purchase of Verona Bank, Verona, Ky. Terms weren't dislosed.
   The bank holding company said Verona Bank, renamed Star
Bank, Northern Kentucky, has assets of $37.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Champion International Holders Back
   Call for Vote on Anti-Takeover Measure
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   CHA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Shareholders of Champion International Corp. approved a
resolution asking that one of the paper company's
anti-takeover measures be put to a shareholder vote,
according to the resolution's sponsor.
   Some analysts and Champion shareholders interpreted the
52% vote as a slap at Champion Chairman Andrew Sigler, an
outspoken opponent of corporate raiders and hostile
takeovers, because Champion's performance has lagged behind
that of other paper concerns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The vote is also the latest example of growing activism by
giant institutional investors in the governance of companies
in which they own stock. "We believe this is the beginning of
a shareholder revolt to bring out value in this company,"
said Neil Weisman, president of Chilmark Capital Corp., which
owns more than one million Champion shares.
   The nonbinding resolution was sponsored by Wisconsin State
Investment Board, which owns 1.2 million Champion shares. It
asked that the Stamford, Conn., company put its poison pill,
which makes a hostile takeover prohibitively expensive, to a
shareholder vote. The measure was opposed by management.
   Champion executives couldn't be reached for comment on the
results of the vote because the company's phones were out of
order due to phone-company trouble. The vote tally was
disclosed by the Wisconsin state fund, which has $23 billion
in assets.
   Some Wall Street investors found it ironic that Mr.
Sigler, who headed a task force reviewing takeover-related
issues for the Business Roundtable, a corporate lobbying
group, should come under attack from shareholders on a
takeover-related issue.
   Kathryn McAuley, an analyst at First Manhattan Corp., said
the vote "was in effect against management, and was symbolic
of shareholders' interest in being heard more." She estimates
the company's assets are worth $70 a share.
   Mark Rogers, a paper industry analyst at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc., said that Champion's average annual return
on equity for the past five years has been just under 11%
compared with nearly 15% for the paper industry as a whole.
   One reason Champion has underperformed, Mr. Rogers said,
is "too much capital spending." He said Mr. Sigler "is
perceived to be less sensitive to shareholders' interests
than others in the industry." He said that may have
influenced yesterday's vote.
   Champion stock rose by 75 cents a share to $30.125
yesterday in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
on volume of 483,600 shares. As of March 29, Champion had
93.1 million shares outstanding.
   While traders said the vote didn't immediately change
Champion's prospects of being taken over in a hostile bid,
they said it did highlight shareholder dissatisfaction with
management that could make the company vulnerable to a proxy
challenge.
   Champion rescued St. Regis Corp. from the clutches of
corporate raider Sir James Goldsmith in 1984. But until
Georgia-Pacific Corp. made a bid for Great Northern Nekoosa
Corp. last fall, a U.S. paper company had never made a
hostile bid for another. Shortly after that bid, Champion
sold an 8% block of stock to investor Warren Buffett in what
was seen as another anti-takeover defense.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Correction
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   An article on yesterday's editorial page, "Canada? Who'd
Want It?" misstated the rate of Canada's pending goods and
services tax: It is 7%. Also, the Quebec government pension
fund is called the Caisse de Depot.
   (See: "Canada: Who'd Want It" -- WSJ May 17, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cooper Tire's Expansion Plans Remain
   On Track Despite Weakening of Prices
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5E
</SO>
<CO>
   CTB
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   FINDLAY, Ohio -- Cooper Tire &amp; Rubber Co. is continuing an
ambitious expansion program in spite of a recent weakening of
tire prices, Ivan W. Gorr, chairman and chief executive
officer, said.
   The expansion includes a $100 million investment to start
production at a newly purchased tire plant in Albany, Ga. The
facility will begin making tires in the second half of 1991,
he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unless discounting becomes substantially worse, Cooper
will show a profit increase again in 1990, Mr. Gorr said. He
said he doesn't expect the discounts to deepen.
   He said shareholders are likely to receive a dividend
increase this year, as they have in each of the past 10
years. Cooper's current quarterly dividend is nine cents. It
was raised from 7.5 cents last June.
   However, the earnings rise isn't likely to match the
spectacular gains of the past two years, Cooper officials
said. Cooper's profit jumped 42% in 1989 and 34% in 1988. Mr.
Gorr declined to make an earnings estimate, but some analysts
are forecasting increases of nearly 15%, bringing earnings to
the area of $3.25 a share, up from $58.2 million, or $2.84 a
share, a year earlier.
   This could be the year Cooper's sales hit $1 billion, Mr.
Gorr said, but he said such a 15% rise from last year's
$866.8 million is an ambitious target that can be achieved
only if the economy remains relatively healthy. Even if
Cooper's sales fall slightly short of $1 billion, however,
sales will have risen 50% in just three years.
   Price discounting of replacement tires began in March and
intensified in April and May, Mr. Gorr said. Based on offers
made to dealers by other tire producers, it appears that the
discounting will continue at least through July, said Patrick
W. Rooney, president of Cooper's tire division.
   The discounting appears to be the result of a decline in
sales of tires to producers of new cars, which created excess
inventories for some tire producers, Cooper officials said.
During the first four months of 1990, tire shipments to car
makers dropped by nearly 20%. And producers are trying to
sell some of those surplus tires in the replacement market,
Mr. Gorr said.
   Cooper produces only replacement tires, and "our business
has remained pretty strong," he said. Industry shipments of
replacement passenger tires in the first four months of 1990
were 3.7% higher than a year earlier. However, Cooper has to
"keep our dealers competitive" by offering price concessions,
he said.
   Cooper's tire plants are operating at near-capacity rates,
Mr. Gorr added, but overtime schedules are being reviewed in
light of market conditions.
   Cooper bought the 1.8 million-square-foot Atlanta plant in
March from Bridgestone/Firestone Inc., a unit of Bridgestone
Corp. of Japan. Firestone Tire &amp; Rubber Co. closed the plant
in 1986, prior to Firestone's acquisition by Bridgestone. Mr.
Gorr declined to state the plant's purchase price, but said
it was included in the first quarter's capital spending,
which totaled $25 million.
   In addition, Cooper is expanding capacity at its three
operating tire plants in Findlay; Texarkana, Ark.; and
Tupelo, Miss., Mr. Gorr said. The company has increased tire
production capacity by 10% to 12% in the last 12 months, and
probably will add another 5% or more to capacity by year-end,
Mr. Gorr said. By the end of 1990, Cooper will have the
capacity to make at least 80,000 tires a day at those three
tire plants, he said.
   Management plans to gradually build up production at
Albany as Cooper did at the Tupelo plant, which it purchased
in 1984. Production at Tupelo began at the end of 1984 and
reached 7,000 tires a day by mid-1986. The plant's output
doubled by the end of 1987, tripled by the end of 1989 and
will rise to nearly 28,000 tires daily by the end of 1990,
officials said.
   Each expansion was completed ahead of schedule and under
budget, Cooper officials said. "We hope to repeat that at
Albany," Mr. Gorr said.
   The Albany facility also will include a highly automated
distribution center to serve Cooper's dealers and
private-label customers in the Southeast, Mr. Gorr said. He
said resulting improved service will boost Cooper's sales in
the Southeast, already a strong region for the company.
   Cooper's sales of industrial rubber products, mainly
automotive parts, declined in the first quarter because of
lower auto and truck production, but profit from industrial
products rose slightly, Mr. Gorr said. Sales currently are
running about even with a year ago, he said. "We expect
improved profits" for the year from industrial rubber
products, which account for about 20% of Cooper's sales.
   The company already supplies parts to eight of the nine
auto plants owned all or in part by Japanese concerns and has
a contract to begin supplying the ninth, Mr. Gorr said.
Rising sales to those plants partially offset lower
production by U.S. auto and truck makers, he said. Prospects
for sales to 1991 model cars "look real good," Mr. Gorr said,
with continued increases in market penetration.
   Heavy spending at Tupelo and initial outlays at Albany
will push Cooper's 1990 capital spending to about $130
million, up more than 75% from $73.2 million in 1989, said J.
Alec Reinhardt, vice president and chief financial officer.
He said spending will average about $100 million a year for
the 1990-94 period.
   Internally generated cash plus an $85 million bank credit
line will enable the company to handle 1990 spending without
long-term borrowing, Mr. Reinhardt said. However, the company
probably will do about $100 million of long-term financing
during 1991, he said, most likely a straight debt offering.
The financing might be done later this year if interest rates
decline significantly, he added.
   Debt currently is only 16% to 17% of total capital, a
conservative ratio that will permit borrowing without
jeopardizing the company's credit ratings, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Ingot Output
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel ingot production totaled 317,282
metric tons in the week ended May 12, up 11% from 286,509
tons in the preceeding week but down 0.2% from 317,283 tons a
year earlier, according to Statistics Canada, a federal
agency.
   A metric ton equals 2,204.6 pounds. The cumulative total
in 1990 was 5,229,474 metric tons, down 12% from 5,915,088
tons a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Prudential Insurance Co. of America
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA (Newark, N.J.) --
Kenneth E. MacWilliams, chairman and chief executive officer
of the Prudential Capital Corp. unit, was named president and
chief operating officer of Gateway Investors, which manages
the company's three main public securities investment units.
Eric A. Simonson, managing director, corporate finance group,
will succeed Mr. MacWilliams at the capital unit, effective
June 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Eritrean Rebels Fight More Than Regime
   ---
   One Radical Innovation:
   Better Treatment for Women
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   AFABET, Ethiopia -- In this poor land, where little grows
and less is manufactured, the two-inch spines of thorny
acacia trees have a special use.
   For tribal midwives, they make a primitive kind of suture.
Here, as in many regions of Africa, custom demands that girls
undergo excision of the clitoris and infibulation, the
stitching of the genitals, to ensure chastity before
marriage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until two years ago, Aset Abraham believed this practice
was essential. "My mother, my grandmother and my
great-grandmother all told me it was right -- that without
{this procedure} a woman would end up a prostitute," says the
28-year-old. She was also told the procedure made a woman
more attractive. The operation is often explained by an old
saying: "A house without a door isn't beautiful."
   Now, working as a birth attendant in this rebel-held
region of Eritrea province, Ms. Abraham is a fighter in a
quiet battle to end the agony and disease that such
traditions inflict on African women.
   Until 1988, Afabet was a garrison town of Haile Mariam
Mengistu's Ethiopian army. Ms. Abraham was brought there by
force from her home in the Eritrean city of Asmara, to work
as a cleaner. While working, she had to endure the sexual
advances of Ethiopian soldiers, and as a result, she has two
sons, aged four and eight.
   An offensive by the Eritrean People's Liberation Army
pushed the Ethiopian forces from the town, bringing new ideas
about health, education and social organization.
   The guerrillas have battled for 28 years to reverse
Ethiopia's annexation of this Red Sea province and, despite
desperate poverty, have begun radical social experiments on
the land they hold.
   Ms. Abraham is part of one such venture. The guerrillas
had the people of Afabet select women to train as birth
attendants, hoping that locals, rather than outsiders, will
better be able to convince others to abandon harmful
traditions.
   Some 20% of Eritrean women die in childbirth, sometimes
because the birth canal is obstructed by scar tissue from
infibulation. Many are weakened by untreated diseases such as
typhoid, malaria and tuberculosis; most are malnourished.
   At the guerrillas' four-month course, Ms. Abraham and 20
other women from the Afabet area learned about nutrition,
hygiene, family planning and midwifery.
   Never having heard of contraception, "it really surprised
me that you can have a break between children," she says. Now
she is spreading the good news.
   But traditions such as infibulation can't be wiped out
overnight. "It is a difficult job," she says. "Now I know
there's no use to it, and as I was convinced I hope I will
convince others." But if a woman insists, Ms. Abraham still
will do the procedure, hoping that her more-hygienic
techniques will do less damage.
   Ms. Abraham understands the women's pressures and
anxieties because she lives amid the same daily hardships of
poverty and war. Her hut has an earth floor and a ceiling
made of wheat sacks recycled from a Canadian food donation.
Her own crochet-work brightens the hut, along with a few
colorful hand-woven baskets. Occasionally, she has to pause
in her conversation to chase out one of the chickens or goats
she keeps to supplement her children's diet with eggs and
milk.
   As a trained birth attendant, she now receives a small
salary from the Eritrean Relief Association, the aid group
that operates in guerrilla-held areas. She stretches her
income by making and selling "sewa", a beer made of fermented
stale bread.
   Often though, her life and work are disrupted by Ethiopian
government bombings, from which her fragile dwelling provides
little shelter. The town has been hit frequently, with many
civilian casualties.
   During protracted raids, she flees to the countryside,
returning only at night to get food. But it is the single,
unpredictable air strike coming after weeks of quiet that she
fears most, because there is no way to prepare for it.
   "When I hear the MiGs I just run and collect my children
and hide with them under the bed," she says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alaska Prepares to Impose New Rules
   On Air Pollution at Alyeska Facilities
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   XON BP ARC
</CO>
<IN>
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   The state of Alaska is preparing to impose tough new
environmental regulations on Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. in
an attempt to force Alyeska into anti-pollution improvements
the oil industry has spent years and millions of dollars
trying to avoid.
   Alyeska, a consortium owned by British Petroleum Ltd.,
Exxon Corp., Atlantic Richfield Co. and four other big oil
companies, operates the 800-mile Trans-Alaska pipeline and
the tanker and the oil-storage terminal in Valdez, Alaska,
where tankers take on loads of Alaskan crude bound for U.S.
refineries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new regulations mostly relate to a long-running
dispute over air pollution, both along the pipeline and at
the marine terminal. In conjunction with moves by the state,
the Environmental Protection Agency intends to issue findings
that Alyeska over the years frequently violated provisions of
federal environmental statutes. Ray Nye, director of the
EPA's Seattle office's air-quality section, said the agency
believes the violations have significantly increased
emissions of potentially dangerous hydrocarbon vapors, which
contain such toxins as benzene and toluene.
   Ivan Henman, Alyeska's vice president for environmental
operations, said the consortium believes it has not violated
any environmental regulations and that its operations are
environmentally sound. "We are extremely interested in
protecting the environment," he said. "And we've said
repeatedly that if there are problems, we'll correct them."
   The regulatory moves could prove a costly blow to Alyeska
and its owners; one EPA official estimated that meeting just
one element of the new regulations could cost "many tens of
millions of dollars." They could also signal a turning point
in more than a decade of generally fruitless or half-hearted
efforts by environmentalists and state and federal regulators
to force Alyeska to meet higher environmental standards.
   The actions are more fallout from the Exxon Valdez oil
spill, which continues to reverberate 14 months after the
supertanker ran aground in Alaska's Prince William Sound.
Alyeska came under fierce public criticism for its
unsuccessful efforts to contain the 11-million gallon spill,
the nation's largest. Many environmentalists and state and
federal regulators say that response reflected what critics
allege is Alyeska's blase attitude toward the environment,
and a history of resisting proposals to upgrade its
operations for environmental reasons. For its part, Alyeska
always has maintained that its environmental record is
excellent.
   But state and federal officials say the state's Department
of Environmental Conservation now is in the final stages of
drafting new air quality permits based on joint state and
federal investigations that have found that Alyeska has
frequently violated federal pollution statutes over the years
by modifying equipment -- such as incinerators for burning
off toxic vapors and turbines used to power pumps along the
pipeline -- without conducting required reviews of how the
modifications would effect hydrocarbon emissions. State and
EPA officials have concluded that the modifications increased
air pollution.
   Furthermore, state officials say the state intends to
require that Alyeska set up a system for capturing and
disposing of toxic vapors that stream out of vents on tanker
decks as oil is pumped from storage tanks into the ships'
cargo holds. Alyeska has vehemently rejected past suggestions
from regulators that it should do that, but its case may have
been weakened by a recent Arco study that found that as much
as 750 tons of benzene escape into the air each year during
loading operations. One state regulator described the benzene
levels as "shockingly high." The EPA's Mr. Nye said the
benzene emissions are high enough to "warrant concern about
potential health problems."
   Indeed Alyeska, which for years had argued that tanker
loading emissions weren't significant, now has a policy
requiring employees involved in tanker loading and certain
other operations at the terminal to wear respirators.
   Alyeska's Mr. Henman said Alyeska doesn't believe the data
from the Arco study is sufficient evidence upon which to base
regulatory decisions. And he said Alyeska still maintains its
longstanding legal position on tanker-loading emissions, that
Alyeska can't be required to capture and dispose of the
emissions because Alyeska doesn't own the tankers. Regulators
find that stance disingenuous, noting that many of the
tankers are owned by the same big oil companies that own
Alyeska.
   Mr. Henman also said Alyeska will soon begin an
air-monitoring program that will test air quality in the
Valdez area. The study, financed and designed by Alyeska, has
been in the works for at least two years, but has been held
up by disputes between regulators and Alyeska over the
placement of monitoring devices, among other things. "If this
program finds any problems, we will do whatever it takes to
fix them," he said.
   State officials don't intend to wait. They said they hope
to inform Alyeska of the new regulations officially by June
1, when a temporary air permit issued two months ago expires.
"We have been going around and around with them for years,
and now we are finally throwing down the gauntlet," said one
state regulator.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Reading Romania's Future
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   As the Journal's Peter Keresztes writes nearby, there are
good reasons to doubt that Romania's elections Sunday will be
a genuine expression of popular will. (See related editorial:
"Darker Forces Behind Romania's `Front'" -- WSJ May 18, 1990)
The National Salvation Front, the main force in ousting the
Ceausescus last December and now in control of the
"transitional" government, seems to have made sufficient
arrangements to keep itself in power.
   We are great believers in the democratic process and
therefore careful about challenging anything that looks to be
a fair vote. But we also weren't born yesterday and are well
aware that communist countries have been having elections for
years, with highly predictable outcomes. You can't beat
somebody with nobody and the Front called elections early to
sharply reduce the chances for opposition parties to organize
themselves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Front would appear to have had no organizational
problems of its own. As Mr. Keresztes reports, its leaders
seem to have been far better prepared to unseat Ceausescu
than appeared to be the case at the time, when most of the
world assumed that the uprising was spontaneous. Having
accomplished that, the Front seems also to have drawn heavily
on the Ceausescu bureaucratic, military and police
infrastructure for purposes of operating a provisional
government. So while it may have appeared that Romanians
overthrew communism, they appear to have been left with a lot
of the same people who were in places of power before the
overthrow.
   There is a message in that for everyone who thinks that
the path of European democracy will be an easy one. After
bloody events of the type that took place in Romania in
December, it is no longer politic for a Romanian to call
himself a Communist. Similar disavowals have occurred in
Hungary, Czechoslovakia and East Germany despite more
peaceful transitions. But individuals who have held positions
of power in Communist regimes don't just disappear. Nor are
they necessarily changed overnight into democrats and
free-marketers.
   President Violeta Chamorro in Nicaragua, for example, is
learning that even after you defeat Communists in a free
election, their adherents can still cause a lot of trouble
through strikes and obstruction of government policies.
   We hope not, but it is possible that Romania is
experiencing the most serious manifestation of that
phenomenon that we have yet seen -- an entire government that
disavows communism but retains many of the previous
government's personnel and characteristics.
   Romanian politics are relatively primitive, so the give
and take of democratic politics may yet have to be learned.
If so, those violent scenes that flared across the world's TV
screens last December may well be repeated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Prosecutor Notes Link to Boesky
   As Mulheren's Fraud Trial Opens
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen and Edward Felsenthal
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   U.SN FUJIY RTRSY ITCH EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The relationship between John A. Mulheren Jr. and Ivan F.
Boesky was described as a "two-way street of mutual
advantage" by the prosecution at Mr. Mulheren's fraud and
conspiracy trial in federal court in Manhattan, N.Y.
   Assistant U.S. Attorney E. Scott Gilbert told a jury of
seven women and five men that Mr. Boesky, the convicted
former stock speculator, provided Mr. Mulheren with "valuable
information." In return, Mr. Gilbert said, Mr. Mulheren
helped Mr. Boesky commit crimes. Mr. Boesky is expected to be
the government's principal witness.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In opening arguments, Thomas Puccio, Mr. Mulheren's
lawyer, countered that Mr. Boesky has "manipulated people,
he's manipulated the government, and he will attempt to
manipulate" the jury.
   Mr. Mulheren, 40 years old, is charged with 41 counts of
conspiracy, mail fraud and securities fraud for crimes he
allegedly committed with Mr. Boesky in 1985 and 1986. The
government claims that Mr. Mulheren "parked" stock for Mr.
Boesky. Parking occurs when an investor sells securities with
the understanding that they will be repurchased, usually at a
prearranged time and price.
   Prosecutors allege that Mr. Mulheren used the tactic to
conceal the true ownership of the parked securities and to
help Mr. Boesky evade taxes and avoid net capital
requirements for broker-dealers.
   Leonard DeStefano, 34, a former trader for Jamie
Securities Co., Mr. Mulheren's defunct securities firm, is
charged with two counts of conspiracy and fraud. Mr. Gilbert
said Mr. DeStefano was the "scorekeeper" who kept "chit
sheets" that enabled Mr. Boesky and Mr. Mulheren to keep
track of how much each was owed and to hide their scheme from
the government.
   Mr. Gilbert told jurors they would hear from witnesses
including Mr. Boesky and his former chief trader, Michael
Davidoff. Mr. Boesky has completed a three-year prison term
and agreed to pay $100 million in fines. Mr. Davidoff pleaded
guilty to one felony count. Mr. Gilbert said Edward Harvey, a
former partner of Mr. Mulheren's, would testify that Mr.
Mulheren held stock for Mr. Boesky.
   Arguing on behalf of Mr. Mulheren, Mr. Puccio, a partner
in the New York law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley &amp; McCloy,
said his client never believed he was doing anything wrong or
illegal in his dealings with Mr. Boesky, once a close
personal friend. "It's what's in Mr. Mulheren's mind that
really counts," Mr. Puccio said, as his sportily attired
client looked on. Mr. Puccio told the jury "accommodations"
are part of the business of Wall Street. He said evidence
would show that when Mr. Mulheren did anyone a favor it was
"legal and he believed it to be legal."
   Thomas Fitzpatrick, the New York lawyer representing Mr.
DeStefano, told jurors that his client is simply a pawn in a
high-stakes battle. "In every war, innocent non-combatants
get caught up in the crossfire," he said.
   Mr. Fitzpatrick described Mr. DeStefano as a "clerk" who
filled out trading tickets and took orders from Mr. Mulheren
without asking questions.
   ---
   INVENTOR WINS $102 million in California trade-secrets
case.
   A Superior Court jury in San Mateo, Calif., granted $83
million in compensatory damages and $19 million in punitive
damages to Dr. Agnostis Zachariades, owner of Polteco Inc., a
research and development laboratory in Alameda, Calif.
   The jury found Smith &amp; Nephew Richards, a unit of
London-based Smith &amp; Nephew PLC, guilty of fraud, breach of
contract and theft of trade secrets. The award is believed to
be among the largest ever in a trade-secrets case.
   The technology developed and patented by Polteco enhances
the durability of plastics used in artificial hips and knees.
In 1987, Smith &amp; Nephew Richards, of Memphis, Tenn., entered
into a contract with Polteco to incorporate the strengthened
plastic into its orthopedic implants. Smith &amp; Nephew
terminated the agreement in 1988, claiming Polteco's product
didn't satisfy the requirements of the contract.
   The jury determined Polteco proved its improved plastic
worked and that Smith &amp; Nephew breached the agreement and
fraudulently sought to keep Polteco from selling the new
technology elsewhere.
   Marla Stark, a lawyer with the Palo Alto office of Brown &amp;
Bain of Phoenix, Ariz., which represented Dr. Zachariades,
said the jury's verdict "confirms society's general
inclination to reward inventors and to prevent companies from
misusing their technologies."
   If affirmed by a higher court, the case could open the way
to larger damage awards for breach of contracts with
termination clauses, according to Michael Ladra, an
intellectual-property expert at the Palo Alto law firm of
Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich &amp; Rosati. In this case, damages
were calculated based on the 17-year life of the Polteco
patent even though the contract contained a provision for
termination by either party on 60-days notice.
   A Smith &amp; Nephew spokesman called the verdict "a
miscarriage of justice" and said the company would appeal.
   Judge Thomas McGinn Smith hasn't decided whether to award
$25 million in additional damages for willful and malicious
misappropriation of trade secrets.
   ---
   FUJI PHOTO FILM unit pleads guilty to making illegal
campaign donation.
   Fuji Medical Systems USA Inc., the unit of Japan's Fuji
Photo Film Co., pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor charge in
federal court in White Plains, N.Y. The charge involved the
donation of $7,400 to the unsuccessful 1988 re-election
campaign of Joseph DioGaurdi, a former Republican congressman
from New York.
   Richard Lawler, a lawyer for Fuji Medical, said the
company violated the law by reimbursing four of its
executives who contributed to the campaign. Companies are
barred from contributing to political campaigns.
   "It was an inadvertent mistake and it won't happen again,"
he said.
   The U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan, which prosecuted
the case, said the company could face a maximum fine of
$200,000. Sentencing hasn't been set.
   ---
   THREE LARGE LAW FIRMS negotiate to form venture in Europe
and New York.
   Hogan &amp; Hartson of Washington, D.C., Hale &amp; Dorr of Boston
and Brobeck, Phleger &amp; Harrison of San Francisco would open
offices in New York and London this summer and Brussels by
the end of the year to jointly serve corporate clients. The
new entity would be named Brobeck, Hale &amp; Hogan
International.
   Several U.S. law firms have affiliations with European
firms to expand their reach abroad. This proposal, first
reported in the Recorder, a San Francisco legal trade
publication, would be the first such arrangement among
domestic firms.
   Hale &amp; Dorr and Brobeck Phleger have large hi-tech
practices. Hogan &amp; Hartson has expertise in international
trade and government regulation. The three firms "have very
complementary strengths," said John Larson, Brobeck Phleger's
managing partner.
   All three firms said a joint venture would offer the
advantages of pooled resources without the risk and
difficulty of a full-blown merger. But key details --
including compensation, management questions and potential
conflicts -- are still being ironed out. The three firms
belong to a national referral network of eight regional law
firms, none of which has an office in New York or Europe.
   If the idea plan succeeds, said Mr. Larson, combined
offices may also be opened in Germany and Japan.
   ---
   ARKANSAS IS TOLD to pre-clear election guidelines with
Justice Department.
   In the second stage of a suit alleging bias against blacks
in Arkansas elections, a panel of federal judges on Wednesday
ordered the state to seek Justice Department approval before
implementing any changes in its rules governing majority
votes in state and local elections.
   Arkansas had been the only southern state that wasn't
required to seek such Justice Department clearance, according
to Penda Hair, staff attorney for the NAACP Legal Defense and
Educational Fund. Other states were subject to the
pre-clearance requirement by the federal Voting Rights Act.
   The ruling marked the second win for the defense fund in
the Arkansas suit. In December the panel of judges ordered
the state to redraft state legislative districts in
southeastern Arkansas to make it easier to elect black
representatives.
   Elections in the newly drawn districts are slated for
later this month.
   ---
   MOST CHARGES against Leona Helmsley are dropped in New
York state case.
   In state court in Manhattan, Justice John Bradley threw
out 180 of the 188 charges against Mrs. Helmsley. Justice
Bradley said she couldn't be tried on the counts because they
are essentially the same as the ones on which she was
convicted in federal court in August. Mrs. Helmsley, head of
the Helmsley hotel empire, was sentenced to four years in
prison and fined $7.2 million for tax evasion in the federal
case, which she is appealing.
   Nathan Dershowitz, a lawyer for Mrs. Helmsley, said Judge
Bradley "eliminated the heart of the case, and we fully
believe she will be vindicated on the remaining eight
counts."
   A spokeswoman for the New York attorney general said the
remaining charges are serious and involve omissions or
falsifications on tax forms. The spokeswoman said the state
hasn't decided whether to appeal Justice Bradley's decision.
   ---
   UPI WINS ROUND in battle with Reuters over
picture-contract dispute.
   The U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals approved a
preliminary injunction sought by United Press International
to prohibit Reuters Holdings PLC from breaking a contract to
provide international news photos to UPI. The decision
reverses a lower court judge who denied the injunction.
   The appeals panel said the lower court judge was wrong to
conclude that UPI, a subsidiary of Infotechnology Inc.,
wouldn't suffer irreparable harm if Reuters were allowed to
break the contract. The appeals court cited evidence that
some of UPI's customers indicated they will immediately drop
subscriptions to the news service if it can't provide the
photos.
   Financial difficulties prompted UPI to sell the foreign
news-picture service to Reuters in 1984. As part of that
transaction, Reuters agreed to furnish foreign news photos to
UPI, and UPI was to provide Reuters with photos from the U.S.
In 1989, Reuters told UPI it was dissatisfied with the photos
from the U.S.
   UPI sought the injunction when Reuters sued to terminate
the agreement a few weeks ago.
   ---
   Wade Lambert contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Off the Dole:
   How Private Company
   Helps Welfare Clients
   Find and Keep Jobs
   ---
   The `Poor People's Network,'
   Paid by New York State,
   Works to Rebuild Lives
   ---
   Mother of 5 Takes a Chance
   ----
   By Ellen Graham
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It is the little things that still fill
Willetta Parker with elation: The long subway ride from her
Harlem apartment to her clerical job in lower Manhattan. And
paying her rent and electric bills. "For me to be working at
something that's legal]" she marvels. "To feel good waking
up, going to work on the train, to have a bank account -- all
these good things. . . . It's lovely]"
   And something of a miracle, too. Two years ago, the
21-year-old Ms. Parker was a crack addict, sleeping on the
same subway trains that now carry her to work. A runaway at
the age of nine, she had spent her adolescence on the streets
of New York, foraging for food in garbage cans. Eventually,
she kicked her habit, and drifted onto welfare.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Today, Ms. Parker is a taxpayer. She earns $200 a week
typing and filing at a small publishing company. She found
her job 11 months ago through America Works of New York, a
profit-making company that aspires to be the Federal Express
of the welfare system. The efforts of the company and an
affiliate in Connecticut over the past few years have helped
more than a thousand people to get off welfare and into
productive jobs -- hardly sufficient to shrink the nation's
welfare establishment but successful enough to show that it
can be done.
   America Works runs an employment service whose clients all
come from the welfare rolls. Unlike job-training programs or
trade schools that put the unemployed through months of
classes and then abandon them during the job search, America
Works is a matchmaker. It spends most of its time and
resources finding entry-level job openings and candidates to
fill them, and then helping monitor and support their clients
in the workplace.
   Says Lee Bowes, the company's chief operating officer: "We
are an old boys' network for very poor people."
   A New York state official calls the network's performance
remarkable. It is placing more than 300 welfare recipients a
year in private-sector jobs that pay an average of $14,000 a
year plus benefits. After on-the-job tryouts, some 70% of
those placed have said goodbye to welfare and become
permanent. After one year, 90% of them are still working.
   "Try before you buy" is a company maxim. Job candidates
try working while they are weaned off welfare, a scary
prospect for some. Employers, many of whom are initially
skeptical of the program, have four months to evaluate
candidates on the job without a commitment to hire them
permanently. New York State pays America Works $5,000 for
each placement, but only after the employee has stayed on the
job for seven months. Taxpayers gain because the $5,000
stipend is less than half the $12,000 that the state spends
to keep a family of three on welfare for a year.
   New York state officials say that the program has rebuilt
lives and assisted industry, and that it makes fiscal sense.
Even so, the state government may be too shy of cash to
continue paying for it. The legislature now is trying to cope
with an accumulated deficit and budgetary shortfall amounting
to $4 billion, and "the outlook for funding is very poor,"
says Oscar Best, deputy commissioner of income maintenance
for the state's department of social services.
   That distresses Abe Levovitz, a retired tallow
manufacturer in Newton, Mass., who financed America Works
with start-up capital of $200,000 three years ago. "If this
were a normal business venture and I was returning $2 for
every $1 the customer gave me, I'd have hundreds of people
lined up in front of my door," he says. "The only place it
doesn't work is in government." As he sees it, the company is
being penalized for performance; it fulfilled the terms of
its most recent two-year state contract in just over a year,
and now needs additional funding to go on.
   Mr. Levovitz sees another irony: "When the state gets new
welfare applicants, do they say, `Sorry -- we don't have any
money?' No, of course not -- they pay them."
   True, says Michael Dowling, Gov. Mario Cuomo's deputy
secretary for human services. But he also says that "the days
of giving out a check and saying, `See you later,' are over."
America Works's program is consistent with the state's effort
to move people off welfare and into jobs, he says, and he
hopes to persuade New York City to agree to some sort of
shared financing to allow the company to stay in business in
New York. In any case, a separate corporation, America Works
of Connecticut, will continue a similar program in Hartford.
   High-level fiscal policy is far from the minds of most of
the job-seekers who appear at the company's lower Broadway
offices. Many go there in response to the company's monthly
classified ads. Others are referred by friends or the welfare
office, where America Works sometimes sets up recruiting
booths.
   Though illiterates or the emotionally disturbed may be
referred to other programs, nobody else who wants to work is
turned away. Recently, there's been an influx of
Soviet-sphere refugees, including a former provincial
governor from Afghanistan. "But our typical client has spent
10 or 12 years on welfare," says Ms. Bowes. "Half of them
grew up on it."
   Most are black or Hispanic women with children. Few men
apply. Those who do are harder to place and less likely to
stay on the job. Ms. Bowes says that is because most social
services that could help them succeed are designed to help
poor women and their children rather than males.
   Applicants must maintain perfect attendance at a one-week
orientation workshop to assess their skills and help them set
goals. Each week, about 20 candidates enlist; more than half
will have found jobs in three or four weeks. Ms. Bowes tells
a batch of new recruits: "We find companies with openings who
really want to see you. We get our foot in the door and bring
you with us."
   Workshop leader Antoinette Franklin's job is to rekindle a
sense of life's possibilities in her pupils. Tall and chic in
a magenta suit, she prods the class to summon up long-buried
aspirations -- not, she stresses, "just what you'll settle
for."
   "Think about your dream," she coaxes. "Can you remember
that dream? Maybe you put it aside while you helped someone
else. Or did you lie to yourself, saying `I don't really want
a big old house I'd have to clean up?' Well, by the time
you're finished, you're comfortable sitting in a project
looking out the window. And the dream just kept shrinking,
didn't it?"
   Sheila Davis pops up. "I want to own a house with four
bedrooms in southern New Jersey," she says softly. "And I'm
going to try to get a good job."
   Ms. Franklin exploits the assertion to make a point. "Let
me tell you about that word try," she says. "It's an excuse
word. Those four bedrooms won't come cheap. Are you going to
get promotions and raises?" Ms. Davis says she will, and Ms.
Franklin nods in approval. "That's how you earn it," she
says. "You're going to work for it]"
   Elsewhere in the building, those who have completed boot
camp are immersed in the job search. Between interviews, they
receive coaching in basic skills and business practices, as
well as help in locating child care, suitable clothing and
sometimes even housing.
   Told by a counselor about a job opening, Herman Thomas
looks excited but skeptical. "Tell me the truth," he says.
"Do they really need someone to do this work?" He is assured
that the maintenance job is available.
   At the same time, a team of 10 telemarketers work the
phones, pitching the program to employers. Although it isn't
easy to sell at first, about 200 companies have hired America
Works applicants. The service is free to employers, and the
retention rate of employees it provides, in jobs with
notoriously costly turnover, is high. And there are other
advantages.
   During the four-month tryout, America Works pays the
employee a modest hourly wage, averaging $3.75, and bills the
employer about $6.50 an hour to cover the wage and benefits
and the cost of monitoring and support. Typically, the cost
to the employer during this period is about $1 an hour less
than the ordinary payroll cost for the position would be.
During this period the employee receives gradually reduced
welfare benefits. After a successful tryout, the employee
goes on the payroll at the going rate, and welfare payments
stop. For employees who stay on the job for a year, the
employer gets a tax credit.
   America Works's monitoring and support involves anything
from intervening in personal crises to interpreting corporate
customs and mores. The follow-through is critical, according
to Ms. Bowes, a slim blonde with a doctorate in sociology and
15 years of prior experience placing the disadvantaged,
mostly in public-sector jobs. She says welfare recipients
often fail at jobs not because they lack the skills but
because "they don't understand the subtle cues -- the
implicit rules of the workplace."
   A Hispanic woman client had come to work each morning and
heated up pungent dinner leftovers in the office microwave.
Without counseling, Ms. Bowes says, she might have been let
go. But she stopped the practice when her America Works
counselor showed her that it was offensive to others in the
office.
   American International Group, an insurance and
financial-services company with headquarters in the Wall
Street area, has hired 12 clerical employees through America
Works. Their motivation, attitude and long-term commitment
have been outstanding, says Janice Wersching, an AIG
personnel manager. She says clerical turnover at AIG has run
25% or 30% a year, and many ordinary applicants have often
failed even to appear for interviews. By contrast, she says
employees sponsored by America Works show up on time, value
their jobs, and keep them.
   Eagerness to be free of the hated "system" -- welfare --
motivates many. A former prison inmate, now employed,
gleefully recites the exact day her welfare case was closed
-- and how later, when a caseworker mistakenly summoned her
to the welfare office, she could say: "You can cancel that
appointment. I don't need it."
   Linda McGinnis, a mother of five with 16 years of welfare
behind her, took a gamble when she returned to work as an
assistant bookkeeper a year ago. "The salary was less than
welfare," she says, "but I knew I had to start somewhere, and
to better myself I'd have to wait." She did more than wait.
Every lunch hour during her job tryout, she returned to the
America Works office to practice her typing. After three
raises, she is earning $16,000 a year and plans to send her
oldest son to college this fall.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Supplemental Supper
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   While the White House and congressional representatives
dance around something called the "budget summit," a real
summit over real money is taking place on Capitol Hill. We
know this one will cut a deal because Members of Congress are
the only ones doing the dealing. It's a conference committee,
which is working out the details on supplemental
appropriations for the current fiscal year; the Senate's
version of it reached the gassy level of $3.3 billion. In
other words, Congress and various executive-branch
collaborators have discovered that last year's budget wasn't
enough; they've got to spend billions more.
   As we noted in these columns recently, a big item on the
agenda is the fact that House Members have already run
through the millions they appropriated last year to spend on
their mailings to constituents. Now a few more details have
emerged. One reason the franking account will go about $44
million into the red is that many Members plan to send out
their propaganda near the fall elections using first-class
postage. They are "forced" to do this because many of them
have already used up their quota of 10-cent, third-class
mailings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A House Member at the conference (which is also deciding
on a cornucopia of pork-barrel requests) told the Senators
that the House is going to undertake "reforms" of the
franked-mail system.
   We suppose it would be considered utopian to suggest that
one reform might be to build a kind of rehabilitation clinic
somewhere in Washington for compulsive spenders. Absent that,
voters can at least consider what is behind the fact that
come fall, their mailboxes will be filling up with
first-class junk mail.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Ronald G. Shafer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES EUROP GD FMC
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   INCREASED TAXES on cigarettes top the tax ideas at the
budget summit.
   Doubling the tax to 32 cents a pack would raise about $2.8
billion the first year and $13.8 billion over five, the
Congressional Budget Office figures. Some Bush advisers think
anti-smoking sentiment would make the increase easy to sell.
Other ideas include a tax on short-term securities trades,
new taxes on industrial pollutants and selective increases in
some corporate taxes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Higher gasoline taxes and an oil-import fee have some
support, but face tough hurdles. A cut in the capital-gains
tax is pressed again as a revenue-raiser. Interest groups
fight higher taxes on cigarettes, beer and wine with a study
showing the poor would be hit hardest. But such items "are
the most vulnerable right now," says California Rep. Matsui.
   Raising tobacco taxes could hurt re-election bids of some
tobacco-state lawmakers, such as Kentucky GOP Sen. McConnell.
                                                                                                       

   REARGUARD STRATEGIES at the Pentagon aim to preserve aging
weapons.
   Rather than oppose administration efforts to kill weapons,
the military seeks to retain production options. Army
generals urge replacing turrets in existing tanks as a way to
keep at least one General Dynamics M-1 tank plant open.
Michigan Sen. Levin, usually a defense-spending critic, backs
the Army; one plant is in his state.
   The Army also wants to stretch out production of the
Bradley fighting vehicle, mainly to give FMC Corp. time to
find other Pentagon work. The Air Force tries to protect F-16
jets' output by devising new uses, such as providing close-in
protection for infantry troops. Some lawmakers complain about
mixed Pentagon signals.
                                                                                                       

   BUSH AND QUAYLE are big fund-raisers but have short
political coattails.
   Bush raised $24.3 million for the GOP and its candidates
at 22 events last year, plus $21.8 million at 17 events so
far in 1990. This weekend alone he'll hit Texas, Oregon and
California. Quayle travels even more for fund-raisers and has
raised $8.4 million.
   But such efforts "haven't given candidates much of a boost
at the ballot box," says Democratic campaign official Howard
Schloss. Florida Gov. Martinez still trails for re-election,
despite Bush visits. The GOP Senate challenger in Alabama
remains a long shot. Sen. Wilson, running for California
governor, needs help from Bush to improve the GOP's
environmental image more than he needs money.
   Quayle's trip to Texas for GOP gubernatorial candidate
Williams gets mostly bad press about their shared propensity
for verbal gaffes.
                                                                                                       

   VETO BLUFF? The White House informally warns that Bush
might veto the Clean Air bill if the cost to industry exceeds
current estimates of $21.5 billion a year by 2005. But
political analyst Kevin Phillips says if Bush does so, "he's
going to pay a price and Republicans are going to pay a price
with him" in the elections.
                                                                                                       

   HATCH ACTS to back a candidate for FDA chief. The
Republican Utah senator pushes a former aide: David Kessler,
medical director of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine
in New York. Some Democratic congressional staffers also like
Kessler, but Bush isn't moving quickly to fill the post.
                                                                                                       

   DRUGS OR OZONE? The U.S. and allies planning July's
economic summit differ on which other issues to air at the
seven-nation meeting in Houston. The Europeans are eager to
play up environmental issues, the U.S. drug-related matters.
                                                                                                       

   HELMS HUNT: Democrats' hopes to beat GOP Sen. Helms in
North Carolina could sink if front-runner Michael Easley wins
a runoff June 5 and his rival, black former Charlotte Mayor
Harvey Gantt, isn't active in the general election. "But,"
says political analyst Charles Cook, "there are harder things
to do in the world than galvanize blacks against Jesse
Helms."
                                                                                                       

   DEMOCRATS FEAR redistricting plans in California would
cost House seats.
   One of two GOP-backed propositions on the June 5 ballot
would require any redistricting plan to be approved by
two-thirds of the legislature. The other would have changes
done through an independent commission appointed by judges.
Either plan, charges state Democratic Chairman Jerry Brown,
"gives the Republicans 12 to 15 more seats in Congress."
   Democrats fight back in TV ads with actor Jack Lemmon
urging, "Stop the reapportionment fraud." They say the
commission would be picked by "old white men." But the
propositions' backers charge in ads that Democrats unfairly
reshaped districts a decade ago. Says Alan Heslop, a
reapportionment expert who backs the GOP: "The Democrats
deserve to lose at least a half-dozen seats."
   The League of Women Voters, says its Ellen Elliott, backs
the independent body because it would mean "no more districts
that are contiguous only at low tide."
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: When Raymond Wittig, a former aide to GOP
Rep. McDade, was indicted last week, the message on his home
phone was: "Wittigs' crisis center. We already have plenty
but feel free to add another." . . . Covering all the bases:
At a fund-raising breakfast, Democratic Rep. Murtha sat
between a Georgetown University priest and New York Yankee
owner George Steinbrenner. . . . Asked who at the budget
summit would be courageous enough to propose new taxes, Sen.
Dole replies: "Maybe the custodian."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Nielsen Considers Request
   For New Viewing Measure
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   DNB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Responding to television industry worries
about the recent unexplained sharp drop in viewing levels,
the A.C. Nielsen Co. said it is considering a request by the
major networks to find a better way to measure viewing
habits.
   "We believe as a responsible organization that if someone
comes to us with a serious question about methodology, we
have the obligation of producing the best numbers possible,"
said John Dimling, executive vice-president and group
director of marketing at Nielsen, a unit of Dun &amp; Bradstreet
Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nielsen "now shares the grave concerns" of the TV
industry, said Nicholas Schiavone, vice-president of
marketing and sales research at NBC, a unit of General
Electric Co.
   Nielsen's data shows that TV viewing is off about 4.5%
during February and March. Such a drop, if it continues, said
an executive at CBS Inc., could result in the three networks'
losing over $300 million a year in ad revenue.
   The networks, which argue that Nielsen should have another
method of tracking ratings in addition to its people meters,
have said they would pay for the research to find such a
method.
   Nielsen's methodology is crucial when it comes to
determining advertising rates. Networks must be able to
pinpoint not only ratings, but also demographics of viewers
to specific shows. Within the next month, the so-called
"up-front" market begins, when advertisers purchase time in
advance of the 1990-91 TV season.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Roh Hopes to Use Visit to Japan to Win
   Apology for Colonial Brutality in Korea
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Two of Asia's leading economic powers, Japan and
South Korea, are seeking closer ties. But first they must
settle some longstanding, emotionally charged issues that
have kept the two nations at arm's length.
   That's exactly what South Korean President Roh Tae Woo
says he wants to accomplish when he makes his first official
visit to Japan next week. Specifically, Mr. Roh says his
people want a clear apology from Emperor Akihito for the
brutality Japan inflicted during its colonial rule of the
Korean peninsula from 1910 to 1945.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The Korean people aren't really sure of the depth of the
sincerity on the part of the Japanese," says Lee Hong Kee, a
special adviser to Mr. Roh. "To build a future, you have to
sever at least some of the old issues."
   But wounds as old and deep as these may take longer to
heal. In Japan, the Korean demand for an apology has stirred
a political and constitutional debate about the emperor's
role in foreign policy. It shows how uncomfortable Japan is
about confronting its militaristic past.
   Leading political figures, such as the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party's secretary-general, Ichiro Ozawa, argue
that it is unconstitutional for the emperor, who is a
national symbol, to get involved in political or diplomatic
scuffles. Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu has put himself in the
hot seat, maintaining that he, not the emperor, should
respond to the Koreans. Yesterday, Mr. Kaifu said he would
offer a heartfelt apology on Japan's behalf.
   The apology may top the agenda, but government officials
on both sides hope to discuss other pressing bilateral issues
during Mr. Roh's visit, which begins Thursday. The main
points are expected to be trade and technology transfer. To
keep its exports booming, South Korea imports parts and other
goods from Japan. But selling finished products back to the
Japanese market isn't easy. In the first quarter, South
Korea's trade deficit with Japan shot up 27% from a year
earlier, to $1.3 billion. (In the same period, Korea's trade
surplus with the U.S. fell nearly 82%, to $200 million.)
   "Japan has to find a way to buy more Korean products,"
says Satoru Okuda, a researcher at the Institute of
Developing Economies in Tokyo.
   On technology transfer, rising labor costs and a stronger
won are forcing the Koreans to continue upgrading their
technology if they want to remain competitive. As other
countries have complained, however, Japan isn't eager to
share technology, especially with potential rivals.
   It isn't clear what Mr. Roh will hear during his three-day
visit, which will include a banquet hosted by Emperor
Akihito, meetings with Mr. Kaifu and a speech before the
Diet, Japan's parliament. But on the apology question,
political observers say the consensus-minded Japanese
probably will go down to the wire carefully debating the
wording of any statement.
   At the very least, observers expect that Mr. Roh will hear
a message similar to the one expressed by the late Emperor
Hirohito to President Chun Doo Hwan, the first South Korean
head of state to visit Japan, in 1984. The emperor said at a
banquet for Mr. Chun: "It is indeed regrettable that there
was an unfortunate past between us for a period in this
century, and I believe that it should not be repeated again."
But Koreans say those remarks were hard to understand and
didn't go far enough.
   It also isn't clear just what it will take to satisfy the
Koreans. At the moment, many seem intent on using the
opportunity of the state visit to stir up the bad blood
between the two neighbors. South Korean newspapers are filled
these days with stories about the treatment of Koreans in
Japan. One story told of how Koreans were forced to build a
bomb shelter for the emperor during World War II. They
recorded their suffering in Korean script on the walls of the
shelter.
   Then there is the thorny problem of the current status of
the 750,000 Korean residents in Japan, an issue that a few
weeks ago threatened to derail Mr. Roh's travel plans.
Although an agreement was reached that gives the
grandchildren of the original immigrants the right to
permanent residence in Japan, South Korea isn't satisfied
with how Japan is treating the first and second generation
residents who make up Japan's largest ethnic minority.
   The Japanese, meanwhile, are decidedly uncomfortable with
the Koreans airing these issues. In an editorial, the
Mainichi newspaper said this week that the root of the
problem lies in the fact that Japan hasn't come to terms with
certain aspects of the past.
   And some question if an apology will make much difference.
"No matter what the emperor says, it won't really change
things between us," says Mr. Okuda.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Panel Votes
   Subsidy Freeze
   For Commodities
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Agriculture Committee, in a sudden
burst of fiscal austerity, decided to freeze subsidy rates
for major agricultural commodities at current levels for the
next five years.
   The committee, meeting behind closed doors, rescinded more
than $10 billion in farm spending increases approved at the
subcommittee level.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The committee members, led by Chairman Kika de la Garza
(D., Texas), also agreed to give farmers a free hand to plant
whatever crops they want on 20% of the land they customarily
devote to cotton, rice, wheat, feed grains and oilseed crops,
such as soybeans and sunflowers. But farmers who took
advantage of this planting flexibility provision wouldn't be
eligible for subsidy payments on that land.
   At the same time, the committee agreed to inaugurate a
so-called marketing loan for soybeans and other oilseed
crops, but with a proviso that the new price-support program
would operate at no cost to the government.
   The committee's objective is to hold farm spending from
fiscal 1991 through 1995 to $53 billion, roughly what would
be spent if current farm law were extended for five years.
With the exception of a projected $1.5 billion increase in
dairy subsidies, it appears as though the farm lawmakers will
succeed for the most part, according to House Agriculture
Committee staff members.
   Rep. Jerry Huckaby said agreement was almost unanimous on
the five-year package, which will be put to a formal vote
next week, probably Tuesday. "The intention of our committee
is to take to the floor a bill that can be passed," the
Louisiana Democrat said. "This is a budget that isn't
excessive."
   To save money, the committee members put aside plans to
tie so-called target prices for commodities to either farm
production costs or the consumer price index. Instead, they
agreed to freeze the target prices for cotton and rice at the
fiscal 1990 levels, 72.9 cents a pound and $10.71 a hundred
pounds, respectively. Target prices for corn would be frozen
at $2.75 a bushel and wheat at $4 a bushel.
   Under the farm program, the government pays farmers
so-called deficiency payments, or subsidies, if market prices
fall short of target prices.
   The committee has yet to make adjustments on oats and
barley subsidies, but it isn't likely to stick with a plan to
boost price supports for these feed grains by $1.5 billion
over five years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Pathe Communications Corp.:
   Third Payment Is Made
   In MGM/UA Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   PCC MGM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   MGM/UA Communications Co. said Pathe Communications Corp.
made the third of four $50 million security deposits toward
its $1.27 billion acquisition of MGM/UA.
   Culver City, Calif.-based MGM/UA had granted Pathe an
extra week, until yesterday, to make the payment. In addition
to the $200 million in security deposits, Pathe has granted
MGM/UA a security interest of $75 million in three Pathe
films.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pathe, a Los Angeles-based entertainment concern
controlled by Italian financier Giancarlo Parretti, launched
its $20-a-share offer for MGM/UA on March 14. It is set to
expire June 7.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former Pittsburgh Lawyer
   Is Indicted on 26 Counts
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH  --  Charles M. Thorp III, a former lawyer who
had losses of upward of $20 million on the options market,
including funds he allegedly misappropriated from clients,
was indicted on 26 counts by a federal grand jury here.
   The U.S. attorney's office here said Mr. Thorp, 49 years
old, was indicted on charges of transporting stolen funds in
interstate commerce and bank fraud. Among other things, Mr.
Thorp was charged with transporting about $2.6 million of
stolen money between Pittsburgh and Boston or New York
between April 1987 and May 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Thorp also is accused of fraudulently obtaining a
$400,000 loan from Pittsburgh National Bank by using the name
and credit of a client in April 1987. Pittsburgh National is
a unit of PNC Financial Corp.
   Mr. Thorp previously surrendered his license to practice
law.
   Neither Mr. Thorp nor his attorney could be reached for
comment. A spokeswoman at the U.S. attorney's office here
said a summons has been issued for his arrest.
   Mr. Thorp, grandson of the founder of one of this city's
law firms, was the subject of a front-page story last month
in this paper.
   He faces a maximum sentence of as much as 255 years in
prison and fines totaling $6.5 million, or both.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Henkel KGaA:
   Four-Month Results Rose;
   Gains for Year Are Forecast
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HEN
</CO>
<LP>
   Henkel KGaA, reporting a 10% rise in four-month sales and
even higher earnings growth, said sales and profit will also
rise for all of 1990.
   The West German chemicals company, whose 1989 net jumped
15% to 404 million marks ($246 million) from 352 million
marks, didn't give any more details on results of the first
four months. "All in all, the new year started positively for
Henkel," Chairman Helmut Sihler said at a news conference in
Duesseldorf.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For all of 1990, Henkel said sales should rise to 12
billion marks from 11.64 billion in 1989, when sales jumped
14%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education:
   Business Schools Recruit Soviet Students
   As Tool to Boost Prestige and Contacts
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   The Soviet Union has something that American business
schools want.
   Students.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Not that the business schools don't have enough of their
own. But as U.S. companies line up to enter the huge Soviet
market and business schools themselves try to take on more of
an international flavor, Soviet students are becoming a hot
commodity.
   Programs for Soviet students, faculty and managers are
sprouting on business school campuses from Harvard to Pacific
Lutheran. Business school professors jet to Moscow
prospecting for candidates. Deans swap tips on everything
from post-perestroika telecommunications to reference
checking in Siberia.
   "Everyone is into this business," says Ben Burdetsky, dean
of the business school at George Washington University, which
is sponsoring a two-year program starting this fall for 20
Soviet managers. "The minute we announced the program, our
phone {began} ringing off the hook, and people have been
dropping in from all over."
   Interest is high on the Soviet side. Would-be students
eager to gain knowledge, to improve their standing in their
own country -- or simply to travel to the U.S. -- are
scrambling to be considered for programs. Since Northeastern
University ran a 15-week session for 16 Soviet managers last
year, it has been besieged with requests for more programs,
says David Boyd, dean. Four Soviet delegations have visited
the Boston campus, and three Soviet universities have asked
to develop joint programs.
   Says Mr. Burdetsky of George Washington: "If you go to the
U.S.S.R., you will get more proposals than you can handle."
   American business school deans say these programs help the
schools develop contacts in the Soviet Union and make it
easier to send American students there. They say the programs
also give U.S. students valuable exposure to their Soviet
peers and deepen their understanding of the Soviet economy.
   Moreover, an almost messianic zeal fuels some programs.
Many "think they are contributing to world peace" by helping
educate Soviet managers, says Thomas Keller, dean of Duke
University's Fuqua School of Business. "I've heard them say
it often enough." Last fall, J.B. Fuqua, senior chairman of
Fuqua Industries Inc., gave $4 million to the school, which
is named for him, to support management programs for Soviet
students.
   But not everyone is enthusiastic. The programs are
expensive and complicated to set up. The U.S. side often
winds up footing most of the bill, and on the Soviet side,
companies that help to arrange educational exchanges often
profit.
   What's more, some educators question the value of rushing
in while the Soviet economy and political situation are still
in turmoil. "Money is a scarce resource, and it's too early"
to spend much of it on Soviet programs, says Roy Herberger
Jr., president of the American Graduate School of
International Management, Glendale, Ariz. "You could put a
lot of money in and get caught flat-footed." The school,
known as Thunderbird, has a five-person exchange program with
the Soviet Union that Mr. Herberger calls "a resume stuffer."
   Programs for Soviets range from minimalist to elaborate.
Harvard's business school simply admitted four students to
its regular M.B.A. program; its only extra effort was sending
a dean to Moscow to interview applicants. "Our idea was to do
this in the same way other M.B.A.s were admitted," says a
spokesman.
   George Washington University, on the other hand, spent a
year and over $65,000 preparing a specialized program for 20
Soviet managers. The program, to start this fall, includes
intensive English training, cultural immersion and an
internship with an American company.
   Most of the programs aim to give the Soviet participants a
working knowledge of a free-market economy. Last fall, 22
Soviets spent three weeks at Wake Forest University in
Winston-Salem, N.C., hearing -- via translation -- lectures
on accounting, operations, marketing, organizational behavior
and strategy.
   "The thing they liked least was financial management,"
says J. Kendall Middaugh, an associate professor at Wake
Forest's Babcock school of management. At home, "they aren't
accountable for profit or cost, so they found it tedious and
of little relevance." Others found the Soviets craved even
more basic stuff: "They asked for Samuelson's `Economics,'"
says Mr. Burdetsky, referring to the introductory economics
text.
   Many Soviet students also function as business emissaries
of their ministries or companies. "As soon as they got off
the plane, they started making deals," Mr. Middaugh says. For
instance, he says the director of a glass factory in
Leningrad got a lead while at Wake Forest that led to a joint
venture with a Canadian company.
   U.S. schools say the programs pay off in public relations
and international exposure. "In business schools today, you
have to run just to stand still," says Mr. Boyd, the
Northeastern dean. "An innovative program . . . has a ripple
effect" on a school and how people perceive it.
   Soviet students yield great publicity. Wake Forest's Mr.
Middaugh says, "We had a three-page spread in Fortune
magazine, we got 20 minutes {on a major Canadian news
program} and a guy flew in from the largest-circulation
newspaper in South America and gave us a full page."
   But Mr. Keller, dean of Duke's Fuqua School, cautions that
some less-than-ideal students -- possibly ranging from spies
to party officials along for the ride -- may slip in. "We
suspect there may be people who may not be legitimate
managers," he says, looking ahead to a monthlong program
starting in August for 30 Soviet managers. "We hope they
won't disrupt the educational process."
   Andrey Manoukovsky, director of the International Business
School in Moscow, concedes: "We have corruption all over, and
in this field as well."
   Fuqua has contingency plans for defectors: Turn them over
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The FBI and the
Central Intelligence Agency already have checked the campus
for security risks.
   Some universities have been criticized for spending on
Soviet education while other projects languish. "There are
things people have been fighting for for several years," says
Wake Forest's Mr. Middaugh, but the program for Soviet
visitors quickly won over $50,000 in funding. The cost "is a
valid concern," he says, noting that the school has since
turned its attention to "less broad-scale, more limited
programs."
   In some cases, the Soviets have paid hard currency for all
their expenses. But often the U.S. side has covered most
costs. Fuqua will pay for all Soviet expenses in the U.S.,
"including medical insurance," says Mr. Keller, the dean. The
Pacific Lutheran University exchange program is subsidized by
the U.S. Information Agency. For the program at Wake Forest,
the local community donated about $25,000 of goods and
services, from meals to new vans.
   Sometimes the U.S. hosts subsidize more than they intend.
At Wake Forest last fall, some Soviet managers hoarded the
$425 stipend the school gave each for meals and incidentals
during their stay, using the money instead to buy toys and
personal computers.
   Some Soviets have quickly assimilated lessons in
international business. Leonid Evenko, president and chief
executive of Amscort International, a Soviet-American joint
venture, says one company he worked for that arranged
educational exchanges invested its profits from the programs
in making videocassette recorders in the Soviet Union for a
return of "20 to 1 -- or something like that."
   "If you have dollars," he says, "you are winning."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Amro Is Planning to Lift
   Its Stake in EAB to 66.3%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   N.AMR G.DBK B.GDB F.SGF R.CAB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMSTERDAM -- Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank NV, in an
announcement that was expected, said it is set to expand its
stake in European American Bancorp of the U.S. to 66.3%.
   The Dutch group confirmed it is in advanced negotiations
to acquire the 23.15% stake in EAB now held by Generale de
Banque of Belgium.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Amro holds 20% of EAB and is in the process of acquiring a
23.15% stake from Deutsche Bank of West Germany.
   EAB owns a general bank with 88 offices in the New York
City-Long Island region and had a loss of about $80 million
in the first quarter. Factors blamed for the first-quarter
loss were the substantial provisions EAB had to make for
risks related to developments in the real estate market. In
1989, EAB had profit of $61 million.
   Amro said the acquisition of a majority interest would
enable it to enhance decision-making processes at EAB.
   Amro is seeking approval from the U.S. for its planned
share acquisitions. If effected, EAB will be 66.3% held by
Amro with 23.45% owned by Societe Generale of France and
10.25% held by Creditanstalt Bankverein of Austria.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Reserve Assets
   Decreased in April
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. official reserve assets fell $20
million in April to $76.28 billion, the Treasury Department
said.
   Last month's drop compared with a $2.13 billion rise in
reserve assets in March to $76.3 billion, the department
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. reserve assets consist of foreign currencies, gold,
special drawing rights at the International Monetary Fund,
and the U.S. reserve position -- its ability to draw foreign
currencies -- at the IMF.
   The nation's holdings of foreign currencies in April
increased $9 million from the previous month to $46.43
billion, while its gold reserves were unchanged at $11.06
billion.
   U.S. holdings of IMF special drawing rights last month
rose $11 million to $10.1 billion, and its reserve position
at the IMF dropped $40 million to $8.69 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Trade Deficit
   In March Grew
   By $2 Billion
   ---
   Exports Surged to a Record,
   But 10% Jump in Imports
   Put Gap at $8.45 Billion
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA JAPAN EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- After narrowing in February to its smallest
point in more than six years, the U.S. merchandise trade
deficit reversed course in March, widening by more than $2
billion to $8.45 billion, the Commerce Department reported.
   The trade balance deteriorated despite record exports of
$33.28 billion, up 4.6% from February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A 10% jump in imports eclipsed that gain. Increases in
shipments of foreign-made cars, electrical machinery and
telecommunications equipment helped push imports to $41.72
billion, the department said.
   The March deficit was still narrower than the $9 billion
average monthly trade gap of last year. In fact, the first
quarter deficit, $23.87 billion, was the smallest in six
years.
   Analysts for the most part were heartened by the growth in
exports, and many dismissed the rise in imports, predicting
the slowing U.S. economy would diminish the American appetite
for foreign goods.
   "It looks pretty good to me. I think the most encouraging
thing -- and the thing the economy needs very badly -- is the
rise in exports," said Sam Nakagama, chairman and chief
economist of Nakagama &amp; Wallace Inc., a Wall Street advisory
firm.
   Nearly every major category of exports posted increases in
March, including cars, scientific instruments, industrial
machinery, chemicals and agricultural commodities. Airplane
exports, which have been a big source of U.S. strength in
foreign markets recently, declined.
   In contrast, February's big improvement in the trade
deficit, to a revised $6.10 billion, reflected a steep fall
in imports and a slip in exports. Aircraft exports were one
of the few categories that showed marked gains.
   Overall, during the past two years, exports have grown
significantly, helped by a general decline in the value of
the dollar against foreign currencies, which made U.S. goods
cheaper abroad.
   More recently, the sharp gains in exports have slowed.
Some economists believe they have been hurt by a climb in the
dollar, although the U.S. currency remains lower than in the
mid-1980s when the trade deficit ballooned.
   Sung Won Sohn, chief economist of Norwest Corp. in
Minneapolis, predicted that exports will continue to improve
this year because of the vigorous economies of the country's
most important trading partners. "I think economic expansion
in Japan and Germany is pretty strong, so I think our exports
will continue to be reasonably strong," he said. "Imports
might slacken because we are seeing economic weakness here."
   Expanding exports are particularly important now, given
signs of softness in other sectors of the economy. If exports
are strong, the country's sluggish manufacturing sector will
stay busy, despite weak demand at home. "Overall the trade
sector at this moment is perhaps the most encouraging sector
in the whole U.S. economy," Mr. Nakagama said.
   Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher predicted the deficit
this year will register below $100 billion for the first time
since 1983. Last year it was $109 billion, down considerably
from a record $152 billion in 1987. But Willard Workman,
director of international policy and programs at the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, said the latest trade figures "confirm
that there will be only marginal improvement in the U.S.
merchandise trade deficit for 1990."
   "Discounting February's low figure as an aberration," he
explained, "the January and March figures indicate a 1990
deficit of about $104 billion, only a 4.6% improvement over
1980."
   ---
             U.S. Merchandise Trade Deficits
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   In billions of U.S. dollars, not seasonally adjusted
                                                                                                       

                        MARCH '90    FEB. '90    MARCH '89
                                                                                                       

   Japan                  $3.62        $3.12       $4.22
   Canada                  0.09         0.23        0.39
   Western Europe         +0.71        +0.96        0.40
   NICs*                   0.89         1.01        1.16
                                                                                                       

   *Newly industrialized countries: Singapore, Hong Kong,
Taiwan, South Korea.
   +=Surplus
   Source: Commerce Department
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Belgian Banks Ask Reuters
   To Limit Bond-Data Access
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP RTRSY
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- In a battle over how the market for Belgian
government bonds should be structured, major banks have
ordered Reuters Ltd. to cut off access of Belgian
stockbrokers to electronic pages quoting their local bond
prices.
   Reuters -- a unit of Reuters Holdings PLC -- and several
banks confirmed yesterday that the measure would be effective
today, the day Belgium's stock market is scheduled to begin a
new, automated bond trading system available only to
stockbrokers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The system, known in shorthand as Obli-CATS, would enable
stockbrokers to trade bonds on the bourse's computerized
trading network.
   Banks are protesting the new system. A handful of
commercial banks conduct the bulk of trading in Belgian
government bonds in off-bourse transactions. Several act
effectively as market-makers for the bonds.
   Under current Belgian law, however, the banks aren't
allowed to participate directly in the Belgian stock market.
   A spokesman for Reuters, meanwhile, said the company
"regrets this situation, which has arisen from a dispute
among customers."
   The spokesman said the Reuters was implementing the banks'
requests by putting Belgian stockbrokers on "selective
access" to Reuters monitors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Plains Petroleum Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PLP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PLAINS PETROLEUM Co. (Lakewood, Colo.) -- Derrill Cody, 50
years old, an Oklahoma City lawyer, was elected to the board
of this oil and gas concern, succeeding John S. Wold, 72, who
didn't stand for re-election.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   London Stocks Soar in Broadly Based Advance;
   Hong Kong Shares Tumble and Tokyo Is Mixed
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   London stocks closed sharply higher across the board in
active trading Thursday, as a variety of influences sent them
rocketing to post their biggest daily gains since November
1987.
   "It's very impressive, to say the least," said Tony
Rebello, chief dealer for London brokerage firm Credit Suisse
First Boston.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Hong Kong, shares tumbled 1% to their lowest level in
more than two months. Tokyo stocks were mixed in moderate
trading.
   At London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share
index finished up 63.3 points at 2284.4, its intraday high,
well above the intraday low of 2227.7, posted when official
dealings began.
   The narrower FT 30-share index closed up 55.9 points at
1795.7. Volume was 645.4 million shares, the healthiest
showing in months and markedly better than the 460.4 million
that changed hands Wednesday.
   In the futures market, the June FT-SE 100 index contract
closed at 2329.0, up from 2258.0 a day ago.
   Strength in stock-index futures contracts and unconfirmed
rumors early in the session that Britain could join the
European Monetary System's exchange-rate mechanism as early
as this weekend sent prices soaring.
   The market "really never looked back" from the opening,
Mr. Rebello said.
   Dealers said strong buying by bears frantic to cover short
positions buoyed the market, and some institutional investors
jumped on the bandwagon amid a shortage of stock, committing
to fresh positions so they wouldn't miss out on the rally.
   As well, U.K. traders noted that strength on Wall Street,
sustained throughout the London session, provided a good
backbone of support for movement on the FT-SE 100. Most
agreed that fluctuations in the Dow Jones Industrial Average
hold the fate of the market in London in the short term.
   "If Wall Street goes higher, I think the bull will
prevail," Mr. Rebello said. Conversely, he added, if the
industrial average eases, it will most likely drag the FT-SE
100 with it as investors realize that Britain's gloomy
economic situation hasn't fundamentally changed.
   Although a slew of British economic data was released
during the session, the market largely ignored the figures
and paid practically no attention to U.S. trade data that
showed a wider-than-expected gap for March.
   Among U.K. indicators, the public sector borrowing
requirement, or budget deficit, came in at #2.12 billion
($3.56 billion) for April, higher than market forecasts of
#1.25 billion. Unemployment was unchanged at a seasonally
adjusted 5.6% of the work force in April.
   A cluster of corporate results hit the market, where
bullish sentiment was running thick enough to overcome the
uneven earnings news.
   Royal Dutch/Shell, the Anglo-Dutch oil and gas giant,
gained 11 pence (18.5 cents) to 466 pence a share, despite a
drop in net income for the first quarter.
   Whitbread, a brewery company, jumped 13 to 415 on the back
of a 17% rise in pretax profit for the year.
   Although Royal Insurance was hit with a pretax loss of #79
million for the first quarter from extreme weather claims,
its shares surged 31 to 464.
   One loser on the day was Coloroll, a home products and
fashion group, which fell 3 1/2 to 8 1/2. Its share price
tumbled after the group announced that it might be taken
private as part of a refinancing plan under discussion with
an unidentified bank.
   Among the major blue-chip gainers that benefited from the
market's strength, Reuters bolted 49 to #11.68; brewing
company Bass rose 26 to #10.13; Great Universal Stores
climbed 24 to 98; pharmaceutical company Reckitt &amp; Colman
rose 27 to #12.06 and shipping and transport group P&amp;O surged
23 to 601.
   At Hong Kong, stocks slumped on continued China jitters.
Late buying again helped to cushion the sharp fall.
   The blue-chip Hang Seng Index dropped 31.26 points, on the
back of an aggregate fall of 28 points the previous two days,
to close at 2917.63. The broader Hong Kong Index lost 20.68
to 1916.54.
   Players attributed the hard fall to continuing worries
about the possible effects on Hong Kong if the U.S.
terminates China's Most Favored Nation status.
   At Tokyo, stock prices closed mixed Thursday in moderate
trading as strong selling pressure emerged to counter the
market's buoyant mood this week.
   The Nikkei index ended the day firmer, finishing above the
32000-point level for the first time in three days. More
issues declined than gained, however, pushing the
broader-based Topix index moderately lower.
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up 93.98
points to finish Thursday's session at 32061.60. The index
lost 29.42 points Wednesday.
   In Tokyo Friday, the Nikkei fell 9.28 points to close the
morning session at 32052.32.
   On Thursday, encouraged by renewed investor confidence,
participants actively hunted for attractive shares. But
observers said trading was a battle between such buying and
profit-taking, as was the case in the previous two sessions.
   The Nikkei index, which moved narrowly in the morning,
advanced 210 points in the afternoon led by gains in
electrical, automobile and other stocks, before falling to
finishing near the morning close. Investors' caution that the
pace of the market's recovery could be too fast helped slow
down trading, observers said.
   Volume on the First Section was estimated at 580 million
shares, down from 721 million Wednesday. Declining issues
outnumbered advancing issues, 518 to 422, while 187 remained
unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all issues listed
in the First Section fell back Thursday after posting gains
for 11 consecutive trading days. The index, which gained 4.99
points Wednesday, was down 4.54 points, or 0.19%, at 2399.23.
The Second Section index, which advanced 6.60 points
Wednesday, was up 6.82 points, or 0.18%, to close at 3862.20.
Volume in the Second Section was estimated at 16 million
shares, remaining at the same level with Wednesday.
   Participants said the market mood is still optimistic,
despite a slowdown of price gains in the past three days.
   Share prices closed higher in Paris, Zurich, Amsterdam,
Stockholm and Milan; little changed in Frankfurt and mixed in
Brussels. South African gold stocks closed mostly steady.
   Share prices closed lower in Sydney, Taipei and Manila;
higher in Wellington and Seoul, and mixed in Singapore.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                                May 16   May 15     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .......................  325.9    326.5   +  0.3
   Britain ....................  658.2    655.0   -  8.7
   Canada .....................  384.0    386.7   - 11.2
   Japan ...................... 1351.9   1353.4   - 18.3
   France .....................  579.1    579.1   +  2.2
   Germany ....................  297.7    296.4   +  4.4
   Hong Kong .................. 2199.8   2215.2   +  4.9
   Switzerland ................  212.9    212.6   -  3.6
   Australia ..................  303.4    306.3   -  8.4
   World index ................  515.8    517.8   -  9.1
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pickens Says Mesa
   Can Meet Payments
   Without Asset Sales
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MLP UCL
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Mesa Limited Partnership will be able to make
its 1990 interest and debt payments without having to sell
assets, though "It'll be close," T. Boone Pickens Jr.,
general partner, said after the annual meeting.
   He said that Mesa still would like to sell at least $100
million to $200 million of assets this year to aid its cash
flow but that cash flow and the company's cash and marketable
securities portfolio are sufficient to make roughly $160
million in interest payments and about $111 million in debt
payments that are due this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, in its quarterly report filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, the oil and gas partnership warned
that either gas prices must improve or it must sell oil and
gas properties to remain in compliance with its debt
covenants. Mesa, which has been hurt because of continued low
natural gas prices and a heavy debt load, had about $1.63
billion in long-term debt as of March 31.
   The company also said in its filing that it hopes to repay
$300 million in debt during the next two years.
   Citing the lack of cash flow to support distributions,
Mesa said last month it would suspended its annual preferred
distribution of $1.50 a unit. Earlier this month, it omitted
its common distribution. It also abandoned a plan to raise
$300 million to $400 million by selling royalty interests in
its prized Hugoton Field properties, citing unexpected delays
in the offering and disappointing market reaction.
   In speaking to more than 300 unit holders at the meeting,
Mr. Pickens said he hopes natural gas prices will recover
enough so that Mesa can resume its distributions by 1992 or
1993. But Mesa said it needs sustained natural gas prices of
$2.50 for each 1,000 cubic feet to maintain an annual
preferred distribution of $1.50 a unit, and sustained prices
of $3.50 for each 1,000 cubic feet to pay a common
distribution of the same amount. Mesa is committed to paying
its preferred holders a distribution of 37.5 cents a unit for
five quarters before it can resume the common payout.
   Mr. Pickens also acknowledged that while Mesa has paid out
about $1.1 billion in distributions since the partnership was
formed in 1985, it probably paid out "$400 million to $500
million too much," in light of continuing depressed demand
for natural gas. But he defended his decision to borrow funds
and sell assets to make those payments, saying that Mesa
didn't waste the money on unnecessary exploration. "We sent
it to you," he said.
   Mr. Pickens said Mesa expects natural gas prices to
average about $1.65 for each 1,000 cubic feet this year,
about the same as last year, but is predicting the prices
will climb to $3 in 1993.
   At the meeting, Mesa also disclosed that a group of former
Unocal Corp. shareholders sued it and more than 100 others in
March, seeking $750 million in damages in connection with
Mesa's 1985 investment in and tender offer for Unocal. Mr.
Pickens said Mesa intends to defend itself vigorously against
the suit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Steel Imports Fell
   Nearly 8% in March
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. steel imports in March declined nearly
8%. For the first three months of the year, steel imports
declined 15.6%, according to the American Iron and Steel
Institute compilation of Commerce Department figures.
   March imports of 1,120,000 tons compared with 1,216,000
tons a year earlier. February imports of 1,111,000 were down
17% from 1,366,000 tons a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the three months, imports totaled 3,661,587 tons, down
from 4,335,858 tons a year earlier.
   Steel exports in March totaled 365,000 tons down from
606,000 tons a year earlier, but higher than the 313,000 tons
in February, the association said. In the latest quarter,
exports totaled 1,052,000 tons, compared with 1,102,000 tons
a year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   New Unisys Hardware, Software Moves
   Fill Gaps in Its Unix-System Strategy
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   UIS INTC
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Unisys Corp. made a series of hardware and
software announcements that fill gaps in its plan to bet its
future on computers that use the Unix operating system.
   Consultants said the moves don't provide breakthroughs but
will help Unisys emphasize to customers how serious it is
about Unix -- which has become popular because customers are
looking for software that runs on numerous types of computers
and doesn't lock them into buying hardware from a single
supplier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This positions them as a solid supplier of Unix
products," said Tom Willmott, a consultant with Aberdeen
Group, Boston.
   The main part of the computer and defense-electronics
company's announcements addresses two software problems
related to the fact that there are dozens and dozens of
different varieties of the Unix operating system. Cyril
Yansouni, a Unisys executive vice president, calls the
problems "the dark side of Unix."
   Unisys said it had worked with 30 software companies to
ensure that 50 of the major packages of Unix software can
work together. At the moment, software that runs on the Unix
operating system has a disturbing tendency to break other
software packages running on Unix -- a problem exacerbated by
the fact that there are so many flavors of Unix on the
market.
   Unisys, based in Blue Bell, Pa., will sell customers any
combination of these packages and handle any problems that
crop up. At the moment, customers complain that any company
with hardware or software that is part of a Unix system gives
customers the runaround by insisting that somebody else
caused the problem.
   Unisys also said it did considerable work to insure that
the same version of Unix that runs on its entry-level
workstations can run on its biggest superminicomputers -- not
a trivial task, given that the underlying hardware is so
different. In principle, customers like not having to monkey
around with variations in operating systems. However, in
practice, consultants weren't sure that many customers had
software that would need to run on such a broad spectrum of
machines.
   On the hardware side, Unisys introduced some workstations,
including some based on Intel Corp.'s new 80486 processor. It
also unveiled revised midsized and high-end systems using
slightly faster versions of the original Intel processors.
   In addition, Unisys unveiled what it called a workstation,
whose list price has been kept to $2,395 largely by omitting
a hard-disk drive. The design is slick: The system consists
of just a keyboard and a monitor, because a "Personality
Pack" containing the computer attaches to the back of the
monitor. Disk-less workstations, however, have generally met
with just middling success.
   Unisys has acknowledged that it has a long way to go with
its Unix strategy. While the Unix business has grown rapidly,
it lost money last year, and many companies are finding
profits hard to come by in an area where competition among
computer makers is so fierce. But Mr. Yansouni was
optimistic, pointing to some large contracts Unisys won
recently and to opportunities for cost-cutting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mud in Your Eye:
   Some Behold Beauty
   In the `Earth Room'
   ---
   A Manhattan Gallery Displays
   An Expanse of Topsoil;
   Admirers Find It Moving
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- If it's dirt Jesse Helms is after, then the
North Carolina senator ought to check out a certain
second-floor art gallery in a SoHo apartment building here in
lower Manhattan.
   Unlike some of the artworks Sen. Helms has attacked
recently, the display has nothing to do with naked men, icons
submerged in urine or even bad language. It is, however, the
ultimate filth -- a room full of dirt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In gallery lingo, the New York "Earth Room" is an
installation. Artist Walter De Maria installed in a long,
narrow space a lumpy carpet about two feet deep of rich,
black, pungent soil.
   At 3,600 square feet, the display is bigger than the
average New York apartment. And it affects people deeply . .
. or leaves them cold.
   Visitors walk down a corridor and stop in a wide doorway,
where they confront 280,000 pounds of soil, nothing more,
held back by a knee-high clear-plastic barrier.
   Some Japanese tourists stop in the doorway and take
pictures. German art students stare, rapt. (Their professor
had told them not to miss this.) A middle-aged New York
couple bicker about whether it truly is art.
   "Art is supposed to be uplifting; this does nothing for
me," says John Cartafalsa, a lawyer. "Oh, honey," replies his
wife, Lydia. "If you'd just let your imagination run . . ."
In an aside, she says: "I would love to `run' through it
barefoot."
   Nearly 200 people -- the biggest turnout ever -- showed up
on the eve of Earth Day this year. (The place is closed
Sundays.) It seemed so right, symbolically.
   "They were such a respectful crowd," says Bill Dilworth,
who counts visitors from a desk in the back room and who
waters the dirt weekly to keep it from turning to dust.
"Normally on Saturday," he says, "I get a stunt at least
once, like someone throwing a dirt ball against the wall. But
not these people." They are environmentalists.
   Mr. Dilworth is responsible for keeping the dirt wet,
raked and plant-free. He puts on his boots to water and, at
the same time, dig out the mushrooms that have burst forth.
Mr. Dilworth says he likes to do the dirt chunky-style. He
understands that's what the artist prefers.
   More than 70,000 visitors altogether have made the trip to
see the Earth Room, which has been here -- free of any
admission charge -- for more than 10 years. And it is not
about to close: It is supposed to go on and on -- like "The
Fantasticks."
   The artwork is owned and operated by the Dia Art
Foundation, originally backed entirely by the oil-rich de
Menil family and now also supported by public and private
contributions. The foundation owns the space and devotes
itself to art that nobody else will touch, either because of
"its nature or scale." The Earth Room is both weird and big.
   The questions people most often ask about the Earth Room
are: "Why?" and "What does it mean?"
   But don't expect an explanation from the foundation, or
from Mr. De Maria, the artist. He is a shy fellow in his 50s,
and he draws the line at discussing his work. The Earth Room
is actually one of his more accessible pieces, if only
because it is in New York: Mr. De Maria's "Las Vegas" is a
rut in the Nevada desert four miles long, eight feet wide and
a foot deep. For "Lightning Field," 400 stainless-steel poles
were stuck straight up in a remote patch of New Mexico. That
installation, which is also maintained by the Dia Foundation,
is supposed to be experienced by visitors for 24 hours
straight, the better to get a flash . . . of insight.
   Critics, as is usual with critics, don't all agree about
the Earth Room. Hilton Kramer, editor of the journal New
Criterion, says it has "absolutely no artistic merit" and is
"a waste of time. . . ." Kenneth Baker, author of the book
"Minimalism: Art of Circumstance," says, "It's a major piece.
When you spend some time there, your whole idea of what's
inside and outside and up and down are completely shaken."
   One afternoon not long ago, a fellow came by, whipped out
his harmonica and played a happy tune to the empty room.
After about 10 minutes, he left without applause and without
uttering a word. Over the years, visitors have thrown coins,
planted marijuana seeds, and done other things in the
relative privacy they enjoy here. Dancers repeatedly have
asked to perform. One woman inquired: "Is this really
permanent?" because she wanted to scatter her brother's
ashes. Permanent perhaps. Eternal is another matter.
   Nobody could have been more disoriented by the prospect of
all this dirt than the Japanese businessman who arrived
clutching a scrap of paper on which was written: "141 Wooster
Street 2B. Best Thing to Do in New York." The man didn't know
if he was looking for a restaurant, a massage parlor or what.
"I explained," says Mr. Dilworth, "and he started coming
regularly and staying longer. After a month, he said he had
to go back to Japan, and he would miss it." Mr. Dilworth
figures the Earth Room must be famous in Tokyo, because a
Japanese film crew was here once, making a movie.
   Many visitors have been unable to suppress the urge to get
down and dirty. The exhibit can't be seen by the man at the
desk, and there are no surveillance cameras. So mischief is
always a possibility. "There were always stories about people
having sex in there," says Donald Baechler, a painter who
worked the desk in 1980. "I can't remember anymore if they
really did."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST LATAM TOYOY F.RNA MITSY TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOVIET FAILURE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The top adviser to Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev
on economic reform admitted that all economic changes to date
in his country have failed and appealed to Western
economists, businessmen and governments to help out.
   "If the West would help, this would in fact make the whole
difference," Stanislav Shatalin said at a news conference
called to discuss a plan to have Western experts review
Soviet and East European economic-reform plans. He added: "We
have come to a very profound conclusion that without the
cooperation of the West, we simply can't build a market
economy."
   Mr. Shatalin noted that many Soviets oppose a market
economy and the price hikes and unemployment almost certain
to come with it. He cited a poll that he said showed 54% of
Soviets are for market reforms but 46% against them.
   Mr. Shatalin said the Soviet Union has decided, along with
other East European nations, to join a new program uniting
some 50 top experts to cull through Soviet and East European
reforms before they are implemented. The program is being run
by the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis
in Austria.
                                                                                                       

   A FLOP IN LONDON
                                                                                                       

   "King," a $5 million London stage musical about Martin
Luther King Jr., will close on June 2 after only six weeks.
The show's producers blamed the failure on publicity about
problems affecting the production before it opened and on bad
reviews. The Daily Mail critic said "King" had taken an
exciting subject and "driven it into the ground under the
weight of good intent." The producers said "King" was getting
nightly ovations but had only $170,000 in advance bookings.
                                                                                                       

   ASSURANCES FOR AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet Union has given official assurances it will pay
130 million Australian dollars (US$99 million) it owes for
Australian wool later this week or early next week, an
Australian government official said. Neal Blewett,
Australia's Trade Negotiations Minister, told parliament that
the Australian ambassador had met Soviet government officials
in Moscow Wednesday to register Australia's concern about the
delay in paying Australian wool exporters. Mr. Blewett said
the delay in payments appeared to be caused by a
reorganization of the Soviet foreign-trade system rather than
to any default.
                                                                                                       

   COLOMBIAN PROJECT
                                                                                                       

   Toyota Motor Corp. announced it would manufacture
commercial vehicles in Colombia in a joint project with a
subsidiary of France's Renault and Mitsui &amp; Co., a major
Japanese trading house. Toyota officials said their company,
Japan's biggest car maker, has signed agreements with
Sociedad de Fabrication de Automotores Renault S.A. and
Mitsui. Under the agreement, they said, Bogota-based
SOFASA-Renault will add Toyota's Land Cruiser and Hilux
models to the line of Renault cars it has been producing.
                                                                                                       

   REFORMULATING SWEDISH BEER
                                                                                                       

   Sweden's leading brewers said they would lower the alcohol
level in their strongest beer from 4.5% to 4% after the
government said it might increase taxes on alcohol and link
them to the potency of the brew. But the brewers insisted
their decision was because of taste, not taxes. "The taste is
better at a lower level," said Katrin Andersson at the
Swedish Brewers' Association. Authorities said the proposed
tax increase would cut alcohol consumption by 10%.
                                                                                                       

   FRANCE'S POLLUTION TAX
                                                                                                       

   France this month became the first nation to institute a
tax on air pollution. Under the new law, emissions of sulfur
dioxide will be charged at a rate of 150 francs ($27) per
ton. The Ministry of the Environment will collect the taxes.
Ministry officials said the revenues would be used for such
purposes as measuring and reducing air pollution, including
grants for installation of anti-pollution measures.
                                                                                                       

   EUROPEAN TOBACCO ADS
                                                                                                       

   Britain and West Germany blocked a European Community bill
restricting tobacco ads in the press and on billboards.
   The 12 health ministers of the EC unanimously agreed on
the need to limit advertising, but opinions diverged on how
and to what extent to do it. A ban on television tobacco
advertising already exists in all member states.
   Most EC member countries were in favor of a total ban on
tobacco advertising, and some already have such a ban.
However, the German representative said banning a legal
product raised a constitutional problem, while the British
representative said he preferred a voluntary restriction
system.
   The ministers decided that the tar yield in all cigarettes
sold in Europe will be 15 milligrams by the end of 1992 and
12 milligrams by the end of 1993. The current levels range
from 15 to 20.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Members of France's National Independent Union of
Guardians and Concierges are staging a protest at the Cannes
Film Festival tomorrow and plan to burn a broom in front of
the festival center. The concierges say they are tired of
being depicted in French films as sloppily dressed gossips
leaning on a broom handle. . . . Cyprus's labor minister
advocated using National Guard soldiers as waiters and
bartenders in holiday resorts. The suggestion followed the
arrest of dozens of foreigners working illegally in the
seaside resort of Ayia Napa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Nacco Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   NC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NACCO INDUSTRIES Inc. (Cleveland) -- John C. Sawhill,
president and chief executive officer of the Nature
Conservancy, and Richard B. Tullis, chairman of NCC Funds and
Waste-Quip Inc., were elected directors of this
forklift-trucks producer and consumer-products and mining
concern. They succeed Everett Ware Smith and Gaetano G.
Pirrone, who didn't stand for re-election.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Medco Research Inc.:
   Accord With Oppenheimer
   On Finding Buyer Is Ended
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MEDR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Medco Research Inc. said it and Oppenheimer &amp; Co., its
investment banker, mutually agreed to end their agreement
under which Oppenheimer was exploring the possibility of
selling the Los Angeles company earlier than planned.
   The agreement was set to terminate in August, said Medco,
a drug company that develops treatments and diagnoses of
cardiovascular diseases. Although Oppenheimer contacted a
"significant number" of pharmaceuticals concerns about
acquiring the company, Medco said, none of them elected to
follow through. The company retained Oppenheimer in November.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Medco said it didn't plan to hire another investment
banker immediately. The company added, however, that it may
later review various "strategic alternatives" available to
it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lever Bros. Testing
   Recyclable Package
   For Snuggle, Wisk
   ---
   Firm Joind the `Green' Chorus
   Of Advertising Claims
   For Laundry Products
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5G
</SO>
<CO>
   UL UN CL
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Joining the noisy parade of green claims, a
unit of Unilever Group says it's testing recyclable packaging
in the U.S. for its Snuggle liquid fabric softener and Wisk
liquid laundry detergent.
   Procter &amp; Gamble Co. already has announced plans to
package its Tide, Cheer and Era liquid laundry detergents and
liquid Downy fabric softener in bottles made partly from
recycled plastic, starting this fall. Colgate-Palmolive Co.
is also beginning to use recycled plastics in its bottles of
Palmolive dishwashing liquid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lever Brothers, a U.S. subsidiary of the Anglo-Dutch
consumer-products maker, said it is looking at packaging
one-gallon sizes of the liquid laundry products in a
corrugated paper box lined with a plastic bag. The new design
uses 75% less plastic than the traditional heavy plastic
bottle. Once the container is empty, the plastic liner can be
separated from the carton, so the pieces can be recycled.
   Lever has been shipping the new boxes since February to
retailers in eight states in the upper Midwest and Northwest.
If the test is a success, the company will introduce them
nationally. Lever has no results from its tests yet. "We're
still waiting to hear what the consumer has to say about it,"
said Greg Creed, environmental marketing category manager.
   Despite the interest in protecting the environment, green
packaging isn't risk-free. U.S. consumers have been loath to
sacrifice convenience for environmental benefits. When
Wendy's International Inc. attempted to replace foam plates
with flimsier paper plates, for example, consumers balked.
Consumers also resisted PepsiCo Inc.'s plan to sell some soda
in three-liter plastic bottles. The jumbo bottles, which cut
down on trash, didn't fit easily into refrigerators.
   There are some signs of change. Late last year, P&amp;G
cautiously began testing refill pouches for liquid household
products in Washington, D.C., and Baltimore. P&amp;G officials
expected consumer resistance, even though some refills
require 75% less packaging. But sales have been surprisingly
strong, and now the company is expanding its test of pouches
of liquid Downy concentrate to six states in the Midwest.
   Lever officials said they weren't expecting an adverse
consumer reaction to the "bag-in-box" packaging, which has
been used in the past by the beverage industry. The packaging
is not refillable, and is relatively simple to use. To
pursuade skeptical consumers, Lever rolled out the new boxes
on a carpet of coupons, offering $1 off on Wisk and $1.50 off
on Snuggle. "We believe these brand names, with their
inherent strength, will reassure consumers who are worried
about the change," said Mr. Creed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   On Sports: Moms Get Into the Swing
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   Chesapeake, Va. -- Dale Eggeling, who makes her living on
the Ladies Professional Golf Association tour, has some tips
for how you golfers out there might improve your games. She
says you should keep your heads down, bring your clubs back
low and slow, and have a baby.
   OK, I know that some of you, especially you men, might
have trouble following all of her advice. Nevertheless, the
36-year-old pro, a sun-tanned brunette who laughs easily,
says it is heartfelt and backed by results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Before she gave birth to Dustin Elias E. on March 1, 1988,
Eggeling's best money-winning year in her 14 on the LPGA tour
was 1982, when she earned $57,691. But she nearly equaled
that last year, and with this year scarcely one-third gone,
she's already pocketed $67,887, including her largest single
check -- $27,750 for finishing second in the Oldsmobile LPGA
Classic in Lake Worth, Fla., in February. She's 14th on the
tour's current list, her highest position ever.
   "People ask me what's my secret. I tell them there is none
-- it's just that I've grown up a lot these past couple
years," said Eggeling during last week's Crestar Classic
here. "Having a baby changed my whole perspective. Something
was always missing from my life, and I never knew what it
was. Now I have it.
   "I'm more responsible and spending my time better. I'm
focused and really practicing for the first time. It's
showing up in my scores, and -- you know what? -- it actually
seems kind of easy. I should have thought of it long ago."
   Eggeling's paean to motherhood is swelling throughout the
LPGA's ranks. Time was when moms were about as rare as
pedal-pushers in women's golf, but now quite a few players
qualify. The tour counts 17 regulars who travel with their
kids much of the time. To its "official" hairspray, shampoo,
anti-perspirant and beautician-image consultant, the LPGA has
added an official child-care provider. That's Kinder-Care
Learning Centers Inc., whose branches provide free pickup and
delivery for golfers' tots at tournament sites.
   The tour's most illustrious mom is Nancy Lopez. An LPGA
Hall of Fame member at age 33, she has won 42 tour events, 15
of which have come after the birth of her first child in
1983. She and husband Ray Knight, the ex-baseball player,
have two children, Ashley, 6, and Erinn, almost 4.
   Laura Baugh just gave birth to a daughter, Haley, making
her the LPGA's fertility champ among active or
soon-to-be-active players with three children. Cathy Gerring
shares with Eggeling 1990's "most-improved" title. The mother
of a 20-month-old, she has jumped from 90th on the money list
last year to 12th currently, with winnings of $78,470.
   Needless to say, being a mom on the golf tour ain't all
baby powder and cuddles. Gerring says that sleepless nights
caused by her son Zachary's ear infections, caused her to
miss the cuts in 10 of her first 11 tournaments last year.
"When you're practicing, you feel you should be with your
children, and when you're with your children, you feel you
should be practicing," testifies Baugh.
   It helps to have a husband in the business, or, at least,
along for the ride. Moms Baugh, Gerring, Juli Inkster and
Judy Dickinson all are married to golf pros who sometimes
accompany them on the links. Cathy Reynolds's husband, Dana
Deroux, is her caddy. Myra Blackwelder's husband, Worth, is
Inkster's caddy. How's that for a potential conflict of
interest?
   Dale Eggeling's hubby, Mike, also is a LPGA tourist. He
travels the circuit on behalf of Taylor Made Golf, a club
maker whose products Dale uses. The two met in 1975 at the
University of South Florida, where Dale played on the women's
golf team and Mike was captain of the men's unit. He, too,
turned pro after leaving school and tried twice without
success to qualify for the PGA tour.
   "We took stock and decided to put all our eggs in what
seemed to be our best basket, which was my career," says
Dale. "Mike's been great about it."
   After a few lean years getting started, Eggeling has been
a steady if not spectacular performer, with average annual
winnings of about $45,000. She's won just one tourney, a l980
event in Boston, and says that it was so long ago that about
all she remembers about it was that she was ill with walking
pneumonia.
   She notes that she had an infection that caused her right
knee to swell during her two best 1990 showings -- the second
at Lake Worth and a third place the next week at the Phar-Mor
Inverrary Classic in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., at which she
earned $21,666, and wonders if there's a connection.
   "Lately, when Mike asks how I feel and I say `Fine,' he
says, `Too bad,'" she smiles.
   Unlike some LPGA parents, the Tampa, Fla.-based Eggelings
don't travel by van, choosing planes and hotels even though
they're more expensive. "I enjoy having someone make up my
room," Dale notes. Mike's mother sometimes accompanies them
as a baby sitter, and they've also used take-along nannies
and commercial day care. They pitch in, too, of course.
   "Don't let anybody kid you; no matter how much help you
have, motherhood is work," declares Dale.
   But she goes on that less time has, for her, been more.
"Mike and I used to have a lot of `lazy time,' but we sure
don't any more, and we've had to cut back on hobbies and
social things that were distracting," she says. "Now, when
I'm at a tournament, that's where my mind is."
   The sweetest fruit of Eggeling's new regime came in her
February finishes. She shot final rounds of 67 and 69 to tie
Pat Bradley for the 72-hole lead at the Oldsmobile before
losing in a playoff, and the next week, at the Inverrary,
started off with rounds of 69 and 68.
   Eggeling promised to buy Dustin a gift every time she
broke 70, and admits to being hard-pressed during her streak.
"I got him an outfit after the 67 and a toy after the 69, but
the next week I gave him IOUs until we got home," she says.
"When you travel, you can't lug too much stuff."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California Timber Groups
   Propose Ballot Measure
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   SACRAMENTO, Calif. -- California's timber industry, facing
two ballot initiatives to restrict clear-cutting, turned in
enough signatures to qualify its own initiative for the
November ballot.
   The proposed measure, backed by the Timber Association of
California and numerous industry groups, is dubbed the
"Global Warming, Clear Cut Reduction, Wildlife Protection and
Reforestation Act of 1990." It would limit clear-cutting of
virgin redwood forests, reduce clear-cutting in other forests
and authorize $300 million in bonds to finance reforestation
projects in urban areas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Enviromentalists quickly ridiculed the proposition as "Big
Stump" and charged that it is an industry smokescreen to
deflect voter support away from more sweeping reforms
proposed by the state's conservation community. Timber
industry officials say the most sweeping of the
conservationists' initiatives will cost the state and local
governments about $420 million annually.
   A timber association spokesman said petitions submitted to
the California secretary of state office contained about
700,000 signatures, double the number necessary to get on the
ballot.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thursday, May 17, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.10% 15 to 149 days; 8.075% 150 to 179
days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.20%
30 days; 8.20% 60 days; 8.20% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.75% one month; 7.80% two
months; 7.85% three months; 8% six months; 8.27% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.40% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.10% 30 days; 8.08% 60 days; 8.08%
90 days; 8.05% 120 days; 8.04% 150 days; 8% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% two months; 8 7/16% - 8 5/16% three months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% four months; 8 1/2% 8 3/8% five months; 8
1/2% - 8 3/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 7/16% three months; 8 9/16% six months; 8 13/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, May 14, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.67% 13 weeks; 7.68% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.30%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.23%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.80%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.85%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Budget Negotiators Haggle for 2 Hours
   But Fail to Agree on a Deficit Forecast
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Congressional leaders and administration
officials met for two hours but were unable to decide quickly
on either a projection of the fiscal 1991 deficit or how to
account for the soaring cost of the savings and loan
association cleanup.
   At the second session of the so-called budget summit,
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said he will unveil new,
substantially bigger cost estimates Wednesday for the thrift
bailout. Participants said he gave them no specifics but
warned that the estimates remain volatile and uncertain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The administration is pressing for a quick agreement to
alter the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law to exclude
thrift costs so that the summit can wrestle with other
issues. Democrats aren't ready to go along yet because of
objections from some of their rank and file, but they concede
there is no alternative.
   Despite all the statements about the urgency of the
deficit problem, the budget summit is off to a slow start,
with negotiators distracted by technical issues rather than
the search for a compromise on spending cuts and tax
increases. Some congressional staffers fear that if the pace
doesn't pick up after Congress returns from the Memorial Day
recess, the talks could bog down.
   At one point, according to one participant, White House
Budget Director Richard Darman displayed his impatience,
saying, "I'd like to get this thing moving."
   "We're still trying to find the facts," House Majority
Leader Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.) told reporters after the
meeting ended. And Senate Budget Chairman James Sasser (D.,
Tenn.) said the talks are proceeding at the pace he expected.
"A number of members aren't as up to speed as those of us who
deal with this on a daily basis," he said.
   After some haggling at the meeting, Mr. Darman agreed to
allow public distribution of new administration deficit
estimates, which had already been leaked. As previously
reported, the White House budget office now projects a
deficit for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 of between $123
billion and $138 billion, up from a January estimate of $101
billion. The figures exclude thrift bailout costs.
   The office said the projection swelled as much as $22
billion because of higher-than-projected interest rates and
inflation and lower-than-projected tax receipts. The figure
was boosted $14 billion more by higher spending forecasts,
including a $5 billion increase in projected spending on
commercial bank failures.
   Based on Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. estimates, the
administration in January assumed that bank insurance
premiums would exceed the cost of bank failures by $2.8
billion in 1991. Although the FDIC says it hasn't made any
recent updates, the budget office now assumes costs of bank
failures will exceed premiums by about $2.2 billion.
   Robert Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget
Office, told negotiators that the changing economy and
unanticipated shortfall in tax receipts have lifted his
agency's deficit forecast between $15 billion and $25
billion. Excluding thrift costs, the budget office now
foresees a 1991 deficit of between $149 billion and $159
billion.
   To avoid triggering across-the-board spending cuts this
fall, Congress and the White House need to agree on a package
of spending cuts and tax increases that reduce the deficit to
within $10 billion of the $64 billion Gramm-Rudman target.
   Messrs. Darman and Reischauer and Michael Boskin, chairman
of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, all agreed
that cutting the deficit more than 1% of the gross national
product, or about $55 billion, could hurt the economy. A
gimmick-free, deficit-reduction package of that size would be
more than twice what any negotiators have achieved in past
years.
   Earlier yesterday, William Diefenderfer, deputy director
of the White House budget office, said at a U.S. Chamber of
Commerce breakfast that he anticipates the summit eventually
will produce a deficit-reduction package of between $40
billion and $50 billion.
   But he doesn't anticipate a speedy resolution. "It's going
to take three or four months to do this thing if we're going
to do it right," he said. "Congress tends to have two things
that make it move: crisis and Christmas," the former Senate
staff member added. "Christmas is too far off and crisis is
not the atmosphere we would want to deal with this."
   Democrats, meanwhile, continued a steady drumbeat of
criticism of President Bush for refusing to detail publicly
the scope of the deficit problem or to offer a solution. "The
president is enormously popular," said Sen. Alan Dixon (D.,
Ill.). "I can't think of anything more worth spending some of
that political capital on than a real substantive plan to
reduce deficits."
   And Rep. Vic Fazio (D., Calif.) charged, "He's reluctant
to use the power of the presidency to do more than go into
the Rose Garden and give athletes or actresses a moment in
the sun."
   Administration officials argue that the solution doesn't
lie in public posturing, but in good-faith negotiations. And
even some top Democrats say privately that the persistent
partisan rhetoric is creating an atmosphere in which it is
difficult to bargain over a compromise package of spending
cuts and tax increases.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Equitable Life Says
   Carter Steps Down
   As President, Chief
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S.
said John B. Carter, the company's 55-year-old president and
chief executive officer, is retiring, effective immediately.
   Richard H. Jenrette, Equitable's chairman and chief
investment officer, will assume Mr. Carter's duties, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During Mr. Carter's seven-year tenure, Equitable
aggressively sold instruments known as guaranteed investment
contracts that promised annual yields of as much as 18%. When
interest rates plunged, the company sustained severe losses
on the contracts.
   According to Mr. Jenrette, who has been chairman since
1987, Mr. Carter doesn't have any immediate plans. "I think
he's planning to take a vacation first. He'll probably do a
little bit of gardening. He loves to garden," said Mr.
Jenrette.
   Mr. Carter was said to be unavailable for comment on his
departure or his plans.
   When asked why Mr. Carter's departure seemed so abrupt,
Mr. Jenrette said it really wasn't. "He told me, when I first
came here in 1985, that he wanted to retire at 55, after he
had completed 30 years of service with the company and served
as CEO for seven years," Mr. Jenrette said. Mr. Carter joined
Equitable in 1960 after his graduation from the Harvard
Business School.
   Equitable, the nation's third-largest life insurance
company, jumped into various ventures under Mr. Carter's
leadership. A number of them, including the guaranteed-income
contracts and a foray in group health coverage, proved major
disappointments. Several rounds of intensive cost-cutting
were needed to conserve Equitable's capital.
   Institutional investors pumped billions into the
income-guarantee contracts in the late 1970s and early 1980s,
and some contracts stayed on the books for as long as 10
years. When interest rates began to decline in 1982,
Equitable turned to junk bonds, but even their yields weren't
high enough to match the contract obligations.
   In an interview last year, Mr. Carter estimated that,
since 1982, Equitable had gone "in the hole" each year for
$200 million to $250 million because of these
guaranteed-income contracts.
   But the contracts weren't the only source of trouble for
Mr. Carter. Equitable's total premiums, considerations and
purchase payments have been declining steadily for the past
several years, from $7.77 billion in 1986 to $6.36 billion in
1989. Company insiders said morale soured again last year as
Equitable began another round of cost-cutting. Mr. Jenrette
said yesterday that Equitable had cut expenses by about $50
million some two years ago and plans to reduce costs by an
equal amount this year.
   Even so, the austerity measures haven't been companywide.
Last month, for example, top executives and the company's 100
agency managers were flown to Monaco for meetings.
   In a letter to Equitable's agents, Mr. Jenrette, who is 61
years old, said Mr. Carter's retirement puts "both an
enormous burden and an exciting challenge on my shoulders."
He indicated that Mr. Carter would cooperate to make the
shift of responsibilities orderly, but it wasn't immediately
clear whether the company would eventually search for a new
president.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Pound Soars on Speculation About Entry
   Into the EC's Exchange-Rate Mechanism
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar fell against the surging pound
yesterday as the British currency barreled higher on
speculation that sterling might soon join the exchange-rate
mechanism of the European Monetary System.
   Widespread rumors that the British unit might be brought
into the exchange-rate mechanism at an early date followed
the publication yesterday in The Wall Street Journal of an
interview with British Chancellor of the Exchequer John
Major. In the interview, Mr. Major said the United Kingdom
government is determined to bring sterling into the
exchange-rate mechanism, but he didn't set a date.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The mechanism links together the major European Community
currencies within set exchange-rate bands. Britain has been
the only major EC member to stand outside the arrangement.
   After the close of most trading in New York, Mr. Major
reiterated in a London speech that Britain's participation in
the exchange-rate mechanism is still conditional on lower
inflation in the U.K., and he said an acceptable rate of
price increases is unlikely to be achieved for "a few months
yet."
   "We must force it {inflation} down closer to the average
of our competitors," Mr. Major said.
   Meanwhile, the U.S. unit finished about half a pfennig
higher against the mark, closing just below the
psychologically important level of 1.65 marks on a sell-off
of the mark against the yen.
   The announcement earlier of a wider-than-expected U.S.
trade gap for March wasn't a large factor in dollar dealings
yesterday, participants said. The trade gap was reported at
$8.45 billion.
   Mr. Major's statements to The Wall Street Journal caused a
burst of pound buying as participants speculated about when
the British unit might be brought into the exchange-rate
mechanism. His words were taken by the market to indicate a
significant easing of the British government's ideological
opposition to the inclusion of the pound in the mechanism.
   "It's EMS euphoria. We're all expecting it to happen
soon," said one London trader. Some participants -- speaking
prior to Mr. Major's speech in London yesterday -- said the
entry might come as early as this weekend, although others
said such an early entry would be unlikely, due to the
necessity for negotiations on the value at which the British
unit would enter the exchange-rate mechanism.
   Traders estimated variously that the pound would be
brought into the mechanism at 2.60 marks to 2.90 marks. It is
thought the currency's EMS trading band will be set between 2
1/2% and 4%, said Abigail Cook, a vice president at Hongkong
&amp; Shanghai Banking Corp. in New York. Sterling ended the day
in New York around 2.7935 marks, up sharply from 2.7644 marks
late Wednesday in New York.
   The apparent softening in the British government's
position was widely perceived in the market as a political
move intended to increase domestic support for U.K. Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher, whose popularity has fallen
sharply in recent months in response to her government's
imposition of a poll tax. Mrs. Thatcher's Conservative Party
recently suffered extensive losses in local government
elections over the issue of the tax.
   "I think they need anything they can get now. {Mrs.
Thatcher} needs something optimistic to happen over there,"
Ms. Cook said.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6495 marks, up from 1.6455 marks late Wednesday, and at
152.14 yen, up from 151.67 yen late Wednesday. Sterling was
quoted at $1.6930, up from $1.6805 late Wednesday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Friday, the U.S. currency was
quoted at 152.85 yen, up from Thursday's Tokyo close of 152
yen. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.6485 marks.
   On Thursday, dealers said the market didn't react much to
the U.S. trade report because participants are focusing on
interest rates. The trade report has declined in significance
recently, yielding the spotlight to inflation indicators such
as the consumer price index.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $369.50 an ounce, up 50 cents. Estimated
volume was a moderate three million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Friday, gold was quoted at $369.05 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Aca Joe Taps Shulman
   Of Bendel for Posts
   Of President, Director
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Aca Joe Inc. said it named
retail-clothing veteran Mark Shulman as president and a
director of the company, succeeding Peter Muller, who
resigned.
   Mr. Shulman said Mr. Muller resigned to pursue other
interests. However, Mr. Muller couldn't be reached for
comment on the move.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The casual-apparel company said the 41-year-old Mr.
Shulman, who served since 1987 as president and chief
executive officer of Henri Bendel of New York, will add the
chief executive position to his list of duties at Aca Joe on
June 19. As chief executive, he will succeed Alice Lam, who
will remain chairman and a director.
   Before his tenure at Bendel, Mr. Shulman was president and
chief executive of Ann Taylor. He has also served in
retailing positions with Bloomingdale's in New York and I.
Magnin in San Francisco.
   Mr. Shulman said he plans to take the next 30 to 60 days
to evaluate what needs to be done with the clothing retailer,
which emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law proceedings just
over a year ago.
   "The first order of business is to get the stores looking
the way they should," he said. Better visual display, better
sales associates, and better merchandising lead the list of
tasks, he said. "I think people will tend to see a change in
merchandise around the holidays," he added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Edges Higher as Small Investors
   Spur Volume Jump; Quantum Gains 1 1/8
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks continued to crawl higher as
traders gave mixed reviews of the degree of enthusiasm among
small investors.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 2.81 to 445.74, a 0.63%
gain. Advancing shares broadened their lead over declining
stocks, 1,111 to 836, as volume accelerated to 171.4 million
shares from 152.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Small investors' orders for OTC stocks picked up at
PaineWebber, according to Richard Bruno, head of OTC trading
there. "I think people on the sidelines have come in," said
Mr. Bruno, who estimated that the brokerage firm's orders
from "retail" customers are up 25% to 30% this month.
   However, Jack Bayer, head of OTC trading at Oppenheimer,
said the market for smaller OTC stocks "remains stagnant."
Similarly, Lawrence Rice, national manager of OTC trading at
Wedbush Morgan Securities in Los Angeles, said, "It seems
like a lot of people are still sitting on their wallets." Mr.
Rice's firm handles trading between securities industry
professionals.
   Larger issues attracted most of the attention yesterday at
Robinson Humphrey's New York office, according to Jim
O'Neill, co-manager of OTC trading. Among the more active
issues was Sensormatic Electronics, which gained 1 to close
at a new 52-week high of 14 1/8 on 1.4 million shares. Mr.
O'Neill said he wasn't aware of any particular news or
comments fueling interest in the Deerfield Beach, Fla., maker
of electronics equipment.
   Quantum also was among the day's most-active shares,
advancing 1 1/8 to 19 on 2.1 million shares. The Milpitas,
Calif., maker of disk drives said it reached a new supply
agreement with Leading Edge Products of Westborough, Mass.,
valued at $20 to $25 million over the next year.
   However, other technology stocks weren't as strong,
including Intel, up 1/8 at 44 7/8, and Apple Computer,
   MCI Communications, the day's most active stock, rose 7/8
to 41 3/4 on 2.7 million shares, and helped fuel a 0.86% gain
in the Nasdaq utility index.
   DST Systems jumped 1 7/8 to 14 5/8 after Kansas City
Southern Industries said it plans to begin a $14-a-share
tender offer for the 12.9% of the Kansas City, Mo., software
concern that it doesn't already own.
   L.M. Ericsson rallied 6 1/8 to 182 7/8 after Japan's
Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone announced that it chose the
Swedish telecommunications company, along with Motorola, AT&amp;T
and seven Japanese companies, to jointly develop NTT's
digital mobile telephone system.
   Reuters's American Depositary Receipts joined a broad
rally in other, exchange-listed British issues, gaining 1 7/8
to 59 7/8.
   Nature's Bounty rose 1 1/4 to 7 after the Bohemia, N.Y.,
maker of vitamins, nutritional supplements and personal-care
items reported late Wednesday that operating profit for the
second quarter ended March 31 was 33 cents a share, up from
19 cents a share a year earlier.
   Samna reached a new 52-week high, rising 1 5/8 to 9 1/2.
John Throckmorton, chief financial officer of the Atlanta
software maker, told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report
that on May 15 the company licensed its Ami executive word
processing product to Software Publishing. On Wednesday, he
added, the firm began shipping another product, the Ami
Professional 1.2, which is compatible with Microsoft's new
Windows 3.0 operating system. The product is expected to be
unveiled Tuesday. Samna's stock has nearly doubled since the
beginning of the month, as investors awaited both the launch
of both its own and Microsoft's products.
   Software Toolworks gained 1 7/8 to 17 7/8. The Chatsworth,
Calif., developer and distributor of software said Wednesday
that it plans to file next month for a July offering of as
many as four million shares, with about half to be sold by
the company and half by certain shareholders. The company's
proceeds will be used for working capital and general
corporate purposes.
   One Swedish issue didn't fare so well. AB Electrolux lost
1/2 to 39 3/8 after the home appliance group said that its
pretax profit in the first three months of 1990 fell 41.3%,
more steeply than market expectations.
   Secor Bank lost 5/8 to 3 7/8 after the Birmingham, Ala.,
bank suspended its 10-cents a share quarterly dividend on
common stock and its dividends on series A and B preferred
shares. The bank said that its dividends paid have exceeded
net income before dividends for each of the last three
quarters.
   Optical Coating Laboratory fell 3/4 to 4 1/8 after the
Santa Rosa, Calif., maker of optical thin film coatings
reported net income for the second quarter ended April 30 of
six cents a share, down from 17 cents a year earlier.
   Corrections tumbled for the second consecutive day after
articles in two Texas newspapers said there's a chance state
prison officials might cancel operating contracts for two
prison facilities built by the Nashville, Tenn., company,
according to DJPIR. A company spokeswoman called the
speculation premature. Corrections, which fell 1/2 Wednesday,
dropped 7/8 yesterday to 9.
   Asiamerica Equities lost 2 to 5 1/4. The Vancouver,
British Columbia, investment and real estate trust attributed
recent volatility in its shares to "investor margin
pressures," but didn't specify which investors might be
having trouble meeting their margin calls. Asiamerica said
there haven't been any recent material changes at the
company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Rockwell, One of the Stocks Gorbachev Sent
   To the Doghouse, Flexes Muscles for Comeback
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   ROK
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   When is a defense stock not a defense stock? When it is
Rockwell International.
   Rockwell today is a mixed bag, getting about 40% of its
revenue from electronics, 32% from aerospace, 19% from
automotive operations, mainly axles and brakes for trucks,
and 9% from graphics, chiefly big printing presses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many people still view Rockwell mainly as a military
contractor, and defense stocks are pariahs in the prevailing
cut-the-budget-and-deal-with-Gorbachev climate. A few years
ago, Rockwell was dependent on defense; the B-1 bomber was
its most important product. Today, however, military business
accounts for less than 25% of sales.
   With defense stocks in the doghouse and conglomerates not
in fashion on Wall Street either, shares of the
Pittsburgh-based company are trading for a very modest 10
times the past 12 months' earnings. The stock, which reached
30 7/8 in 1987, has traded in the low to mid-20s for most of
this year. Yesterday, in composite trading on the New York
Stock Exchange, it closed at 25 3/8.
   Yet the company is solidly profitable, has shown increased
earnings in most years recently and sports a muscular balance
sheet: Its total debt is less than 20% of total capital.
   Proponents say the out-of-favor stock could provide
handsome capital gains to long-term investors. Rockwell "has
managed pretty well through adversity," says Hanspeter Giger
of First Union Corp. in Charlotte, N.C., which recently
bought more than 100,000 shares. When Rockwell's big B-1
bomber program was cut way back in 1988 and 1989, "everybody
in the world thought they would lose a substantial amount of
their sales," Mr. Giger says. But the company found
sufficient new business so that sales fell only slightly.
   Rockwell's nonmilitary divisions "are really doing quite
well," says Eric Miller, chief investment officer at
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. "They're not well known. And
the company is continuing with a major share-repurchase
program."
   Donaldson analyst David Moore likes Rockwell's position as
the largest supplier to the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, or NASA. Long term, he thinks Rockwell "will
continue to dominate the space industry," including the
National Aerospace Plane project and the lunar and Mars
programs.
   Even though defense spending is being cut, space spending
is growing. A 24% increase in NASA budget authority to $15.2
billion is proposed for 1991. Congress may chip away at that,
Mr. Moore says, but probably will let NASA's budget grow at a
10%-to-15% annual clip for the next five years.
   Not everything in the outlook for Rockwell is rosy. Paul
Nisbet, a Prudential-Bache analyst who rates the stock a
hold, notes that a big chunk of sales are to the auto
industry, which is "not extremely robust." As for printing
presses, he says, "we don't see much growth in that. They've
pretty well saturated the world with these big multicolor
presses for newspapers."
   Mr. Nisbet thinks Rockwell's sales will creep up only
slowly during the next few years, to $13 billion in 1994 from
about $12.5 billion in fiscal 1989. Even though he likes the
way chief executive Donald R. Beall is steering the company
into high-technology businesses and selling off some smaller
and lower-tech operations, Mr. Nisbet doesn't think earnings
will rise rapidly. Most analysts look for flat earnings this
year and next.
   But Wolfgang Demisch, director of research for UBS Philips
&amp; Drew, and for many years a highly regarded Wall Street
defense analyst, thinks Rockwell shares will reach 32 by year
end, which would be a 28% gain from recent levels.
   Mr. Demisch likes that unglamorous truck-part business. "I
would say they are clearly the world leaders" in truck axles
and brakes, he says, adding that Rockwell is building its
truck-parts business in Europe, where big trucks are becoming
more common. "Europe didn't use to have Godzilla trucks, but
nowadays they do."
   At Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo &amp; Co., a big Boston
money-management firm with a strong stock-picking record, a
complex computer model spat out advice to buy Rockwell late
last year. The firm bought about 200,000 shares then and
early this year but isn't buying any right now. Co-founder
Jeremy Grantham says that Rockwell looks good on the model's
value and momentum measures, but that investor interest in
the stock is higher than Grantham Mayo prefers. He won't say
what measure of investor interest is used.
   It certainly couldn't be Wall Street recommendations. Most
of Wall Street couldn't care less about Rockwell. Of 14
brokerage firms whose opinions were tallied recently by Zacks
Investment Research, only two rated the stock a buy.
   That's just fine with Mr. Giger of First Union, who says:
"We're attracted to names that are not today's hot idea."
   ---
   Rockwell International
   (NYSE; Symbol: ROK)

   Business: Aerospace and electronics
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Sept. 30, 1989:
   Sales: $12.52 billion
   Net income: $734.9 million; or $2.84
   a share (fully diluted)
                                                                                                       

   Second quarter, March 31, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: 70 cents vs. $1.04*
   (fully diluted)
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   356,206 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 246.9 million
                                                                                                       

   *Year-ago $270.7 million profit includes $104 million net
gain from sale of a division
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   U.S. Bond Prices Move Up, Then Fall as Fed's
   Policy Appears Unchanged; British Gilts Surge
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Michael A. Pollock
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST EUROP DOW HCA OI CMAFC FRE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- U.S. bond prices gyrated yesterday, rising on
speculation that the Federal Reserve was on the verge of
lowering interest rates then falling when it became apparent
that Fed credit policy was unchanged.
   The story overseas was far different as prices of British
government bonds, called gilts, surged in the biggest bond
market rally in 2 1/2 years. Some long-term gilts rose as
much as three points, or #30 ($50.79) for a gilt with a
#1,000 face amount.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The surge in gilts helped lift other European bond markets
but had little effect on the U.S. market, where prices ended
modestly lower.
   In early U.S. trading, the Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bond rose 1/4 point. The buying began when investors
interpreted a decline in the federal funds rate as a sign
that the Fed was ready to push interest rates lower. The
funds rate, which banks charge each other on overnight loans,
slipped to 8 1/8%, which is below the Fed's target level of 8
1/4%. The rate is closely watched by market participants
because the Fed often uses it to signal changes in the
direction of interest rates.
   But hopes of a Fed easing were dashed when the central
bank drained reserves from the banking system by executing
overnight matched sale-purchase agreements, a technical
trading procedure.
   The open market operation "was a statement that the Fed
hadn't changed policy," said Joel Kazis, manager of
government trading at Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. "That
took the wind out of the market," he said.
   Meanwhile, Philadelphia Fed President Edward G. Boehne
told a group of retired bankers that the Fed hasn't changed
monetary policy since right before Christmas, when members of
the Federal Open Market Committee voted to ease the funds
rate to 8 1/4%.
   Mr. Boehne's comment strongly suggested that the Fed took
no action on rates at Tuesday's committee meeting.
   Analysts and traders now believe the bond market has
settled into a holding pattern, where it is likely to remain
until the Labor Department releases the May employment report
in two weeks.
   Britain's bond market rally was triggered by reports that
the country might be on the verge of joining the exchange
rate mechanism of the European Monetary System, the agreement
for stabilizing European Community currencies.
   In yesterday's edition of this newspaper, Chancellor of
the Exchequer John Major said Britain is intent on entering
the agreement. The statement was considered positive for the
bond market because it suggests that the British government
will move swiftly to reduce inflation.
   "London wants to be the European Community's financial
center, but right now it appears that West Germany" has that
distinction, said Francis H. Schott, senior vice president
and chief economist at Equitable Financial Cos. To become a
major financial center, some analysts believe that Britain
must become a member of the European Monetary System. But to
do so, "the British will have to adjust inflationary habits
to those of the other Common Market members, and that means
inflation must come down," said Mr. Schott. Lower inflation
should lead to lower interest rates and higher bond prices.
   Britain's inflation rate has ranged between 7% and 10% in
recent years and was at an annual rate of 9.4% in April.
   The gilt market was also supported by a labor report that
said unemployment rose in April for the first time since
1986.
   Britain's benchmark 11 3/4% Treasury bond was quoted late
at 100 18/32, up 2 3/8 points, to yield 11.66%.
   Yesterday's rally capped a steady climb in the market that
has pushed yields one percentage point lower in one month.
However, some analysts are skeptical about any near-term
entry of the pound into the exchange rate mechanism and
believe the recent rally has been overdone.
   "Unless we do enter the ERM shortly, the gilts market is
going to resemble one of those cartoon characters who has run
off the edge of a cliff and suddenly realizes there's nothing
holding him up," said economist Mark Franklin of Credit
Suisse First Boston Ltd.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   For the second time in a month, a foreign unit of a U.S.
company raised money in the U.S. rather than the Eurobond
market because of lower U.S. interest rates.
   Dow Capital BV, the Dutch-based finance unit of Dow
Chemical Co., made its debut in the U.S. market with a $150
million offering of 20-year debentures.
   "With the drop in rates that has happened in the last week
to 10 days, it appeared to be advantageous to issue today,"
said Myk Fenstermacher, financial manager at Dow Chemical.
"We feel there was a slight advantage to do it here, in terms
of cost as well as ease of issuance."
   Although Dow Capital BV has tapped the medium-term note
market before, the new debt sale represented the first time
the finance unit has offered debt in the underwritten public
debt market.
   Also in the corporate debt market was Asian Development
Bank, which sold $300 million of 10-year notes priced to
yield 9.25%. An official at lead underwriter Shearson Lehman
Hutton Inc. said the securities were primarily purchased by
domestic money managers. The Triple-A-rated bank is one of a
number of Yankee issuers that taps the U.S. credit markets
periodically. Yankee issuers are foreign entities that sell
dollar-denominated securities in the U.S. debt market.
   In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate
debt, prices of widely quoted issues finished 1/8 point
lower.
   The junk bond market continued to show strength, but
activity in the $200 billion high-yield sector was muted.
Overall, speculative-grade securities with low credit ratings
or no credit ratings, advanced about 1/4 point.
   Among the gainers were zero-coupon bonds of Hospital Corp.
of America, which rose one point to end at 70, and
Owens-Illinois Inc.'s 12 3/4% subordinated debentures, which
added one point to end at 91.
   Also higher were junk bonds of Ralphs Grocery Co., a
healthy unit of Toronto-based Campeau Corp. Ralphs' 14%
senior subordinated debentures, maturing in 2000, finished at
86 1/4, up 1/4.
   Shortly after Campeau's two U.S. retailing units,
Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores Corp.
filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal
bankruptcy law, Ralphs bonds tumbled on fears that the
company would end up having to pay for Campeau's problems.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities ended narrowly mixed but fared better
than the Treasury market amid continued demand for derivative
mortgage-backed offerings.
   Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. issued two separate $300 million real
estate mortgage investment conduits backed by Government
National Mortgage Association 9 1/2% securities, and other
deals are rumored.
   Ginnie Mae 9% securities for June delivery ended at 95
17/32, down 1/32; 9 1/2% securities were at 97 31/32, up
1/32; 10% securities were at 100 15/32, up 2/32; and Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9 1/2% securities were at 97 15/32,
down 1/32.
   The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 9.78% to a 12-year
average life assumption, as the spread above the Treasury
10-year note narrowed 0.02 percentage point to 1.10.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Following the lead of Treasurys, tax-exempt issues were
off 1/8 to 1/4 point in very light trading.
   Traders reported that about $100 million worth of bonds on
sell lists traded during the session.
   In new-issue activity, an issue of $85.1 million of Nassau
County, N.Y., various purpose revenue bonds was won by a
Prudential-Bache Capital Funding group.
   Among actively traded bonds, New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018 was 1/8 lower at 97 7/8 bid
to yield 7.37%.
   No large municipal issues are expected to be priced today.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury prices ended lower after a day of seesaw trading.
The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 101, down 6/32
from 101 6/32 on Wednesday. The issue's yield, which moves in
the opposite direction from its price, rose to 8.64% from
8.63%. The latest 10-year notes were also lower, with prices
falling to about 101 5/32 to yield 8.68%, compared with 101
9/32 to yield 8.66%.
   Short-term rates were higher. The discount rate on
three-month Treasury bills was quoted late at 7.69% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.93%, while the rate on six-month
Treasury bills rose to 7.70% for a yield of 8.10%.
   In when-issued trading activity, the two-year notes
scheduled to be auctioned by the Treasury on Wednesday were
quoted late yesterday at a yield of 8.58%. Five-year notes,
which will be sold on Thursday, were quoted at a yield of
8.64%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Britain's powerful bond rally was the major focus of most
European trading. The price of Britain's benchmark long-term
government bond jumped 2 3/8 points.
   The bullish sentiment in the British bond market spilled
over to West Germany, where the price of the benchmark
10-year government bond rose 0.38 point to 94.33 to yield
8.62%.
   The West German market also was supported by news that the
federal government is forecasting an extra 8.2 billion marks
($4.98 billion) in tax revenue this year.
   In Japan, government bonds ended weaker because of a
slight drop in the value of the yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   FIRST EXECUTIVE Corp. intended to seek approval of an
increase in its authorized capital stock at its annual
meeting later this year. The plan met with objections from a
major shareholder. Wednesday's edition incorrectly said the
company had been considering a sale of common stock.
   (See: "First Executive Cash Outflow Is $1.33 Billion" --
WSJ May 16, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   WESTERN UNION Corp.'s financial-services revenue grew 11%
to $78.6 million. The figure was misstated in yesterday's
edition. In addition, the company said it no longer plans to
reclassify the Class B common shares held by Brooke Partners
Limited Partnership into new common shares.
   (See: "Western Union Deficit Widened in First Quarter" --
WSJ May 17, 1990)
   ---
   PENSION FUNDS are permitted by federal law to trade
futures on margin. The law was misstated in yesterday's
edition.
   (See: "Futures Shock: Tight Rein if SEC Reigns --- More
Skepticism, Higher Margins" -- WSJ May 17, 1990)
   ---
   THE DOW JONES Equity Market Index closed Wednesday at
329.15; the Technology group closed at 276.91; and the
Communications Technology group including AT&amp;T closed at
406.52. An error in a composite-trading figure led to errors
in some of the data in the Dow Jones Industry Groups table,
which appeared in yesterday's edition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nikon Corp.:
   Unconsolidated Pretax Net
   Increased 8.7% in Fiscal 1989
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NIK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nikon Corp., the big Tokyo-based manufacturer of cameras
and other optical instruments, said unconsolidated pretax
earnings in fiscal 1989, ended March 31, grew 8.7% to 20.28
billion yen from 18.66 billion yen in fiscal 1988.
   Net profit jumped 59% to 10.87 billion yen, or 29.63 yen a
share, from 6.86 billion yen, or 18.86 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 10% to 241.12 billion yen from 218.95 billion
yen.
   Nikon officials said healthy personal consumption helped
push up sales of cameras, binoculars and certain other
products.
   Net surged as the company posted 1.18 billion yen in
extraordinary gains from the sales of corporate assets,
compared with 992 million yen in such profits in the previous
fiscal year. Extraordinary losses, including those from sales
of assets and foreign-exchange losses involving long-term
foreign currency loans, shrank to 497 million yen from 1
billion yen and also helped improve the financial balance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Laclede Steel Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LCLD
</CO>
<LP>
   LACLEDE STEEL Co. (St. Louis) -- George H. Walker III,
chairman, chief executive officer and president of Stifel
Nicolaus &amp; Co., was named a director of this steel concern,
succeeding Howard J. Godfrey, who retired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Defections
   Add to Woes
   At Saatchi
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA SLE IPG OMCM WNEWS BUD
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Eight senior and mid-level officials defected
from Saatchi &amp; Saatchi's London advertising agency in another
blow for the troubled communications giant.
   The advertising managers' move to form their own shop is
the biggest defection ever from Britain's largest agency,
Saatchi's flagship. Their exit follows the apparently
unrelated ouster of two top corporate executives and a
third's resignation earlier this month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No clients immediately followed the defectors, who claim
they were responsible for about #72 million ($121 million) or
20% of the agency's annual billings. Saatchi said it won't
replace the eight officials and dismissed their departure as
"unlikely to have any material effect on the group's
results." Sniffed Charles Cook, a Saatchi spokesman: "This is
rather a storm in a teacup."
   But London investors reacted badly amid fears of possible
client losses and a wider exodus from the profitable,
award-winning agency, set up by company founders Charles and
Maurice Saatchi in 1970. Saatchi's share price slipped 4.5
pence to 96.5 pence ($1.62) in late trading yesterday while
London's Stock Exchange roared ahead 63.3 points for its best
day since November 1987. Saatchi shares were down as much as
nine pence at one point.
   The London ad agency "has been a beacon of light and hope
for future recovery when there were problems elsewhere" in
Saatchi, observed David Forster, an advertising analyst at
Kleinwort Benson Securities. But when "your top creative and
account people start to leave on an unplanned basis, you
start to get concerned." He said that the defections could be
the beginning of a wave of resignations.
   The defection was led by Paul Cowan, a group account
director. Among the others leaving to form a new agency,
Cowan, Kemsley, Taylor Ltd., were Adrian Kemsley, Maggie
Taylor, and Charlie Makin.
   Ironically, investors reacted favorably when three top
Saatchi executives left earlier this month. Those departures
were seen as a clear victory for Robert Louis-Dreyfus, a
French executive brought in to clean up the beleaguered
company last January. Saatchi currently is saddled with heavy
debt and is trying to get out of its disastrous foray into
the consulting business.
   Two weeks ago, the new chief executive fired Roy Warman
and Terry Bannister, who had served as joint chief executives
of the company's advertising operations. Many ad industry
watchers had doubted that Mr. Louis-Dreyfus could wrest power
from the Saatchi brothers and their cadre of loyalists, such
as Messrs. Warman and Bannister.
   Confirmation of Mr. Louis-Dreyfus's strong grip came
earlier this week when John Sharkey resigned as deputy
chairman of Saatchi's international advertising operations.
Mr. Sharkey was viewed as an ally of Mr. Warman and Mr.
Bannister. Mr. Sharkey, who declined to comment yesterday, is
to become chairman of U.K. operations for the French
advertising and marketing-services group BDDP.
   Messrs. Warman and Bannister haven't decided what to do
next. A termination agreement they are negotiating with
Saatchi probably will keep them from joining their
ex-colleagues' new agency, said Mr. Cowan. Still, "they are
our friends and we will keep in touch," he said, having to
shout over the noise of sawing wood and pounding hammers in
his new office.
   Mr. Bannister said he and Mr. Warman aren't involved in
the defectors' plans. "Despite obviously being very friendly
with the people, there's no involvement either current or
potential," Mr. Bannister said.
   Mr. Cowan, a 12-year Saatchi veteran, was passed over for
a key promotion after a reorganization of Saatchi's London
agency earlier this year. But he insisted that isn't why he
jumped ship. "This plan goes back a long way" before the
reorganization. He said he and the seven others, four of whom
were Saatchi agency board members, disliked the corporate
culture that evolved as Saatchi expanded world-wide and then
fell on hard times. The parent company's "focus should be on
advertising" again, Mr. Cowan said, "rather than on money."
   The group claims it won #15 million in new ad business for
Saatchi over the past two years. "They have brought in a
reasonable amount of new business," said Michael Savage, an
advertising analyst at Sheppards, a U.K. brokerage firm.
Investors think "if they go out the door, the business will
follow."
   As of noon yesterday, however, Mr. Cowan's new agency had
yet to land its first client. And Saatchi officials believe
the defections will cost the agency few, if any, of its
roughly 300 clients.
   Britain's Chamber of Coal Traders "will continue to carry
on with Saatchi," said Brian Tasker, director of a trade
group that spends #2 million a year on advertising. "We tend
to employ firms, not people."
   But Mr. Tasker said he hadn't discussed the issue with his
colleagues, and the ex-Saatchi agency officials "handled our
account as such." The coal group's last campaign, featuring a
dog, a cat and a mouse cuddling before a fireplace, won
numerous ad-industry awards.
   Saatchi's latest turmoil occurs in an agency where the
Saatchi brothers made their reputation by developing simple,
provocative ads. Their 1971 print ad promoting contraception,
for example, showed a pregnant man and asked: "Would you be
more careful if it was you who got pregnant?"
   ---
   Lintas Wins Sara Lee
                                                                                                       

   Lintas got a new-business boost, winning the $55 million
ad account from Sara Lee Corp.
   Sara Lee named Lintas, a unit of Interpublic Group, to
direct its entire marketing communications budget. Sara Lee
said the total program, which includes the $55 million ad
budget, tops $100 million.
   Lintas picks up ad responsibilities for most Sara Lee
brands, including its namesake cakes and pastries, Hillshire
Farm, Ball Park, Mr. Turkey and Grillmaster.
   Sara Lee, based in Chicago, previously employed a number
of different ad agencies for its many brands. Among the
losers: Chiat/Day/Mojo; Ally & Gargano; Jordan, McGrath, Case
& Taylor; and W.B. Doner. Those agencies participated in a
pitch for the combined business, as did some outsiders,
including Bozell and Backer Spielvogel Bates, a Saatchi &amp;
Saatchi unit. Backer pulled out of the pitch, citing a
"renewed commitment" to its client, CPC International.
   "Having our advertising and marketing communications needs
under one roof can help us extend and leverage our brands,
producing greater effectiveness," said Paul Fulton, president
of Sara Lee, in a statement.
   The win comes as a much-needed shot in the arm to Lintas,
which last week lost the $45 million Eastern Airlines account
to Ogilvy &amp; Mather.
   "Everybody here is absolutely delighted," said Spencer
Plavoukos, chairman and chief executive at Lintas's New York
operations. "Tomorrow we're going to be eating an awful lot
of cold cuts and Sara Lee pastry."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Busch Entertainment, St. Louis, named DDB
Needham, Chicago, to create ads for its Sea World of Florida
and Sea World of Ohio theme parks. Billings are estimated at
$10 million. DDB Needham, an Omnicom Group agency, already
handles the ad accounts for a number of other parks owned by
Busch Entertainment, a unit of Anheuser Busch.
                                                                                                       

   YOUNG &amp; RUBICAM: Dennis Wilkinson was named executive vice
president and general manager of Young &amp; Rubicam's Chicago
office. He was president of DDB Needham's San Francisco
office.
                                                                                                       

   ROSENFELD SIROWITZ: Linda Srere was named president and
Robert G. Mayer was named executive vice president at
Rosenfeld, Sirowitz, Humphrey &amp; Strauss, a New York agency.
Ms. Srere had been an executive vice president; Mr. Mayer had
been a senior vice president.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Navistar International Corp.:
   Second-Period Net Dropped
   77% on 10% Sales Decline
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NAV
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
LAND TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT (LDT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Navistar International Corp. said second-quarter earnings
fell 77% on a 10% sales decline, reflecting the continued
industrywide slump in retail-truck sales.
   The Chicago maker of trucks and diesel engines said it
earned $8 million, or one cent a share, on sales of $977
million for the fiscal-second quarter ended April 30. In the
year-earlier quarter, the company earned $35 million, or 11
cents a share, on sales of $1.09 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the six months, Navistar had a loss of $10 million, or
10 cents a share, compared with earnings of $72 million, or
23 cents a share. Sales fell to $1.81 billion from $2.04
billion.
   Industry sales of medium and heavy trucks in North
America, according to Navistar, totaled 71,000 units in the
quarter, down 12% from last year. Navistar said it delivered
22,200 units during the quarter, down 10%.
   Navistar said it expects industry sales of heavy trucks to
fall 18% to 142,000 units, and medium trucks to fall 4% to
153,000 units, in its fiscal year ending Oct. 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West Coast Video
   Sues MCA for Alleged
   Breach of Agreement
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA BV
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- West Coast Video Enterprises Inc. has sued
MCA Inc. and its subsidiary Universal City Studios for
allegedly breaching an exclusive promotion agreement, after
MCA's "secret" talks with West Coast Video competitor
Blockbuster Entertainment Corp.
   The complaint, filed in state court, says the exclusive
nature of the promotion, set to coincide with the opening of
MCA's Universal Studios Florida in Orlando next month, was
particularly important to Philadelphia-based West Coast Video
because rival Blockbuster is based in Ft. Lauderdale,
Florida. The promotion agreement would have given West Coast
Video a marketing presence in Florida.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The promotion was to have featured game cards given to
video store patrons -- with prizes, including trips to
Orlando and free video rentals -- West Coast Video said.
   After allegedly disavowing its agreement with West Coast
Video last December, MCA this spring announced a "Blockbuster
Video $10 Million Game" with Blockbuster.
   West Coast is seeking at least $1 million in damages and
an injunction barring any promotional campaign coinciding
with the opening of the theme park. Blockbuster is not named
as a defendant.
   In Universal City, Calif., MCA general counsel Robert Hadl
said the company hadn't yet been served with the suit, and
therefore, he couldn't comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ames Names Thorner
   To Management Posts
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ADD WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCKY HILL, Conn. -- Ames Department Stores Inc., which is
operating under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code,
said it named Peter Thorner executive vice president and
chief financial officer.
   Mr. Thorner, 46 years old, succeeds Duane R. Wolter, 40,
who will be leaving the company in August. A spokesman for
Ames declined to comment on the reasons for Mr. Wolter's
planned departure and said Mr. Wolter was unavailable for
comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Thorner was most recently a managing director, senior
vice president and chief financial officer of Wheelabrator
Technologies Inc., Danvers, Mass.
   Ames filed for bankruptcy-law protection from its
creditors last month. Earlier this week, a bankruptcy court
judge approved Ames's request that it be allowed to receive
$250 million in interim financing from Chemical Banking
Corp.'s Chemical Bank unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Free-Form Radio Fights Static Formats
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- On a recent Sunday evening, listeners of radio
station WXRK-FM here heard an unreleased song by Ned Sublette
and the Persuasions, "Ever-Widening Circle of Remorse."
   Vin Scelsa, the disk jockey on duty, liked it so much he
immediately played it again. And again. During the record's
third go-around, Mr. Scelsa talked over the song and
interrupted it to comment on various lyrics that caught his
interest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Clearly, this isn't cookie-cutter radio.
   Mr. Scelsa is an oddity in an era when most radio is
dominated by carefully researched, risk-averse formats that
live by computer-generated playlists. He is a throwback to
the free-form radio of the late 1960s, when progressive rock
first hit the airwaves and disk jockeys enjoyed wide freedom
to play whatever they wanted.
   But Mr. Scelsa may also be the forerunner of a new wave of
disk jockeys who are being put on the air for their musical
knowledge: Free-form programming, which had dwindled to as
few as five stations around the country in the mid-1980s,
appears to be making a modest comeback.
   To be sure, most free-form stations give disk jockeys less
freedom these days than they did in the '60s, when listeners
may have been assaulted by a half-hour of sitar music or
18-minute album cuts with seven-minute guitar solos. But the
number of stations whose playlists go beyond the staples of
album-oriented rock, such as Led Zeppelin and the Who, has
jumped nearly eightfold in the past several years to 39, says
Robert Unmacht, president and managing editor of M Street
Journal, a Washington-based weekly publication that
chronicles format changes.
   Free-form radio is re-emerging because it serves as a way
for stations to carve distinct identities in a cluttered
market. KDHT-FM in Denver adopted a progressive format in
June to stand out from the roughly 40 other radio stations in
its metropolitan area. WTKX-AM in Pensacola, Fla., went
free-form in December because it "distinguishes {us} from the
rest of the pack," says Matt Shane, program director.
   Radio programmers say the format may draw baby boomers,
whom advertisers covet, because many grew up listening to it
in its heyday. Free-form could also lure college students
because free-form dominates college radio stations.
   The movement to free-form programming, though incremental,
is happening not only on the FM band, with its high-quality
stereo sound, but also on AM, which rock music had all but
abandoned. AM now serves mainly as home to specialty talk
formats, such as call-in, news, religion and sports shows.
But some AM stations, such as Pensacola's WKTX, have begun
experimenting. Howard Seaton, operations manager of WTKX,
says, "We're offering this community something that hasn't
been tried in about 15 years -- radio that hasn't come from a
computer."
   WTKX disk jockeys are given "some degree of freedom," says
Mr. Shane, the program director. The eclectic playlist, which
he calls "DJ heaven," includes the folk music of Suzanne
Vega, the British disco of Depeche Mode and the mournful
country pop of the Cowboy Junkies.
   But stations boasting non-format formats have some
restrictions. "We give the DJs guidelines," says Ira Gordon,
program director at Denver's KDHT-FM. They can't repeat
records that are currently popular for 12 hours, and some
older records have an eight-day rest before they can be
played again. But, Mr. Gordon adds, the DJs "have a lot more
freedom than most."
   FM progressive radio began in the mid-1960s when the
Federal Communications Commission ruled that companies that
owned AM-FM combination stations had to program them
separately. Because FM wasn't a moneymaker, many stations
became a laboratory for new, progressive rock music, the
antithesis of Top 40.
   DJs who started progressive radio 20 years ago and now
find themselves strangled by playlists say FM's financial
success is bittersweet. "Hey, man, radio has become nothing
but a bank with speakers attached to it," says Carl Widing,
program director and 14-year veteran of free-form station
KINK in Portland, Ore. "These days, it's harder to take risks
with the music."
   So, radio stations have become homogenized, with the same
slogans read from index cards in different cities. Doug
Clifton, a DJ for eight years with longtime progressive-rock
station KBCO-FM in Boulder, Colo., adds, "It's much harder to
start a station like this now. A station now looks to be an
instant hit in the ratings, and for that, you need to play
familiar songs. We require word of mouth."
   Some radio veterans blame the decline of free-form
programming on the DJs themselves. "What killed it was, a lot
of stations were manned by air personalities who were
self-indulgent," says Norm Winer, program director at
free-form WXRT-FM in Chicago, which ranks second in the
ratings of the city's four rock stations. "They didn't take
into account the public's musical taste," says Mr. Winer, who
was known on the air as Saxophone Joe.
   "DJs like Vin Scelsa are extinct because radio has become
so research-oriented," says Lee Abrams, a prominent radio
consultant and the managing director of Satellite Music
Network, which programs 1,000 stations nationwide. Station
managers "have little faith in disk jockeys' input and more
faith in computer printouts."
   Mr. Scelsa, a short, balding and bespectacled 42-year-old,
proudly eschews computer-selected album selections from such
rock artists as Tom Petty and the Rolling Stones. On Mr.
Scelsa's show, listeners may hear country-music legend Hank
Williams Jr. and raunchy rocker Prince back-to-back. Then
Clark Gable singing "Putting on the Ritz," followed by They
Might Be Giants, an avant-garde rock group.
   Nor does Mr. Scelsa confine himself to rock. Two weeks
ago, he hosted Michael Smith, the composer from the Broadway
play based on "The Grapes of Wrath," accompanied by actor Ron
Crawford and musician L.J. Slavin. They performed a one-hour
original piece combining what Mr. Smith calls "eclectic,
free-form" music with the text of the John Steinbeck novel.
   His weekly four-hour show, "Idiot's Delight," is named for
a Robert Sherwood play and a card game. "Idiot's delight is a
form of solitaire," he says, "and I'm playing this game alone
on the radio."
   WXRK, owned by Infinity Broadcasting Corp. and a formatted
station during most of the week, limits him to Sundays at 8
p.m., "when I can do little damage," he says. "It's doubtful
whether they would ever put me on full time." Mr. Scelsa has
trouble holding to a schedule anyway. Most Sundays, he
blithely runs well past his scheduled midnight sign-off,
playing on as much as an hour longer, "until {the show}
reaches a logical conclusion."
   Mr. Scelsa concedes that radio consultants and their
careful research will continue to set the agenda for most FM
rock stations. But "the consultants can only control that
which is easy to put into a computer," says Mr. Scelsa. "I
can't be controlled."
   ---
           A Free-Form Niche in a Programmed Market
                                                                                                       

                       Radio Segments
                                                                                                       

   Format                              No. of Stations
                                                                                                       

   Country                                  2,451
   Adult contemporary                       2,404
   Top 40                                     892
   Oldies                                     627
   Religious/gospel                           608
   Classic Rock                                88
   Classical                                   52
   FREE-FORM                                   39
                                                                                                       

   Source:  M Street Journal, April 1990
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lomas &amp; Nettleton Mortgage:
   Accords Set With Holders
   Of $370 Million in Notes
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   LOM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lomas &amp; Nettleton Mortgage Investors said it reached new
agreements with holders of $370 million in notes that call
for it to begin payments on the debt on July 31 while
extending the maturities to early 1993 from 1991.
   The Dallas company also said it plans to skip its August
dividend payment, but expects to resume regular quarterly
dividends in November. The company, which pays a dividend
based on its earnings, already has declared a 21
cents-a-share quarterly dividend to be paid May 25 to stock
of record last Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The mortgage real estate investment trust said that the
new debt agreements allow it to synchronize debt-amortization
payments with its expected cash flows from its investment
portfolio.
   It said that $220 million of notes owed to institutional
investors were to come due in full on Feb. 1, 1991, and the
remaining $150 million of revolving notes matured on Oct. 25,
1991. Under the new agreements, both issues of notes will
mature on Jan. 31, 1993.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thursday's Markets:
   Optimism
   Sends Stocks
   Higher Still
   ---
   Dow Industrials Rise
   12.03 as Trade Data
   Help, but Bonds Sag
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed to
another record, the third this week, fueled by signs of
economic strength.
   Those same signs of strength weighed on bond prices,
though. The dollar finished moderately higher against the yen
and mark, but weaker against the pound.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow industrials gained 12.03 to 2831.71. In early
trading, the 30-stock average soared more than 25 points
following the report on the nation's merchandise trade
balance. The trade deficit widened to $8.45 billion in March
from $6.10 billion the previous month. But stock investors
focused on a nearly 5% increase in exports, to a record
$33.28 billion, while imports surged 10% to $41.72 billion.
   Broader stock market indexes are still below their
records. Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index, which reached
359.80 last Oct. 9, yesterday closed at 354.47, up 0.47.
   Investors are hoarding blue-chip stocks because few think
that the market can escape its vulnerability to weak
corporate profits. William Kufta, senior vice president at
Pitcairn Financial Management Group, is typical of a lot of
large money managers who have been buying selectively, but
keeping cash stores high.
   "The explosion of euphoria is in the right direction, but
a bit premature," says Mr. Kufta, who maintains a 15% cash
position currently. "We look for disappointments in earnings
and the budget deficit-reduction process. We don't think we
have the ingredients for a meaningful advance in the stock
market yet."
   U.S. investors kept an eye on London stocks, which
yesterday staged their biggest rally since November 1987. The
Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index jumped 63.3
points, or 2.8%, to 2284.4. British bonds also rallied.
   Kathleen Stephansen, senior economist at Donaldson, Lufkin
&amp; Jenrette, said talk about Britain's desire to join the
European Monetary System raised hopes among investors there
for lower inflation, stronger economic growth and a more
stable currency.
   Yesterday's U.S. trade report dimmed the enthusiasm of
some bond investors, who were looking for signs of weakening
economic growth that could lead to lower interest rates.
   The dollar rose against the mark, mainly because of heavy
sales of the West German currency against purchases of yen,
traders said.
   In major market activity:
                                                                                                       

   Stocks finished higher. Advancing issues outpaced
decliners 832 to 649 on the New York Stock Exchange, where
volume totaled 164,770,000 shares.
                                                                                                       

   Bonds fell slightly. Prices on long-term Treasury bonds
fell 1/4 point, or $2.50 for each $1,000 face amount, to
yield 8.64%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mostly higher. In late New York trading,
the dollar was quoted at 1.6495 marks and 152.14 yen,
compared with 1.6455 marks and 151.67 yen late Wednesday. The
British pound was quoted $1.6930, compared with $1.6805
Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lufthansa:
   Airline Says Pretax Profit
   Increased 7.9% Last Year
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.LHA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lufthansa said that its 1989 group pretax profit climbed
7.9% to 260 million marks ($158 million) from 241 million
marks in 1988.
   The West German national air carrier, 51%-owned by the
West German government, said that group sales climbed 10% to
13.1 billion marks from 11.85 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the company said relatively flat freight business
along with the stronger mark had led to earnings weakness in
the first four months of 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Conferees Reach
   Pact on Big Parts
   Of Spending Bill
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM MDEST UTX AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
BANKS (BNK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A House-Senate conference agreed on major
provisions of a spending bill that expedites aid to Panama
and Nicaragua and adds more than $3 billion to assorted
domestic accounts for the year ending Sept. 30.
   Negotiations continued on proposed reductions and
transfers within Pentagon accounts to accommodate the new
expenditures, but the appropriations leadership appeared
confident that a package will be enacted before the Memorial
Day recess beginning next week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Amendments on abortion rights and the death penalty were
stripped from the measure last night, and House Democrats
agreed to insert waivers intended to expedite the Central
American aid if lawmakers can't agree on related authorizing
legislation.
   The action represents a concession to President Bush, but
the victory carries a high price tag. The domestic portion of
the bill has grown steadily under the pressure of lawmakers,
and influential members seized the opportunity to initiate
home-state projects and allow the transfer of funds to pay
for House members' election-year mail.
   Environmentalists blunted an effort by Southern
agriculture interests to weaken federal wetlands protections.
But in a little-noticed fight over the future of the private
U.S. space industry, the conference approved language seeking
to block the participation of a United Technologies Corp.
subsidiary in an Australian launch facility.
   The Central American aid -- $420 million for Panama and
$300 million for Nicaragua -- represents the bulk of Mr.
Bush's initial request this spring. But the administration
still faces a difficult floor fight next week on the related
question of imposing conditions on U.S. military assistance
to El Salvador.
   Democrats have picked up significant support for their
demand that 50% of the assistance be withheld through fiscal
1991, and Rep. John Murtha (D., Pa.,), chairman of the
Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, joined in backing an
amendment to give the civilian Cristiani government greater
control of the funds.
   Mr. Murtha's leadership is significant because of his ties
to fellow moderates and Southern conservatives, and a strong
vote would add to the pressure on the State Department to
withhold a substantial portion of any new Salvadoran military
aid in fiscal 1991. "They have to go to 50% in `91," said Mr.
Murtha. "We're funding the military, and the military has to
reform."
   The Central America debate brought two former House
speakers, James Wright and Thomas O'Neill, back into the fray
in an unusual display of letters to their former colleagues.
Mr. Wright, who resigned a year ago, has appealed to members
to first expedite passage of the aid to Nicaragua and Panama,
while Mr. O'Neill's letter directly addresses the El Salvador
question and supports the conditions on future aid.
   Apart from the Central American assistance, the bill
includes a total of $55 million distributed among accounts
for the Caribbean, Chile and Africa. An estimated $75 million
in supplemental funds are provided for U.S. refugee programs,
and in a related provision, Israel would get $400 million in
loan guarantees for housing of incoming Soviet Jews. Under
pressure from the House, fees to the U.S. for the guarantees
were increased to $2.8 million up front, but a $125,000
ceiling is set on annual fees charged to the Jerusalem
government.
   Defense negotiators last night appeared determined to
block construction of a costly Louisiana explosives plant
previously protected by the Senate, but among domestic
accounts, the pattern was one of accommodation.
   Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd
emerged with a $185 million down payment on a new Federal
Bureau of Investigation fingerprint facility for his home
state of West Virginia, and the laundry list of smaller
additions ran from a Great Lakes research vessel to a earthen
dam in northern California.
   House lawmakers, who are spending far beyond their
appropriated allotment for mail this year, won broad
authority to transfer as much as $25 million in unobligated
funds from other accounts to meet the projected deficit.
   And while adding an estimated $177 million to firefighting
accounts in the Bureau of Land Management, the conference
also provided that $77 million be used to replenish other
Interior Department accounts that were tapped in meeting the
costs of fires last year.
   Among business interests, the bill would force the
administration to proceed with the so-called
interest-equalization program of the Export-Import Bank,
effectively providing $20 million for what would be a $200
million loan program to encourage exports.
   By contrast, the provision related to United Technologies
grows out of an effort by Senate Commerce Committee Chairman
Ernest Hollings to curb export licenses for American
technology or satellites in private efforts using Soviet or
Chinese-built launchers.
   Though allowing for a presidential waiver in cases
involving national security, the South Carolina Democrat
first attached satellite restrictions last fall to an
appropriations bill funding the Commerce Department. The
added language now is intended to apply the same restrictions
to those providing technical services, and committee staffers
said the provision was opposed by United Technologies because
of the impact on a subsidiary's application to participate in
a Cape York, Australia, space facility that might use the
cheaper Soviet or Chinese launchers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bid Sweetened
   By PacifiCorp
   For Pinnacle
   ---
   Takeover Offer Is Increased
   To $1.82 Billion, or $21
   A Share, and Is All Cash
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   PPW PNW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PacifiCorp resumed its pursuit of Pinnacle West Capital
Corp. with a substantially sweetened $1.82 billion takeover
bid that's all cash and that drops conditions that made it
easier for Pinnacle to reject three previous offers.
   PacifiCorp said its $21-a-share offer includes assumption
of Pinnacle debt of about $1.1 billion and, by removing the
earlier conditions, is intended to be as "clean and clear to
understand" as possible.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the bid is accepted, the combined company would sell
power in eight states and would realign power production and
transmission in the lucrative western U.S. markets.
   A.M. Gleason, PacifiCorp president and chief executive
officer, said in a letter made public after being sent to
Richard Snell, Pinnacle's chairman, that "it is time to bring
to a conclusion PacifiCorp's expressions of interest."
   Mr. Snell said in an interview that Pinnacle's financial
advisers are studying the proposal, which will be "seriously
considered by the board." Pinnacle might have a response "in
a few days," he said. The next regular board meeting is set
for Wednesday after the annual meeting, but Mr. Snell said a
board meeting might be held before then.
   The proposal follows a meeting Tuesday between Messrs.
Gleason and Snell in Portland, Ore., where PacifiCorp is
based. While no formal offer was presented, Mr. Gleason "gave
me a range," Mr. Snell said. In response to a reporter's
question, he said that "in times past (Mr. Gleason) has said
he wouldn't do a hostile situation; there was some intimation
that he might," now.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Pinnacle shares jumped $3.50 to $16.25 on volume of 2.2
million shares. PacifiCorp shares fell 75 cents to $22.25
with 362,000 shares changing hands.
   Phoenix, Ariz.-based Pinnacle's principal asset is Arizona
Public Service Co., the state's largest utility. The company
also owns two small investment units and recently sold its
unprofitable uranium-mining operations. PacifiCorp is an
electric utility whose service territories cover parts of
seven states.
   Pinnacle had rejected PacifiCorp's earlier offers as
inadequate and not in the best interests of shareholders; but
the tone of Mr. Snell's remarks yesterday seemed somewhat
more receptive, analysts said. They suggested that the cash
terms and amount of the latest offer make it very attractive
and thus difficult for Pinnacle's board to reject.
   In February, PacifiCorp offered to swap 0.88 new
PacifiCorp common share for each of Pinnacle's 86.8 million
shares. PacifiCorp valued the bid at $1.69 billion, or $19.47
a share, but Pinnacle said a number of conditions sharply
reduced the offer's value. One analyst said he valued the bid
as low as $10 a share.
   PacifiCorp first emerged as a bidder for Pinnacle's
Arizona Public Service unit in November, when Pinnacle stock
was trading at $5.25 a share. The company was considering a
bankruptcy-law filing because of the financial drain from its
MeraBank thrift unit. In March, Pinnacle was released by
regulators of all financial obligations to the thrift after
making a $465 million infusion of capital into it.
   "I don't see how (Pinnacle) can refuse" the latest offer,
said Daniel Rudakas, an analyst with Duff &amp; Phelps Inc. in
Chicago. "Maybe it's possible to build a case" for $21 a
share, "but I'm amazed." Some of the conditions that were
dropped effectively guaranteed the value of certain Pinnacle
assets, he said.
   Other analysts were less worried that PacifiCorp might be
paying too much. "It's a very fair value for Pinnacle even
assuming that the company might accomplish some financial
recovery on its own over the next few years," said Barry
Abramson at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
   Last year, Pinnacle had a net loss of $551.4 million,
including a $676 million loss from discontinued operations,
on revenue of $1.51 billion.
   From the perspective of PacifiCorp holders, Mr. Abramson
said that the proposed acquisition might be "a bit dilutive"
but strategically sound in the long run. PacifiCorp's
territory isn't growing much and despite Arizona's
real-estate problems it has one of the fastest-growing
populations in the country, the analyst said. Last year,
PacifiCorp posted net income of $465.6 million, or $3.62 a
share, on revenue of $3.72 billion.
   PacifiCorp has said that the proposed acquisition would
give it new routes to transmit power to rich California
markets. In addition, PacifiCorp's Northwest markets need
peak power during winter months, while the Southwest needs
peak power during summer months, allowing more efficient use
of peak-power generation.
   PacifiCorp's reputation as one of the nation's most
aggressive thrifts is underscored by its dogged pursuit of
Pinnacle. PacifiCorp said it has discussed its bid with its
banks and other lenders and they have indicated that "this is
a feasible transaction."
   Any bank borrowings made in connection with the offer
would be paid down with proceeds from equity offerings, the
company said. Pinnacle's financial advisers are First Boston
Corp. and Salomon Brothers Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Royal Dutch/Shell Group:
   Net Income for 1st Quarter
   Fell 36% to $1.37 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   RD SC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Royal Dutch/Shell Group said first-quarter net income
dropped 36% to #816 million ($1.37 billion) from #1.28
billion a year earlier, within analysts' expectations on a
historic-cost basis, accounting for changes in values of
inventories.
   On a current-cost basis, valuing the company's oil
inventories at current market prices, profit fell 26% to #826
million from #1.11 billion. Operating profit edged up 2.8% to
#1.48 billion from #1.44 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earnings per share for Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., the
Dutch arm, fell 45% to 3.03 guilders ($1.64), and for Shell
Transport &amp; Trading Co., the British segment, dropped 36% to
9.1 pence a share.
   Sales rose 22% to #17.5 billion from #14.3 billion a year
earlier. Excluding taxes and excise duties, sales rose 24% to
#14.2 billion from #11.4 billion.
   Shell's exploration and production operations surged 73%
to #508 million. Refining and marketing lines fell 15% to
#290 million, hurt by a #14 million loss in the U.S. from
higher raw material costs. In the 1989 first quarter, Shell
had a #57 million gain in the U.S. Chemical profit plummeted
56% to #159 million; U.S. chemical sales fell. Coal and
metals earnings were flat.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Rating:
   Dayton Hudson Corp.
   Debt Rating Lowered
   By S&amp;P and Moody's
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   DH
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Two major rating concerns lowered their
ratings on about $2 billion of the senior debt of Dayton
Hudson Corp.
   They said the moves reflected the increased financial risk
associated with the planned acquisition of the Marshall Field
department store chain for $1.04 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. downgraded Dayton Hudson's senior
unsecured debt to single-A from single-A-plus and removed it
from CreditWatch where it was placed April 23.
   S&amp;P said the Minneapolis-based retailer's debt to
capitalization ratio has edged progressively higher in recent
years, a result of share repurchases and debt-financed
acquisitions. It said the purchase of Marshall Field,
expected to be financed with long-term borrowings, will
increase the company's leverage even more.
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. lowered the company's
senior debt ratings to single-A-3 from single-A-2 and its
commercial paper to Prime-2 from Prime-1. Moody's said the
downgrading recognizes the "increased debt levels, reduced
cash flow coverage, and the challenges of integrating the
Marshall Field acquisition into the company's existing
department store operations."
   A spokesman for Dayton Hudson couldn't be reached for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CoreStates Financial Corp.:
   Closing of 29 Branch Offices
   Planned by End of the Year
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CSFN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CoreStates Financial Corp. said it will close 29 branch
offices by year's end as part of its consolidation effort
after acquiring First Pennsylvania Bank.
   The Philadelphia company said most of the consolidations
would occur in the late fall. The plan envisions a network of
approximately 116 branches, operating under the First
Pennyslvania name, serving retail and commercial customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Through consolidation of the two banks' operations,
CoreStates said about 1,200 jobs will be eliminated this
year.
   Reiterating its promise that there would be no layoffs as
a result of the consolidation, the bank said most employees
have been placed in other jobs inside the company and 139
employees have been placed in an internal transitional
program awaiting new assignments. Of these 139 employees, 34
have accepted severance packages, 23 have already been placed
in new jobs at the company and three have taken a leave of
absence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Yamaha Corp.:
   Unconsolidated Pretax Net
   Increased 17% in Fiscal Year
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.YAH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Yamaha Corp., the Tokyo-based musical-instrument maker,
said unconsolidated pretax profit rose 17% to 12.11 billion
yen ($79.8 million) in the fiscal year ended March 31 from
10.36 billion yen the year before.
   Net earnings grew 16% to 4.25 billion yen from 3.68
billion yen, despite a slight decline in sales. The company
attributed the gain to successful development and promotion
of high-value-added products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall sales fell 3.2% to 384.7 billion yen from 397.6
billion yen, as both domestic and export sales declined.
   Domestic sales edged down 0.7% to 270.6 billion yen, as
the company's main product lines posted varied performances.
   While sales of pianos and organs, the company's main
lines, were sluggish, those of nonmusic-related products rose
at a healthy pace. Household goods, such as furniture, rose
6.7% to 43.4 billion yen from 40.7 billion yen. The company's
sales of yachts and motor boats posted a 15% rise to 18.6
billion yen from 16.2 billion yen. Sports equipment was up
8.8% to 26.48 billion yen from 24.33 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Gap Inc.:
   Retailer Posts 40% Increase
   In 1st-Quarter Net Income
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   GPS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gap Inc., San Francisco, said net income increased 40% on
a 30% increase in sales in its first quarter ended May 5.
   Net rose to $21.2 million, or 60 cents a share, from $15.1
million, or 43 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 30%
to $402 million. Both figures were records.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the strong quarter, investors battered the
company's stock, as analysts cut earnings estimates for the
second quarter more than 10% in some cases.
   Edward Weller, an analyst at Montgomery Securities, said
under the Gap's accounting methods, some of the cost of
April's markdowns will be felt in the month of May, so he
reduced his estimate for second quarter per-share net seven
cents, to 51 cents.
   The Gap operates stores under its own name as well as
Banana Republic. Mr. Weller said that he believes the latter
chain, which has had difficulties lately, earned a "slight"
profit in the quarter, compared to a loss a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   State Orders Arizona
   Commerce to Increase
   Its Primary Capital
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AZB
</CO>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Arizona Commerce Bank said it was
ordered by state bank regulators to increase its primary
capital at least $2 million to about $7 million within six
months.
   The order also sets a schedule for reducing the bank's
problem loans by certain amounts, Arizona Commerce said. Like
many other financial institutions in the state, Arizona
Commerce is suffering from bad real-estate loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arizona Commerce also said its board has consented to an
order by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. with
"substantially identical provisions" to the state order.
   Such orders can be in effect for "30 days to 10 years,"
said F. Lee Jacquette, Arizona Commerce chairman and chief
executive officer.
   Mr. Jacquette said "it's possible, but difficult to raise
the additional capital because so much of the country sees
Arizona as a black hole because of the real-estate problems."
Most large Arizona banks are owned by out-of-state companies
that have come to the aid of the banks with capital
infusions, he said.
   Last year, Arizona Commerce Bank posted a loss of $5.6
million, or $2.27 a share. "We're still losing money because
so many of our loans are non-performing and aren't paying
interest," Mr. Jacquette said. Arizona Commerce has offices
in the Arizona cities of Phoenix, Tucson and Mesa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PCI MCEG TWX NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   TV: Maury Povich, the anchor of Fox Broadcasting Co.'s "A
Current Affair" since it began five years ago, will leave the
nightly tabloid broadcast when his contract expires next May.
He will host an afternoon, daily talk show to be produced by
his company, ACA Productions Inc. and distributed by
Paramount Communications Inc., beginning in September 1991.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   WHO'S NEWS: Raymond H. Godfrey Jr. was named president and
chief operating officer of Management Co. Entertainment Group
Inc., a talent-management and motion-picture concern. He
succeeds Charles J. Weber, who resigned last fall. . . . Time
Warner Enterprises, a unit of Time Warner Inc., made four
appointments: Mark Mitzner, who was executive vice president
and chief financial officer of Warner's Quantum Media Inc.
unit, was named an executive vice president; Mayo S. Stuntz
Jr., formerly president of Quantum Media Television and an
executive vice president of Quantum Media Inc., was named an
executive vice president; and Brian Bedol, who was executive
vice president of QMI Television and vice president of
Quantum Media Inc., and Stanley B. Thomas Jr., who was senior
vice president of affiliate operations for Time Warner's Home
Box Office Inc. unit, both were named senior vice presidents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Giants
   In Japan Report
   Higher Earnings
   ---
   Huge Trading Profits in 1989
   More Than Offset Drop
   In Market in Early 1990
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NOM J.NKT J.DST J.YMS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bolstered by huge trading profits in 1989, Japan's giant
securities companies managed to report sharply higher
earnings for the 12 months ended last March 31 despite the
Tokyo market's steep decline this year.
   Analysts said the Big Four, Nomura Securities Co., Daiwa
Securities Co., Nikko Securities Co. and Yamaichi Securities
Co., relied heavily on trading profits in Japanese equities
warrants in London last year. More than $70 billion in new
warrants were issued last year, nearly all of them
underwritten by Japanese securities companies. The Japanese
securities companies would simply hold onto the new warrants
until they could sell them at a big profit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A warrant is issued in conjunction with a bond and, like
an option, allows its holder to buy a certain amount of stock
at a set price within a set period. As share prices go higher
-- and Japanese prices soared to a record at the close of
1989 -- warrant prices zoom.
   Since the end of last year, though, the stock and warrant
markets have shriveled. The Tokyo stock market dropped nearly
a third in highly volatile trading, spurred on by the
weakening yen and higher interest rates. Turnover dried up as
investors fled the market.
   "The first quarter should have killed them, but they'd
already made their killing in warrants," a Tokyo-based
financial analyst at one U.S. securities company said.
   Nonetheless, some analysts have warned that Japan's
securities companies could be in for a rockier road this
year, even though the Nikkei average of 225 stocks has
regained about a third of its losses of the first three
months. That's largely because turnover has remained at a
paltry half-billion shares a day recently, down from twice
that level a year ago.
   Under a 1988 Japanese law, the four securities firms
changed their fiscal year from one ending Sept. 30 to one
ending March 31. Consequently, the following results for the
fiscal year that ended last March are compared with a
doubling of the results for the six-month transition fiscal
period that ended March 31, 1989.
   Nomura's pretax profit slipped 1% to 488.87 billion yen
($3.22 billion). Operating revenue fell 2% to 986.19 billion
yen. Net income totaled 218.68 billion yen, up 5%.
   Daiwa Securities became the second-largest Japanese
brokerage in terms of operating revenue, posting a 4.7% gain
to 660.14 billion yen.
   Pretax profit for Daiwa rose 0.3% to 313.15 billion yen,
while net income rose 11.4% to 146.03 billion yen.
   Third-place Nikko Securities posted a 1.6% gain in pretax
profit to 260.45 billion yen. Operating revenue rose 6.5% to
600.99 billion yen.
   Nikko's net income jumped 16% to 120.14 billion yen.
   Yamaichi's pretax profit rose 7.9% to 233.66 billion yen.
Operating revenue was also up 7.9% to 573.5 billion yen. Net
income increased 6.5% to 98.05 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Nobel Industrier Sverige AB:
   Accord Reached to Acquire
   Unit of Stora Kopparbergs
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   S.NOB S.STO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nobel Industrier Sverige AB agreed to buy the chemicals
division of Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags AB, buttressing its
position as a global leader in chemicals used by the pulp and
paper industry.
   The acquisition is the fourth proposed by Nobel this
month. If successful, the transactions valued at 5.95 billion
Swedish kronor ($989.5 million) would boost the acquisitive
Swedish concern's annual sales by more than 25%. Nobel said
it would pay 1.93 billion kronor for Stora's chemicals unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shedding that chemicals business opens an asset-disposal
program by Stora, prompted by last month's takeover of West
Germany's Feldmuehle Nobel AG. Industry analysts also expect
Stora to put its foundering Akerlund &amp; Rausing packaging unit
on the block-in addition to recouping as much as half of the
sum it paid for Feldmuehle Nobel by disposing of the West
German concern's non-forestry divisions.
   Nobel's Eka Nobel division and Stora's chemicals unit are
both among Europe's leading producers of forestry chemicals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Lear's Publishing Co.:
   President Balson Dismissed;
   Magazine Partners Sought
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   John Balson, president and chief executive officer of
Lear's Publishing Co., was dismissed by Frances Lear, the
company's founder and editor in chief of Lear's magazine.
   A spokesman for Ms. Lear gave no explanation for the
change, except that Ms. Lear and Mr. Balson had "mutually
agreed to end their association." Mr. Balson, 48 years old,
had been Lear's top executive for a year. He couldn't be
reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a related development, Ms. Lear, through the spokesman,
said she is looking for partners for the magazine company.
Lear Publishing has explored "the possibility of enlarging
the scope of its magazine by seeking partners within the
industry and becoming part of a larger group of magazines,"
the spokesman said.
   Ms. Lear said no replacement will be named for Mr. Balson
and she will reassume the duties of chief executive.
   Lear's, a monthly magazine for women over 40 years old,
has grown quickly since being launched in 1988. Paid
circulation has grown to more than 450,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Central Banking System Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CSYSC F.BNP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WALNUT CREEK, Calif. -- Central Banking System Inc. said
its shareholders approved the previously announced sale of
its subsidiaries, Central Bank and CB Insurance Agency Inc.,
to San Francisco-based Bank of the West, a unit of Banque
Nationale de Paris, Paris.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Armstrong World Industries Inc.:
   Management Wins 3 of 4
   Contested Seats on Board
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   ACK T.FCY WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Management of Armstrong World Industries Inc., a
Lancaster, Pa., building products concern, won three of the
four board seats contested at the April 30 annual meeting,
according to the final tally of proxy votes cast. Of its
dissident slate, the Belzberg family of Canada, which owns
about 11.5% of Armstrong, won one seat.
   Of the 155 million votes cast, board nominees received
about 105 million votes and Belzberg nominees about 50
million. Under the cumulative voting system, holders got four
votes a share to allocate any way they chose, including
leaving them to the proxy solicitor's discretion. Management
chose to cumulate its proxy votes to re-elect three
directors: Barbara Hackman Franklin, president of Franklin
Associates, a management consulting firm; Joseph L. Jones,
retired Armstrong chairman and president; and Robert F.
Patton, retired Integra Financial Corp. vice chairman. The
Belzbergs cumulated their votes to elect Michael C. Jensen, a
professor at Harvard Business School.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Five corporate governance amendments proposed by the
Belzbergs were defeated by significant margins.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hawker Siddeley Group PLC:
   Engineering Concern Buys
   Eaton Technologies of U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5E
</SO>
<CO>
   U.HSI ETN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hawker Siddeley Group PLC, a British engineering concern,
bought Eaton Technologies of the U.S. for 38 million pounds
($63.8 million), the company said yesterday.
   The purchase of the Michigan-based electric-motors
manufacturer is the first major acquisition made by
London-based Hawker Siddeley on behalf of its International
Electric Motors Division, a unit resulting from a
restructuring of its divisions, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company earlier this year paid 7 million pounds for
the electric-motors division of Electrohome Ltd., a North
American motors manufacturer, and less than 10 million pounds
for Bull Electric Ltd, a U.K. elevator and lift motors maker.
The exact price paid wasn't disclosed.
   A company spokesman said the acquisition of Eaton "adds to
Hawker Siddeley's leading presence in the U.S." in electric
motors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brady Picks Powell
   To Be Treasury Aide
   For Domestic Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady has chosen
Jay Powell, an executive at Mr. Brady's former firm of
Dillon, Read &amp; Co., to be assistant Treasury secretary for
domestic finance.
   The choice has not yet been approved by the White House
and is subject to Senate confirmation. But if Mr. Powell
passes those hurdles, he will succeed David Mullins, who was
recently confirmed by the Senate as a member of the Federal
Reserve's Board of Governors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Powell was trained as a lawyer and specializes in
securities law. In recent years, he has worked in corporate
finance at Dillon Read, where he became acquainted with Mr.
Brady.
   In the new post, Mr. Powell will oversee several critical
projects under way at the Treasury. He will be in charge of a
Treasury review of financial institutions and the deposit
insurance system. He also will supervise a Treasury project
on corporate governance, which is looking at ways to
encourage more long-term thinking on the part of corporations
and investors. And he will be responsible for the Treasury's
debt operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Southmark Corp.:
   Company Expects to Post
   Narrower Quarterly Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   SM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Southmark Corp. said in Dallas that it expects to report a
net loss of $59 million for the third quarter, ended March
31, compared with a net loss of $1.04 billion after massive
asset write-downs in the year-earlier period.
   The real estate and thrift concern, which is operating
under bankruptcy-law proceedings, said it has notified the
Securities and Exchange Commission that it will file its Form
10-Q late. The company said the competing demands of the
bankruptcy proceedings have kept it from getting its
financial report prepared on time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the third quarter last year, Southmark reported a loss
from continuing operations of $936.4 million, including more
than $800 million in asset write-downs. Its loss from
discontinued operations was $104.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Helm Resources Inc.:
   Concern Finishes Public Sale
   Of 500,000 Shares of Seitel
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   H SEI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Helm Resources Inc., Greenwich, Conn., said it completed a
public sale of a 500,000-share stake in Seitel Inc. for about
$4.6 million, or $10.25 a share, reducing its Seitel stake to
33%.
   Proceeds from the sale will be used partly to buy back
24,870 shares of preferred stock. The company also said it
would pay interest in cash on its debentures that are due in
1994 rather than through the issuance of common stock, which
had been the practice since 1982.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Helm Resources has interests in marketing of thermoplastic
resins, seismic data for oil companies, optical disk software
and agricultural products. Houstonbased Seitel markets
seismic data.
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Helm closed at 43.75 cents a share, unchanged. Seitel closed
at $12.875 a share, up 62.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GORBACHEV MET with Lithuania's premier to discuss
Vilnius's secession bid.
   In what was considered a major breakthrough in a
two-month-old confrontation over the Baltic republic's
proclamation of independence, the Soviet leader held two
hours of talks in the Kremlin with Lithuania's Prime Minister
Prunskiene, who traveled to Moscow with an offer of new
concessions. The official Tass news agency reported that
Gorbachev reaffirmed that the republic must rescind its
declaration, saying Lithuania's proposal to suspend its
secession drive and remain part of the Soviet security system
didn't address the issue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Secretary of State Baker, reportedly deadlocked in
arms-control talks in Moscow with Shevardnadze, said he would
meet today with Prunskiene to discuss the situation in the
breakaway state.
   ---
   Bush and West Germany's Kohl held talks in Washington on
German unification and other East-West issues. The president,
preparing for this month's superpower summit, expressed
support for a united Germany with "full control over all its
territory," and said reunification should end the allies'
postwar rights in Germany.
   ---
   The Pentagon announced that the U.S. isn't asking NATO
allies to increase defense budgets by 3% a year, a reversal
of longstanding policy. The decision, which was to be
unveiled at a meeting of defense ministers next week, came
amid an extensive review by the alliance of its military
needs amid the political changes in East Europe.
   ---
   Bush said that while he won't tolerate discrimination in
hiring, he would reject any legislation that imposes quotas
on employers. Following the president's White House comments,
congressional Democrats and Republicans unveiled a compromise
amendment to an anti-bias measure that is intended to deal
with Bush's objections.
   ---
   About 150,000 state employees returned to work in
Nicaragua, ending a weeklong strike that crippled services in
Managua and strained the nation's already troubled economy.
As part of the settlement, President Chamorro's government
agreed to double the salaries of the public workers.
   ---
   The Dominican Republic's Bosch accused conservative
President Balaguer of fraud in Wednesday's presidential
election, and he called for street demonstrations. Partial
returns from the nationwide balloting showed the leftist
former president, who was toppled in a 1963 coup, trailing
Balaguer.
   ---
   A jury in Brooklyn convicted a white teen-ager of
second-degree murder in the racial slaying of 16-year-old
black Yusuf Hawkins in August 1989. Joseph Fama, 19, accused
of being the triggerman in the killing in the New York City
borough, faces 25 years to life in prison. A second jury is
deliberating the case against a co-defendant.
   ---
   Romanian politicians concluded campaigning for Sunday's
presidential and parliamentary balloting, the country's first
free elections in 53 years. While about 70,000 backers of
interim President Iliescu rallied in Bucharest, tens of
thousands of demonstrators branded him a "neo-Communist."
   ---
   The republic of Slovenia appeared headed for a clash with
Yugoslavia's federal authorities, saying it would resist any
emergency measures to restrict its autonomy. Belgrade's
eight-member presidency announced Wednesday that it would
take "urgent steps" to prevent separatist moves.
   ---
   A special London investigator said some members of the
British army have passed intelligence documents to loyalist
Protestant terrorists in Northern Ireland. The data
reportedly was about Irish Republic Army members. The
official said 94 people had been arrested as a result of the
inquiry.
   ---
   Police in South Korea fought stone-throwing students in
Kwangju and a dozen other cities, part of nationwide protests
called by a dissident coalition to mark today's 10th
anniversary of a crushed anti-government rebellion in the
southern city. In Ulsan, 27,000 workers at the nation's
largest car plant continued a strike for a third day.
   ---
   Negotiators in Manila attempted to break a deadlock over
the future of U.S. military bases in the Philippines, failing
to resolve a dispute over whether Washington has made full
payments for the installations. The round of talks is
scheduled to end today.
   ---
   Israel's President Herzog granted Prime Minister Shamir a
21-day extension on his mandate to form a new government.
Shamir had cited disputes with potential partners over the
distribution of cabinet posts. The country's Labor-Likud
coalition collapsed March 15 over Shamir's refusal to accept
U.S. proposals for Israeli-Palestinian talks.
   ---
   South African police guarded a gold mine in Welkom, about
180 miles south of Johannesburg, after two whites were killed
Wednesday in a clash with black workers. In Brussels,
President de Klerk, who is on a nine-nation tour, said he
wouldn't let extremists of any type interfere with his plans
to ease South Africa's apartheid system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ashland Oil Inc.:
   Natural Gas Sites' Purchase
   From Occidental Unit Set
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH OXY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ashland Oil Inc. said its exploration unit agreed to buy
natural gas properties from an Occidental Petroleum Corp.
unit for $107 million.
   The Ashland, Ky., company said it will acquire about
550,000 acres of producing and undeveloped properties in West
Virginia and Kentucky from Los Angeles-based Occidental's OXY
USA Inc. subsidiary. Production averages about 16 million
cubic feet a day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ashland said the acquisition, which is subject to certain
government approvals, will double its acreage of gas
properties. The company already produces 39 million cubic
feet a day from about 500,000 acres in Appalachia. Many of
the new sites are contiguous to Ashland's properties.
   Analysts said the Appalachian properties are valuable
because of their proximity to Eastern U.S. markets, among
other things. "Producers in the region will be in a good
position" as reserves in other areas are depleted, said
Bernard Picchi, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sotheby's Sells
   Renoir Painting
   For $78.1 Million
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   BID
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Pierre-Auguste Renoir's "Au Moulin de la
Galette" became the second most-expensive artwork ever sold
last night when it was purchased by an unidentified bidder
for $78.1 million.
   However, the art auction at Sotheby's Holdings Inc.
provided some evidence that the market for impressionist and
modern paintings, particularly for lesser artworks, has
topped out.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A clear two-tiered market emerged with sky's-the-limit
bidding for blue-chip artworks from museums or famous
collectors and lackluster bidding for other works.
   The record price for an artwork is $82.5 million, set
earlier this week by the sale of Vincent van Gogh's "Portrait
of Dr. Gachet" at Christie's International PLC's major spring
art sale here. The van Gogh was purchased by a Japanese
businessman, Ryoei Saito, through a Tokyo gallery.
   Last night's Sotheby's sale raised $287 million, just
below the firm's highest presale estimate of $289 million and
the highest the firm has ever achieved for one sale. Of 70
artworks, all but nine sold, but 17 sold near or below their
presale estimates, a trend that has taken hold this auction
season.
   The auction was the last major sale of the two-week spring
auction season, which, along with similar sales later in
London, usually set the tone for the overall art market for
the next six months.
   The mood of the sale room was businesslike, lacking the
excitement and sometimes near-hysteria of recent years.
   One collector who purchased paintings at Christie's and
Sotheby's this week said overall bidding was active but
rarely spirited, with two potential buyers rather than
several, vying for many of the pieces.
   An unsuccessful bidder in the audience called the evening
the impressionist market's "swan song."
   Some works by such artists as Pierre Bonnard and Alfred
Sisley, who were considered the lesser impressionists, failed
to sell. A notable exception to the weakening trend were
three masterworks being sold by the Guggenheim Museum.
   "The shakeout is here," said Peter H. Davidson, a New York
dealer of U.S. paintings. "You have a clear sense that the
great things will sell, and the garbage won't." He added that
he expects the trend to carry over into the sales of U.S.
paintings next week, and, to some degree, to other sectors of
the art market. The torrid rate of appreciation of
impressionist works "is the thing that's been carrying" the
market, he said.
   The Renoir, painted in 1876, shows red-cheeked French
couples laughing and flirting in a Parisian dance hall. It
had been estimated to sell for $40 million to $50 million. A
version of it is prominently featured in H.W. Janson's
"History of Art," the leading art history textbook.
Considered one of Renoir's finest, it has been frequently
reproduced on posters and postcards. A second version of the
painting, which was executed at the height of the
impressionist movement, hangs in the Musee d'Orsay in Paris.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Havas SA:
   Net Increased 30% in 1989
   On 20% Rise in Revenue
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.HAV
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   French media group Havas SA announced that its
consolidated net profit after payments to minority interests
rose by 30% in 1989 to 975 million francs ($175.8 million)
from 751 million francs a year earlier.
   Consolidated revenue was up 20% for the year at 18.9
billion francs compared with 15.8 billion francs in 1988.
Both the revenue and the profit figures confirm preliminary
estimates that Havas released in February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Havas said it plans to raise its net annual dividend to
5.75 francs a share, a 39% increase from the 4.13 francs paid
out last year. It will be paid beginning July 17.
   Speaking to analysts, Havas Director of Development Michel
Boutinard-Rouelle said the company has targeted Europe as its
1990 primary growth market.
   "Europe is on the rise," he said, noting that the region
is expected to represent 28% of Havas's total investments by
1992, up from 24% in 1988. The North American share,
meanwhile, is seen falling to 51% from 55%, while investment
in the rest of the world remains fairly steady.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Porsche's Bohn Faces Tough Assignmenmt
   ---
   New CEO Seeks to Maintain
   Impressive Comeback
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.POR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   STUTTGART, West Germany -- Like the high-powered cars his
company sells, Arno Bohn is under pressure to perform.
   As newly appointed chief executive officer of Porsche AG,
Mr. Bohn slips into the driver's seat at a time when the West
German auto maker is staging an impressive comeback. After a
slump three years ago that wiped out a third of revenue
almost overnight, the company painstakingly has cut costs and
rebuilt profit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Bohn's task -- to solidify these gains and carry
the company into the 1990s -- remains daunting.
   Porsche, which prides itself on the hand-tooled quality of
its sports cars, faces an onslaught of lower-priced
competitors, particularly the Japanese. At the same time, the
auto industry is caught in a wave of global mergers and
linkups, and some experts wonder whether an exclusive auto
maker such as Porsche can survive as an independent.
   Mr. Bohn believes it can. Indeed, he sees the company's
small size as a major asset.
   "Small is not only beautiful, it also means flexibility,"
says the 42-year-old former deputy chairman of Nixdorf
Computer AG. Because of its size, he says, Porsche can react
faster to customer preferences and stay one step ahead of the
competition.
   As for rumors that Porsche could get gobbled up by a mass
producer, he says simply: "It's not always the big fat ones
that eat the smaller ones. Sometimes the faster ones have the
advantage."
   Maybe so, but the company still is haunted by memories of
how quickly a good business can go bad for a small player --
and Mr. Bohn's challenge is to make sure it doesn't happen
again.
   In the mid-1980s, under the high-profile leadership of
Peter Schutz, Porsche was cranking out record numbers of cars
and profit was soaring. The company also had become hooked on
the U.S. market, where sales of lower-priced, four-cylinder
models blossomed. It was a pleasing picture for Ferry
Porsche, the 80-year-old son of the company's founder and
company patriarch, who together with his family and the Piech
family control most of Porsche's shares.
   But then the bubble burst. In 1987, battered by the stock
market collapse and the tumbling dollar, sales plummeted. Mr.
Schutz quickly was succeeded by Heinz Branitzki, a
no-nonsense finance man who set out to steer the company away
from disaster.
   Mr. Branitzki slashed production of the cheaper cars,
instituted a brutal cost-reduction program, and relaunched
the company's most-popular 911 model. "Branitzki shifted
production back toward the area where the company was
strongest to begin with -- the top-of-the-line luxury sports
car -- but he didn't cut research and development," says
Stephen Reitman, an auto analyst at UBS Phillips &amp; Drew in
London. "That policy is really coming home now."
   And so Mr. Bohn, who succeeded Mr. Branitzki in March, is
taking the wheel at a time when Porsche appears firmly back
in the fast lane. Pretax profit for the first half ended Jan.
31 surged to 75 million Deutsche marks ($46 million) from
DM38 million ($23 million) a year earlier, while net profit
for fiscal 1989 was 54.2 million marks, about twice what it
was the year before.
   Still, the affable West German says he has no intention of
riding on the success of his predecessor.
   Mr. Bohn plans to accelerate the pace of technological
innovation at Porsche, particularly the introduction of
environmental and computer technology. He also is keeping a
close eye on the company's Japanese competitors, who he
openly acknowledges, unlike many West German auto makers, are
a long-term threat. "They're not competitors of today,
really," he says. "But I'm talking about the competition in
three to five years' time."
   Mr. Bohn also is determined to continue the restructuring
of global sales that began under Mr. Branitzki. When the
company hit its rough patch in the mid-1980s, the U.S. market
accounted for 61% of global sales -- a figure analysts say
made Porsche overly dependent on a single foreign market.
   Today, Porsche still gets 72% of its revenue from foreign
markets, but only 28% of that is in the U.S. Japan, which
accounts for 10% of global sales, is Porsche's fastest
growing and most profitable market, and Mr. Bohn is eager to
expand distribution networks there.
   "Our problem isn't how we can sell cars," says Mr. Bohn,
"our problem is meeting the demand." Indeed, the company has
virtually no inventory of unsold cars, and in Europe, the
waiting time for some models can stretch up to a year.
   With this in mind, Mr. Bohn insists the company's
structure is well-suited to the fast-changing global auto
industry. "Everyone can mass-produce cars," he says. But in
the future, he contends, car companies will move toward
producing smaller numbers of specialized models.
   Porsche is also much less dependent than many other
European or U.S. auto makers on producing its own parts,
relying instead on an integrated system of suppliers. "In
manufacturing, we have a concept which looks pretty
Japanese," says Mr. Bohn. The average Japanese car company
provides only 18% of production content to a new car, relying
on suppliers for the rest. At Porsche, this figure is about
24%, while at Daimler-Benz AG it's 38%.
   Despite these strengths, Mr. Bohn admits he can't afford
to make mistakes. The Porsche mystique is built as much on
classic consistency as it is on horsepower. The basic design
for the Porsche 911, for instance, hasn't changed since its
introduction in 1963. "Big innovations could kill the
company," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Outboard Marine Corp.:
   Charge of $3 Million Set
   For Period in Shutting Site
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OM
</CO>
<LP>
   Outboard Marine Corp., a Waukegan, Ill., maker of marine
engines and recreational power boats, said it will take a $3
million charge in its third quarter ending June 30 from the
closing of one of its outboard-motor assembly plants this
fall.
   Outboard also said it will idle its eight other U.S.
marine power-products plants for several weeks during the
remainder of its year ending Sept. 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-earlier quarter, Outboard earned $6.8 million,
or 35 cents a share, on sales of $465.9 million.
   The company said it will close its Rutherfordton, N.C.,
plant in November to reduce costs and increase operating
efficiencies, and idle the other plants to avoid building
excessive inventories of marine engines during the continuing
industrywide sales slump. The Rutherfordton plant, which has
290 employees, assembles Johnson and Evinrude outboard
motors; assembly operations there will be consolidated at
Outboard's other outboard assembly facility in Calhoun, Ga.,
creating as many as 200 jobs. The company expects that the
consolidation could save as much as $3 million annually.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tokyo Investigating
   Trades in Bank Stock
   Prior to Market News
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Finance Ministry
said they are investigating share trading in Long-Term Credit
Bank of Japan Ltd. ahead of a stock-split announcement.
   Officials at the exchange and the ministry, which share
responsibility for conducting inquiries under the country's
year-old insider-trading law, described their investigations
as routine. A stock-exchange official said he doesn't believe
the investigation would produce evidence of insider trading,
but an official at the ministry noted that the government
doesn't normally pursue stock-market investigations unless
they see unusual dealings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank's share price began to climb sharply Tuesday on
heavy volume. Trading in the stock was suspended by the
exchange Wednesday morning, just before the bank announced a
1-for-10 share split. The stock split is effective Aug. 11.
   Before they were suspended, Long-Term Credit Bank's share
price had jumped to 21,500 yen (US$141.76) from 19,500 yen
($128.57) a day earlier. Volume surged to 116,900 shares,
more than five times the daily average of the previous month.
   A spokesman for Long-Term Credit Bank said he knew of no
investigation centering on improper trading in the bank's
shares. He denied the possibility of insider trading, saying
the bank was meticulous in the disclosure of information
about the share split.
   There have been no prosecutions under the insider-trading
law, which imposed the first legal sanctions on the practice
here.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE U.S. TRADE DEFICIT grew by more than $2 billion in
March, to $8.45 billion, as a 10% jump in imports offset
record exports. Despite the wider gap, analysts were
encouraged by the 4.6% rise in exports, which was
broad-based. Analysts also predicted that import demand will
ease with the slowing U.S. economy.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices rallied in reaction to the stronger American
exports, pushing the Dow Jones industrials up 12.03, to a
record 2831.71. But bonds weakened and the dollar was mixed.
   ---
   The Fed apparently decided to leave credit unchanged at
Tuesday's policy meeting, faced with conflicting signals on
the economy. One member said the Fed hasn't changed its
credit policy since just before Christmas.
   ---
   Shearson Lehman Hutton plans a major revamping to ease
continued internal conflicts. The moves may include a new
corporate name and separate divisions for the brokerage
business and the investment banking and institutional-trading
operations.
   ---
   Pinnacle West received a sweetened takeover bid from
PacifiCorp of $21 a share, or $1.82 billion. The allcash
offer includes the assumption of $1.1 billion in Pinnacle
debt and removes some earlier conditions. Pinnacle's stock
jumped $3.50, to $16.25.
   ---
   AT&amp;T's new credit card is being attacked on legal grounds
by four of the nation's biggest card issuers, including
Citicorp and Chase. The card has attracted strong consumer
interest since it was unveiled in March.
   ---
   NTT of Japan included two U.S. companies in its plan to
develop a digital mobile-telephone system for Japan. The
selection has raised U.S. hopes for wider access to Japan's
telecommunications market.
   ---
   The budget summit continued, but negotiators were unable
to decide quickly on either a projection for the fiscal 1991
deficit or how to account for the soaring cost of the S&amp;L
cleanup.
   ---
   Household International's main finance unit faces a
possible two-notch downgrading on of debt by Moody's. But
Household said that it won't curb its aggressive growth
plans.
   ---
   Columbia S&amp;L disclosed that retail deposits have plunged
$243.3 million since the thrift posted a big 1989 loss last
month. Columbia also said its junk-bond ties to Drexel are
being probed by federal regulators.
   ---
   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi received another setback. Eight senior
and midlevel officials defected from the group's flagship
London advertising agency to form their own shop.
   ---
   First Fidelity Bancorp. expects to set aside up to $300
million in the second quarter for past-due loans and to slash
its dividend 40%. Its stock rose $1.875, to $19.50, because
the news wasn't as bad as some feared.
   ---
   United Technologies' Pratt &amp; Whitney unit signed a pact
with a Soviet agency that could lead to joint production of
aircraft engines.
   ---
   Japan's trade surplus declined 51.4% in April, reflecting
a sharp 15% increase in imports. The trade surplus with the
U.S. declined 46.2%.
   ---
   AB Volvo's pretax profit plunged 52% in the first quarter,
continuing the steep earnings decline that accelerated in the
1989 second half.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 164,770,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2831.71, up 12.03; transportation 1171.94, off 2.14;
utilities 215.29, off 1.76.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3337.66, off
4.63.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.96, up 0.32; spot
index 135.60, up 0.50.
   Dollar: 152.14 yen, up 0.47; 1.6495 marks, up 0.0040.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- AB Electrolux:
   Appliance Firm's Pretax Net
   Fell 41% in First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   ELUXY EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Swedish appliance giant AB Electrolux said pretax profit
plummeted 41% in the first quarter and warned that weak
demand in several key markets is likely to persist for the
rest of the year.
   Electrolux's pretax profit skidded to 511 million kronor
($85 million) from 871 million kronor a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Electrolux Chief Executive Anders Scharp told shareholders
at the Stockholm-based company's annual meeting that plunging
aluminum prices -- which hurt the company's Granges metals
unit -- and fierce price competition in U.S. appliance
markets accounted for most of the profit decline. And he
remained skeptical about a rapid recovery, citing in
particular hefty cost increases that are eating into profit
margins in countries where Electrolux has concentrated its
production.
   As a result, Mr. Scharp said Electrolux would make fewer
acquisitions and reduce the heady level of capital
expenditures it has maintained in recent years. But in an
immediate exception to that cautious policy, the company
separately announced its first major step into Eastern
Europe.
   Electrolux said it agreed with the Hungarian government to
acquire a majority stake in the country's biggest appliance
maker, Lehel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   As AT&amp;T Credit Card Charges Ahead, Banks Fight Back
   ----
   By John J. Keller and Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   T CCI CMB BAC MNC SNV
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- With American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s new
credit card attracting strong consumer interest, four of the
nation's largest card issuers attacked its legality.
   The banking companies -- Citicorp, Chase Manhattan Corp.,
BankAmerica Corp. and MNC Financial Corp. -- asked the
Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Communications Commission
and the Georgia state Banking Department to examine whether
the AT&amp;T venture violates banking and communications law.
Three of the companies also have raised banking issues with
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The complaints come as card-industry analysts estimate
that AT&amp;T has received more than 10 million inquiries so far.
They say that AT&amp;T has approved and issued between 200,000
and 300,000 of its Universal credit cards since the unveiling
on March 26, numbers that AT&amp;T won't confirm.
   But James L. Bailey, group executive for Citicorp's U.S.
credit cards, said, "We would welcome any competition. We're
not trying to keep anyone out. But there are questions about
how AT&amp;T has entered the business and how the Universal Bank
is structured."
   In fact, Mr. Bailey said the Universal card has had no
impact on Citicorp. "Our sales in May are over our forecast,
and our account acquisitions are on target."
   "The issues that have been raised {are} nothing that we
didn't anticipate. . . . {They} are without merit," said
Peter Gallagher, senior vice president in charge of
regulatory and consumer affairs for AT&amp;T Universal Card
Services Corp. "We feel we did our homework and anticipated
what the possible questions would be. We're in this business
to stay."
   AT&amp;T has teamed up with the second-largest processor of
credit cards in the country, Total Systems Services Inc., a
subsidiary of Synovus Financial Corp., a Columbus, Ga., bank
holding company. Another Synovus subsidiary, Universal Bank,
is the issuer of the cards and handles billing on card
transactions.
   The banks have charged that AT&amp;T, in effect, controls
Universal Bank and is therefore violating federal banking
laws, which forbid commercial and industrial companies from
owning commercial banks. AT&amp;T owns a small stake in Universal
Bank and buys the bank's credit card receivables.
   The banks also allege that Universal Bank is no more than
a funding vehicle for an unregulated affiliate, namely AT&amp;T,
and that Universal is grossly undercapitalized, given that it
has only $3 million in capital, but has ambitions to reach
five million customers in the next few years.
   In the FCC complaint, the banks argue that the 10%
discount on long-distance calls that AT&amp;T is giving its
cardholders amounts to "predatory pricing" against other
telecommunication providers and a tariff reduction that the
FCC hasn't sanctioned. What's more, say the banks, if AT&amp;T
were to contend Universal Bank is giving the discount, then
the banks would argue Universal is reselling long-distance
service without FCC sanction.
   AT&amp;T has refused to give figures on how many of its
customers have been issued the cards. But Mr. Gallagher said
the company received 250,000 inquiries from its customers in
the 24-hour period after announcing its Universal bank card,
about 15 times what it had been expecting the first day.
   "From March 26 to May 17, our expectations have been
exceeded by 250%," Mr. Gallagher said. "It has exceeded our
wildest expectations."
   The big challenge for AT&amp;T will be to turn these Universal
card customers into late-paying credit card customers. The
company already has 46 million users of its long-distance
calling card, but its customers are notorious on-time payers,
an anathema to a credit issuer that seeks to profit from
finance charges.
   Moreover, the big banks have a huge head start over AT&amp;T.
Citicorp is the largest issuer of credit cards, with more
than 37 million card holders world-wide. Chase, BankAmerica
and MNC, the parent of Maryland National Bank, are second,
third and sixth, respectively.
   Still, some experts expect AT&amp;T to be one of the top
players within a few years. AT&amp;T Universal Card has set up an
operation in Jacksonville, Fla., that can handle the
back-office and telemarketing needs of a financial services
company with millions of customers.
   "AT&amp;T won't make any money on this for two to three
years," said Spencer Nilson, who publishes the Nilson Report,
a newsletter on the credit industry. But "within five years,
they'll have 35 million cardholders. They're terribly
efficient. I'd say they're issuing about 7,500 cards a day. I
got my card within seven days, compared with more than three
weeks with some other cards."
   At least one credit card expert saw the bank action as an
attempt to stifle the card's success. "It's a harassment
action," said Elgie Holstein, executive director of the
Bankcard Holders of America, a nonprofit consumer credit,
education and advocacy group. "This is an attempt to do in a
major new competitor by . . . companies that are engaged in
acquiring portfolios of smaller and medium-sized players.
They're the primary movers in the increasing consolidation
and decreasing competitiveness of the industry."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Soviets Fail to Pay on Steel
   From Japan; Orders Held
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST J.NIP J.SMM J.NKK J.KWS
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Four Japanese steel companies have halted
production of steel pipes ordered by the Soviet Union, a
further sign of the foreign-exchange difficulties shackling
the Soviet economy.
   Nippon Steel Corp., Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd., NKK
Corp. and Kawasaki Steel Corp. temporarily stopped the output
at the beginning of May, because they hadn't received any
payment since the beginning of the year. They are holding
orders for delivery between April and September of 130,000
tons of pipes for drilling and shipping oil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though the companies will probably continue to do business
with Soviet organizations, they won't resume production until
payment is guaranteed, a Nippon Steel spokesman said. This is
the first time that the Soviet Union has delayed payments
this long, he said. The companies have sent a group of
trading company officials to the U.S.S.R. to request a
guarantee for the shipments.
   Japan recently doubled the rate on export insurance for
steel shipments to the Soviet Union. Japanese trading houses
also have been notifying the government they hadn't received
payment for textiles and chemical products. Moscow owes as
much as an estimated $200 million to Japanese companies. The
Soviet Union also has been delaying payment on orders to
other countries, even for necessities such as grain.
   After the decentralization of the Soviet economy last
year, autonomous trading organizations sprouted nationwide,
and some have been unable to secure enough currency to pay
their bills. But major Soviet procurement agencies were
faulted in the steel pipes case.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Northrop Aide
   Sentenced to Prison
   In Falsifying Tests
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- The former manager of Northrop Corp.'s
now-defunct Precision Products division was sentenced in
federal court here to three years in prison and fined $10,000
for his role in falsifying tests on the Air Force's
air-launched cruise missile.
   Clarence Gonsalves, 62 years old, pleaded guilty in
February to one count of conspiracy and seven counts of
making false statements. Most of the counts related to his
ordering an underling to make it appear that certain tests on
the missile were successful when they weren't.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Los Angeles Assistant U.S. Attorney William Fahey said Mr.
Gonsalves's guilty plea helped force Northrop to reach a plea
agreement with the government in February. Just as opening
arguments in the criminal fraud trial against the aerospace
company were to begin, Northrop pleaded guilty to 34 counts
of making false statements to the government in connection
with the testing of parts for the cruise missile and the
Navy's Harrier jet. The company also agreed to pay $17
million in fines.
   As part of that settlement, the Justice Department agreed
to drop 141 additional counts. It also dismissed all charges
against the two highest-ranking corporate officials
implicated in the case, divisional executives Joseph Yamron
and Leopold Engler, who were reinstated by Northrop after the
settlement. As part of the agreement, federal authorities
also closed their investigations into alleged improprieties
related to Northrop's making of MX missile parts and the B-2
bomber.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CLARENCE GONSALVES is a former manager of the now-defunct
Western Services Department, Pomona, Calif., of Northrop
Corp.'s Precision Products division, and Howard Hyde is a
former senior engineer of the department. Recent editions
mistakenly said that the Precision Products division,
Norwood, Mass., was the unit that closed.
   (WSJ May 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Soviets, United Technologies' Pratt Link
   Could Lead to Joint Plane-Engine Output
   ----
   By Charles W. Stevens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX FREST G.DAI U.RR G.MUT
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Pratt &amp; Whitney division of United Technologies Corp.,
Hartford, Conn., said it signed a cooperation agreement with
a Soviet agency that could lead to joint production of
aircraft engines.
   The agreement, also signed by the aircraft engine unit of
Daimler-Benz AG of West Germany, follows the establishment of
several new business relationships between Western and Soviet
aerospace concerns recently. These new links are driven in
large part by Soviet demand for Western technology and an
eagerness in the West to gain access to the huge Soviet
aviation market that is opening up as East-West relations
defrost.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the West's shifting political posture toward
Moscow, the new links between the Western and Soviet
aerospace concerns face questions about possible technology
transfers of potential military significance. "This is all so
new to everyone, we're writing this book as we go along,"
said a Pratt &amp; Whitney spokesman in East Hartford, Conn.
   He said Pratt &amp; Whitney's agreement with the Soviet
Ministry of Aviation Industry and Daimler-Benz's Motoren-und
Turbinen-Union, known as MTU, is aimed at the eventual
development and co-production of jet engines for two new
Soviet passenger planes. The aircraft are the Ilyushin Il-96,
a long-range, four-engine airliner with about 270 seats, and
the Tupolev Tu-204, a twin-engine plane with about 170 seats,
the spokesman said. The accord formalizes and advances
earlier discussions about supplying Pratt &amp; Whitney engines
for these planes, he said.
   Under the cooperation agreement, Pratt &amp; Whitney will
consider joint ventures with the Soviets on all but the
biggest commercial jet engines, those producing 50,000 or
more pounds of thrust to power wide-body planes, the
spokesman said. In addition to jet-power plants, the Soviets
want to talk about co-production of turboprop engines, he
said.
   The cooperation pact is Pratt &amp; Whitney's latest move in
its hunt for Soviet business. Earlier this year, when the
Soviet airline Aeroflot announced its first purchase of
Western aircraft from Airbus Industrie, a European aircraft
consortium based in France, Pratt &amp; Whitney pressed its case
to the Soviets for fitting the wide-body planes with engines
from East Hartford. But in March, Aeroflot said it would buy
the engines from Fairfield, Conn.-based General Electric Co.
instead.
   "They have a very large potential (engine) market," the
Pratt &amp; Whitney spokesman said of the Soviet Union. The
cooperation pact "opens the door for us for further
discussions," he said. He added that the agreement "is more a
market-driven decision than a technology-driven decision, on
our part, in any case."
   Besides the Aeroflot purchase of Airbus planes and GE
engines, the recently launched Soviet-Western aerospace
industry relationships include an agreement between
London-based Rolls-Royce PLC, a maker of aircraft engines,
and the Sukhoi and Syulka design bureaus to develop an engine
for a supersonic executive jet that is under joint
development by Sukhoi and Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. of
Savannah, Ga.
   Shares of United Technologies, which also has businesses
in building systems and automotive products, closed at
$57.375, up 25 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kay Jewelers Says
   Some Officers to Buy
   More of Its Common
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KJI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ALEXANDRIA, Va. -- Kay Jewelers Inc. said certain officers
and directors, who together own 40% of Kay's common stock,
intend to buy up to one million more shares on the open
market or through negotiated transactions.
   The move, a strong show of support at a time when the
jewelry retailers' stock has dropped significantly, will help
to fend off a pack of short sellers. Kay has about 12.3
million shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the company's annual meeting, Chairman Anthonie van
Ekris blasted the short sellers "a bad bunch of people," who
have had a "devastating impact" on Kay stock. Short sellers
count on a company's stock dropping by selling borrowed stock
and replacing it with stock purchased at a lower price. Kay's
stock has tumbled from a 52-week high of $24.375 a share, to
close yesterday at $7.75 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.
   Mr. van Ekris told shareholders to "keep the faith," and
reiterated his expectation that Kay "will return to levels of
profitability this year." He didn't offer specific
projections on 1990 earnings. For 1989, the company posted
net income of $196,000, or two cents a share, on revenue of
$427 million.
   Earlier this week, Kay disclosed that three banks that
provide $32 million of its $86 million in lines of credit
want to withdraw from participation. Mr. van Ekris told
shareholders he is "fully confident a revolving credit
agreement will be in place in a matter of weeks."
   Martin Oppenheimer, who follows Kay's bonds for Koonce
Securities of Rockville, Md., suggested that management
consider an outside review "to make sure their inventory
control systems are good as they think they are."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Oneok Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS OKE
</CO>
<LP>
   ONEOK Inc. (Tulsa, Okla.) -- J.R. Mosteller, formerly
president of two operating divisions of this natural gas
distribution concern, was named executive vice president of
the parent, filling a vacancy. J.D. Neal, treasurer, was
named to the additional post of vice president, finance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campeau Chief Must
   Repay $10.7 Million
   To Bank, Court Says
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC CANDA T.NA T.BNS T.BMO
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Robert Campeau, chairman and chief executive
officer of Campeau Corp., was ordered by the Supreme Court of
Ontario to repay $12.6 million Canadian dollars (US$10.7
million) of personal loans owed to Bank of Nova Scotia,
according to court documents.
   The bank sued Mr. Campeau in February, claiming that he
defaulted on personal loans against which he had pledged
1,125,000 shares of his Campeau stock. The court order allows
the bank to seize the shares or any other assets held in Mr.
Campeau's name. Bank of Nova Scotia declined to comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bank of Nova Scotia is one of three big Canadian banks
that have sued Mr. Campeau over defaults on C$192.3 million
of personal loans. In April, Bank of Montreal obtained a
court judgment ordering Mr. Campeau to repay C$26.7 million
of loans, but it hasn't seized any of his assets.
   National Bank of Canada sued Mr. Campeau in February,
claiming that he defaulted on about C$153 million of personal
loans. But last month, National Bank agreed to settle the
loans for C$80 million and to return to Mr. Campeau the
Campeau shares and convertible debentures it had seized from
him in January. Mr. Campeau has until May 31 to pay National
Bank the first C$40 million and regain the securities, which
would again make him the largest shareholder in the company
that bears his name. He has until Jan. 31, 1991 to pay
National Bank the remaining C$40 million.
   Mr. Campeau's Toronto lawyer, John DesBrisay, said he
hopes to conclude negotiations regarding the Bank of Montreal
and Bank of Nova Scotia loans before the end of this month.
   "We're trying to reach an accommodation like the one we
reached with the National Bank," Mr. DesBrisay said.
   Mr. Campeau had used funds from the bank loans to buy
Campeau stock. He stopped making payments on the loans last
fall when the price of Campeau stock began to plummet on news
that its U.S. retailing units, Federated Department Stores
Inc. and Allied Stores Corp., were in financial difficulty.
In January, Federated and Allied sought protection from
creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Alcan Aluminum Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ALCAN ALUMINIUM Ltd. -- This Montreal aluminum producer
said it is offering in the U.S. $150 million of 9.4%
debentures, due June 1, 1995. Alcan said proceeds will be
used for general corporate purposes. Company officials
weren't available to elaborate. Alcan said the debentures are
priced at par, to yield 9.4%. First Boston Corp. and Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. are underwriting the offering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Runaway Opinions
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   I have written everything
   About what there is to say,
   On the past, the future,
   And on happenings today.
   Yet a dearth of topics
   Is one thing I never find,
   Because on every subject
   I keep changing my mind.
   -- Joshua Adams.
   ---
   Tasty Tidbit
                                                                                                       

   The chief cook in a greasy-spoon eatery does not copyright
his receipes. "They're all in the public ptomaine," he
claims.
   -- Robert Orben.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Crocodile: lunge lizard.
   -- Daisy Brown.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Meredith to Take
   Pretax Charges
   Of $64 Million
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5G
</SO>
<CO>
   MDP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Meredith Corp. said it plans to take pretax charges
totaling $64 million for its fourth quarter ending June 30 to
cover the write-down of certain assets and a loss from the
planned sale of a unit.
   The Des Moines, Iowa, publishing and broadcasting concern
also said it no longer expects to close the planned sale of
its commercial-printing interests before the end of the
fiscal year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That sale, which is expected to provide a big one-time
gain, has been stalled by a lengthy review by federal
antitrust regulators. While the company reiterated earlier
statements that it's confident that the sale will be allowed
to go forward, the delay deprives Meredith of a means to at
least partially offset in this quarter the big charges it
plans.
   The company says the effect of the write-downs will be to
lower fourth-quarter results by $50 million, or $2.68 a
share. In the year-ago quarter, the company had net income of
$7.4 million, or 40 cents a share, on revenue of $208.9
million. Through the first nine months of this fiscal year,
the company's earnings have slipped 9% to $23.5 million, or
$1.27 a share, on revenue that rose 4% to $606.7 million.
   Meredith's $29 million charge to discontinued operations,
in part, covers the planned sale to a management group of the
company's MMT Sales Inc. television-advertising operation.
The previously announced sale is part of a company effort to
focus more attention on its core operations, said a
spokesman.
   Meredith publishes Ladies Home Journal, Better Homes and
Gardens, and a raft of other home- and craft-oriented
publications.
   The company said it is also writing down its investment in
two real estate brokerage concerns with the intention of
discontinuing investments in these areas. The two concerns
are Fox &amp; Carskadon Inc., which is 95%-owned by Meredith, and
Joseph J. Murphy Inc., in which Meredith holds a 50% stake.
   The remaining $35 million charge relates to the write-down
of some company assets. Meredith said it is marking down the
value of syndicated television programming purchased by its
seven television stations, to "reflect the reduction in the
earnings power" of the investments. The charge also includes
an undisclosed amount Meredith said it is setting aside for
"contingency reserves," but the company declined to
elaborate.
   Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., responding to Meredith's move,
affirmed its preliminary triple-B rating on Meredith's senior
debt securities, filed in a shelf registration.
   In late 1989, Meredith and members of West Germany's Burda
family agreed to sell their commercial-printing operation to
R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Co. for $487.5 million. Meredith
originally expected to receive its shares of the proceeds
early this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy's Industry Output Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   ROME -- Italy's unadjusted index of industrial production
rose 2.8% in March from a year earlier, the State Statistical
Institute, Istat, said.
   The increase in March followed a year-on-year rise of 1.1%
in February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Glassmaker Finds French Politics
   Can Make Foreign Investment Fragile
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.STG EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- In a burst of deregulation, France in 1988
abolished most government controls on foreign investment.
Non-French companies supposedly now can build new plants here
without even notifying the government.
   Actual practice, however, is different. Politics still is
deeply entwined with business, as U.S. glassmaker Guardian
Industries Corp. is discovering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Guardian plans to build a new flat-glass plant in southern
Europe, probably in northern Spain or near Nimes in southern
France. The plant would cost 700 million French francs ($126
million) and create about 250 jobs initially. Later expansion
could add another 500 jobs, sources here say.
   With unemployment in the Nimes region running as high as
15%, the French government was preparing to offer Guardian a
hefty subsidy for choosing Nimes. The European Community
allows subsidies as high as 17% of the project cost in
depressed regions such as this one, and French sources say
discussions have "advanced very well."
   But there is a hitch: Guardian's big French competitor,
Cie. de Saint-Gobain, is furiously lobbying to block the
subsidy. Saint-Gobain just got through building its own new
flat-glass plant a few hundred miles away, near Grenoble, and
its own subsidy was less than 10% of cost. (The exact level
is a subject of some dispute.) Since the Grenoble region is
more prosperous, EC rules didn't permit Saint-Gobain a bigger
subsidy.
   The complex Guardian case illustrates how politics often
is thrust into European investment decisions, even when laws
seem designed to prevent it.
   With the EC planning to bring down internal trade barriers
by the end of 1992, foreign companies are racing to set up
European subsidiaries, and European countries are competing
actively for the business. Although supposedly regulated by
the EC, subsidies are endemic.
   This case is particularly sensitive. By coincidence,
French Industry Minister Roger Fauroux is a former
Saint-Gobain chairman. On top of that, Saint-Gobain is in the
process of completing the friendly takeover of U.S. abrasives
maker Norton Co. of Massachusetts. But however sensitive the
case may be, Saint-Gobain isn't holding back.
   Its position is simple: Saint-Gobain says it can't believe
its own government is helping a major competitor get started
in its own back yard.
   "We don't want Guardian to get a higher subsidy than we
got," says a Saint-Gobain official. The official recognizes
that Saint-Gobain could have received a larger subsidy if it
had located in a less-prosperous region, but he says that
isn't the point.
   "France already has five flat-glass plants, three of which
belong to us," he says. "If another gets built, we could face
excess production. We aren't saying they can't come. We're
just saying we don't want the government to create this
problem itself, through excess generosity."
   But while the government in the past blocked foreign
investment in order to protect local manufacturers, that
isn't supposed to happen any more. "We would rather have
foreign plants than unemployment," Mr. Fauroux is fond of
saying.
   Reality is somewhat different. The subsidy's total value
is up to the government, as long as it stays within the EC
limits. So the French government now is split between
Saint-Gobain backers, arguing for a low subsidy, and
development experts and local officials, who want a big
subsidy to ensure that the factory doesn't go to Spain.
   French officials insist that Saint-Gobain's lobbying won't
influence their decision, and that they will offer Guardian
an excellent incentive. "We are very favorable to the arrival
of this company," says one official.
   Officials at closely held Guardian, reached at their
headquarters in Michigan, declined to comment. Sources here
say a decision is expected within a month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   France's Bull Denies
   Press Report of Spying
   Against U.S. Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP IBM TXN
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French computer maker Cie. des Machines Bull
denied a French press report alleging that France's
intelligence service carried out industrial espionage against
International Business Machines Corp., Texas Instruments Inc.
and other U.S. technology companies.
   The report, in the news magazine L'Express, said the
French foreign espionage service, the Direction Generale de
la Securite Exterieure, recruited senior officials at the
U.S. companies' French subsidiaries. The article claimed that
senior French government officials were worried that, without
the espionage, Bull would have trouble catching up with the
competition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It said the theft of research and marketing secrets began
around 1987 and ended late in 1989 when the U.S. Federal
Bureau of Investigation and Central Intelligence Agency
confronted the spies. The executives in question were fired,
the magazine said, and the news covered up to avoid scandal.
   Spokesmen for IBM in Armonk, N.Y., and for Texas
Instruments in Dallas declined to comment, as did the French
government. The head of security at Texas Instruments' Nice
headquarters said he wasn't aware of any espionage. He said
that there is a regular turnover in management officials at
Texas Instruments' French subsidiary but that he isn't aware
of anyone being fired for stealing secrets.
   A Bull official said the company posted a loss of 267
million francs ($48.1 million) last year, compared with
profit of 303 million francs in 1988. But the official said
Bull is on the mend, is advancing through an aggressive
acquisition strategy and operates entirely independently of
the French government.
   "We formally deny this report," said the Bull official.
"We haven't any relationship with the DGSE."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brussels Exchange
   Tangles With Media
   Over Flow of Facts
   ---
   News Groups Criticize Plan
   By Bourse to Distribute
   Information on Market
   ----
   By Peter R. Greiff
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP RTRSY
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- The usually unaggressive Brussels stock
exchange and a handful of Belgian and international news
groups have clashed in recent weeks over just whose job it is
to get the facts out.
   News groups, including Reuters Ltd., say the little Bourse
de Bruxelles is seeking to act as a monopoly, violating
European Community competition rules and principles of press
freedom. Reuters is a unit of London-based Reuters Holdings
PLC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Brussels exchange, meanwhile, says it is protecting
the integrity of the Belgian market, ensuring a fair and
orderly playing field for all participants.
   In the latest development in the controversy, the Belgian
Finance Ministry said yesterday that the government is
reviewing the proposals in response to complaints by the
media. The government plans to issue a report in two weeks.
   The squabble in Belgium, not traditionally a leader in EC
financial markets, could be a trial run for a much bigger
battle as 12 Community stock exchanges move to form an
EC-wide trading system.
   At stake is who controls the information investors see and
when they see it.
   If the Belgian bourse has its way, it will become a
clearinghouse for news about companies, receiving
market-affecting corporate announcements before the news
groups, and then distributing them to market participants
through a bourse-operated information system.
   News groups, like other market watchers, would have access
to the announcements by subscribing to a bourse computer data
service, for what exchange officials say will be a reasonable
fee.
   The news groups are crying foul. In an 18-page letter sent
last week to the Belgian government, Reuters and several
Belgian news organizations complained that giving the bourse
such a role would go against the spirit and letter of EC laws
on transparency and competition.
   Moreover, many don't trust the Brussels bourse to get the
company information to the public quickly and without risk of
insider trading.
   "This could institutionalize insider trading," said Herman
Smedts, manager of electronic information at the electronic
publishing arm of Flemish language financial daily De
Financieel Ekonomische de Tijd.
   Even if the bourse could process the information smoothly
and quickly, the disclosure first to subscribers of the stock
market data service would discriminate against foreigners or
institutions who aren't regular market participants, Mr.
Smedts and others said.
   Bourse officials, however, say their way would prevent
insider trading by giving the bourse a chance to suspend
trading in a share before the information is released.
   Also, they say, by timing the release of news to
after-bourse hours, the bourse could assure small investors
will see reports in newspapers the next day, and be able to
act with the same information as market professionals.
   "We are mainly concerned that information gets to all
people at the same time," said Jean Peterbroek, chairman of
the Commission of the Bourse and of a leading Brussels
brokerage firm,, Peterbroek van Campenhout et Cie.
   Money, for the news groups and the bourse, is also at
stake. The bourse, a nonprofit corporation, recently set up a
company called SA Bourse-Data-Beurs NV (BDB) to sell data.
The news groups say by channeling information to its fully
owned subsidiary, the bourse is giving BDB a monopoly.
   The real purpose of BDB, they say, is to pay for the
computer trading system the Brussels bourse bought in 1988.
   Bourse officials don't deny they intend to offset their
costs through BDB, but say they are not out to gouge
subscribers either.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (VET)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                       CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dow Capital -- $150 million of debentures, due May 15,
2010, priced as 9% securities at 99.87 to yield 9.032%. The
noncallable debentures, which may be put back to the company
on May 15, 1995, were priced at a spread of .42 percentage
point above the Treasury's when-issued five-year note. Rated
single-A-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and single-A by
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
   Asian Development Bank -- $300 million issue of notes, due
June 1, 2000, priced as 9 1/8% securities at 99.195 to yield
9.25%. The noncallable notes were priced at a spread of .56
percentage point above the Treasury's 10-year note. The
issue, rated triple-A by both Moody's and S&amp;P, will be sold
through underwriters led by Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   Nassau County, N.Y. -- $85.1 million of various purpose
revenue bonds, due July 1, 1991-2009, apparently were won by
a Prudential-Bache Capital Funding group with a bid setting
the net interest cost at 6.99%. The bonds, insured and rated
triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P, were priced for reoffering to
yield from 6.00% in 1991 to 7.10% in 2008 and 2009. The issue
consists of $71.5 million of general improvement bonds and
$13.6 million of sewer district bonds. There are no term
bonds.
                                                                                                       

                      MORTGAGE-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. -- two separate $300 million issues
of real estate mortgage investment conduit securities backed
by Government National Mortgage Association 9 1/2%
securities. The offerings are being made through GS Trust 8A
and GS Trust 8B. Details on yields weren't immediately
available.
   Veterans Administration -- $348.7 million of mortgage
securities backed by its Vendee mortgages through an
underwriting group headed by First Boston Corp. The offering
is being made through American Housing Trust VI. Vendee loans
are made by the VA to buyers of homes taken over by the VA
after defaults on VA-guaranteed mortgages. This issue is
backed by the VA, whose guarantee is supported by the U.S.
government. For classes with details available, the
securities yield as much as 10.113%, or 1.45 percentage point
over the 30-year Treasury, for a security with an average
life of 20.5 years. The collateral consists of Vendee loans
with a weighted average coupon rate of 9.53% and weighted
average remaining term to maturity of 29 years. The issue is
rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                       EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Finnish Export Credit (Finland) -- #200 million ($338.6
million) of 16% bonds due Dec. 2, 1991, priced at 101 7/8,
via Merrill Lynch International.
   KFW International Finance Inc. (West Germany) -- $300
million issue of 9 1/4% bonds due June 12, 1995, at a fixed
reoffer price of 99 5/8 to yield 9.35% reoffered, via
Deutsche Bank Capital Markets. Guaranteed by Kreditanstalt
fuer Wiederaufbau.
   World Bank (agency) -- 125 million European currency units
of 10 3/8% bonds due June 27, 1995, priced at 101.55, to
yield 10.43% less fees, via Credit Commercial de France. Fees
1 3/4.
   Nationwide Anglia Building Society (United Kingdom) --
#100 million of floating-rate notes due June 1995, priced at
100 and paying interest at 0.10 point above the three-month
London interbank offered rate, via Baring Brothers.
   Council of Europe (agency) -- 150 million Swiss francs
($106.8 million) of 7 1/4% public bonds due June 18, 2000,
priced at 101, via Banca del Gottardo. Callable from June 18,
1998, at 101.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Volvo's Pretax Earnings Plunge 52%;
   Analysts Expect Drop of 35% for Year
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   VOLVY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- AB Volvo reported a 52% plunge in
first-quarter pretax profit, continuing the steep earnings
decline that accelerated during last year's second half.
   In line with company policy, the Swedish auto maker didn't
issue a forecast for full-year profit before tax. But
industry analysts, citing a bleak outlook for both car and
truck divisions, estimated that Volvo's full-year pretax
profit probably will decline at least 35% to 4.5 billion
Swedish kronor ($748 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These analysts cautioned that forecasts remain uncertain
because of several major strategic transactions made by Volvo
in recent months. It still isn't clear how those transactions
will affect this year's accounts. In a telephone interview,
the concern's new chief operating officer, Christer
Zetterberg, acknowledged: "For most people this will be an
extremely difficult year to see what Volvo is."
   But some believe 1990 could mark the bottom of Volvo's
current downturn. Positive effects of alliances with Sweden's
Procordia AB and France's Renault are expected to boost
Volvo's profit next year. And according to Mr. Zetterberg,
the heavy product development outlays that have eaten into
profitability should peak this year.
   Most of that development money has been spent on a new
Volvo car model, the successor to the company's workhorse,
20-year-old 200 series. Launch of the new car, expected next
year, looms as a crossroads for Volvo. "A recovery for Volvo
is almost totally dependent on that new model. Auto markets
probably won't get better for the next 12 months -- by which
time the new model should come. It's a crunch step," said
Philip Ayton, an auto analyst for London securities firm
Barclays de Zoete Wedd.
   Volvo said pretax profit plummeted to 1.06 billion kronor
in the first quarter, from 2.19 billion a year earlier. The
company blamed the decline on lower sales volumes, pressure
on margins in several major markets, lower rates of capacity
utilization in factories and ballooning product development
costs.
   Mr. Zetterberg said a significant part of the profit
decline -- though less than half -- was the result of higher
product development costs. He said expenditures this year
would increase from the 6.2 billion kronor Volvo spent last
year on product development -- plus an equal amount invested
in buildings and machinery.
   Mr. Zetterberg said Volvo operations also were buffeted by
a practically unprecedented, simultaneous downturn at both
its biggest divisions -- cars and trucks -- as well as in its
three biggest markets, the U.S., U.K. and Sweden. "That's
never happened before. We normally see a big difference in
cycles in those markets -- and between cars and trucks," he
said.
   The vexing market conditions were reflected in a 4%
decline in first-quarter sales, to 21.68 billion kronor from
23.07 billion the prevous year.
   During the first three months, sales at the car division,
Volvo's biggest single unit, dropped 1.1% to 42.45 billion
kronor from 42.94 billion a year earlier. (The company didn't
disclose operating profit for individual divisions.)
   The number of new Volvos delivered to customers in the
period dropped to 104,000 from 106,000 the previous year.
While unit sales of bigger, more profitable 200 and 700
series models declined 5.6%, the smaller 300 and 400 series
cars manufactured by Volvo's Netherlands-based affiliate
Volvo Car N.V. jumped 5.7%.
   Volvo said deliveries of heavy trucks declined both in
Western Europe and the U.S. and the company also lost market
share in a declining, intensely competitive U.S. truck
market. Truck division sales were about unchanged during the
first three months at 24.6 billion kronor. The total of new
heavy-duty trucks delivered skidded to 12,800 from 14,300 the
previous year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   T VTC LOTS LK
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   Lasers May Zap Drills
   Out of Dentists' Hands
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ALREADY WIDELY used in medicine, lasers are moving into
the dentist's office, offering the prospect of painless
dental surgery and quick treatment of tooth decay.
   The Food and Drug Administration quietly blessed the sale
of lasers for gum surgery last week, the first time the
technology has been approved for general dentistry. Later
this year, the agency is expected to approve lasers for
treating cavities, potentially displacing the dentist's
drill.
   The devices won't come cheap, however: Dental lasers are
expected to cost as much as $50,000 apiece.
   The lasers, which have undergone five years of clinical
tests, generate an intense, garnet-red light that courses
through a fiberoptic thread and is directed by the dentist to
the trouble spot in a patient's mouth. Researchers say
low-power pulses can clear bacterial buildup, slice gum
tissue, desensitize aching teeth and zap cavities -- often
without requiring anesthesia.
   "It's quick, it's easy and it dramatically lessens
bleeding," says Dr. Joel M. White, an assistant professor at
the University of California at San Francisco who has
conducted extensive clinical trials of lasers. "This
technology can now be offered to nearly every patient in the
country."
   The dental laser has successfully treated thousands of
patients in clinical trials, and the device has already won
regulatory approval in Canada, Germany, Mexico and Japan. Dr.
Terry D. Myers, a consultant to American Dental Laser,
Birmingham, Mich., which holds the patents for dental lasers,
says that within a decade, "we hope to send the dentist's
drill to the Smithsonian."
                                                                                                       

   Meet a CFCs Substitute
   That Smells Good, Too
                                                                                                       

   SEVERAL MAJOR electronics companies have embraced an
all-natural alternative to ozone-destroying solvents used in
the manufacture of circuit boards.
   Electronics companies are among the largest users of
chlorofluorocarbon solvents (CFCs), chemicals that damage the
Earth's protective ozone layer.
   The natural solvents, known as terpenes, not only are easy
on the environment, they smell good, too. "It smells like an
orange grove" inside a factory where the solvent is in use,
says Lydia Whitefield, a spokeswoman for American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph Co. She says the solvent is being tried at half of
AT&amp;T's plants, replacing CFCs, which the company is committed
to phase out within four years.
   Leslie Guth, a researcher at AT&amp;T Bell Laboratories Inc.,
Princeton, N.J., explains that some terpene solvents are
derived from orange peels -- accounting for the aroma -- and
are so benign that they are used in chewing gum and candy.
She says they clean circuits effectively and at less cost,
though they must be handled carefully because they can be
flammable. Ms. Guth says terpenes also may be used in place
of methyl chloroform, which also is suspected of damaging the
ozone layer.
   Vitronics Corp., Newmarket, N.H., says that sales of a
terpenebased board-cleaning machine have been brisk. Lockheed
Corp., Sandia National Labs and a half-dozen other customers,
including companies in South Korea and Japan, have invested
in the technology, Vitronics says.
                                                                                                       

   Little-Used Channel
   Acts as Eyes for Blind
                                                                                                       

   TELEVISION for the blind?
   That's exactly what Boston's WGBH-TV has developed, making
use of a little-used slice of the broadcast spectrum that can
be picked up as a separate audio channel by most new TV sets.
   Using this idle channel, known as a subcarrier, WGBH
provides short narrative descriptions of key visual elements
of a program during pauses in the dialogue. "Now they're
kissing, as the sun sets over the ocean," the vision-impaired
audience might be told.
   The free service, available on a variety of programs, is
carried by 35 Public Broadcasting Service stations. It
reflects renewed interest in the so-called separate-audio
channel, which was designated by federal regulators to carry
alternate audio and data. Most stereo TVs and videocassette
recorders are equipped to pick up the channel. Older sets can
be inexpensively converted to get the signal with a decoder.
   For now, only a few stations are experimenting with
subcarriers, which also can carry computer data. New York's
WNETTV is working on Spanish translations for some national
news programming; a Los Angeles TV station already offers
local newscasts in both English and Spanish. Maryland Public
Television uses subcarriers to transmit educational software
and data to schools for classroom use.
   The Electronic Industries Association says that "stations
are getting quite creative" with the subcarrier technology.
The association notes that some stations use it to provide
extra commentary during sports events, while others use the
channel to carry uncut soundtracks of R-rated movies.
                                                                                                       

   Some Rolling Payments
   For Rolls of Customers
                                                                                                       

   LOTUS Development Corp. has devised an unusual pay
as-you-go feature to bill customers who use its MarketPlace
software, a $695 compact disk that contains names, addresses
and demographic information on 80 million households and 7.5
million businesses.
   The program keeps track of each time it is used, like a
postal meter. Customers, who use the disk to create mailing
lists or tailor marketing efforts, get the first 5,000 names
free. After that, users call Lotus-credit card in handand pay
$400 for each additional 5,000 names.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Says It Will Idle
   Facility in Georgia
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC TOYOY NSANY J.MZD SBRU J.IZM J.MOT
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. said it will indefinitely
idle its Lakewood, Ga., assembly plant beginning Aug. 6
because of slow sales of the 1990-model Chevrolet Caprice
full-sized car and the Buick Estate Wagon station wagon.
About 2,200 workers will be affected.
   The No. 1 auto maker had announced its plans to idle the
Lakewood plant in September, but didn't specify then when the
closing would take place.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GM said it has scheduled daily and weekend overtime at its
Janesville, Wis.; Lordstown, Ohio; Orion, Mich., and Lansing,
Mich., assembly facilities.
   Ford Motor Co. has planned overtime at its Wixom, Mich.;
Kansas City and St. Louis, Mo.; Twin Cities, Minn., and
Louisville, Ky., assembly plants.
   Overall, the 10 major U.S. car makers planned to build
138,967 this week, down 11.2% from 156,524 a year ago.
   ---
            This    Last   Yr. Ago   -Yr. to Date-       %
            Week-e  Week-r   Week    1990     1989      Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM         62,715  60,397  73,616   981,772 1,421,229 -  31
 Ford       31,910  34,355  37,480   572,423   762,871 -  25
 Chrysler   18,900  19,955  23,002   252,558   407,218 -  38
 Honda       8,990   8,801   7,809   172,368   153,905 +  12
 Nissan      1,570   1,523   2,494    40,817    45,316 -  10
 Nummi-f     4,200   5,084   4,231    81,562    79,035 +   3
 Mazda       2,815   2,791   4,485    70,679    94,996 -  26
 Diam.Star   2,978   2,945     886    55,604    17,467 + 218
 Toyota      4,434   4,429   2,521    86,701    32,712 + 165
 Suba-Isuz     455     489       0     7,445         0     d
 TOTAL     138,967 140,769 156,524 2,321,929 3,014,749 -  23
                                                                                                       

 d-Percentage change is greater than 999%. e-Estimated.
f-Includes Chevrolet Prizm and Toyota Corolla. r-Revised.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Scientific-Atlanta Inc.
   Gets Communications
   Satellite Unit Job
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   SFA CQ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Scientific-Atlanta Inc., in a move to build the
audience for high-definition television, said it will supply
a HDTV system to Comsat Video Enterprises.
   Comsat, a unit of Washington-based Communications
Satellite Corp., will use the system to broadcast live events
to selected locations, particularly its current stronghold,
pay-per-view TVs in hotels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Scientific-Atlanta didn't disclose the value of the
contract, but the HDTV system is the third that it has agreed
to provide during the past year, said William E. Johnson, the
company's chief executive officer. The previous two were with
Canadian companies that planned to use the technology for
live broadcasts to movie theaters, he said.
   In HDTV systems, Scientific-Atlanta transmits signals
between TV studios or sites where events originate and the
point at which they are distributed to movie theaters or
closed-circuit TV sets. The company provides the equipment to
beam the signal to a satellite and back to receiving
stations, converting it for local broadcast.
   Analysts said the Comsat order gives a boost to U.S.
efforts in one area of the international competition to
develop HDTV technology. "It shows we're not conceding the
field to the Japanese," said Eric C. Buck, an analyst with
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette.
   Comsat, which provides pay-per-view television to about
1,700 hotels, will first use the new system to broadcast
singer Dionne Warwick's AIDS benefit concert, scheduled for
June 30, to hotels in 20 cities across the country, said
Robert J. Wussler, Comsat's president and chief executive
officer. He said the hotels will be supplied with monitors
capable of receiving the high-definition signal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T to Trim Rates
   2.5% for Some Calls;
   Reduced Costs Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   T
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. said it
will cut long-distance, evening-hour charges 2.5% -- or $100
million a year -- starting July 1.
   In a filing with the Federal Communications Commission,
the company said the reduction relates to prices of
direct-dialed interstate calls between 5 p.m. and 11 p.m.,
Sunday through Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under FCC price-cap regulations, AT&amp;T files price
adjustments annually. This reduction was made possible in
part by anticipated savings from further cuts in the access
fees charged by local telephone companies. Another factor is
a change AT&amp;T is making in directory assistance: AT&amp;T said it
will eliminate the free call to interstate directory
assistance now offered each month, saying only one in four
residential customers use directory assistance during a
three-month period. The price of a directory assistance call
is 60 cents.
   When the July 1 decrease takes effect, a 10-minute
direct-dialed call anywhere in the continental U.S. will cost
$1.53 or less, compared with the current $1.58 or less. The
decrease is AT&amp;T's 11th since 1984, when the Bell system was
broken up.
   A spokesman for US Sprint Communications Co., a subsidiary
of United Telecommunications Inc. of Kansas City, Mo., said:
"We haven't seen the filing yet and can't comment
specifically. But we are competitive and will take whatever
steps are necessary to remain competitive."
   An MCI Communications Corp. spokeswoman said the company
is studying AT&amp;T's moves, "and, as is our tradition, MCI will
remain competitive."
   AT&amp;T added that it expects in the future to be able to cut
prices an additional $60 million in other long-distance and
operator services.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
AT&amp;T closed at $42.875 a share, up 87.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900518-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900518-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC's Investigation
   Of Baxter Focusing
   On Bribery Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   BAX MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry
into Baxter International Inc.'s Mideast activities is
focusing on possible violations of federal anti-bribery laws.
   Investigators are seeking to determine whether the
Deerfield, Ill., hospital supplier violated the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act in its efforts to win access to Saudi
Arabia and other Arab markets, say individuals familiar with
the staff inquiry. The law prohibits payments to foreign
officials by U.S. firms eager to gain business overseas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   G. Marshall Abbey, Baxter's senior vice president and
general counsel, said, "We have and still do emphatically
deny that there was any improper payment made" by Baxter
officials in the Middle East.
   Both the SEC and the Commerce Department are looking into
events surrounding Baxter's 1989 removal from the Arab
League's blacklist of corporations that do business with
Israel. The SEC inquiry also involves Baxter's Middle Eastern
activities during the mid-1980s, when the blacklisting
frustrated the company's efforts to enter the Mideast market.
Baxter's activities in the Middle East and the government's
inquiry were the subject of a May 1 article in The Wall
Street Journal.
   Specific matters under SEC scrutiny include allegations
raised in 1985 civil litigation in federal court in New York.
In that case, a former Baxter executive charged company
officials with making improper payments to Saudi officials
and businessmen by cutting prices on products sold to a Saudi
government contractor. Baxter denied the charges by the
executive and made counter-allegations against him. He also
denied the charges. The case was settled and sealed with
neither side admitting guilt.
   The SEC inquiry hasn't been expanded into a formal
investigation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
