<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Class War in the Soviet Army
   ----
   By Eugene B. Rumer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   As Mikhail Gorbachev tries to patch up the cracks in the
Soviet Communist Party, another Soviet institution is showing
signs of splitting: the military. A profound schism is
dividing junior and mid-level officers from the generals who
command them. "Glasnost" has shattered the myth that the
Soviet military -- the highest ranks apart -- is prosperous
and privileged. Inflation has eroded the purchasing power of
lower-echelon officers' salaries -- particularly of those
officers who serve in remote areas where it is impossible for
their wives to get jobs. Lower-ranking officers often have to
live with their families in a single room in communal
apartments with shared facilities. Some officers are
literally homeless and have to beg their colleagues to put
them up temporarily or sleep in cars or garages on their
bases.
   Officers whose units have been withdrawn from Eastern
Europe find they have no apartments waiting for them back
home. Some send their families to stay with relatives
hundreds, even thousands, of miles away. These forced
separations can last for years. In the meantime, lucky
officers get beds in shared rooms in local officers'
dormitories; the unlucky move into tent cities. The situation
is even worse for retired officers. The Soviet media last
year reported that societies of homeless retired officers are
appearing in some cities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Junior and mid-level officers have also begun to complain
about the army's involvement in domestic policing operations.
"I am ashamed before my soldiers]" said one battle-hardened
veteran of the Afghan war to a reporter. Officers have been
invited by their superiors to "volunteer" for policing
operations. Those who refuse are kicked out of the Army in
violation of the existing regulations.
   These grievances have triggered an absolutely
unprecedented event in Soviet military history: a wave of
resignations from the armed forces. Some 30,000 letters of
resignation from Soviet officers are currently awaiting
action by the Ministry of Defense.
   Unhappy lower-ranking officers have begun to organize in
defense of their interests. A group of mid-level and junior
officers was elected to the Supreme Soviet in the spring of
1989. An independent military trade union, Shield, was also
founded by maverick officers in 1989 to protect the economic
and legal rights of active duty military personnel, veterans
and their families. Shield is reported to have some 40,000
members, but the exact number is unknown. Several of its
members have been elected to local and regional soviets.
   These new military voices propose far-reaching military
reforms that would do away with the draft and transform the
Soviet military into an organization of well-paid,
voluntarily recruited professionals, barred from domestic
policing operations. This plan has been embraced by Boris
Yeltsin and other progressive politicians.
   By contrast, the High Command of the Soviet Armed Forces
has placed itself firmly at the conservative end of the
Soviet political spectrum. The generals have been
increasingly outspoken in their criticism of President
Mikhail Gorbachev. Addressing the recent congress of the
Communist Party of the Russian Republic, Albert Makashov,
Commander of the Volga-Ural Military District, called Mr.
Gorbachev's policies "feeble-minded," and blamed him for the
loss of Eastern Europe.
   Top-level military officials have displayed a disturbing
eagerness to use force against civilians in domestic crises.
A senior General Staff officer, Gen. Grigoriy Krivosheyev,
and Chief Military Prosecutor Gen. Aleksandr Katusev have
suggested that Lithuania should be put under military
occupation and its president, Vitautas Landsbergis,
prosecuted, in order to put a stop to draft resistance in
Lithuania.
   Gen. Igor Rodionov -- the senior regional military
commander in Tbilisi at the time of the 1989 massacre by
paratroopers of unarmed civilian demonstrators, many of them
women -- justified the use of force as "defense against the
aggressiveness of the crowd" and an appropriate reaction to
the protesters' anti-Soviet slogans. Civilians have also been
massacred in the civil strife of the past two years in
Azerbaijan and Armenia.
   The bloody-mindedness of the High Command should not,
however, be taken as evidence that the military is
monolithically opposed to reform; neither should the
hardening of Soviet positions in negotiations over arms
control and German unification. The military itself is
increasingly polarized and the High Command no longer speaks
for the entire institution.
   Since the reformist military deputies in the Supreme
Soviet submitted their proposal for military reform to the
legislature, senior military officials have been forced into
discussions of military reform. The High Command made public
its own counter-proposal for reform in April.
   This concession has weakened the High Command's legitimacy
-- by conceding that other forces speak for military
interests too -- without satisfying the lower echelons. The
High Command remains extremely reluctant to deal with the
socio-economic problems of lower-echelon officers.
   The generals oppose reallocation of funds from weapons to
housing and other amenities for military personnel-even as
the spotlight of glasnost has been cast on the perks of the
higher-ups.
   The High Command has no constructive solutions to offer,
either for the military or for Soviet society at large. All
it can do, if it becomes more politically involved, is
trigger the final split within the military by attempting to
draw lower-ranking officers into a coup against Mr. Gorbachev
and Mr. Yeltsin. Such a split would not be in anybody's
interest. A lot of innocent bystanders could get hurt in an
internal conflict between different factions of a military
armed with nuclear, chemical and modern conventional weapons.
   The best chance for healing the divisions within the
military, and avoiding a possibly violent split, lies in a
reconciliation between Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Yeltsin. This
would deprive the hard-liners in the Communist Party of any
role in the political process. The High Command would be left
without coalition partners and with no choice but to
acquiesce in the reformers' agenda.
   ---
   Mr. Rumer is a member of the research staff of the RAND
Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   DRT Says Affiliate
   In U.K. Is Planning
   To Merge on Aug. 1
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- DRT International, an accounting firm whose
affiliates include Deloitte &amp; Touche, said its British member
firm, Touche Ross &amp; Co., will merge with the U.K. practice of
Spicer &amp; Oppenheim.
   The combination, planned for Aug. 1, would create
Britain's fifth-largest accounting firm, moving Touche from
sixth place and Spicer from ninth place. The resulting firm,
which will retain the Touche Ross &amp; Co. name, will have
annual fees of more than #262 million ($473.7 million.)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for DRT in New York said the merger of the
firms "significantly strengthens" its operations in Britain.
DRT says it is the world's third-largest accounting group,
with annual fee income of $3.68 billion.
   DRT was formed after the merger last year of the U.S.
accounting firms Deloitte, Haskins &amp; Sells and Touche Ross &amp;
Co. Deloitte &amp; Touche is the third-largest U.S. accounting
firm. Some international affiliates of the accounting firms,
including the British firm of Deloitte Haskins &amp; Sells,
declined to participate in the world-wide merger. Although
Britain's Touche Ross kept its DRT affiliation, the British
Deloitte Haskins affiliate merged instead with the U.K.
affiliate of Coopers &amp; Lybrand, resulting in the largest U.K.
accounting firm.
   "Deloitte &amp; Touche had a big hole there {Britain} after
Deloitte Haskins jumped to Coopers," said Arthur W. Bowman,
editor of Bowman's Accounting Report. Mr. Bowman speculated
that some European partners may have "rebelled" against what
they could have viewed as the domination of the practice by
U.S. partners.
   Touche Ross officials, while conceding the firm would have
ranked in first or second place in Britain if Deloitte
Haskins had participated in the world-wide merger, maintained
Touche has been courting Spicer &amp; Oppenheim in Britain for
the past 10 years. "They are one of the city of London's
best-known names," said George Westropp, a Touche Ross
partner. He said Spicer &amp; Oppenheim, whose clients include
many investment firms, has been hurt by the slump in the
financial district in the past year. "They felt they had a
need to belong to a bigger firm," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Carolina Power &amp; Light Co.:
   Second-Quarter Charge Set,
   Rate Case Decision Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CPL
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Carolina Power &amp; Light Co., Raleigh, N.C., said it will
take a charge of about $81.6 million, or 97 cents a share,
against second-quarter earnings, citing a decision in a rate
case, but declined to estimate the net effect on its results.
   The utility had year-earlier net income of $72.6 million,
or 81 cents a share, on operating revenue of $558 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Carolina Power said it agreed to a North Carolina
Utilities Commission decision on its $3.9 billion Harris
nuclear plant near Raleigh. The commission ruled that $389.4
million of that cost, while "prudently incurred," couldn't be
included in the company's rate base, because three of four
planned generating units at the plant had been canceled.
   The company said the order will keep its revenue at
current levels, with no immediate decrease in consumer rates,
but in the long run, rates will decline because of the
removal of the $389.4 million from the rate base. It said
this sum will be treated as canceled operations and amortized
over about six years without any return.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Credit for Successful Campaigns
   Gets Claimed by Many `Creators'
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   UPJ DIS OMC
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   It was a terrific ad, Roy Grace thought. But it looked
awfully familiar.
   Mr. Grace, now head of ad agency Grace &amp; Rothschild, was
interviewing a promising job candidate who was showing off a
portfolio full of impressive ads. Wait a second, though. One
of the candidate's "creations" couldn't possibly have been
his own work. Mr. Grace knew that for sure: He created the ad
himself, years ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Grace was dumbfounded but not terribly surprised. As
he puts it, when an ad is successful, "everybody is going to
take credit for it."
   Whoever coined the cliche that success enjoys a thousand
fathers, but failure is an orphan, surely had the ad industry
in mind. At this very moment, scores of advertising
copywriters and art directors are wandering about with
portfolios chock full of ads they didn't have much to do with
at all. Usually, they were "marginally involved -- but that
isn't how they're representing it," says Judy Wald, a
Manhattan headhunter specializing in placing creative
executives. "They're riding on someone else's coattails."
   Name any successful campaign and you'll find its "authors"
tripping all over each other. The venerable "I Love New York"
campaign has had so many people claim it as their own that
it's reached almost legendary proportions in ad circles. More
recently, Ms. Wald says the Pepsi, American Express and
Energizer bunny campaigns all seem to have surprisingly large
numbers of "creators." Others in the industry mention
fragrance ads and the BMW "ultimate driving machine"
campaign, among others.
   "People steal; I'll be perfectly blunt about it," says Jay
Schulberg, an executive vice president with ad agency Bozell.
"There are people who have gotten their jobs claiming that
they created campaigns that they didn't."
   Ad industry officials say plagiarism is the exception, not
the rule -- but some of the exceptions are as cheeky as they
get. Mr. Schulberg recalls that after he created a campaign
for Countrytime lemonade, his wife returned home from the
supermarket in Westhampton, a Long Island beach resort, to
report that she overheard a young man attempting to pick up a
young woman. His surefire come-on: "I'm in advertising. I
created the Countrytime lemonade campaign."
   Ralph Ammirati, co-chairman and creative director of
Ammirati &amp; Puris, says he is amazed by the number of people
who supposedly "created" the "ultimate driving machine" BMW
campaign. "Marty {Puris} and I came up with it way back in
the beginning. It was part of the pitch that won the account
15 years ago," he says. That doesn't prevent other executives
from loudly claiming credit for themselves.
   Indeed, somewhere out there, there's probably someone
willing to contradict Mr. Ammirati -- and that's precisely
the problem: Almost no one knows who really came up with a
particular campaign, especially a campaign that's been around
awhile. If five people were in a room when an idea was
hatched, all five might legitimately claim authorship -- and
so might scores of others working on the campaign later on.
   That was certainly the case with the "I Love New York"
campaign. Charlie Moss, vice chairman of Wells, Rich, Greene,
is generally credited with the campaign. But hordes of others
over the years have claimed authorship as well, including
various executives who staffed the account. Says Kenneth
Olshan, Wells Rich's chairman, "A lot of people have worked
on the account and made terrific contributions -- but it's a
whole lot different doing a version of something that's been
created before. The brilliance is who comes up with it in the
first place."
   To complicate matters, who's to say where an original idea
comes from anyway? Bill Miller, a copywriter with
Minneapolis-based Fallon McElligott, remembers first writing
Rolling Stone magazine's "Perception/Reality" campaign on a
napkin in a Manhattan coffee shop. But Nancy Keating, a copy
supervisor at Bernard Hodes Advertising in New York, says she
deserves some credit: A few years before the Rolling Stone
campaign, she actually wrote a similar campaign titled
"Perception/Fact" for a bank's real-estate unit when she
worked for a now-defunct Minneapolis ad agency. Adding insult
to injury, she says she didn't even come up with the concept
herself -- she "borrowed" it from a fellow staffer.
   Fallon did the ad better, Ms. Keating readily admits. But,
she adds, it proves another cliche, that there's nothing new
under the sun.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   BALDNESS ADS: Upjohn Co. is running ads for its Rogaine
anti-baldness drug that target Hispanic consumers. Television
and radio ads are running on Spanish stations in Los Angeles,
Miami and New York. An Upjohn spokeswoman said market
research showed "good potential" for marketing Rogaine to
Hispanic men.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Disney Audio Entertainment, a Walt Disney Co.
unit, named Omnicom Group's DDB Needham, Chicago, to handle
the ad account for its audio products line. Billings weren't
disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Last Hurrah
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mikhail Gorbachev was re-elected to lead the Soviet
Communist Party yesterday, but it isn't clear why anyone
should care. The 28th Congress that was to revitalize Lenin's
party has become its last hurrah.
   Lavishing attention on the Communists' Party Congress, all
four U.S. network anchormen showed up in Moscow. Of course,
when it's over, they'll fly out of the Soviet Union. But as
Marx might have put it, history is moving and the communists
are no longer in the vanguard. Consider:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   -- In Donetsk and elsewhere, coal miners say they'll
strike today despite Mr. Gorbachev's pleas for "harmony." "We
have nothing in common with the Party Congress," declared a
miner in Vorkuta. The miners are demanding the
nationalization of Communist property, and the abolition of
Party cells in the military, the KGB and the workplace.
   -- Boris Yeltsin took to the Congress podium last week and
said the Party must radically reform or face a "historic
defeat" at the hand of a "union of democratic forces." He
even mentioned that Party leaders could be prosecuted "for
the damage they have personally inflicted on the party and
the people." The Party delegates, most of them nostalgic for
the Brezhnev glory years, could only squirm in their seats.
   -- In Moscow, the city government has decided to give city
residents their own apartments. It is also planning a new
cable-TV network, and like other newly elected city
governments, it is locked in a battle over property and
newspapers long controlled by the Communist Party.
   -- A recent Soviet poll showed that only about 10% of
young people have any faith in Komsomol, the Communist youth
organization. A recent celebration of youth day in Moscow
turned into an impromptu anti-Komsomol demonstration. A poll
published last week in Izvestia said only 28% of those
surveyed believe the Party Congress can solve the country's
economic crisis.
   At this Congress, the Communist Party looks like a kind of
Potemkin Village. Yigor Ligachev and the hard-left statists
seem to dominate; Mr. Ligachev says to count him foursquare
against "free markets or private property." It's not clear
whether the members are defending Marx or their personal
"nomenklatura" privileges; they assail demands to take Party
property as an attempt "to weaken the Party, deprive it of
its material basis and make it unable to engage in political
struggle."
   In the end, though, the Congress ends up doing the bidding
of Mr. Gorbachev. He professes reform, but remains wedded to
the main enemy of reform, the Party. He endorses glasnost,
but recently stripped a retired KGB officer, Oleg Kalugin, of
his honors for saying publicly that the Communist Party
controls the KGB.
   Mr. Gorbachev also maneuvered this week to nearly double
the size of the ruling Politburo, ostensibly to promote
reform. But one of the new Politburo members will be Ivan
Polozkov, newly elected head of the Russian Communist Party
and an ally of Mr. Ligachev. In sticking with the Party, Mr.
Gorbachev increasingly resembles a medieval alchemist trying
to turn lead into gold.
   The real actors in the drama are such democratic and
free-market reformers as Leningrad City Council Chairman
Anatoly Sobchak. Mr. Sobchak opposes any Western aid to the
current Soviet government as a "waste," and says that
"everything begins and ends with individual enterprise." Most
of these people have remained in the Party so far, but some
have started to resign. Don't be surprised to see mass
resignations in the coming weeks. It's clear that the radical
reformers have much of non-communist opinion on their side.
   Mr. Yeltsin is at least a good enough politician to
understand this. He is, of course, an enigmatic figure, not
least because he himself has long been and remains a
Communist. His economic pronouncements have also been a long
way from capitalist. But he is in effect proposing to save
the Party by destroying it -- by ending its system of
privileges (special shops and the like), its control of the
economy and security agencies.
   Mr. Gorbachev and the Party continue to control the
official instruments of power, of course, but they can no
longer be sure the spirits will come if they call. From every
sector of Russian society, they face a popular revulsion
against 70 years of horror and poverty. The Soviet peoples,
unlike many in the West, are saying that reform can't succeed
in Russia until the Party really is over.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Brit Trips Light Fantastic
   ----
   By Terry Trucco
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Datchet, England -- When he was 11 years old, Richard
Porter attended a school dance competition, where he saw a
little blond girl. He asked her to dance, and they waltzed
and tangoed through amateur dance competitions for a year or
so until the little blonde quit to join the Girl Guides.
   Richard danced on. And that, more or less, is how he
became a British television star.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Richard Porter is not a big star, of course. He still can
stroll the streets of this snug London suburb without fending
off autograph fiends. On the other hand, it could be that no
one recognizes him in T-shirt and jeans. Dress him in black
sequined trousers and a low-cut shirt, however, and Mr.
Porter starts looking like the star of the longest-running
television musical series in the world.
   It's called "Come Dancing," and as the innocently dated
title hints, it has aired regularly on the BBC since the
autumn of 1949.
   "Come Dancing" is a televised series of British amateur
ballroom dance competitions. Broadcast every summer from a
cavernous old ballroom in Blackpool, an old-fashioned north
England resort, each 45-minute episode engages the dancers in
spirited regional competitions pitting, say, the best fox
trotters from Manchester against the finest from Birmingham.
   Some of the dancers, like Mr. Porter and his pretty
partner/wife, Els, are as polished as professionals and would
be thoroughly at home on a Broadway stage. Others, flaunting
too many sequins and too much baby fat, would be better off
confining their swings and sways to small parties in the
Liverpool suburbs.
   Contestants, mostly in their early 20s, perform updated
versions of Viennese waltzes, fox trot, quick step, tango,
samba, cha-cha and formation dances, which are large ensemble
numbers that owe a mighty debt to Las Vegas and the Ice
Capades.
   Always, always the Come Dancers are dressed to thrill,
particularly the Latin women, who don't have to wear long
pastel chiffon and maribou feathers like their ballroom
counterparts. Mr. Porter describes the Latin category, his
specialty, as, "The one where the dancing is really fast, and
the girls don't wear a lot."
   Angela Rippon, who hosts the show this season, credits
"Come Dancing's" massive success -- more than six million
viewers in the U.K. -- to its unique escapism. "We've got an
awful lot of soaps, game shows and chat shows on television
these days, and `Come Dancing' is glamour and entertainment."
   John Leach, head writer for Dance News, a 52-year-old
weekly paper devoted to competitive dance, thinks ballroom
dancing has simply grown more popular here. "Right now people
are upset by the general level of violence in society, with
football hooliganism and all, and are looking for something
respectable."
   And the history-minded point out that Britain is the home
of both social dancing and competitive dancing.
   Another reason, which no one actually mentions, is that
"Come Dancing" attracts two very different tiers of equally
rabid fans. One contingent views the proceedings quite
literally, applauding the dancers' skills, admiring the
glittering costumes and perhaps remembering a time when
people danced in the evenings instead of watching television.
   The others think "Come Dancing" is high camp-the more
sequins and lacquered hair, the better. "I think it's
hilarious, though I mean that in a good humored way," says
Mark Philliskirk, who works in public relations at a large
London hotel. "No matter how talented the dancers are, it's
often in very bad taste."
   Like so much in Britain, "Come Dancing" also reflects the
barriers between the classes and shows how television quietly
acknowledges and reinforces these. "Come Dancing's"
contestants are for the most part working-class Britons, not
a bunch of Princess Di's cronies. And like beauty pageants in
the American South, competitive dance is one way for the most
talented to waltz out of mundane occupations like
hairdressing and bank clerking -- or at the least, flirt with
a little glamour if they never actually make it to the top.
   Those who hit it big on "Come Dancing" can turn pro and
join the international competitive dance circuit, supporting
themselves by demonstrating, performing and teaching in
places such as Tokyo, Rio and even Moscow.
   Such businesslike aspects of the sport are precisely what
the show's producer, Simon Betts, wants to emphasize, and
he's tried to chip away at "Come Dancing's" more endearingly
amateurish aspects in recent seasons. Gone are the avuncular
announcers of the past, who would confide that Daphne's
mother sewed 5,000 pink sequins on her daughter's dress.
   The music, played by a 31-piece orchestra, also has moved
from faceless generic dance music to recognizable hits by
Jerome Kern, Cole Porter and Michael Jackson.
   And at some future date, "Come Dancing" may go
international, pitting the best of England against the best
of, say, West Germany or Norway or even the U.S., which,
according to Mr. Porter, is producing some spirited Latin
American competitors.
   "It's easy to knock `Come Dancing' and the thousands of
miles of tulle," says Mr. Betts, who co-produced the wedding
of Fergie and Prince Andrew for television. "But the fact is
that British dancers happen to be the best in the world. We
have few world champions in anything now, and our dancers
deserve more credit than they are getting."
   Richard and Els Porter, who already have won a slew of
amateur international dance competitions, think Mr. Betts is
right. A year ago they quit their jobs and now practice their
dancing full time, supplementing dance workouts with weight
training. ("You don't get as tired in competitions," says Mr.
Porter.) For now, money, including the more than $15,000 they
spend annually on costumes and shoes, comes from their
savings, their parents and two sponsors. Once they turn pro,
following "Come Dancing's" current season, their dancing
should make money instead of gobble it up.
   And once they turn pro, of course, they won't be tangoing
with the amateurs on "Come Dancing" anymore. But should their
children -- or grandchildren -- decide to samba in their
footsteps, television's longest-running musical series
probably still will be around.
   ---
   Ms. Trucco is a free-lance writer based in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Incompatible Programming
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Romantically, we wed in June,
   A gilt-edged bridal carriage,
   But strife became apparent soon --
   You see, 'twas a mixed marriage.
   It's difficult, I will not lie,
   Though my good wife's a gem,
   She loves her Macintosh, while my
   System's IBM.
   -- Bob Sack.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Sunburn: getting more than what you basked for.
   -- Rodney Stevens.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Makes
   Further Changes
   At Helicopter Unit
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MD WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s helicopter unit, in the latest
of a series of restructuring attempts, said it was changing
its management framework and announced the departure of five
executives.
   The company said other actions being taken include
"significant cost and budget-cutting measures," but details
won't be disclosed until later.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The company's financial performance in the past year
makes it clear that a change in the way we do business is
necessary," Tom Gunn, president of the Mesa, Ariz.-based
subsidiary, said in a statement. About a year ago, the
helicopter concern said it would streamline and restructure,
and in February it initiated another cost-reduction plan that
included about 630 layoffs.
   So far, though, little seems to have been turned around.
In 1989, significant writedowns were recorded at the
helicopter unit, especially on the AH-64 Apache program.
Moreover, the General Accounting Office in April branded that
aircraft as breakdown-prone. "The Apache's problems are
serious and go beyond normal growing pains," a representative
of the congressional investigative arm testified at a House
hearing. Then in May, Mr. Gunn's predecessor stepped down
amid the company's continuing poor financial performance.
   The helicopter unit, which employs about 7,000 people, has
four product lines: the AH-64; the LH, on which it has teamed
up with Textron Inc.'s Bell unit in a bid to develop a light
armed reconnaissance helicopter for the Army; the MD-500,
which features a no-tail rotor system; and the MDX, a
twin-engine commercial helicopter that can seat up to eight.
   "The need to restructure is particularly acute in light of
the dramatic changes in the world political picture and the
resultant reduced spending for defense," Mr. Gunn said.
   McDonnell Douglas, the nation's No. 1 military contractor,
disclosed last month that it would try to pare $700 million a
year from its cost structure, corporationwide. The St. Louis
aerospace firm, stung by losses principally at its transport
aircraft division in California, has in the past year piled
up debt and watched its stock price sink.
   But a spokesman in Mesa said the helicopter unit's actions
were largely unrelated to its parent's recent plea for more
efficiency. "I don't think I would connect the two," he said.
   As part of the changes, McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Co.
said it would break into four autonomous divisions covering
its distinct product lines, supported by six other divisions.
Previously, there were only seven divisions in all.
   In addition, two unit vice presidents and two unit
directors elected to take early retirement or to resign. Norm
Hirsh, an executive vice president and a 27-year McDonnell
Douglas veteran, also retired.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commercial Paper Rates
   Rise at Citicorp's Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate rose to 8.21% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.16% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $390 million were submitted. Accepted bids
were at 8.21%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said that the average rate rose to 8.16% at
its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from
8.092% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $380 million were submitted. Accepted bids
were at 8.16%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comair Passenger Boardings Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   COMR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Comair Holdings Inc. said 156,597 passengers
boarded its Comair Inc. regional airline during June, 13.9%
more than the year-earlier 137,430 passenger boardings.
   Revenue passenger miles increased 24.8% to 32.6 million
miles in June from 26.2 million miles a year earlier, the
company said. A revenue passenger mile is one paying
passenger flown one mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   America West Traffic Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AWAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- America West Airlines Inc. said its June
traffic rose 42% to 936,252,000 revenue passenger miles from
660,073,000 revenue passenger miles in the year-earlier
month.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile. Load factor for the month rose to 64% from 60%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first six months of the year, America West said
its traffic rose 43% to 5.3 billion revenue passenger miles
from 3.7 billion. Load factor rose to 62% from 57%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   You Forgot Something
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   The May 24 "Your Money Matters" column on insurance
policies discusses commissionable life-insurance policies vs.
noncommissionable policies, but fails to say where the agent
who sells the non-commissionable policy is going to be
compensated, unless missionaries will sell the policy.
Obviously, the person who sells or recommends the policy with
no commissions will have to charge a fee. You make no mention
of these fees.
   Duncan E. Skogsberg
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Manager
   Life Insurance Department
   Euclid Insurance Agencies Inc.
   Elmhurst, Ill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Slides on Late Profit-Taking;
   TVX Surges 2 to 7 1/4 on Buy-Out News
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Unlisted stock prices slipped a little on late-session
profit-taking after having held steady for most of the day.
   Takeover talk brightened the trading, however, and made
some shareholders money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paramount Communications said it agreed to buy 757,852
Class B shares of TVX Broadcast Group from Citicorp Venture
Capital for $7.50 each. Paramount also offered to acquire the
rest of TVX for the same price. TVX surged 2 to 7 1/4 on the
news.
   United Banks of Colorado jumped 1 1/8 to 20 on takeover
rumors of its own. Shortly after the market closed,
Minneapolis-based bank holding company Norwest said it is in
talks with the Colorado banking concern about a possible
business combination.
   Meanwhile, the OTC market remains stalled ahead of the
oncoming rush of second-quarter earnings reports.
   Concerns that those reports will include a heavy dose of
disappointment have kept unlisted stock buyers at bay,
traders say. The profit statements will begin arriving in
force later this week.
   Traders say, however, that the OTC market appears prepared
to hold firm.
   "The tone of the market is good," says Len Hefter, head of
OTC trading at Jefferies &amp; Co. in Dallas. "Over the long
term, the market definitely seems like it wants to go
higher."
   The Nasdaq Composite Index was marginally higher for most
of the day, resisting session-long selling on the New York
Stock Exchange. Near the close, however, the OTC index gave
in, dropping 0.71, or 0.15%, to 460.97. The Big Board
composite index lost 0.75%.
   Robert O'Toole Sr., head of OTC institutional sales
trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton, called the late-session
slip by unlisted stock prices "orderly profit-taking," and
said the selling may continue for a little while longer.
   "There's just no news to drive (prices) higher right now,"
Mr. O'Toole says.
   But Mr. O'Toole agreed that the market's underlying tone
remains firm.
   "I still think, long term, that we're headed higher," he
says.
   OTC advancers trailed decliners, 911 to 1,001, while
volume climbed to a modest 142.3 million shares from 118.5
million shares Monday.
   Jefferies' Mr. Hefter says technology stocks were in
demand all day, even in the selloff at the end of the
session.
   "The real action was in the tech stocks," Mr. Hefter says.
   On the OTC most-active list, Software Toolworks added 1/2
to 19 1/4, following the completion of a 3.85 million-share
secondary offering priced at $18.50 each.
   Apple Computer continued to fare better, leading the
most-active list with a 3/8 point gain to 47 after advancing
1 7/8 Monday.
   Novell added 3/4 to 55. SoundView Financial reiterated its
near-term "buy" rating on the stock, while raising earnings
estimates for the company.
   Lotus Development, however, fell 1 3/8 to 32 7/8.
Robertson Stephens downgraded its near-term investment rating
on Lotus to a "hold" from a "buy" and lowered its 1991
earnings estimate for the company to $3.15 a share from
$3.50. The successful reception of Microsoft's new Windows
3.0 software has overshadowed Lotus, the brokerage firm said.
   Burnup &amp; Sims fell 2 1/4 to 9 1/4. The diversified
telephone services, cable television and utility-services
concern said it earned only eight cents a share in its latest
year ended in April, down from 90 cents last year. The latest
year includes a $2.1 million reserve for back taxes, while
last year's profit included 34 cents a share from real estate
transactions.
   Polk Audio fell 3/4 to 9 1/2. The company said it expects
to report fiscal first-quarter net income significantly below
expectations and down from the $210,411 posted in the
year-ago period. The audio-speaker manufacturer went public
in July 1986 for $15 a share.
   Xoma gained 2 to 23 3/4. Shearson Lehman Hutton upgraded
its opinion of the stock, indicating that it expects Xoma to
outperform the market by more than 20 percentage points in
both the near and long term.
   Mycogen surged 1 1/4 to 19 3/4, a new 52-week high for the
stock. The biological insecticide and herbicide maker said
there were no corporate developments to account for the stock
activity. The company is expected soon to report a loss of
about four cents a share for the second quarter just ended,
compared with a loss of three cents in the quarter a year
ago. The company said it expects to break even this year.
   PharmaKinetics Laboratories lost 1 3/8 to 1 7/8. Bolar
Pharmaceuticals terminated a contract under which
PharmaKinetics provided clinical development services for two
drugs manufactured by Bolar.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sale of Gerber Unit Complete
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   GEB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FREMONT, Mich. -- Gerber Products Co. said it completed
the previously announced sale of its Gerber Children's
Centers Inc. unit to an affiliate of KD Equities. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   The baby-food concern said the sale includes 115
child-care centers in 12 states. Gerber Children's Centers
also manages four other centers for other employers, with a
total enrollment of more than 13,000 children.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gerber said it won't record a significant gain on the
sale. KD Equities is a New York private investment
partnership.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harvard, Ecuador Sign
   `Debt-for-Scholarship' Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Harvard University agreed to retire
about $5 million of Ecuador's national debt in return for the
creation of a scholarship fund.
   Harvard said the "debt for scholarship swap" marked the
first time distressed Third World debt would be paid off in a
way that promoted education.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In essence, the agreement allows Ecuador to retire its
debt at a discount and obtain scholarships to Harvard for
Ecuadorean students. Harvard said the agreement would allow
the university to provide more scholarships than it otherwise
could.
   Harvard said it will buy Ecuadorean debt at a price equal
to its current value in the secondary market -- about 15% of
face value. Robert Scott, Harvard's vice president for
finance, said the university anticipated spending up to
$700,000 for about $5 million in face value of Ecuadorean
obligations.
   Harvard will donate the debt to an Ecuadorean foundation,
which will exchange it for government bonds valued at about
half of the face-value amount Harvard purchases -- or about
$2 million to $2.5 million. The new Ecuadorean obligations,
Mr. Scott said, would be sold by the foundation and the
proceeds used to buy dollar-denominated securities that will
be the scholarship fund's capital.
   Most of the income from the fund will support about 70
scholarships for Ecuadoreans over the next 10 years, roughly
doubling the number of scholarship students from Ecuador at
Harvard. About 20% of the fund's income will pay for research
grants and internships for Harvard students and faculty in
Ecuador. Mr. Scott said the scholarship fund would generate
between $100,000 and $200,000 in annual income.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   A Talk With the Country's Highest-Ranking Lawyer
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   Ask Dan Quayle what it's like to be a non-practicing
lawyer in an administration whose official position is that
"everyone ought to take every opportunity to blast lawyers"
and don't expect any dissent. White House spokesman Marlin
Fitzwater attracted the wrath of the organized bar for his
Bush-backed fighting words earlier this year, but it's the
nation's top elected lawyer who makes the more specific, more
damning indictment of a criminal- and civil-justice system on
the skids.
   In a recent interview, Vice President Quayle said he'd put
law reform at the top of his agenda. He had just given a
tough speech in Denver to the National Sheriffs' Association
-- "Punishment is not unseemly revenge, punishment is a
civilized approach to wrongdoing." A relaxed Mr. Quayle came
to the back row of Air Force Two to speak at length on issues
from the exclusionary rule, to the unpredictability of
business law, to whom he might suggest for the Supreme Court
(hint: The nominee's name will be familiar).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Crime is a new theme in Mr. Quayle's speeches. "People are
more alarmed today about crime and drugs than they ever have
been before," he says. "When you get beyond the big issues of
war and peace or job security, they're looking at their
individual security and they can see the tremendous increase
in the crime rate. The statistic I use in my speeches is
rather shocking, that you're more apt to be a victim of a
violent crime than you are to be injured in a traffic
accident."
   Who's to blame? Judges, for one. "It's very difficult to
try to understand some court decisions," Mr. Quayle says,
citing procedural rules that suppress evidence from criminal
juries. "Lifetime appointments for judges give them a certain
immunity from what may be perceived as common sense."
   Congress, for another. "We've met with a modest brick wall
in the Congress thus far on the crime bill. But I can assure
you that the American people are on the side of giving law
enforcement a break where there is a good-faith exercise of
reasonableness as compared to very liberal interpretations as
to what the Fourth Amendment really says. The exclusionary
rule needs to be modified because it just allows gaping
loopholes for crafty lawyers to spring defendants loose. It's
time we care more about victims' rights than we do criminals'
rights."
   He noted that a decade ago it was "considered quite chic"
to oppose the death penalty, but now even the Democratic
nominee for governor in California, Dianne Feinstein, is a
big backer. "Some of the worn cliches from the liberal
sociologists are just wrong. If money were the answer, we'd
have less crime today rather than more," he said. Instead in
speeches he cites drugs and the breakdown of the family
noting that violent crime in the U.S. has quadrupled since
1960 while during the same period in Japan violent crime fell
to one-quarter its earlier level.
   Our legal system punishes criminals too rarely, but often
sticks civil defendants with huge unexpected liabilities. "We
are a litigious society, we have more lawyers per capita than
any other country in the world," Mr. Quayle notes. "Sometimes
we get bogged down in interpretations and reinterpretations,
with lawyers going at an issue from 15 different ways and
coming to no agreement at all."
   Perhaps the only predictable trend in our law is to
greater liability for damages. "We're trying to look for ways
to take burdens off the private sector so that it can go out
and compete. The product liability laws in this country are
ridiculous. There's no sense of certainty, there are no
limitations. This uncertainty adds considerably to the cost
of products. There are tremendous disincentives for starting
up a business. If you look at comparative disadvantages with
other countries, product liability must rank right up there
as one of the premier candidates."
   The cause of the problem? "Somehow there's this idea that
if someone has deep pockets, just let them pay and it's going
to be a freebie. Where there's a wrong there should be a
remedy, but the system has got to the point where you have
outrageous awards where negligence is not proven, the statute
of limitations is nonexistent and there's no understanding of
what your liability might be."
   Mr. Quayle also knows that with new environmental and
other regulations the Bush administration risks fanning these
litigation flames. He runs a competitiveness council within
the White House that's supposed to keep an eye on ambiguous
or otherwise burdensome regulations. "The president gave me
this task because he sensed that many regulations he got off
the books {as head of President Reagan's deregulation
committee} are coming back on."
   Finally, how about Supreme Court nominees? "The left felt
that Robert Bork would have too much influence on the court.
They felt with his intellectual firepower combined with a
couple of others there that the intellectual balance on the
Supreme Court would really be tilted to the conservative
point of view," Mr. Quayle says.
   "They gave all sorts of other reasons, but when it came
down to it they saw a man who was quite capable, willing to
be forceful and who had a way with a pen. It's a real tragedy
that he's not on the court. But, who knows?" Is that a hint
that a President Quayle might renominate Mr. Bork? "He
certainly has the qualifications."
   Mr. Quayle seems at ease discussing these issues and even
more arcane subjects such as proposals to make losers of
lawsuits pay the winner's legal fees as a way to cut
frivolous cases (he's interested but noncommittal). He has
surrounded himself with the makings of an excellent legal
debating club, including three of the four founders of the
Federalist Society, the conservative-libertarian law group:
Deputy Chief of Staff Spencer Abraham, Deputy Counsel David
McIntosh and speech writer Steven Calabresi (the fourth, Lee
Liberman, is a lawyer for President Bush).
   Mr. Quayle could do himself the favor of developing some
"gravitas" if he could elevate legal reform to a higher place
in our politics. It's about time someone did. Congress has
held up an anti-crime bill for more than a year. An
administration-backed product liability bill is going
nowhere. The political dividends could be large indeed for
someone willing to say how much has turned rotten in our
legal system, especially if he's in a position to do
something about it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Firms Pay
   Little U.S. Tax,
   House Panel Says
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES FORGN
</CO>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A House subcommittee investigation of 36
foreign-owned U.S. companies has found that more than half
paid little or no U.S. income tax over a 10-year period.
   Largely by inflating the prices they paid their foreign
parents for goods, services and technology, a number of the
U.S. subsidiaries were able to reduce their taxable income to
almost nothing, investigators for the oversight subcommittee
of the House Ways and Means Committee testified at a hearing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 36 companies reported $329 billion in gross receipts
from 1977 through 1987 but paid only $5 billion in U.S. taxes
over that period, the subcommittee's examination of tax
returns showed.
   It's illegal under U.S. tax law to price transactions
between related companies at higher than market value.
Testifying at the hearing, Internal Revenue Service
Commissioner Fred Goldberg agreed that a disturbing number of
foreign-controlled corporations are using such measures to
evade taxes in the U.S.
   "We believe that the U.S. government is being shortchanged
billions of dollars annually," Mr. Goldberg said, adding that
a number of American multinational companies are guilty as
well of shifting income out of the U.S. through excessive
transfer prices.
   The charges were made in the first of three days of
hearings into whether foreign-owned U.S. companies are paying
their fair share of taxes to the U.S. The issue has drawn
increasing attention in recent months as lawmakers and Bush
administration officials scramble for revenues to reduce the
mammoth federal budget deficit.
   Neither the subcommittee nor IRS officials named specific
companies because it is illegal for them to discuss
individual taxpayers publicly. But they spent more than two
hours in private session yesterday examining individual
cases.
   The subcommittee did say that the 36 companies were in the
electronics, automobile and motorcycle industries, areas
where foreign concerns, especially those in Japan, hold a
large share of the U.S. market. Twenty-five of the companies
were controlled by parents in the Pacific Rim and 11 by
European parents.
   Among the cases the investigators cited were these:
   -- A foreign parent sold television sets to its U.S.
subsidiary at $250 each but charged only $150 to an unrelated
distributor.
   -- A foreign auto manufacturer sold cars to its U.S.
subsidiary at an average of $800 more than it charged its
Canadian subsidiary for identical cars.
   -- A foreign company shipping trucks to a U.S. subsidiary
and an unrelated distributor in the U.S. charged almost $200
more per truck in shipping costs to the related company.
   The panel stressed that some of the 36 companies paid "a
significant amount of federal income tax" and at the same
time appeared to be paying acceptable prices in transactions
with their parents.
   But Mr. Goldberg cited IRS figures showing taxable income
of foreign-controlled corporations amounted to a far lower
percentage of their overall receipts than it did in the case
of U.S.-controlled corporations. For example, he said,
American-owned manufacturers' taxable income was 4.3% of U.S.
sales from 1983 through 1987 while foreign-owned
manufacturers' taxable income equalled 1.7% of U.S. sales.
   The IRS commissioner said some of the low tax bills could
be accounted for by difference in capital structure and by
start-up costs, since a large number of foreign-controlled
corporations in the U.S. are fairly new.
   Whatever the case, both the subcommittee and IRS officials
agreed that the tax agency has been ill-equipped to police
tax payments of international companies, a rapidly growing
area of tax administration given the surge in foreign
business activity in this country. Records, often kept with
the foreign parent, are hard to obtain. Moreover, it's often
difficult to assess the market value of a transaction between
two related companies, as the transactions often are unique
to the companies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   LEONARD RUBIN of the law firm of Bracewell &amp; Patterson in
Washington, D.C., represented the Arkansas Independent
Bankers Association in a suit against the Resolution Trust
Corp. Mr. Rubin's name and client were incorrectly stated in
yesterday's edition.
   (See: "RTC's Powers Are Restricted In Thrift Case" -- WSJ
July 10, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   NOBLE DRILLING Corp. filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission to offer 10,350,000 common shares -- five
million for itself and four million for shareholders. The
remaining shares cover overallotment agreements with
underwriters. Monday's edition misstated the size of the
offering.
   (See: "Recent SEC Filings" -- WSJ July 9, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Stock Picker Gabelli Boosts Own Stake
   In Balfour, Commodities-Trading Firm
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   BML MENT MYG
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Star stock picker Mario J. Gabelli is putting
a little of his own money into commodities.
   Last month, he bought $94,540 of stock in Balfour Maclaine
Corp., a New York-based commodities-trading firm where Mr.
Gabelli is a director, filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission show.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I'm going to make some money," Mr. Gabelli said. The
purchase, of 13,000 shares, almost tripled his stake in
Balfour Maclaine.
   Mr. Gabelli, whose investment portfolios boast some of the
best long-term performance records among U.S. money managers,
said that "visceral instincts" tell him "the 90s will see a
return in commodity-related businesses."
   Although Balfour is a "very volatile company" that he
"would not have bought for my client accounts," Mr. Gabelli
is bullish. He's betting that an upturn in the agricultural
cycle will benefit farm equipment companies, fertilizer
concerns and even some related Midwestern businesses.
   Balfour Maclaine acquired Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s
cocoa-trading unit and some of the firm's employees earlier
this year.
   Mr. Gabelli paid an average share price of $7.27 in his
purchases from June 6 to June 21. The stock closed at $6.50,
unchanged, in American Stock Exchange trading yesterday.
   ---
   GRAPHIC SALES: Nine insiders sold $1.8 million of Mentor
Graphics Corp. stock in late April and May at prices well
above the stock's current level.
   Company President Gerard Langeler and the others got an
average price of $22.96 for the shares they sold, SEC filings
show. The stock, which dropped sharply last week after Mentor
announced that its second-quarter profit would be 10 cents a
share or less, closed yesterday at $18 a share, up 75 cents,
in over-the-counter trading. The Beaverton, Ore., maker of
computer-aided engineering systems reported earnings of 29
cents a share in the year-earlier quarter.
   Jack Carvath, the company's treasurer, said the insiders
have a 30-day window four times a year in which to sell
shares, a limitation that tends to cluster sales. SEC filings
show the company had similar selling activity in May 1987 and
May 1988.
   The biggest insider-seller this spring was Mr. Langeler,
according to SEC filings. They show he sold 25,000 shares, or
7% of his stake in the company, on May 3 at $21.70 a share.
The second-largest sale was by the company's chief financial
officer, Brian Henry. He sold 15,335 shares, his total
holdings, according to the filings. The other insiders, all
vice presidents, sold from 240 to 12,000 shares, representing
between 7% and 100% of their total holdings.
   Mr. Langeler and Mr. Henry couldn't be reached for
comment, but Mr. Carvath said all nine insiders sold less
than 10% of their stakes when their options holdings are
taken into account.
   Laura Conigliaro, an analyst with Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc., downgraded the stock from "buy" to "hold"
early last month, predicting "transition-related bumps." She
said she still likes the stock long term. "There aren't that
many competitors that serve the broad sweep of its industry,
and Mentor's the one with the critical mass," she said.
   ---
   COMING OUT IN THE WASH: Harvey Kapnick, a director of
Maytag Corp., sold 51% of his direct and indirect holdings in
the company, 105,047 shares, in several sales from June 8
through June 20, filings with the SEC show. His shares of the
Newton, Iowa-based maker of appliances fetched prices ranging
from $17.38 to $18.63 a share, or a total of about $1.9
million.
   In New York Stock Exchange trading, Maytag stock closed
yesterday at $17.625, up 25 cents.
   Mr. Kapnick is traveling in Europe and was unavailable for
comment, and the company declined to comment. SEC filings
show that roughly half of the shares he sold had been
obtained less than a year earlier through the exercise of
below-market options.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Brokerage Group Sets Cutbacks,
   Possibly Presaging Reductions by Others
   ----
   By Charles Fleming
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Independent French brokerage group Tuffier et
Associes is planning to slash its work force, sell its Paris
headquarters and possibly cede control to an outside investor
in an attempt to face up to lean times on the French stock
market.
   Brokers said the move could presage cuts at other Paris
firms because of the 1988 Big Bang reforms on the French
bourse, similar to the shakeout that followed London's 1986
Big Bang.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thierry Tuffier, chairman, said his group's stock
brokerage firm, Tuffier-Ravier-Py &amp; Associes, one of France's
five largest brokerage firms, would dismiss about 90
employees, or one third of its work force.
   The brokerage firm will shed another 100 employees by
spinning off its personal asset management business into a
separate unit in which an unidentified British insurance
house will take a sizable stake. Mr. Tuffier also said he is
negotiating the possible sale of his loss-producing financial
futures arm.
   And in what would be the most radical change, Mr. Tuffier
said he is negotiating with two outside investors whom he
didn't identify the possible sale of a majority stake in his
entire group. Until now, Mr. Tuffier's group has maintained a
fiercely independent position and was one of a handful of
French brokerage groups not to join forces with large outside
investors.
   Mr. Tuffier, who built his diversified financial services
group from a small regional stockbroker, said the days of his
independence could be numbered.
   "It is sure that in the long term this cannot remain a
personal business," 64-year-old Mr. Tuffier said, adding that
none of his four children would be able to afford to take
over the business.
   He said he already had talked to two Japanese houses but
to no avail, and that now he was negotiating with at least
two separate investors, with a deal in sight by the year end.
Meanwhile, he said, he has to cut costs.
   "Commissions are down 30% and volumes are down 15% from
last year . . . We are in a position today where we have to
restructure," Mr. Tuffier told a news conference yesterday
after a Tuffier board meeting on Monday night approved the
moves.
   Tuffier's brokerage arm had a loss of 62 million francs
($11.2 million) in the first five months this year but Mr.
Tuffier said the job cuts and the asset sales should allow
the unit to break even over the full year.
   However, stock analysts were less optimistic on the
earnings outlook for the year in view of the heavy
investments that all Paris brokers will have to make to
computerize their settlement systems.
   "The Tuffier layoffs could cost around 20 million francs,
which is about what they could get on the lease-back from the
headquarters," one analyst said.
   The Tuffier group's attributable net profit plunged in
1989 to 16 million francs from 52 million the previous year.
   Tuffier is the latest and largest victim of the squeeze on
Paris brokers since the 1988 reforms. The Big Bang opened the
protected guild-like system of French broking to powerful and
well-capitalized banks and insurance companies, did away with
fixed commissions and forced the brokerage firms to invest
heavily in computers.
   "Paris is suffering the same phenomenon as London.
Revenues are falling and costs are mounting," said Didier
Fauchier Magnan, vice chairman of independent Paris brokers
Fauchier Magnan, Durant des Aulnois.
   London brokers have been hit in the past two years by a
wave of heavy layoffs as the firms that had invested heavily
after the 1986 Big Bang tried to bring bloated costs into
line with a leaner and more competitive market.
   Mr. Fauchier Magnan also noted that, in a low-volume year,
the French market remained dependent on business from
institutional investors abroad.
   "Foreign investors switch from one market to another more
and more quickly. At the beginning of the year it was
Germany, then France, now Germany again," he said.
   Meanwhile Tuffier's senior managers will be the first to
feel the pinch. Mr. Tuffier said that pay would be cut at the
highest levels in the company, starting with his own.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Freeport-McMoRan Sells Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FRP FREST FTX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW ORLEANS -- Freeport-McMoRan Resource Partners Ltd.
said a unit completed the sale of its stake in a Korean
chemical concern and will report a $72.5 million gain on the
sale.
   The unit, Agrico Korea Enterprises S.A., sold its 25%
interest in Namhae Chemical Corp. to Korea's National
Agricultural Cooperative Federation for $80 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Freeport-McMoRan Resource Partners, an affiliate of
Freeport-McMoRan Inc., didn't say in which period it plans to
record the gain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trump Is Likely to Face Questioning
   By House Panel on Debt Restructuring
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Donald Trump is bracing for his latest
battle. Call it Trump: The Hearings.
   Following from the wrenching $65 million restructuring of
his bank debt, the New York developer is about to be asked to
defend the plan before House Banking Committee Chairman Henry
Gonzalez. The maverick Texas populist is planning to hold
hearings next month to investigate how Mr. Trump's debt was
restructured, and to assess whether the bailout has been
scrutinized by banking examiners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Trump, in an interview yesterday, bristled over
the committee's inquiry, and said he didn't know if he would
voluntarily testify. He hasn't yet been called, but committee
staffers say he will be.
   "I haven't missed a single interest payment. My assets are
great," he said. "If I'm asked to testify, then everyone who
is restructuring a loan should be asked to testify. That's
when I'll testify."
   In recent hearings, Mr. Gonzalez hasn't been shy about
issuing subpoenas to anyone who has piqued his curiosity or
sense of outrage. Junk bond king Michael Milken and Lincoln
Savings chief Charles Keating were both subpoenaed.
   In addition, Neil Bush, President Bush's son, appeared
voluntarily before Mr. Gonzalez's committee recently to
discuss his business relationships with two major borrowers
of Silverado Banking Savings &amp; Loan Association, a failed
thrift in Denver of which he was a director.
   Throughout the hearings, Mr. Gonzalez has pointedly asked
why federal examiners weren't more vigilant in regulating the
banks whose loans went bad. Mr. Gonzalez indicated, in a
letter dated yesterday to Currency Comptroller Robert Clarke,
that he would pursue that course again.
   "The highly publicized loans and debt-restructuring
arranged for Donald J. Trump and the Trump Organization in
New York and New Jersey illustrate current problems in the
banking industry and real estate markets," Mr. Gonzalez wrote
in the letter, in which he asked Mr. Clarke to testify. Mr.
Gonzalez said he would pursue "the manner in which the
various regulatory agencies have reacted to the
developments."
   Mr. Clarke oversees many of the big banks that loaned
millions to Mr. Trump, including Citibank, Chase Manhattan
and Manufacturers Hanover, all based in New York. Federal
Reserve officials and New York state regulators will also be
asked to testify, House staffers said.
   As for Mr. Trump, he says what the banking examiners do
isn't his worry. "The banks and I worked out an intelligent
deal for both parties," he said. "I haven't dealt with the
regulators."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Tapie Firm Shares
   Suspended Pending
   Data on Adidas Bid
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Flexing its recently expanded muscles, France's
securities market watchdog ordered Bernard Tapie Finance S.A.
shares suspended from trading because the company hasn't
adequately informed investors about its plan to acquire
Adidas AG.
   Mr. Tapie's company, which is nearly 60% controlled by the
French financier personally, responded by saying it would
release details of its takeover plans, and its partners, next
Monday. The company said it was making the announcement to
quiet talk about "the alleged trouble we are having putting
together a group of backers to help us finance Adidas."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Tapie still refuses to say how much he is paying for
the 80% stake in the sporting goods giant that he has agreed
to buy from West Germany's Dassler family. But his
announcement said that when the takeover price is disclosed,
it would be clear that worries over his ability to finance
the purchase are "ridiculous."
   The financier didn't say which banks are helping provide
funds, but said that contrary to press reports no bank has
yet refused to back him. He told a radio interviewer that he
had signed a secrecy agreement with the Dasslers, but his
statement later said that Adidas had "authorized" him to
release information Monday.
   A spokeswoman for the French markets regulator, the
Commission des Operations de Bourse, said the agency has
rarely ordered a share suspension for lack of proper
financial information, a power it gained as part of expanded
authority granted by the government earlier this year.
   "Market regulations clearly require every quoted company
to give prompt information about any event that will change
its financial situation," the spokeswoman said.
   She said it isn't clear how Mr. Tapie is making the
acquisition or which Tapie-controlled company would end up
holding his Adidas stake. Until Mr. Tapie publishes such
information, the spokeswoman said, his company's shares, and
the shares of its two quoted subsidiaries, industrial
scalemakers Terraillon S.A. and Testut S.A., will be
suspended from trading.
   Before promising to release information, Mr. Tapie had
made his own request for a trading suspension -- until Aug.
11. His company explained that West Germany's Cartel Office,
which must approve major takeovers, has until then to rule on
the Adidas acquisition.
   The commission spokeswoman said that it was a highly
unusual request, but that she didn't have an official
reaction.
   The controversy is typical of the 47-year-old Mr. Tapie, a
flamboyant former television personality and singer who has
made a specialty of rescuing troubled companies. He long has
enjoyed making surprise announcements and unexpectedly
changing his position. Since acquiring control of the
Marseilles soccer team in the mid-1980s and then launching a
career as a left-wing member of the French Parliament in
1988, he has been increasingly in the public eye.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Doctors Connect
   Forms of Niacin
   To Liver Damage
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Doctors reported four cases of liver damage in patients
who took sustained-release forms of the vitamin niacin that
they had bought without a prescription.
   Niacin, one of the B vitamins, is known to be capable of
causing liver damage in some patients in high doses. But in
their new reports in the Journal of the American Medical
Association, doctors suggest that the "sustained-release" or
"slow-release" forms sold by a large number of vitamin
packagers may be capable of damaging the liver in lower doses
and in a much shorter time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Niacin, also known as nicotinic acid, is widely available
in pharmacies and health food stores without a prescription.
Recently, doctors have been increasingly prescribing it for
heart patients with high blood cholesterol levels because of
niacin's ability to lower LDL-cholesterol, the "bad" type of
blood cholesterol, while raising HDL-cholesterol, the "good"
type. Niacin also is one of the cheapest available drugs
capable of lowering cholesterol levels.
   Most often, doctors prescribe the regular crystalline form
of niacin. But the new reports indicate that patients often
switch, on their own, to one of the many sustained-release
forms of the vitamin. The sustained-release forms need be
taken less frequently during the day, and are less likely to
cause unpleasant flushing of the face, which the vitamin
sometimes induces.
   In one of the new reports, two doctors at the University
of Alabama in Birmingham and their colleague, a doctor at
Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, describe three
patients who developed drug-induced hepatitis after taking
sustained-release forms of niacin.
   One, a 62-year-old man with a high cholesterol level, had
been taking 4,000 milligrams of crystalline niacin a day as
prescribed by his doctor. Five days after he switched on his
own to a sustained-release niacin, he fainted and was taken
to the hospital, where laboratory tests indicated liver
damage. He recovered and subsequently resumed using the
crystalline niacin without any problems, Jere P. Segrest of
the University of Alabama and his colleagues reported.
   Similar episodes of liver damage were experienced by a
50-year-old woman whose doctor prescribed the
sustained-release niacin, and by a 47-year-old man who
switched to a sustained-release niacin at the suggestion of
his pharmacist, the physicians reported.
   In a separate letter to the medical journal, Howard N.
Hodis at the University of Southern California medical school
in Los Angeles reported the case of a 32-year-old man who
developed acute liver failure while taking one 500-milligram
"super-timed-release" niacin tablet a day for two months. The
man recovered after 10 days in the hospital.
   "Awareness of the potentially greater {liver toxicity} of
sustained-release niacin and the fact that low doses of such
preparations of niacin can lead to the same complications as
high doses is important for both the physician and the
public," Dr. Hodis wrote.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Roadway Services Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ROAD WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROADWAY SERVICES Inc. (Akron, Ohio) -- J.T. Topping,
president of this freight carrier's Roadway Express unit, was
named vice chairman, a new post. Michael W. Wickham,
executive vice president of administration and finance of
Roadway Express, succeeds Mr. Topping as president of that
unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   RICO Goes Pfffft
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICO's balloon continues to deflate. Prosecutors have had
a high time of it in recent years, using the perverse glamour
of a "racketeering" indictment against all manner of non-Mob
defendants -- from Wall Street to the Marcoses to the Chicago
trading pits. A jury in Chicago has just told the prosecutors
to get serious again. It returned eight relatively minor
guilty verdicts out of more than 100 counts filed against
three futures traders on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. A
RICO indictment stood at the center of the case. If
prosecutors discover white-collar crime, they should pursue
it. But let them find a basis for prosecution that the public
can recognize and respect. The law called RICO isn't it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Turf War: Markets Fight for Private Placements
   ----
   By Craig Torres and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   RTRSY
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The two biggest U.S. stock exchanges will
launch systems for trading privately placed stocks and bonds,
in separate efforts to unseat the National Association of
Securities Dealers' new electronic Portal system.
   The American Stock Exchange, in a joint venture with
Reuters Holdings PLC, and the New York Stock Exchange are
each seeking to share in the expected boom in the $170
billion private-placement market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two stock exchanges are trying to catch up with the
NASD's Portal system. Launched last month, Portal was the
first out of the gate for trading privately placed stocks and
bonds that fall under the government's so-called Rule 144a
passed in April.
   The stakes are high. Becoming the primary market for
privately placed securities, which are traded by large
institutions and exempted from normal disclosure
requirements, means more income in years to come, and an
avenue to more listings by foreign companies that are
expected to raise money in the U.S. in coming years.
   Even more important, dominance in trading privately placed
securities would give the winning market an important
foothold in electronic stock trading for institutional
investors, clearly a growing trend in the 1990s.
   Eventually, only one electronic system for trading private
placements will dominate, exchange officials agree.
   "It will be difficult to have three formal controlled
markets," says Joseph Hardiman, president of the NASD.
Indeed, Mr. Hardiman sees Portal as a vindication of the
electronic trading system his Nasdaq over-the-counter market
system has used for years for publicly traded stocks.
   "Increasingly, you are seeing the institutional market
move to a screen-based market -- whether it's trading
options, futures or ordinary shares," says Mr. Hardiman. "I
don't think that exchanges are going to fold up their tents.
But they will adapt to what the market is telling them."
   Enacted by the Securities and Exchange Commission in
April, Rule 144a is designed to encourage capital raising and
trading in the private placement market. That market is
likely to be limited to several hundred large institutional
investors and several dozen investment banks. Small investors
don't qualify as participants under SEC rules.
   But securities executives say that the separate challenges
from the Amex and the Big Board underscore some of the
drawbacks they see in the NASD's Portal, which stands for
Private Offerings, Resales and Trading through Automated
Linkages. Portal is an electronic billboard which allows
traders and institutions to advertise buying and selling
prices of privately placed stocks and bonds.
   Since Portal went live June 15, the NASD has signed on
nearly 30 institutional investors and about 20 major
investment banks. So far, about 10,000 shares of stock have
traded on Portal, according to the NASD. Firms such as First
Boston Corp. and Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. are already making live
markets on Portal.
   Monte E. Wetzler, a lawyer at Breed, Abbott &amp; Morgan in
New York who has made a speciality of Rule 144a and its
implications, says: "Portal has been slower in getting out of
the box than people thought."
   The Amex and Reuters hope to offer a more flexible system
that builds on Reuters' technology and huge share of
financial market data. By the first quarter of 1991, they
hope to have their "Situs" (System for Institutional Trading
of Unregistered Securities) trading system up and running.
   Individuals familiar with Situs say Reuters's world-wide
securities data base, software capabilities, and links to big
investors through products such as Instinet, an electronic
trading system, could mount a powerful challenge to Portal.
   Situs will be able to show exchange rates, home-market
prices for a stock, and live U.S. quotes for the unregistered
security all on the same screen, according to people familiar
with the system. Like Portal, Situs will have an automatic
execution system.
   Individuals familiar with the talks said that Instinet and
Reuters's U.S. subsidiary have approved of the Situs project,
but the matter is awaiting final approval by senior Reuters
executives in England.
   American Stock Exchange President James Jones says: "We
think our system will be superior to Portal. It's going to be
head-on competition. We will have better display, better
systems and better hardware."
   What the Amex doesn't have, however, is Portal's head
start, which the NASD is trying to solidify by not charging
any fees to use the system now. And NASD officials say they
can upgrade Portal to match efforts by competitors.
   Big Board President Richard Grasso won't discuss details
of the exchange's own private placement trading system. He
says the exchange is studying Portal and is waiting for the
Amex system, with the hopes of improving on both.
   "I don't think there is an insurmountable competitive
advantage {the NASD} gains by being up," Mr. Grasso says.
"Being late may be advantageous."
   The Big Board says that if there is enough institutional
demand, it could have a system on trading desks around the
country by the end of this year.
   Trading executives say the Big Board's name will be a
powerful marketing tool with foreign issuers. They note, too,
that an unregistered securities trading system would be the
third major recent effort by the Big Board to cater to large
institutions. The others are the exchange's stock basket
product and planned after-hours trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Consolidated Natural Gas Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CNG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CONSOLIDATED NATURAL GAS Co. (Pittsburgh) -- Richard P.
Simmons, chairman of Allegheny Ludlum Corp., has been elected
a director of this producer and distributor of natural gas,
expanding the board to 13 members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Navy Ship Contract Awarded
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TDY
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. Marine Management received a $161.5
million Navy contract for operating 18 ocean surveillance
ships.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Teledyne Systems Co., a unit of Teledyne Inc., won a $15
million Navy contract for helicopter navigation systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   China's Industrial Output Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   BEIJING -- China's industrial production, responding to an
infusion of bank credit, shot up 5.9% in June from a year
earlier, the newspaper China Daily reported.
   With June's strong showing, industrial output for the 1990
first half was 2.2% above the year-earlier period and totaled
925.4 billion yuan ($196.5 billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, the state statistical bureau warned that industry
will have to maintain an 8% growth rate in the second half of
the year to fulfill the state plan, the official Xinhua news
agency reported. The plan projected an annual growth rate of
6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Somebody Made Off
   With the Pancakes
   That Took TriBeCa
   ---
   And Sheldon Golumbia Made
   A Federal Case of That;
   New but Not Nouvelle
   ----
   By Michael Selz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- As a novice restaurateur in such a cutthroat
market as Manhattan, Sheldon Golumbia could hardly believe
his success.
   A local TV station covered his grand opening in October.
Critics from as far away as San Francisco gave him glowing
reviews. And, on weekends, customers were lined up at the
door, willing to wait 90 minutes sometimes for a table at the
Royal Canadian Pancake House &amp; Restaurant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of course, Mr. Golumbia's luck didn't last. Six months
later, another pancake place (with food eerily similar)
opened nearby, and that meant trouble.
   The coincidence was no accident. The menu of the
competitor, the Village Pancake House &amp; Restaurant, had been
developed by Mr. Golumbia's former chef.
   So began the case of the pirated pancakes, or the hot hot
cakes -- the flapjack flap if you will. And it just goes to
show what can happen when someone walks off with the Secrets
of Success.
   By the time the U.S. District Court suit was settled, it
had cost Mr. Golumbia $30,000 in legal fees. The affair also
had confused his clientele, some of whom thought that he
owned both restaurants and that one of them wasn't all that
hot.
   The owners of the Village Pancake House have now had to
alter their menu in accordance with the small details of a
court-approved settlement that goes so far as to regulate the
very diameter of the hot cakes they sell. Mr. Golumbia
sometimes takes a tape measure to his rivals' pancakes, to be
sure they are in compliance.
   "I really didn't want to go through all this garbage with
these guys, but we had no choice," says the 40-year-old Mr.
Golumbia. "We literally made a federal case out of pancakes."
   Replies Anastasios Lazarakis, who with Nicholas
Alexandrakis owns the Village Pancake House: "Drugs, crime,
fraud, so many problems in this city, and they're worrying
about the size of my pancakes? It's ridiculous." He adds:
"I've been in this business for 26 years, and I've never seen
anything like this. These people are crazy."
   Mr. Golumbia opened the Royal Canadian in a
lower-Manhattan neighborhood known as TriBeCa (which stands
for the Triangle Below Canal Street). Instead of serving
expensive little portions of something nouvelle, which is
what many New Yorkers are accustomed to in their restaurants,
Mr. Golumbia decided to specialize in pancakes -- huge
pancakes, some a foot in diameter, like those he used to eat
back home in Canada.
   He had no restaurant experience. He had worked as an
economist in Winnipeg and in recent years had sold cosmetics
in New York to stores and hotels. But he had researched his
idea. To learn pancake basics, he had spent eight months in
the Canadian countryside visiting pancake places.
   The pancake is a very old form of bread. In Shakespeare's
"As You Like It," Touchstone, the jester, refers to a knight
who preferred his pancakes with mustard. Indeed, they are
found, by one name or other, as a bread or sweet, in the
cuisines of many nations, ranging from the crespelle in Italy
to dosai in India. There are crepes in France, blini in
Russia, okonomiyaki in Japan. In the days of the American
pioneer, buckweat cakes were filled with the previous day's
leftovers.
   Today, the Royal Canadian serves 53 kinds of hot cakes
cooked on a griddle or baked. One recipe includes bananas,
pineapple and coconut; another, white chocolate and almonds.
One is made with beer.
   On weekend afternoons, Mr. Golumbia says his 75-seat
restaurant serves maybe 700 people, the average check running
about $10. Because the Royal Canadian's food costs (for flour
and eggs and other pancake ingredients) amount to only about
18% of sales -- half what some restaurants pay for raw
materials -- much of those pancake proceeds is pure gravy.
   Mr. Golumbia's problems began in November when his chef
left and he hired Joel Fuenmayor to replace him. Mr.
Fuenmayor, 36, brought in his sister, Martha, as his
assistant, and in just a few days the two of them had the
kitchen humming. But toward the end of February, Mr.
Fuenmayor, too, had decided to leave. "Everything got too
monotonous for me," he says.
   "I was shocked and, quite frankly, relieved," Mr. Golumbia
recalls thinking about his chef's departure. "I sensed
something about him. He was too mercurial."
   But imagine Mr. Golumbia's surprise when he learned that
his chef had popped up at a new pancake house in Greenwich
Village, if not exactly a stone's throw away, close enough to
be called competition. Pancake houses, commonplace in most
parts of the U.S., are, for some reason, a rarity in New York
City. Mr. Golumbia says he knew all along that eventually
there would be "pancake wars" in New York. But, he says, "I
never thought our first competitor would be our own chef."
   With rumors thick as pancake batter that the menu at the
Village Pancake House was awfully similar to his, Mr.
Golumbia paid the place a visit. It had introduced 74
"Original New York Home Made Old Fashion Recipes" for
pancakes, many of which, Mr. Golumbia claimed, were his
recipes.
   The plot thickened on the afternoon of April 9, three days
after the new place opened for business. At about 4:30,
according to an affidavit by John Taylor, Mr. Golumbia's
assistant chef at the time, Mr. Fuenmayor turned up at the
Royal Canadian, ripped pages from a recipe book, grabbed
lists of inventory and suppliers and rushed out.
   He left behind a Village Pancake House business card on
which he had written: "He who kills {sic} by the sword dies
by the sword" and "an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth."
   Mr. Fuenmayor confirms that all that happened, but he says
the papers he took belonged to him.
   For 10 days or so, Mr. Golumbia anxiously monitored the
situation.
   Says Beatrice Puja, manager of the Royal Canadian: "We
were getting calls from people who would say, `You know, we
ate at your new place, and it isn't as good.'"
   Says Mr. Golumbia: "We realized we had to do something."
   Says Mr. Alexandrakis, who claims he had no idea Mr.
Fuenmayor's menu ideas might have been filched: "The next
thing I know, I'm getting slapped with a lawsuit."
   Filed in Manhattan, the federal suit alleged that the
Village Pancake House, Mr. Fuenmayor and his sister stole
trade secrets to create a "virtual clone" of the Royal
Canadian. In addition to evidence of menu similarities, Mr.
Golumbia submitted three black-and-white photographs that
made side-by-side comparisons of the two restaurants' actual
pancakes and French toast. Mr. Golumbia had ordered take-out
and snapped pictures.
   While Mr. Fuenmayor readily concedes that the similarities
were intentional, he felt he had refined the Royal Canadian's
formula, that the menu ideas were as much his work as
anyone's. He understands things differently now, however.
"Legally, when you work for a company and get paid, what you
do for them belongs to them, which I didn't know," Mr.
Fuenmayor says. "I thought what I did belonged to me."
   The suit was settled last month, without any admissions of
wrongdoing.
   Terms of the out-of-court settlement prohibit Mr.
Golumbia's competitor from listing pancakes on its menu in an
order similar to that of the Royal Canadian and from using
any of the Royal Canadian's pancake recipes, except for those
found in cookbooks.
   Specifically, the settlement enjoins the Village Pancake
House from selling griddlecakes that are between 9.25 and 14
inches in diameter and oven cakes 10 to 14 inches across.
(Not much is left to chance. Ten inches is defined as the
diameter of a hot cake made with a Duraware model 911T,
10-inch pan.)
   Meanwhile, the owners of the Village Pancake House and Mr.
Fuenmayor have also parted company. There's a lot of turnover
in this business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Don't Let Computers
   Do All Your Thinking
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Robert H. Beeby's June 11 Manager's Journal, "How to
Crunch a Bunch of Figures," certainly points out some of the
substantial benefits that a well-designed Decision Support
System (DSS) can provide to a company. However, it also
points out how we too easily can become overly dependent on
technology and fail to use nontechnology solutions for our
problems when they are more appropriate.
   Mr. Beeby stated that with Frito-Lay's DSS it took "a
couple of weeks" (vs. "the better part of three months"
without DSS) to find out a drop in market share was due to a
store chain introducing a store-branded product and to then
formulate a counterstrategy. I was surprised (having read Tom
Peter's comments on Frito-Lay) that the Frito-Lay delivery
person for that chain didn't inform someone the moment the
store-branded chips hit the shelf. With this information it
should be easy to conclude that market share will be reduced.
We should not have to wait for the computer to tell us sales
have dropped.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   We must be careful to let the computer replace only the
information tools it can outperform. It should never replace
our own experiences and judgment. The computer should be only
one part of a company's DSS.
   Robert J. Chambers
   Visiting Assistant Professor
   Emory Business School
   Atlanta
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Molson Cos. Plans
   Debt, Equity Issue
   To Finance Growth
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   A.EXL MOL.A A.HHP
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Molson Cos. said it plans to raise 300 million
Canadian dollars (US$259.3 million) through an equity and
debt issue in order to finance expansion of its current
businesses.
   Molson said it will issue four million Class A nonvoting
shares at C$37.625 each to the Canadian public, as well as
C$150 million of one-year floating-rate redeemable
debentures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two Toronto-based securities dealers, RBC Dominion
Securities Inc. and Gordon Capital Corp., agreed to lead the
underwriting group for the equity issue and to buy the
debentures, Molson said.
   Analysts described the issue as essentially a two-stage
equity offering, because Molson can require that debenture
holders redeeming the securities apply the proceeds to
purchase Class A shares, at a price based on trading prices
at the time of redemption. Molson said it can redeem the
debentures any time after Nov. 1, 1990.
   Philip Koven, an analyst with Richardson Greenshields Inc.
in Toronto, said it's clear from the size and nature of the
offering that Molson is interested in expanding its brewing
interests.
   Officials at Molson, which has interests in brewing,
specialty chemicals, retailing, and sports and entertainment,
declined to say which of these areas the company is seeking
to expand.
   Marshall Cohen, Molson's president and chief executive
officer, said at the annual meeting last month that the
company will seek to reap further benefits from its links
with the Australian brewing concern Elders IXL. In August
1989, Molson and Elders merged their North American brewing
operations into a joint venture, Molson Breweries of Canada.
   Mr. Cohen, who couldn't be reached for comment following
the announcement yesterday, said at the annual meeting that
the Elders' alliance "has provided us with an opportunity to
participate in the Foster's Brewing Group."
   As reported, Elders proposed last March to restructure its
assets, turning the company known as Elders IXL into a
publicly traded brewing concern to be known as Foster's
Brewing Group Ltd.
   Molson's move to raise financing has triggered speculation
that the company may use the funds to invest in Foster's
Brewing, possibly by buying shares held by closely held
Harlin Holdings Pty., which is closely associated with John
Elliott, Elders' chairman.
   In trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday,
Molson's Class A shares closed at C$37 a share, down C$1.625,
as investors reacted to the fear of diluted earnings. Molson
has about 22.7 million Class A shares outstanding and 10.2
million Class B shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor --
   Voice of America:
   `I Was a Contender'
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Dorothy Rabinowitz's well-researched article on the
continuing popularity of the World War II television
documentaries (Leisure &amp; Arts, June 18) confirms the
impression one gets on scanning daily TV listings. And her
analysis of what lies behind the phenomenon is certainly
correct. We wonder, however, if one couldn't take it a step
further.
   World War II was undoubtedly America's finest hour,
certainly in this century. The courage we displayed in
response to treacherous and unprovoked attack, the industrial
genius that permitted the war to be pursued on the vast scale
necessitated by global fronts, the relative cheerfulness of
the civilian public in accepting the sacrifices imposed on
them, the myriad acts of heroism, individual and collective,
by our land, sea and air forces as they pushed the war to
victory and, perhaps most important, the generosity America
displayed toward its defeated enemies -- all this is
something to look back upon with appropriate pride, with
swelling heart and filling eye, America at its very best.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But alas, it all happened nearly half a century ago, and
there has been little in our history since then to excite our
pride to anything like that degree, and much to be ashamed
of. No wonder we want to see the pictures and hear the words
over and over again.
   Does an analogy suggest itself? To the stock figure of the
broken-down prizefighter or the has-been entertainer getting
out his scrapbooks and poring over the old pictures and press
notices by the hour and endlessly telling anybody who will
listen the story of his triumphs long ago?
   It's a chilling thought.
   Bruce and Susanmary Young
   Allegan, Mich.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Cap on Matriculation
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   As I read Tim W. Ferguson's profile on Sam Steiger,
Arizona's colorful candidate for governor ("A Libertarian
Governor?" editorial page, June 18), I noticed one inaccuracy
about the University of Arizona (as well as Arizona State
University).
   Enrollment at the UA is not 40,000 as reported; the total
count as of fall 1989 is 35,569. Enrollment at ASU is 43,546
as of last fall, not 65,000. Enrollment management is one of
UA President Henry Koffler's top priorities, and he has
adopted a plan to limit enrollment to 38,000 between now and
1995.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, the challenge of educating the state's young
people is a major concern for universities and community
colleges alike. High-school graduates in Arizona will
increase from 31,000 in 1990 to 43,000 in 2000, based on the
number of students currently enrolled in our elementary
schools.
   Sharon Kha
   Office of Public Information
   University of Arizona
   Tucson, Ariz.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Airlines' Traffic Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Eastern Airlines said its June traffic rose to
1.44 billion revenue passenger miles from the 252.47 million
a year earlier when a strike cut flights.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile. The carrier said load factor for the month was down to
61.41% from 61.95% a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first six months, Eastern said it flew 9.08 billion
revenue passenger miles, up from 4.96 billion. Load factor
was 61.59%, up from 58.46%.
   Eastern, formerly a unit of Texas Air Corp., is being
managed by a bankruptcy court-appointed trustee. Texas Air
has since changed its name to Continental Airlines Holdings
Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Agricultural Crisis Looms in Southeast
   ---
   Without Heavy Rain Soon,
   Farmers Face Repeat of 1986
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- The Southeast is sweltering through its sixth
week of searing heat, and state agriculture officials are
beginning to worry that, without some significant rain in the
next week or two, farmers could face a disaster on the scale
of the 1986 drought.
   Suffering from below-normal rainfall and a heat wave that
has pushed thermometer readings up past 100 degrees,
Southeastern states have reported dismal crop conditions in
the past week. In Georgia, 53% of the state's corn crop and
47% of its soybean crop are rated poor or very poor. In
Mississippi, 11% of the state's soybeans received the same
rating. In South Carolina, the corn crop's expected yield is
dropping daily. A spokeswoman for South Carolina's
agriculture department said, "All our corn crop is pretty
well zapped."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though agriculture officials said it is too early to
tabulate dollar damages, some clearly believe these could be
high. "Unless we get some relief in the next week," Bryan
Patrick, a federal agriculture official in South Carolina,
said, "we're going to repeat 1986."
   It was then that the drought-stricken Southeast, faced
with hundreds of millions of dollars in crop damages, was
granted federal drought aid to assist the more than 180
counties that were declared agricultural disaster areas.
   "It's too early to write off everything," Georgia
Agricultural Commissioner Tommy Irvin said. But the dry
spell, he said, has "the potential of being one of the worst
ever."
   As in 1986, the latest heat wave is expected to have
little effect on commodity prices, because the Southeast
produces a relatively small amount of most crops. By some
estimates, Georgia and the Carolinas, for example, account
for only 3% of the nation's corn acreage and about 5.5% of
the soybean acreage. "It'll be a hardship for our people,"
Bill Yates, a Clemson University extension program
coordinator, said. "But there won't be any significant
changes in market price" nationally.
   Poultry may be another matter. Because the Southeast is a
leading poultry producer, the troubles there could lead to
slightly higher chicken prices nationwide, some people in the
industry said. The extreme heat has reduced the appetite and
thus the weight of chickens, according to the Southeastern
Poultry and Egg Association in Decatur, Ga. Chickens that
normally grow to 4.5 pounds are weighing in at less than four
pounds.
   If the heat wave continues for two more weeks, said Harold
Ford, executive director of the association, U.S. chicken
prices "could easily jump four cents to five cents a pound."
   So far, chicken deaths in the region haven't been nearly
as big a problem as in 1986, when Southeastern poultry
producers lost 750,000 broilers in the first week of the heat
wave in July. The producers learned from that experience, Mr.
Ford said, and now use more fans and other devices to keep
chickens cooler.
   By most reports, it seems that the corn crop has been hurt
the most in the Southeast. In Georgia and the Carolinas,
which have had some of the severest weather, the loss already
could amount to one-third of the expected corn crop,
estimated Peter Leavitt, a forecaster with Weather Services
Corp., in Bedford, Mass. "The heat and drought came early
enough to catch the corn during the pollination stages," he
said. At that point, he said, "it's really irreversible."
   Soybeans, which tend to do relatively better in the heat,
have been hurt, too. On acres planted in Georgia, about 10%
to 15% of soybeans have been lost, partly under attack from
insects that proliferate in hot and dry soils, said James Lee
Adams, chairman of the American Soybean Association. He said
some farmers delayed a second planting of soybeans because of
the heat, and as a result, they didn't plant 35% to 40% of
the acres initially planned for that crop.
   The Southeast's large tobacco crop, which needs less
moisture than some other plants do, has had some strain, but
has been relatively unaffected by the heat, agriculture
officials reported. Dried-up pasture has forced some farmers
to feed their cattle hay that they had intended to use later
this year.
   Some meterologists believe a temporary break in the
region's scorching conditions could come later this week.
Charles Notis, a forecaster with Freese-Notis Weather Inc. in
Des Moines, Iowa, said rains moving from the Corn Belt could
arrive in the Southeast by tomorrow, Friday or Saturday,
bringing temperatures down to the 80s from the high 90s to
100s. "For the short term, the situation is going to
definitely change for the better," he predicted.
   But Mr. Leavitt, the forecaster with Weather Services, put
a less optimistic spin on the outlook. "We're expecting to
see showers move in there, but it is less likely than we
initially thought that they will persist long enough, or
substantially change the pattern enough, to help {the
farmers} recover," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fedders Corp. Plans Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FJQ GAMI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PEAPACK, N.J. -- Fedders Corp. plans to acquire the
Emerson Quiet Kool room air conditioner division of Jepson
Corp.
   Fedders, which makes room air conditioners, declined to
disclose terms. Jepson is a subsidiary of Great American
Management &amp; Investment Inc. Great American Management, based
in Chicago, has interests in real estate, financial services,
manufacturing, agricultural chemicals and fertilizers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition is subject to regulatory clearance,
Fedders said, adding that in 1989, Emerson sold $120 million
of dehumidifiers and air conditioners for rooms and
recreational vehicles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Committee to Start Work Today
   On Defense-Spending Bill for Fiscal '91
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Armed Services Committee today
begins drafting a $289 billion defense-spending bill that
would slash at least 100,000 active-duty troops in 1991 while
rejecting Pentagon proposals for comparable cuts in reserve
forces over the next few years.
   The committee also is expected to avoid wholesale
termination of new multibillion-dollar weapons, keeping alive
such controversial programs as the Air Force's B-2 Stealth
bomber, the Navy's expensive Seawolf submarine, and a group
of sophisticated aircraft still under development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Final details, however, won't be worked out until the
budget summit between Congress and the White House winds down
and the House Armed Services Committee has had its chance to
chop away at uniformed strength and cherished Pentagon
weapons plans in the next few weeks.
   Meeting behind closed doors, members of the Senate panel
are expected to approve about $289 billion in
military-spending authority for the fiscal year starting Oct.
1. That level, $18 billion less than President Bush's January
budget request, is the one advocated by Chairman Sam Nunn
(D., Ga.), who is one of the leading lawmakers seeking
gradual cuts.
   But in an unusual procedure, the committee is expected to
map out at least $4 billion more in contingency cuts --
including the elimination of an additional 30,000 or so
troops next year -- reflecting the likelihood that greater
Pentagon sacrifices will be part of any summit agreement with
the White House.
   Defense Secretary Dick Cheney cut short an official trip
to Europe to attend another meeting of the budget summiteers
here today, although spokesmen said Mr. Cheneny didn't have
any plans to submit revised spending figures to the group.
   The committee's action will be the opening salvo of what
is certain to be an emotional and drawn-out congressional
debate pitting Sen. Nunn and other Pentagon supporters
against an increasingly powerful bipartisan coalition
determined to gut some of the military's most expensive
research and procurement programs. Depending on how the
budget summit ends, fights over many of the cuts may have to
be repeated on the Senate floor.
   By voting out a bill before the budget summit concludes,
Sen. Nunn and his allies apparently hope to take the
initiative away from lawmakers who advocate deeper cuts. The
strategy, according to Senate aides and defense officials, is
to draw a line in the sand and demonstrate how much pain even
the committee's cuts would cause the Pentagon.
   Still, the Senate bill is bound to be more favorable to
the Pentagon than the measure taking shape on the other side
of Capitol Hill. House Democratic leaders, for example,
advocate substantially deeper cuts that Secretary Cheney
complains could force more than 700,000 active-duty troops
and some 500,000 reserves off the Pentagon's payroll by the
late 1990s. Currently, there are about 2.1 million
active-duty troops and 1.1 million reserves.
   In a series of speeches earlier this year, Sen. Nunn
emphasized that he would strongly oppose such hefty personnel
cuts, especially in reserve units that are less expensive to
maintain than active-duty forces and often are viewed as
important parts of the local community. "The presumption,"
Sen. Nunn argued in one of the speeches, should be to
transfer "as much capability into reserve {forces} as
possible in this new era."
   Sen. John Glenn (D., Ohio), chairman of the manpower
subcommittee, also has come out strongly against cutbacks in
the National Guard and Army reserves, according to Pentagon
officials and committee aides. As a result, these officials
said, the Senate panel is expected to approve only marginal
reductions in 1991 reserve strength. Pentagon officials are
struggling to finish a comprehensive study on the
responsibilities reserve units should assume, but the
congressionally mandated report won't be available until well
after both committees finish work on Pentagon spending bills.
   In weapons-buying accounts, the Senate panel is expected
to reject administration proposals to aggressively develop
both the multiple-warhead MX missile and the smaller
Midgetman missile. The committee also is expected to trim
requests to build a new generation of attack helicopters and
combat vehicles for the Army, scale back purchases of
guided-missile destroyers by the Navy, and cap research
funding for the Strategic Defense Initiative, a proposed
space-based anti-missile system, at less than $3.5 billion.
   Mr. Cheney still hasn't announced the results of his own
reassessment of SDI, the Army's LH helicopter program and the
Navy's overall submarine and ship-buying plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   You're Right -- It's Unmentionable
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Regarding your June 12 editorial "Unmentionable
Prescription": In your unending crusade for a reduction in
the current capital-gains tax rate, you are now claiming that
as the result of such a move "Real-estate values would
improve overnight . . . since the unmentionable prescription
would lower a tax on potential gains." Well, maybe, but
probably not. Even less well conceived is the idea that "The
tax was . . . lower when the properties . . . were initially
purchased; their current low values . . . reflect a higher
tax."
   During the early 1980s, the real-estate industry convinced
the Reagan administration and Congress that a quick tax fix
for high interest rates was both fair and necessary. The
exact rules changed several times over the next few years,
but by the time of the 1986 Tax Reform Act, real property
investors were depreciating their appreciating holdings over
15 years at accelerated rates. The resulting annual "tax
savings" were at income-tax rates that, I'm sure you will
remember, were 50% at that time, not 28%. The most egregious
cases of legal tax abuse came with limited partnerships,
through which limited partners did no work but saved taxes,
and general partners earned high fees and supposedly managed
property.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I doubt that the capital-gains tax was even considered by
many real-estate investors, whose gaze was fixed on all those
immediate deductions. If they had considered the long-run
consequences they would have realized that the capital-gains
tax on depreciable assets is applied not to the gain in price
but to the difference between the net sales price and the
depreciated book value. Whether the rate is 20% or 28%
matters less than the fact that the amount taxed is the
entire value of the property after 15 years. But after all,
what the tax man has given, the tax man can take away. You
only get to "save taxes" once.
   Naturally, the short-term quick tax fix led to
overbuilding, poor management decisions, outrageous fee
schedules and poorly conceived projects. The industry is
paying for the previous "prescription" now with high vacancy
rates, useless projects, and a severely constrained lending
industry that lost sight of its own need to evaluate projects
for realistic income potential, as well as tax saving.
   A return to a 20% capital-gains rate has not been
necessary to increasing prices in the stock market and will
do nothing for the real-estate market. High vacancy rates,
abandoned projects, changing demographics and a
still-reeling, blind-sided lending industry are real economic
problems that will not respond to another quick-tax-fix
prescription.
   Deborah Ann Ford
   Associate Professor of Finance
   University of Baltimore
   Baltimore
   ---
   You are right on the mark when you say that in order to
pump some life into the nation's sluggish economy "we need .
. . a policy that would increase the values of real estate. .
. ." After all, the real-estate and construction industries
are the largest sector of our economy.
   However, your prescription -- cut the capital-gains tax --
would be only a good left jab. In order to knock the problem
out, it would have to be followed by an overhand right --
namely, slash interest rates. This would allow more buyers
into the market and reduce the carrying costs for investors
and developers.
   At their current levels, interest rates are simply too
high to make real-estate projects feasible; thus,
construction is grinding to a halt. It is no coincidence that
Japan, which until recently has had very low interest rates,
also has the highest real-estate values in the world.
   Roderick T. Russo
   President
   Coventry Homes Inc.
   Kinnelon, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Yen Surges Against Most Currencies,
   Pushing Dollar to a Four-Month Low
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- An increasingly popular yen pushed the dollar
broadly lower yesterday. The Japanese currency led active and
volatile trading, surging against most of its counterparts.
   The dollar declined almost three yen, or by about 2%, to
end New York trading at a four-month low against its Japanese
counterpart. The greenback also fell about a German pfennig
to a two-month low against the mark and allowed the British
pound to extend its gain nearly 1 1/2 U.S. cents, closing the
day at an 18-month dollar high.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at
1.6425 marks, down from 1.6530 marks late Monday in New York.
The U.S. currency was also changing hands at 148.30 yen, well
below 151.15 yen in New York late Monday.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was trading at 148.50 yen
soon after the opening, down from Tuesday's Tokyo close of
149.60 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at
1.6445 marks, up from Tuesday's Tokyo close of 1.6394 marks.
   On Tuesday, the yen registered gains on the mark and, to a
lesser extent, the pound. Briefly in Asian trading,
cross-selling of the mark for yen allowed the pound cross
rate to rise past three marks -- the level thought to be
favored by the U.K. government for sterling's entry into the
price bands of the European Monetary System.
   Yesterday's global trading session, like many recently,
was driven by interest rates. But rather than single-mindedly
buying currencies, such as Australian and Canadian dollars
and sterling, with a huge yield edge, investors moved their
money around based on the smaller interest rate
differentials, both real and potential, among the world's
three leading currencies.
   "The whole play is interest-rate based," said Peter
Connelly, foreign exchange manager for Wells Fargo Bank in
San Francisco
   The yen's main source of strength was the renewed prospect
of a tighter credit policy in Japan. Also buttressing the yen
was speculation that leaders of the Group of Seven leading
democracies meeting in Houston will issue a statement
supporting the Japanese currency at the conclusion of their
talks today.
   Most currency dealers saw the spark for the yen's rally in
a widely circulated report from Smick Medley International, a
Washington-based investment advisory firm. The company said
Sunday, "there is now an 80%-90% chance the Bank of Japan
will raise interest rates over the next several months."
   Tokyo traders said they sold the dollar on hearing talk
about the report during the Asian morning Tuesday. When the
Japanese translation appeared on domestic wire services soon
after trading began for Tokyo's afternoon session, the dollar
was sold off again.
   Rumors about Bank of Japan tightening have been bandied
about the market ever since Japanese negotiators acceded to a
U.S. demand that the government of Prime Minister Toshiki
Kaifu spend more money on public works. Yen money market
rates have been rising recently, and Japanese monetary
officials have expressed concern at the quick growth of the
nation's money supply.
   In late New York trading the pound was trading at $1.8230
and 2.9943 marks, above $1.8080 and 2.9886 marks late Monday.
The British currency, however, closed at 270.35 yen, down
from 273.28 yen late Monday.
   The dollar closed at its lowest level against the yen
since Feb. 23, when it stood at 147.07 yen. Against the mark,
the greenback finished at its lowest level since May 11, when
it traded at 1.6380 marks. The last time sterling finished at
such a high dollar level was Jan. 3, 1989, when a pound
bought $1.8225.
   "The yen is catching up with the Deutsche mark," said Mr.
Connelly of Wells Fargo, noting that the Japanese currency
lagged other non-dollar currencies when the greenback began
it current downward trend in June.
   Added Tomi Kilgore of Toyo Trust &amp; Banking Co.'s New York
office, "the yen is getting a lot of support on the crosses."
The market "isn't only selling dollars, it's buying yen."
   Mr. Connelly commented that no interest rate changes need
occur for the dollar's troubles to continue. "Even if the
(U.S. Federal Reserve Board) doesn't do anything, the dollar
will lose ground," he said.
   Mr. Kilgore said that the U.S. is currently the only
nation with a major currency whose monetary bias is toward
easing. As long as that situation continues, the market will
be eager to sell dollars, he said.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $355.50 an ounce, down $2.70. Estimated
volume was a moderate 4.2 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted
at $354.75 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PUBLISHING: News Corp.'s Harper-Collins Publishers agreed
to acquire London-based publisher Unwin Hyman Ltd. Terms
weren't disclosed. Unwin Hyman had revenue of $28 million in
1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   GE Scientists
   Develop Diamonds
   Of Gem Quality
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- General Electric Co. scientists announced they
had made one-carat, gem-quality synthetic diamonds that in
some ways are superior to natural diamonds.
   The diamonds, which GE hopes to begin producing in
commerical quantities in the next year or two, will be cut
into thin slices and sold for use in electronic components,
lasers and communications equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The GE diamonds are superior to natural diamonds in their
ability to soak up heat, the company's scientists said. Thus,
slices of the diamonds can be used to dissipate heat produced
in lasers and microelectronic circuits. GE officials
estimated the market for such heat-absorbing diamonds at $50
million to $100 million a year.
   The GE diamonds are larger than the half-carat,
gem-quality synthetic diamonds that Sumitomo Electric
Industries of Japan has been selling to electronics companies
for the last five years. The GE stones, however, aren't as
large as gem-quality synthetic diamonds produced
experimentally by De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., the big
South African diamond cartel. In 1987, the Gemological
Institute of America reported it had examined a five-carat
synthetic diamond loaned to the institute by De Beers.
   GE scientists said their diamonds were superior to other
diamonds for heat-transfer properties. Diamonds are crystals
of pure carbon, with 99% of the carbon being the isotope
carbon-12. In natural diamonds, the scientists explained, the
heat-transfer properties are limited by the presence of the
carbon-13 isotope, which comprises 1% or more of natural
diamonds.
   The GE diamonds are more than 99.9% pure carbon-12, said
the scientists from the company's research and development
laboratory in Schenectady, N.Y., where the methods for making
the diamonds were developed.
   Tests by scientists at Wayne State University in Detroit
found that the "isotopically pure" synthetic diamonds are far
better heat sinks than predicted, the company said. The
synthetic diamonds, for instance, are 1,000% more resistant
to damage from high-powered laser beams than natural
diamonds.
   GE said its scientists developed a twostep process for
making the isotopically pure diamonds. In the first step, a
chemical vapor rich in carbon-12 is deposited on a slab under
low pressure to create tiny diamond crystals. The sheet of
crystals is then crushed into a powder that is placed in a
large press that generates tremendously high pressures and
temperatures. A "seed" diamond crystal and a metal catalyst
is added. Careful control of pressures and temperatures
forces carbon-12 atoms to migrate to the seed crystal and
build up a large, gem-quality diamond.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Gorbachev Re-Elected, by Margin
   Of 3-1, as Communist Party Chief
   ---
   Prior to Vote, Soviet Leader
   Makes Blistering Attack
   On Critics of His Policies
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Mikhail Gorbachev was re-elected general
secretary of the Soviet Communist Party by a wide margin only
hours after attacking his critics, accusing them of being out
of touch with reality and guided by "ossified ideological
cliches."
   Unlike his carefully balanced political report given at
the start of the party congress last week, Mr. Gorbachev's
speech was an uncompromising assault on the military officers
and party veterans who have been sniping at his entire
perestroika reform program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He told them that their dogmatic interpretation of Marx,
Engels and Lenin "will kill perestroika and society," and
urged top officials who didn't agree with his foreign policy
to shut up or resign.
   Mr. Gorbachev delivered his combative address to the party
congress after it had become apparent that his foes didn't
intend to challenge his leadership. In the election by secret
ballot, delegates voted about 3-1 to reappoint Mr. Gorbachev
as party leader, consolidating his power as the nation's
supreme leader. He is also president of the Soviet Union,
elected to that new post by the Soviet Parliament earlier in
the year.
   Reflecting his desire to make party affairs more
democratic, Mr. Gorbachev wasn't the only candidate for
general secretary. Seven others were proposed, but six of
them immediately withdrew their candidacy. The only man bold
enough to take on the Soviet leader was Teimuraz Avaliani, a
58-year-old official from the Kuznetsk coal-mining region of
Siberia who helped to organize a nationwide miners strike
last year.
   Mr. Avaliani's program differed little from that of the
Soviet leader, and he himself admitted that he felt "rather
uncomfortable" challenging Mr. Gorbachev. He received 501
votes in favor and 4,026 against, while Mr. Gorbachev was
supported by 3,411 delegates with 1,116 voting against.
   Most delegates argued that Mr. Gorbachev was the only man
able to steer the nation through its current upheaval, and
needs all the support he can get.
   But some, including Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze,
conceded that they were uneasy about the principle of one man
combining the highest offices of both party and state. Mr.
Gorbachev himself has been moving to separate the two,
transferring power from the party to the evolving system of
elected government.
   If Mr. Gorbachev's re-election came as little surprise,
his speech amounted to a political bombshell. In recent
weeks, a growing number of military officers and midlevel
party officials have been openly complaining about
perestroika, claiming that it was responsible for the
collapse of communism in Eastern Europe and had brought the
Soviet Union to its knees. Their arguments, many of which
were repeated at the congress, have sent shivers through the
nation, raising fears of a reactionary backlash or worse.
   But Mr. Gorbachev went out of his way to soothe such
worries. Point by point, he lambasted the arguments of the
conservatives, whom he described as being "nostalgic for old
times, old methods of work."
   "The principal positive result {perestroika} is that
society won freedom," he said. "Without freedom, this
congress would not have been held, or it would not have been
held in the atmosphere we have now."
   While accepting the need for criticism of some of his
policies over the past five years -- criticism he himself
aired -- he said the Communist Party was now in a crisis
largely because officials at middle and senior levels were
"unable or unwilling to understand that we live and work in a
new society."
   "We are not changing our line or our choice and are
committed to socialist values," he said. "But believe me, the
party's success depends on whether it realizes that this is
already a different society. Otherwise it will be
marginalized by other forces and we shall lose ground."
   He strongly defended his plans to replace the rigid
planned economy with a more market-oriented one, rejecting
claims by critics that this represented a lurch toward
capitalism. "If we continue to act {as before}, then we will
bankrupt the country," he said.
   Much of his wrath was directed at officials who have
criticized the death of old-style Soviet ideology and the
foreign policy shift away from confrontation to a spirit of
cooperation with former foes.
   "Well, do you want tanks again? Shall we teach them again
how to live?" he said, referring to charges that he "lost"
Eastern Europe. "Did we act wisely in adjusting and
developing good relations with tens of countries on all
continents? I am sure we did, and they responded in kind, not
only rulers but peoples. One must be blind to overlook it."
   Those who disagreed with such policies were free to do so,
he said. But for people occupying important state posts -- an
apparent reference to the generals who have criticized him --
loyalty must be the watchword. "If they are decent people and
they disagree with government policy, they must resign," Mr.
Gorbachev said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Transportation Drug Tests
   Show 3.6% Positive Rate
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
AIRLINES (AIR)
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<LP>
   About 3.6% of American transportation job holders and
applicants had illegal or abusable drugs in their systems
when tested by SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratories, King
of Prussia, Pa.
   The results were the first released under the federally
mandated drug testing program that began last December for
transportation workers and applicants, including airplane
pilots and mechanics, railroad employees, truck drivers and
bus drivers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   SmithKline, a unit of London-based SmithKline Beecham PLC,
said it analyzed urine samples from 118,000 transportation
workers and applicants from Dec. 21, 1989, to June 30, 1990.
   The company said that 3.1% of 65,000 transportation job
holders tested positive for one or more of five substances:
marijuana, cocaine, amphetamines, opiates and the
hallucinogenic tranquilizer phencyclidine. SmithKline said
4.2% of 53,000 applicants for transportation jobs also tested
positive. SmithKline didn't break down its results by mode of
transport.
   SmithKline said that in the general work force 10.4% of
nearly one million job applicants and workers tested positive
for one or more of the five substances. Harry Groome,
president of SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratories, said
"the good news is that drug use in the transportation
industry is less prevalent than in other parts of society.
The bad news is that drug use in safety-sensitive
transportation jobs can put people's lives at risk."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Machinery Orders Up
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Reflecting a steady uptrend, orders for machinery
received by Japanese manufacturers in May climbed 13.4% from
a year earlier to 1.658 trillion yen ($250.7 million), the
Economic Planning Agency announced.
   Orders dipped 0.2% last December, interrupting the
increase that started in October 1988, but they have been
rising again each month since the beginning of 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sustained increase is evidence of Japanese
corporations' desires to modernize, in anticipation of better
business in the future, officials said.
   The latest gain was also attributed to the fact that the
government, having failed to pass its fiscal 1989 budget
through parliament in time, held down orders in May 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Report Links Mouth Sores
   With Smokeless Tobacco
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Boys and young men who emulate their baseball
heroes by chewing tobacco risk developing mouth sores, dental
problems and perhaps even cancer, a new report says.
   In a study of 1,109 major and minor league baseball
players, health researchers found that nearly half of
frequent users of smokeless tobacco developed white,
callus-type sores on their gums. Such players were also more
likely than those who didn't use the smokeless tobacco to
have other gum problems that could ultimately lead to loss of
teeth later in life.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The study, published in today's Journal of the American
Medical Association, adds to growing concern about the health
effects of smokeless tobacco -- including chewing tobacco and
snuff -- and increasing use of the products by children.
   "The players know in general that it has bad health
effects," says Deborah G. Grady, assistant professor of
epidemiology and medicine at the University of California at
San Francisco, and a co-author of the study. "A lot of young
boys emulate them and they're concerned about that."
   About 75% of the players in the study used snuff; other
players used a coarser wad of chewing tobacco.
   The researchers didn't uncover any evidence of cancer
among the players, most of whom were between 20 and 29 years
old. But other studies have linked long-term use of snuff in
particular with oral cancer, Dr. Grady says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Button Boom: Making a Market in Mao
   ----
   By Betsy Ring
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Hong Kong -- Screwing up my courage I said in my best
approximation of a Peking accent, "If you let me ride with
you I'll show you my Chairman Mao button collection." In
those days, there was nothing more coveted and more difficult
to get than a Chairman Mao button . . . The worker's eyes
gleamed with interest and I pressed my advantage. "I'll give
you one. I'll let you choose any one you like."
   -- From "Son of the Revolution"
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unlike 12-year-old Liang Heng, who parts with a precious
button to stay on a train to Peking in 1966, you wouldn't get
far in China with a Chairman Mao button today. Once a prized
emblem of revolutionary fervor, a Mao badge now can be had
for the asking.
   "There's a billion Chinese and they made a whole lot of
buttons," says Scott Seligman, an American living in Hong
Kong who has saved hundreds of Mao buttons since starting his
collection 10 years ago. "They have this stuff around the
house; they don't want it, but they don't want to throw it
away because they don't want to be accused of anything, and
they're perfectly happy to give you this stuff."
   The first button, issued to officers of the People's
Liberation Army in 1965, was a rectangular-shaped aluminum
pin bearing the slogan, "Serve the People." Mao buttons also
were awarded to the Red Guards to commemorate their long
marches to revolutionary sites. They swapped revolutionary
paraphernalia, vying for the largest, rarest Mao buttons. A
former Red Guard, Cheng Ting Au, now a professor in Hong
Kong, says, "Now you choose Pierre Cardin for prestige; then,
you would attract the attention of your superior by wearing a
new Mao badge]"
   At the height of the button craze in the late '60s, the
Great Helmsman's face appeared on aluminum, porcelain, bamboo
and plastic. Schools, factories and other organizations
mass-produced the buttons, inscribing their names and the
date of issue on the back. When friends or relatives got
together, the big thrill was to compare button collections.
"You were very ashamed if you didn't have an impressive
collection," says a former PLA soldier, Keung Yuk Sing.
   Chinese traded Mao badges the way Americans exchange
baseball cards. Friends bearing buttons would display their
collections in specially made, two-section holders: one with
buttons to trade; the other with buttons to brag over but
never to part with.
   It was the Great Helmsman himself who finally brought a
halt to this frenzy. In the early '70s, Mao asked his
admirers to turn in their collections. "Return my airplanes,"
he said. People were reimbursed, according to the weight of
their collections -- by their work units or neighborhood
committees. Mao's rationale for the recall seems to have been
that China was running out of aluminum. But Grace Wang, who
held onto her collection, remembers it differently: "People
realized they'd been betrayed by Chairman Mao; they regretted
that the country had spent so much money on the buttons."
   "The fever had died," says Ms. Wang, who now lives in Hong
Kong. "The collections had become a burden to the people, and
the government didn't want to see Mao's face in the trash
can, so they offered a place to dump the collections." Ms.
Wang kept her collection "for art's sake." She boasts that
"you can't find nicer buttons than I have." One of her
treasures is the size of a dinner plate. Another glows in the
dark.
   Beyond size and rarity, buttons are judged on whether they
have a date inscribed on the back and on the quality of
craftsmanship. Particularly esteemed are those that make up
the complete set of the five major revolutionary shrines:
Jinggang Mountain, Peking, Shaoshan (Mao's birthplace), Yenan
and Ruijing.
   Mr. Seligman's piece de resistance is a red alarm clock
with Chairman Mao on its face. A young Red Guard is in the
foreground, ticking off each second by waving her little red
book. After searching 10 years for such a clock, Mr. Seligman
paid $50 for it this year in Beijing. "I would have paid
twice that; I was so glad to see it."
   A British collector in Hong Kong, Anne Shepherd, says the
Chinese have recognized the potential market and are
beginning to produce new Cultural Revolution clocks. "But
mine's the real thing . . . it's old and bashed up," she
says.
   Ten years ago, when she started her collection, it
perplexed her Chinese friends. "But then they understood; I
would give them English stamps, and they would give me
buttons." At last count, she had 100 buttons.
   Ms. Shepherd refuses to buy buttons from the shops in Hong
Kong, where they're sold for as much as $13. At the
"foreigner shopping" areas in Beijing, Mao buttons run about
$1, up from about 30 cents 10 years ago.
   Button collectors may soon hit hard times, however.
Chairman Mao buttons are coming back in style in China. These
days the Chinese wear the buttons as a slap in the face to
the Deng Xiaoping administration. Mao buttons made
appearances last year at demonstrations in Beijing and even
in Texas. "A group of students held up a huge sheet of Mao
buttons to protest that Deng is a murderer," says Zhou Xiao,
who was a student organizer in Houston.
   It's unlikely that there will be buttons with Mr. Deng's
face on them. According to Mr. Keung: "The cult of
personality will never happen again. If there is positive
meaning from the Cultural Revolution, it's that we grew up;
we realized Mao was not a god, and the Chinese people would
never worship any leader again."
   ---
   Ms. Ring is editor of The Asian Wall Street Journal's
leisure and arts page.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, July 10, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 1/4% low, 8 1/4% near
closing bid, 8 3/8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.175% 30 to 44 days; 8.15% 45 to 59 days;
8.10% 60 to 89 days; 8.05% 90 to 119 days; 8% 120 to 149
days; 7.95% 150 to 179 days; 7.875% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.25%
30 days; 8.20% 60 days; 8.15% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.70% one month; 7.72% two
months; 7.74% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.11% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.25% one month; 8.25% three months;
8.30% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.14% 30 days; 8.06% 60 days; 8.02%
90 days; 7.99% 120 days; 7.95% 150 days; 7.92% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% one month; 8 3/8%
- 8 1/4% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8 3/8% - 8
1/4% four months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% five months; 8 7/16% - 8
5/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 3/8% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 7/16% six months; 8 9/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 11.38%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 9, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.81% 13 weeks; 7.75% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.10%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.04%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.80%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.78%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   And They Don't Want Anybody
   Walking the Dog Near It, Either
   ----
   By Jim Herron Zamora
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Perhaps only God can make a tree, but Marvin Davis is
claiming that one is his own "intellectual property."
   His Pebble Beach Co., owner of the scenic golf and hotel
resort on the central California shore front, has informed
photographers that the Lone Cypress standing on a rocky point
of its land is a company-trademarked image.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In November, company attorneys told Westlight, a Los
Angeles photo agency that had sold a Lone Cypress photo, to
stop marketing images of the tree. The same month, says
free-lance photographer Ed Young, Pebble Beach denied him
permission to take pictures if he planned to sell them "in
violation of their trademark."
   That has pro photographers scurrying to their lawyers for
rebuttals to Pebble Beach's view of the trademark laws.
   "Is Mount Rushmore next?" asks Robert M. Cavallo, whose
New York-based Cavallo &amp; Wolff law firm represents Westlight
and the Picture Agency Council of America. He contends that
the Pebble Beach trademark protects only the company's
distinct logo rendering of the tree with waves in the
background, and that after 100 years of being freely snapped,
the tree is now in the public domain.
   Pebble Beach says its attorney knowledgeable on the issue
is unreachable. But in a letter to Cavallo &amp; Wolff, the
company said it has applied to "register the tree itself as a
trademark no matter how depicted."
   Even if the company is successful in this application,
it's questionable how any restrictions would affect the
thousands of commercial photographs already in circulation.
"They're trying to lock the barn door after the horse is
out," says Pat Hathaway, a Carmel photographer whose firm,
California Views, has more than 100 versions of the Lone
Cypress, including one picture taken in 1880.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Fearful of Future, Plaintiffs Are Suing
   Firms for What Hasn't Happened Yet
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lawsuits claiming fears about the future are giving
companies anxiety attacks.
   More and more suits are being filed that seek compensation
for plaintiffs' worries about events that may happen at a
later time, and defense lawyers say the trend poses serious
problems for corporations. The specter of liability for fear
and distress, they argue, could deter manufacturers from
introducing beneficial products. They also say it's unfair to
make companies pay for worries about incidents that are
statistically unlikely to occur.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But modern society increasingly views " `mental
tranquillity' as a protectable interest," says Paul
Rothstein, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center.
"Part of the good life today, as opposed to medieval times,
is that we're not only entitled to be free from physical
injuries but we're also entitled to a degree of mental
happiness."
   Consequently, individuals and companies have been sued by
people who believe they may develop cancer because of their
proximity to manufacturing plants, worry that life-saving
equipment may eventually kill them and fear that they will
contract sexually transmitted diseases.
   Decisions on compensating the victims of fear have varied
from court to court, but the U.S. Supreme Court is expected
to address the issue in the fall. The court will hear a case
filed by passengers of an Eastern Airlines flight who say
they suffered emotional injuries when they were told by a
pilot that their plane might crash.
   Courts have long recognized the right to seek damages for
emotional distress, but until recently compensation was only
granted when the distress was the result of a physical
injury. Many judges viewed fear and distress claims
skeptically because they thought that emotional injuries were
easy to feign. Many courts also believed that such injuries
were temporary and thus difficult to compensate.
   But a growing understanding about the devastating impact
of emotional injuries has made judges more willing to
compensate plaintiffs, even when their fears don't have
physical manifestations.
   "From a financial standpoint, the suits have the potential
to be devastating," says Arvin Maskin of the New York law
firm of Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges, who defends corporations in
fear litigation.
   Last year a Los Angeles jury awarded $14.5 million to Marc
Christian, Rock Hudson's former lover, who claimed he
suffered emotional distress after learning in a 1985 news
report that Mr. Hudson was dying from AIDS. It is believed to
be the largest amount awarded to someone who tested negative
for a sexually transmitted disease. The trial judge reduced
the award to $5 million, but lawyers for Mr. Hudson's estate
have asked the appeals court to grant a new trial, arguing
that there was insufficient evidence that Mr. Christian
suffered severe emotional distress.
   "When someone says I had a relationship and I'm fearful
I'll get AIDS, how can you prove or disprove that? It's your
word against his," says Robert Parker Mills of the Pasadena
law firm of Mills &amp; Schroeder, which represents the estate.
   But Kent L. Richland, who represents Mr. Christian, says
that medical science can't say with complete certainty that
his client will never contract AIDS. "The threat that is
hanging over his head is a horrible disease and a miserable,
painful death," says Mr. Richland, a lawyer with the Beverly
Hills law firm of Greines, Martin, Stein &amp; Richland.
   Lawyers say the Hudson verdict has wide implications and
has been used to support claims involving alleged exposure to
toxic substances, where diseases often have a long latency
period and proving an injury is difficult. In those cases,
the courts have grappled with determining how reasonable the
fear is, especially in incidents where the odds of a disease
materializing are remote. Many judges are beginning to accept
the notion that probability isn't a good measure of a
person's fears.
   That was the reasoning applied by U.S. District Judge
Robert J. Bryan in a suit brought by nine past and present
residents of an Air Force base in Tacoma, Wash., against the
federal government for damages resulting from the alleged
contamination of their water wells. In a 1987 decision that
included more than $80,000 for the plaintiffs' emotional
distress, Judge Bryan wrote that the plaintiffs hadn't been
exposed to a risk "greater than one in one million. The
actual risk was probably much less, and may be zero." But he
noted that the Environmental Protection Agency had advised
the plaintiffs not to drink or use the water, which contained
possible carcinogens, and so he found the residents'
anxieties reasonable.
   Other courts have determined that a person's fears are
reasonable based on a wide range of evidence, including
letters from a doctor prescribing regular checkups,
transcripts of congressional hearings in which the health
risks associated with certain chemicals are discussed,
scientific articles, and even TV broadcasts.
   Mr. Maskin of Weil Gotshal, who lectures regularly about
phobia suits, says he worries that "the courts have allowed
perceived risks to transcend actual risks. If you jettison
the reality of risk, then the sky is the limit."
   But plaintiffs' lawyers say that medical science still
can't definitively state how exposure to toxic substances
affects individuals, so courts must find other methods to
assess fear.
   Employees of Firestone Tire &amp; Rubber Co. have filed a suit
claiming the company fraudulently concealed information about
hazardous substances used at the company's Salinas, Calif.,
facility and seeking funds to pay for regular checkups to
monitor their health. Firestone has denied the allegations.
   In a 1987 opinion refusing to dismiss the case, U.S.
District Judge Robert P. Aguilar of San Jose acknowledged
medical science hadn't developed to the point it could detect
the employees' injuries and that the legal system "must
evolve to meet the needs of society." The case is pending.
   John W. Fowler of the San Francisco firm of McCutchen,
Doyle, Brown &amp; Enersen, a lawyer for Firestone, says that
providing lifetime medical monitoring could be costly for
employers and open up manufacturers to liability for diseases
that never materialize. But the employees' lawyer, Gordon A.
Stemple of the Century City firm of Stemple &amp; Boyajian, says
companies that knowingly send employees into a dangerous
workplace should bear the cost of monitoring for health
problems.
   Fear suits raise particularly troubling questions in the
area of medical technology, where advances in science have
led to breakthroughs that are often accompanied by health
risks.
   The issue was highlighted by a suit filed by Judy Khan, an
artificial heart valve patient. Mrs. Khan claims she has
lived in constant fear of death since she learned that Shiley
Inc., the valve's maker, was recalling the product because a
defect could cause the valves to fracture. The California
Supreme Court ruled in May that Mrs. Khan can seek damages
for emotional distress if she can prove Shiley concealed
material information.
   "Whether you're talking about an AIDS vaccine, an organ
implant or artificial heart valves, few medical products are
risk-free. If you allow these lawsuits {to proceed}, in
effect you create universal liability," says David Klingsberg
of the New York law firm of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays &amp;
Handler, which represents Pfizer Inc., Shiley's owner.
   But Mrs. Khan's lawyer, Bruce A. Finzen of Robins, Kaplan,
Miller &amp; Ciresi of Minneapolis, says Pfizer should be held
liable for concealing the risks associated with its product.
"Their breach of duty has caused people anguish," he says.
   Not all such litigation involves fears of future events.
Lawyers say a growing number of cases are being filed by
passengers who survive airplane accidents and seek damages
for the emotional distress when they thought they might die.
   In the case currently before the U.S. Supreme Court, 25
passengers and their spouses are seeking damages for mental
distress they say they suffered aboard Eastern Airlines
flight 855 on May 5, 1983. Bound for the Bahamas, the plane
ran into trouble after leaving the Miami airport. One engine
malfunctioned and had to be shut down by the crew. The other
two failed soon after.
   As the plane rapidly lost altitude, the captain announced
it might crash in the Atlantic Ocean. But the crew managed to
restart one of the engines, and the plane returned safely to
Miami.
   John M. Murray, a lawyer for Eastern from the Miami law
firm of Thornton, David, Murray, Richard &amp; Davis, said the
passengers shouldn't be able to collect damages because they
suffered no physical injuries. He predicts that if the case
goes forward, "the number of lawsuits that are filed against
air carriers will vastly increase."
   But the plaintiffs' lawyer, Joel D. Eaton of the Miami
firm of Podhurst, Orseck, Josefsberg, Eaton, Meadow, Olin &amp;
Perwin, sees it differently. "The passengers were told they
were going to crash," he says. "They were nearly frightened
to death."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Court Upholds
   Investor Choice
   On Arbitration
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Small investors won a court victory that gives
them greater freedom to choose the battlefield in bringing
arbitration cases against their brokers.
   In a 6-0 decision, the New York State Court of Appeals
ruled that customers can choose to bring their disputes with
brokers to an independent arbitration panel -- not only to a
forum subsidized by the securities industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruling by New York's highest court, affirming a
decision by the New York State Supreme Court early last year,
will affect hundreds of thousands of investors, according to
court papers filed by the Securities Industry Association.
   The appellate decision could set a nationwide pattern.
That's because most brokerage agreements are governed by the
laws of New York state, where many big securities firms are
based. Moreover, federal courts typically follow state court
interpretations involving contract language, arbitration
specialists say.
   The ruling will be welcomed by a number of investors who
have expressed a desire to have disputes resolved by panels
that don't have strong ties to the securities business.
   "This increases the odds that an investor is going to have
his way" if he wants to take a brokerage dispute to an
independent panel, says Richard Ryder, editor of the
Securities Arbitration Commentator and a former director of
arbitration at the National Association of Securities
Dealers.
   Many investors sign a standard agreement when they open a
brokerage account that binds them to pursuing arbitration
rather than filing a lawsuit in case of dispute. Under
yesterday's ruling they still won't be allowed to take their
squabbles to court.
   For years, however, many customers have been required by
the agreements to take their cases to industry-sponsored
forums. Such panels typically consist of three arbitrators,
including one securities executive and sometimes other people
with ties to Wall Street.
   The major independent forum, the American Arbitration
Association, is privately funded and widely perceived to be
the most sympathetic to investors. Customers win about 60% of
the time at the American Arbitration Association, compared
with about 50% at exchange-sponsored forums, arbitration
specialists say.
   Yesterday's appellate decision stemmed from a case brought
by a customer of Cowen &amp; Co., a New York securities firm. The
investor, Jeffrey Anderson, signed a brokerage agreement that
contained clauses saying any dispute should be settled by
arbitration in "accordance with the rules then in effect" at
the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange or NASD.
When a dispute arose, Mr. Anderson wanted to bring the case
to the American Arbitration Association; Cowen said he could
only go to three industry-sponsored forums under terms of the
agreement.
   But the appellate court, in a seven-page ruling, noted
that American Stock Exchange rules allow investors to go to
the American Arbitration Association unless they have agreed
in writing to submit only to the exchange's arbitration
procedure.
   "Inasmuch as {Mr. Anderson} did not agree to limit the
arbitration to the self-regulatory organizations, the plain
language of the {brokerage} agreements grant him the right
under the Amex constitution to elect to arbitrate the dispute
before the AAA," the court said.
   The state appellate court decision runs counter to a
recent federal appeals court decision. In May, the U.S.
Second Circuit Court of Appeals in New York ruled that
investors couldn't go to the AAA under the Amex constitution.
But Mr. Ryder and other arbitration specialists say federal
courts should follow state law, which typically handle
arbitration appeals.
   "This decision trumps what the second circuit did," says
Theodore Eppenstein, a New York lawyer representing Mr.
Anderson.
   Lawrence Liebowitz, Cowen's general counsel, hadn't seen a
copy of the state appellate court decision, but said: "We
don't think the court decided correctly."
   The Securities Industry Association, which filed court
papers supporting Cowen, said brokerage firms shouldn't be
forced to allow investors the option of independent
arbitration panels. (The SIA has long encouraged its 600
member firms to consider using the AAA in customer agreements
with arbitration clauses. But most Wall Street firms still
balk.)
   Industry-sponsored forums are "as fair as can be," says
William Fitzpatrick, SIA general counsel. But, he says, if
securities firms continue to steer disputes solely to
industry-sponsored forums, "unfortunately you'll have this
perception that keeps coming back to haunt you that {firms}
are trying to trap people."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LAB NOTES
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR HIT
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   Klutzy Robots Beware:
   A New Crew Has Grace
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ELBOW ROOM has been a problem for robots. But a Yale
University engineer has developed a robotic arm that can
outperform humans in cramped spaces.
   Using tiny computers and hundreds of sensors, the arm
maneuvers around objects, taking the most efficient course to
perform a task.
   Vladimir Lumelsky, associate professor of electrical
engineering and the developer of the arm, says the technology
may revive interest in robots, which has faded in the past
few years as factories' expectations were dashed. Doing only
repetitive tasks, robots often smashed objects around them
and required more space than the humans they replaced.
   The eight-foot Lumelsky robot arm is made of flexible
plastic. It has 500 glass-covered sensors, each of which
sends out a beam of infrared light 20 times a second. The
beams bounce off objects that come within five to six inches
of the arm, and receptors in the sensors send the information
about obstacles to tiny computers in the arm that plan
evasive actions.
   Mr. Lumelsky believes the technology can be improved even
further. He says the next generation of robotic arms, which
he's now developing with Hitachi Ltd. of Japan, will have
thousands of sensors and will be able to respond to obstacles
20 inches away. Robots eventually will be able to perform
delicate assembly tasks, work side by side with humans, and
pick up apples without bruising them, he says.
                                                                                                       

   Beam of Light Measures
   Brain Oxygen in Surgery
                                                                                                       

   RESEARCHERS at the University of Pennsylvania are testing
a noninvasive sensor technology that monitors oxygen levels
in a patient's brain during surgery.
   The brain can be damaged when the oxygen carried by the
blood drops below a critical level and isn't restored within
minutes. Doctors currently monitor the patient's oxygen
levels by measuring the intake of oxygen by the lungs and the
saturation of hemoglobin in the arterial blood. This approach
assumes that if the body's levels are good, then the brain is
receiving adequate levels of oxygen.
   But the researchers say current techniques aren't
completely reliable in surgery. Directly measuring oxygen
levels of the brain "can make a difference" in the operating
room, they say. "It can alert the surgeon and
anesthesiologist earlier than the existing techniques do,"
says Britton Chance, a professor of biochemistry and physics
and the developer of the device.
   The sensor, the size of a tape recorder, uses light and
detectors to pick up changes in blood oxygen in the brain.
White light is transmitted through the skin and skull to the
brain and reflected back to a coin-size detector. Changes in
light absorption indicate the oxygen levels in the brain; a
drop in absorption signals falling oxygen levels.
   Mr. Chance says other uses include monitoring oxygen
levels in an athlete's muscles to prevent intense muscle pain
that results from oxygen depletion.
                                                                                                       

   Work and Diet Affect
   Point of Colon Cancer
                                                                                                       

   OCCUPATION as well as diet may determine where cancer will
show up in the colon, medical researchers find.
   The five-foot-long organ has three sections, each of which
has a different blood source and moves differently during the
digestive process. "Consequently, the sections have different
susceptibilities," says David H. Garabrant, associate
professor of occupational medicine at the University of
Michigan, which conducted the study along with the University
of Southern California.
   Looking at 294 men, ages 24 to 44, all with colon cancer,
it appeared that a person with a sedentary job, such as an
executive, stands a greater chance than others of developing
a cancerous tumor in the midsection of the colon that runs
across the abdomen and down the left side. Men whose
occupations exposed them to metal and wood dusts had a higher
risk of cancer in the rectum and the sigmoid or lower colon.
   A diet heavy in deep-fried foods or meats preserved with
nitrite -- such as ham and smoked meats -- was associated
with cancer in the right colon. Mr. Garabrant says fresh
fruits, vegetables, and fibers seemed to reduce the chances
of developing colon cancer, but not rectal cancer.
   Jobs with physical activity also seemed to protect men
from colon cancer, particularly in the transverse and
descending portions.
                                                                                                       

   Scientists Concentrate
   On a Mix to Make Milk
                                                                                                       

   TWO U.S. Department of Agriculture scientists have
developed a frozen milk concentrate.
   The dairy industry hasn't had much success in coming up
with a product similar to the frozen orange-juice
concentrate. That's because the butterfat in milk decomposes
easily and is thus hard to reconstitute. George Bookwalter
and Steven Lyle, the two Agriculture Department scientists,
overcame the problem by substituting butterfat with oil of
soybean, corn, or peanut -- bringing a side benefit of making
the milk cholesterol-free.
   The pair got the idea from a practice common in developing
nations, where dry milk is often mixed with oil as well as
water, to increase the caloric value. The researchers say
they have developed a blending technique that prevents oil
and water separation, and add that several U.S. companies are
looking into the prospects of commercializing the
U.S.D.A.-patented technology.
   A pint of concentrate yields two quarts, says Mr. Lyle,
who adds: "A lot of people can't tell the difference between
the reconstituted and whole milk."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   From "The Children of Teenage Mothers: Patterns of Early
Childbearing in Two Generations," a study by Frank F.
Furstenberg Jr., Judith A. Levine and Jeanne Brooks-Gunn in
the March/April 1990 Family Planning Perspectives:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Twenty years after a mostly black group of Baltimore women
became adolescent mothers, the majority of their first-born
children had not become adolescent parents, a finding that
challenges the popular belief that the offspring of teenage
mothers are themselves destined to become adolescent parents.
. . .
   Part of this article is devoted to an examination of the
adjustment to teenage childbearing among our small subgroup
of second-generation adolescent mothers compared with that of
their mothers in 1970. An earlier analysis had suggested that
many of the older generation of mothers would fare reasonably
well over the long term. Is the prognosis for the daughters
equally favorable? The early indications are not encouraging.
More of the daughters were unmarried, and most expected to
remain single in the near future. Because of this propensity
to remain single, a far greater proportion of the younger
generation were receiving public assistance. In addition,
indications that they would leave welfare were less
encouraging. Although the daughters had higher educational
goals, more had a history of having failed a grade -- an
ominous sign for future educational attainment. Moreover, a
higher proportion of teenage mothers were neither employed
nor in school. . . . We must wonder whether these findings
portend the growth of an urban underclass.
   In addressing this point, however, we need to recognize
some countervailing trends. First, the great majority of
offspring of teenage mothers are not repeating the pattern of
their parents. Overall, out-of-wedlock teenage childbearing
in the black population has not increased over the past two
decades; indeed, it has dropped slightly since the early
1970s, no doubt in part because of the legalization of
abortion.
   Second, the availability of abortion has changed the
composition of the teenage-parent population. Once pregnancy
occurs, fewer teenagers today are forced to become parents,
making early parenthood (relatively speaking) more a
voluntary act. Although abortion is undoubtedly underreported
in our sample, we strongly suspect that more educationally
competent teenagers opt out of parenthood. Compared with
teenagers who became mothers before age 19, those who had
aborted a pregnancy were much less likely to have previously
repeated a grade in school and held higher educational
aspirations. . . .
   Although the picture of the second-generation teenage
mother is bleak, there is an encouraging side to our
findings. Most of the teenage children of the original
Baltimore mothers did not become teenage parents themselves.
Of those teenagers without children, most had completed high
school, and many went on to college. No doubt, despite great
efforts, some will be unable to lift themselves out of
poverty . . . but it is equally possible that the toehold
into the middle class they are now establishing will grow
firmer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Design Companies Act as Catalysts for Entrepreneurs
   ---
   Cambridge Seven Shapes Opportunities
   In Projects Built Around Aquariums
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   When Osaka Waterfront Development Co. opens its $148
million waterfront project in Osaka, Japan, next week, a
small design company halfway around the world will get much
of the credit.
   The Cambridge, Mass., company, Cambridge Seven Associates
Inc., designed not only the project's centerpiece, a $107
million aquarium, but also the adjoining marketplace. And it
produced the master plan for the whole development project.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cambridge Seven, which counts aquarium design as one of
its specialties, first planned a 1.4 million-gallon tank for
Pacific marine life, from Alaskan sea otters to Panamanian
eels. Then, principal architect Peter Chermayeff and his
associates designed the specialty marketplace for stores and
restaurants that reflected a diverse international theme. "We
even taught the bartenders how to make the perfect daiquiri,"
Mr. Chermayeff says. His father, Serge, is a well-known
architect and a former professor of design at Yale
University.
   As the design business gets more specialized, concerns
such as Cambridge Seven increasingly reach beyond their
conventional services and act as entrepreneurial catalysts.
Instead of simply designing an attraction such as the Osaka
aquarium, they plan whole commercial and development projects
built around the attraction. They benefit from leveraging a
specific expertise. Precious few people know what it takes to
build a commercial success around an aquarium, for example.
   This broad development strategy helps the design concerns
diversify and increase their income. It also gives them a big
role in shaping the small-business opportunities in
marketplace projects built around tourist and recreational
attractions.
   Besides providing traditional blueprints, design firms
that act as catalysts often offer market analysis,
environmental-impact studies, management reports and even
operating manuals. They must combine their expertise in
design with broader operational and economic concerns, says
Alfred Osborne, entrepreneurial studies director of the
University of California at Los Angeles. "The trick is to
make these services available at a low enough cost."
   The broad approach is spreading. "We're going beyond
design. Our role has broadened enormously," says Grant Jones,
a principal at Jones &amp; Jones Inc., a Seattle design firm that
specializes in designing and redesigning zoos. "We're less an
office of artists and designers and more of a design
company," he adds.
   Demand for the designer as catalyst has grown as cities
have learned the power of a tourist attraction as a focal
point for commercial development.
   Cambridge Seven, primarily an architectural design
concern, helped design Boston's New England Aquarium in 1962
as part of the city's efforts to revitalize a waterfront. The
Aquarium's role in attracting visitors prompted Baltimore in
1975 to hire the firm for its downtown revival.
   "We needed to design a structure that not only would be an
attraction in itself but would make the whole downtown
attractive," Mr. Chermayeff says. That meant making the
aquarium an integral part of a large complex, including a
museum, a promenade, a marina and a variety of retail stores
and restaurants. To integrate the smorgasbord of projects
into a coherent whole, "We ended up as urban designers," the
54-year-old architect says.
   The Baltimore aquarium was successful -- it attracts more
than 1.3 million visitors each year -- because the designers
were able to create a space that allowed its visitors to do
more than just look at fish, Mr. Chermayeff explains. "You
are creating an environment where people can spend the better
part of the day."
   The Cambridge Seven designers have recognized that
aquariums can't be designed in isolation -- they have to
reflect broader themes. In Chattanooga, Tenn., for example,
Mr. Chermayeff and his associates are designing a $40 million
aquarium that celebrates the Tennessee River from its origins
in the Smoky Mountains to its outlet in the Gulf of Mexico.
The freshwater exhibit, which features bass and red-bellied
turtles, gives way to a saltwater tank with tropical fish,
rays and sharks.
   But to build the aquarium as the anchor of Chattanooga's
riverfront development, waterfront streets and property lines
had to be adjusted: A highway was closed, downtown traffic
diverted.
   With the aquarium as the hub, the designers then created
plans for a river center that would be home to the National
Sport Fishing Center, along with a complex of retail stores
and offices and a hotel and conference center. "We had to
create not just a landmark aquarium as a first phase of
riverfront development but a larger mixed-use development,
with greater critical mass and drawing power," Mr. Chermayeff
explains.
   He hopes the retail anchor will be a store catering to
bass fishermen. "There are more than five million of them,"
he says. While about 50% of the businesses will convey the
sporting theme, the rest will attract general shoppers. "You
want a setting that allows you to be unique but not
inaccessible," he notes.
   In Osaka, Cambridge Seven at first was simply asked to
design an aquarium to anchor the city's new waterside
redevelopment. But the firm's economic studies showed the
aquarium would be better located where the marketplace was
planned. The Osaka developers agreed and asked Mr. Chermayeff
to design all the project.
   Like most such tasks, the Osaka project had tricky
specialized requirements. While the aquarium had to have a
theme strong enough to attract visitors, "we had to give
large numbers of people a memorable experience in as short a
period as an hour and a half," Mr. Chermayeff says. He and
Baltimore developer James Rouse created a marketplace with
distinctive architectural lines and artwork. Large marine
sculptures of metal and acrylic are suspended from the
ceiling, reinforcing the aquatic theme. "We needed to impose
a design structure that would unify the stores regardless of
what they sold," Mr. Chermayeff says.
   Mr. Chermayeff is also developing similar projects in
Toronto and Genoa, Italy. In Genoa, the firm will take a
further entrepreneurial step: For more than a year, it will
manage the aquarium and the commercial center surrounding it
-- and collect a share of the revenue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Essex Cop.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ESEX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ESSEX Corp. (Alexandria, Va.) -- Harold P. Hanson was
named a director of this systems manufacturing and design
company. Mr. Hanson, 68 years old, succeeds Charles S. Smith,
44, who retired from the board to pursue other business
interests. Mr. Hanson is a former executive director of the
Committee on Science, Space and Technology of the U.S. House
of Representatives.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Costly Advice:
   Wall Streeters Helped
   Interco Defeat Raiders
   But at a Heavy Price
   ---
   Wasserstein Perella Urged
   Firm to Take On Big Debt
   Even After Threat Faded
   ---
   Fee Based on Doing the Deal
   ----
   By George Anders and Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   ISS
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Directors of Interco Inc. were delighted to
hire Bruce Wasserstein and Joseph Perella as anti-takeover
strategists in 1988. The investment bankers were famed Wall
Street warriors, and their "reputation was such that you got
them if you could," recalls Lee Liberman, an Interco
director.
   What Interco wound up getting from Wasserstein Perella &amp;
Co., however, was a series of financial maneuvers and a
recapitalization that did fend off a raider, but left it
staggering under $1.8 billion of debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These days, Interco is hardly alone, with many companies
struggling with the debt legacy of the leverage-happy '80s.
But the story of how a conservatively run furniture and shoe
company such as Interco got into trouble helps explain why so
many companies are stuck in similar binds.
   In retrospect, Interco desperately needed someone in late
1988 to rein in the optimism of its top executives and
fee-hungry investment bankers. No one did, despite ample
warning signs. Interco turned into a case study of how badly
Wall Street advice can misfire.
   Now Interco has defaulted on bond payments due June 15.
Its stock has sunk to fractional prices that sound like
drill-bit sizes: 5/16ths, 9/32nds. The company is talking
about filing for bankruptcy protection against creditors. Its
chief executive has quit, and Wasserstein Perella has been
dropped. Cash is so scarce that Interco's new chairman broke
his predecessor's office in half with gray drywall partitions
so he could cram executives into smaller quarters and save on
rent.
   The story is laid out in court documents, including
Interco board minutes, financial forecasts from Interco and
Wasserstein Perella and the investment firm's presentations
to Interco directors, plus numerous interviews. The
documents, filed in Court of Chancery in Delaware, show that
the company's fate was decided, to a remarkable degree, by a
few number-crunching financial people operating with little
oversight by top officials at either Interco or Wasserstein
Perella. They created "Project Imperial," a fantasy-land
version of what Interco assets could bring at auction, how
much its Lane and Broyhill furniture units and its Converse
sneaker and Florsheim shoe operations could earn, and how
much debt Interco could tolerate.
   Interco "secured a lot of very, very bad advice from its
Wall Street advisers," concludes 81-year-old Nathan Ancell,
an Interco director at the time. "They put a lot of wild
figures together." Another former director, Charles J.
Rothschild Jr., agrees: "We were given rather poor advice."
   Wasserstein Perella, through a spokesman, says its advice
was based on Interco management's own budget data and seemed
appropriate at the time. Yet Wasserstein Perella's financial
analysts -- including one just a year and a half out of
college -- spun out 10-year projections of cash flow and
earnings and recommended a new capital structure, all without
doing much basic research.
   This spring, Interco agreed to pay $18.5 million to settle
a shareholders' lawsuit charging that directors had breached
their fiduciary duty by approving the recapitalization
instead of letting an outside suitor buy the company.
Wasserstein Perella was a co-defendant in that suit, filed in
the Delaware court, but was indemnified by Interco. One
shareholder attorney, Robert Harwood, says he would have
liked to press for larger damages but saw little hope of
collecting. "This company has been squeezed dry like a
raisin," he says.
   Interco's troubles started in the spring of 1988, when
Harvey Saligman, then its chief executive, feared that it
might become a takeover target. Mr. Saligman turned to Mr.
Wasserstein, whom he had liked when they worked together on
Interco's acquisition of Converse in 1986.
   "Bruce Wasserstein was brilliant," says Gene Smith,
Interco's chief financial officer. But Interco executives
seldom saw him except at board meetings. Detailed work on
Interco was left largely to Scott Mohr, the 34-year-old head
of Wasserstein Perella's Chicago office, and to younger
people who worked for him.
   Soon after being hired, Wasserstein Perella began
counseling Interco on ways to ward off a takeover bid that
had arrived -- via fax -- from Steven and Mitchell Rales of
Washington, D.C. The Raleses, both then in their 30s, didn't
know much about Interco's businesses. They once dismayed an
analyst group by talking about the appeal of furniture
"galleria" stores; the industry term is "gallery." But
investors took them seriously because their bid was backed by
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., then the junk-bond powerhouse.
   Within two weeks of the Raleses' initial bid of $64 a
share, Messrs. Mohr and Wasserstein decided that the offer
was inadequate, that Interco was worth $68 to $80 a share, or
more. Just as they were en route to deliver that appraisal to
Interco's directors, the Rales brothers raised the ante to
$70 a share -- a figure Wasserstein Perella also deemed
inadequate. Two weeks later, Messrs. Wasserstein and Mohr
told Interco directors the company was worth $74 to $87 a
share or more. The two investment bankers suggested that
Interco fight the Raleses with a recapitalization package
that would spew out $1.5 billion or more of cash and junk
bonds to shareholders.
   Such recaps -- a short-lived fad on Wall Street -- enabled
managements to beat junk-bond-financed raiders at their own
game, by loading up a company with debt but keeping a
low-priced "stub" of its stock publicly traded. Wasserstein
Perella valued the package of cash and securities, including
the stub, at $76 a share. Interco's board approved the plan
in September 1988.
   Although piling up a lot of debt can wreck a company,
Interco's managers and investment bankers weren't deterred,
even when two corporate-debt experts concluded that the
company couldn't handle the massive borrowing required to
beat the Rales offer, which eventually rose to $74 a share.
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., which sent a 17-person
reconnoitering team to Interco's St. Louis headquarters, and
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. each considered a leveraged buy-out of
Interco but decided against it, the court papers show.
   "I don't think this company is worth anything that starts
with a 7," a KKR partner, Paul Raether, says he told Mr.
Wasserstein. When Mr. Wasserstein insisted that Interco was
worth more than $70 a share, Mr. Raether says he replied:
"Bruce, don't whip us around. Our valuation of the company is
different."
   However, such skepticism never crept inside the 19-story
Interco Tower in St. Louis. Interco's controller, Stanley
Huck, began working until midnight compiling forecasts of how
much each division could earn. Division managers offered
their own estimates, but Mr. Huck decided that some were too
pessimistic. He later said, in a deposition in the
shareholders' suit, that he bounced some projections back to
division managers and asked for higher ones.
   Mr. Huck didn't return repeated phone calls seeking
comment. An Interco spokesman says Mr. Huck "is as straight a
guy as you'll ever meet. He didn't do anything wrong."
   At Wasserstein Perella's 41st-floor offices in downtown
Chicago, the investment bankers lofted Mr. Huck's optimistic
projections to new heights. Interco itself was most
comfortable forecasting only a year or two ahead and didn't
make any projections beyond four years. But Robert W. Medway,
a Wasserstein Perella analyst just 15 months out of college,
helped spin out 10-year projections on computer spreadsheets,
forecasting 9.2% profit growth as far away as fiscal 1998.
There wasn't a single declining year for any division. Mr.
Medway declines to comment.
   The biggest leap of faith by Interco and Wasserstein
Perella involved the company's Converse division. The
athletic-shoe business is noted for booms and busts, as most
retailers and midlevel Converse executives knew. "One year
we'd be going like crazy, and the next year everything would
slow down," recalls Jackie Granus, a former Converse
marketing official.
   But contrary to usual investment-banking practice,
Wasserstein Perella didn't visit any of Converse's plants or
its North Reading, Mass., headquarters or even contact its
big customers. "{Mr.} Wasserstein and others relied on the
company's commitment that it could achieve its operating
targets," a Wasserstein Perella spokesman says.
   After a few talks in St. Louis with top Converse
executives, Mr. Mohr and his analysts punched nonstop-growth
estimates for the athletic-shoe maker into their computer.
Converse executives thought they could post a record $70
million of operating earnings in fiscal 1990, thanks to
then-popular items such as green canvas sneakers and Conasaur
shoes for children.
   The Wasserstein Perella men "sprinkled holy water" on the
forecast, says Steve Encarnacao, a former Converse senior
vice president. "No one put it under the kind of scrutiny
they should have."
   When Wasserstein Perella did send analysts to an Interco
division, financial ebullience still prevailed over the views
of experienced local managers. Wasserstein Perella initially
valued the Ethan Allen division at $587 million, then lowered
its estimate to about $500 million after realizing that the
furniture maker's profits were deteriorating.
   Even that sparked criticism. "The values they put on Ethan
Allen were preposterous," says Mr. Ancell, the former Interco
director and Ethan Allen chairman. "We told them they were
crazy. There were loads and loads of nice young kids {from
Wasserstein Perella} who didn't know much who were analyzing
figures" at Ethan Allen's Danbury, Conn., headquarters, Mr.
Ancell says.
   Ethan Allen was eventually sold for only $388 million. A
Wasserstein Perella spokesman blames "an unfortunate
double-whammy" -- Ethan Allen management kept lowering its
profit forecasts while the junk-bond market's collapse made
it hard for potential acquirers to find financing.
   When it came time to talk fees, Mr. Wasserstein got
personally involved -- and he got angry. He wanted $7.5
million for five months of work by perhaps two dozen people,
most of them working on Interco only part-time. That was too
much, Mr. Saligman, Interco's chief executive, countered.
Messrs. Wasserstein and Mohr got "quite upset," Mr. Saligman
later testified. Interco and Wasserstein Perella finally
settled on a $5.5 million fee.
   On Nov. 16, 1988, the Rales brothers dropped out of the
bidding, even though they had just won a Delaware court
ruling that aided their Interco offer. "They astutely decided
that the company wasn't worth it," a former Drexel adviser to
the brothers says. "Some of the operating businesses seemed
softer. And they thought the whole merger environment was
getting worse."
   Interco still had time to scuttle its high-debt
recapitalization plan, and by then alarm bells should have
been ringing. A business downturn at Ethan Allen and the Lane
furniture business was so evident that Wasserstein Perella
lowered its estimate of operating profit at the four core
businesses for the year ending Feb. 28, 1989, by $5 million,
or 3%, to $161 million. Converse's sneaker inventory was
piling up -- a worrisome sign that the green-sneaker boom
might have peaked. The sneaker company soon would report a
collapse in third-quarter earnings.
   But Wasserstein Perella stayed bullish about Interco's
fiscal 1990 outlook. It predicted a 61% surge in operating
profit at Interco's core businesses, thanks to $75 million of
cost reductions that supposedly wouldn't hurt sales.
   Some directors later testified that they weren't aware of
any financial reason Messrs. Mohr and Wasserstein would want
the recap to be carried out. But a confidential fee letter
shows that once the Rales brothers dropped out, Wasserstein
Perella could collect the final two-thirds of its fee, the
last $3.7 million, only if the recap was completed.
Otherwise, Wasserstein Perella would get only $1.8 million.
   Mr. Wasserstein evidently wanted this contingent fee kept
secret. "For cosmetic reasons, Bruce Wasserstein was very
concerned about filing public documents with a fee of $5.5
million," Mr. Saligman testified. A Wasserstein Perella
spokesman says the investment bank's judgment wasn't swayed
by the fee's structure. Nevertheless, if Interco had
abandoned its recap in late November, "the fee that we would
have received would have been less than we would have felt
appropriate," Mr. Mohr later testified.
   At Interco's Nov. 22, 1988, board meeting, Messrs. Mohr
and Wasserstein dazzled directors with 26 pages of elaborate
analysis designed to make the recap seem feasible. They
projected a blizzard of statistics on a big screen in the
board room. The math was so intricate that Mr. Mohr later
referred to some of it as "optics" -- Wall Street slang for
financial wizardry. Messrs. Mohr and Wasserstein outlined
possible gains that Interco shareholders might enjoy after
the recap; the worst case was a 20% annual return.
   Messrs. Mohr and Wasserstein did hint that their
number-crunching might not be based on rock-solid
foundations. A single page of their Nov. 22 presentation said
that they had assumed that management earnings projections
were right and that Interco could sell $1.15 billion of
assets in 18 months to repay a temporary "bridge loan" from
banks.
   Nowhere did Wasserstein Perella acknowledge, however, that
Interco's most recent 12-month operating earnings, at $227
million, fell far short of the $350 million needed annually
to service its debt. A Wasserstein Perella spokesman says
that risks of the recap were "extensively discussed" at the
Nov. 22 directors' meeting. Yet board minutes show that only
two of directors' 24 questions pertained to what might happen
if Interco failed to meet its targets. Wasserstein Perella
didn't present any downside forecasts to illustrate the risks
of a slump in sales.
   Directors embraced the recap plan despite some misgivings.
"This is getting tight," Mr. Liberman testified that he told
a fellow director during a break in the Nov. 22 board
meeting. Nevertheless, Interco management affirmed that it
could meet its earnings targets. The board unanimously
approved Wasserstein Perella's plan -- allowing Messrs.
Wasserstein and Mohr to collect their full fee.
   Mr. Saligman, who declined to be interviewed for this
article, had predicted in September 1988 that the asset sales
would be a snap. He called the banks' 18-month time limit a
"luxury," adding: "We're going to start immediately. We're
looking at weeks, hopefully, to get this job done."
   Instead, Interco's finances quickly started to unravel.
The Ethan Allen division wasn't the only division sold for
far less than Wasserstein Perella predicted. The Central
Hardware division, appraised at $312 million, brought in just
$245 million. Although an eroding junk-bond market may have
held down bids, observers say Wasserstein Perella's sale
projections would have been difficult to achieve in anything
but the best of financial times.
   Converse, meanwhile, turned into a disaster. It had fiscal
1990 operating profit of $11 million, far below the predicted
$70 million. Its green canvas sneakers, which management had
thought would be a big seller at $35 a pair, ended up in such
overstock that they were dumped at flea markets for $6 a
pair.
   The cash and junk-bond package that Wasserstein Perella
devised never approached its stated values. The package was
supposed to be worth at least $76 a share. But the closest it
came was $72.50 in February 1989. After that, its value fell
steadily, reaching as low as $42 a share this spring. Mr.
Mohr's "optics" proved an illusion. Even some Interco
managers dumped the recap-related junk bonds.
   Interco's hard times brought a series of resignations and
dismissals. Mr. Saligman quit in May 1989 and was replaced as
chief executive by the former Converse chairman, Richard
Loynd. Later last year, Mr. Loynd dropped Wasserstein Perella
and hired J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. to advise Interco on how to
handle its debts. For the fiscal year ended Feb. 24, Interco
reported a $48.6 million loss -- instead of the $18 million
of net income that Wasserstein Perella had predicted.
   Now, Mr. Loynd is struggling to undo the damage from the
1988 recapitalization. "These are fine {operating}
companies," Mr. Loynd insists. "It's a crime if this goes
into bankruptcy."
   J.P. Morgan and Mr. Loynd have devised a plan to cancel
much of Interco's junk-bond debt and let the bondholders own
70% of the company instead. Interco is circulating new
projections, including a cautious "downside case," in hopes
of persuading creditors to trade in their bonds instead of
pushing the company into bankruptcy proceedings or
liquidation.
   But some creditors, who have seen the bond prices fall as
much as 90%, haven't forgiven a company that could stumble so
soon after taking on so much debt. "Why should we believe
you?" one testy bondholder asked Mr. Loynd at a meeting in
New York June 4. "Your last set of projections was so
inaccurate."
   "That's a reasonable question," Mr. Loynd gamely replied.
"But these projections are a lot lower. And we've spent a lot
more time on them."
   ---
                    INTERCO's Tale of Woe
                                                                                                       

                    Contribution to sales
                                                                                                       

                      1988                       1990
                  $3.34 billion             $1.65 billion
                                                                                                       

 Furniture            33%                        55%
 Footwear             27%                        45%
 Apparel manuf.       24%
 General retail       16%
                                                                                                       

    Projected versus actual sales, in millions of dollars
                                                                                                       

                        Projected             Actual
                                                                                                       

 Ethan Allen            $550-625               $388
 Central Hardware       $300-325               $245
 Apparel Group          $425-475               $278
 Other units            Not available          $ 61
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

 Long-term debt (including current maturities and debentures
issued in recap) in billions of dollars
                                                                                                       

       PRE-RECAP        POST-RECAP      LATEST AVAILABLE
         $0.3             $2.5                $1.9
     Feb. 29,1988      Feb. 25,1989       Feb. 24, 1990
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Teamsters Objections to Election Rejected
   ----
   By Ann Hagedorn and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
INSURANCE (INS)
TRUCKING (TRK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge in New York rejected objections by the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters to proposed rules for
the union's court-ordered elections next year.
   Judge David N. Edelstein, in a strongly worded opinion,
referred to the union's protests as "frivolous,"
"inappropriate," and "unpersuasive." Moreover, he said, "The
IBT's behavior over the past year indicates official
rejection of reform -- and with it, free elections."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge Edelstein stressed the importance of the election
rules as "the linchpin" in the government's effort to purge
the nation's largest union of the alleged influence of
organized crime. "An election under these rules beacons the
coming of the light of freedom to this dark union," the judge
wrote.
   Teamsters officials and attorneys couldn't be reached for
comment on whether the union plans an appeal.
   The union is under court order to hold direct,
secret-ballot elections next year for top officers as part of
its settlement last spring of civil racketeering charges
brought by the U.S. attorney in Manhattan. In the past, union
leaders were elected at a national convention by delegates
hand-picked at the local union level.
   In its 1988 suit, the government accused the Teamsters
leadership of depriving its 1.7 million members of their
rights through a pattern of racketeering. The government
claimed that organized crime figures had routinely influenced
union elections.
   As part of the 1989 accord, Judge Edelstein appointed
three officers to oversee the union as it moves toward the
goal of free elections. Election Officer Michael H. Holland,
a Chicago lawyer, drafted election rules that he submitted to
Teamsters locals early this year. Mr. Holland then visited
locals nationwide and in Canada to discuss the rules and hear
the concerns.
   Meanwhile, in Manhattan federal court, the Teamsters'
current leadership was voicing its own concerns. The union,
for example, challenged the requirement that each local
submit a plan to the elections officer outlining such details
as its method for counting ballots and the name of the
outside agency hired to conduct the election. The judge said,
"The election officer cannot supervise this election without
the specific information contained in a local union plan."
   The union also disputed a rule allowing candidates to
publish campaign literature in "International Teamster," the
internal union organ controlled by the current leadership and
distributed to all 1.7 million members each month.
   The union argued that the rule violated its right to free
speech by compelling it to publish specific material. The
judge said, among other things, "No opposition candidate may
mount a viable challenge to the entrenched IBT plutocracy
without standing on an equal footing with regard to
distribution of their views."
   The judge also ruled that the union's membership list may
be distributed to the accredited candidates -- a move that
both the union and the election officer had protested. There
was a danger, they argued, that the list could be copied and
used for improper purposes by employers, rival unions and
subversive groups. But the judge said that "extraordinary
measures are necessary to ensure that this election
succeeds." However, the judge prohibited the distribution of
the list to third parties.
   ---
   SODOMY LAWS in Michigan and Kentucky found to violate
state constitutions.
   In both states, lower court judges ruled that the laws
violate the right to privacy under the states' constitutions.
The decisions reflect the success of a strategy adopted by
gay activists four years ago to turn to state courts rather
than to federal courts in challenging such laws.
   The decisions, if upheld by the states' appeals courts,
also appear to open a door to the use of privacy arguments in
state constitutional challenges to restrictions on abortions.
   In 1986, the U.S. Supreme Court said the federal
Constitution doesn't prohibit states from banning sodomy, and
it rejected the right-to-privacy arguments. The constitutions
of 10 states, however, explicitly grant a right to privacy.
In other states, such as Michigan and Kentucky, such a right
has emerged through years of state court decisions unrelated
to the sodomy laws.
   Florida, Arizona, Montana, Louisiana and South Carolina
are among the states that have laws banning sodomy and also
have specific right-to-privacy protection in their
constitutions. Evan Wolfson, an attorney with Lambda Legal
Defense and Education Fund, a national gay-rights
organization based in New York, said Lambda is weighing
whether to pursue cases in such states.
   In the Michigan and Kentucky decisions, both judges said
that the right to privacy prohibited the state from banning
consensual sexual acts among adults in the privacy of their
homes.
   In the Michigan case, in which the plaintiffs included
heterosexuals and homosexuals because the law applies to all
people, Circuit Court Judge John A. Murphy of Wayne County
said, "The Michigan Constitution embodies a promise that a
certain private sphere of individual liberty will be kept
largely beyond the reach of the government."
   A spokesman for Michigan Attorney General Frank Kelley
said he will decide in a couple of weeks whether to appeal. A
spokesman for Kentucky Attorney General Fred Cowan said it's
not clear whether the decision last month will be appealed.
In both cases, the attorneys general argued that the laws
were constitutional.
   ---
   PATIENTS DENIED share in profits from research using their
blood or tissue.
   The California Supreme Court's ruling on Monday was a boon
to the biotechnology industry, which feared that litigation
by patients might have a chilling effect on the research and
development of valuable new products.
   The suit was filed by John Moore, who sought treatment for
a rare type of leukemia at the University of California at
Los Angeles Medical Center in 1976. David Goldie, a doctor
there, removed Mr. Moore's spleen as part of the treatment.
   While experimenting with cells from the diseased spleen,
Dr. Goldie and a colleague developed a cell line that
produces proteins found in the human immune system and is
considered valuable in research on cancer and acquired immune
deficiency syndrome. The university patented the cell line in
1984.
   That same year, Mr. Moore sued the university, the
researchers and two biotech firms using the cell line,
claiming they had misappropriated his bodily material and
commercially exploited it without his knowledge or consent.
He alleged that as the owner of the bodily materials, he was
entitled to a share in the future profits derived from them.
   The high court found that Mr. Moore was not entitled to a
share of the profits from the patented cell line, whose
potential value had been estimated at $3 billion. The court
said that the patent was not for Mr. Moore's cells but for a
product of human invention.
   The court did allow Mr. Moore to go to trial on his claim
that Dr. Goldie failed to disclose his personal financial or
research interests before obtaining Mr. Moore's consent to
the medical treatment.
   "Physicians are expected to tell patients about
information relevant to their physical condition, such as the
side effects of a drug. But it wasn't customary to talk about
a doctor's financial or research interests. This adds
something new," said Daniel Callahan, director of the
Hastings Center, a Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., research
organization on ethics and medicine.
   Sanford M. Gage, Mr. Moore's lawyer, said his client still
may be able to recover significant damages if he proves that
Dr. Goldie violated a fiduciary duty by failing to inform Mr.
Moore of his personal interest in use of the spleen. Mr. Gage
said, "We can get a share of the profits, and possibly
punitive damages."
   Richard D. Godown, president of Industrial Biotechnology
Association, the main biotech trade group, characterized the
ruling as "a very big victory" for biotechnology that had
biotech companies "breathing a sigh of relief."
   He added that "we will simply have to reorganize the
consent forms and the procedures used with these forms to
make sure that not only medical issues are covered. It
behooves everybody involved to be more careful."
   ---
   INSURANCE REGULATION rejecting HIV test requirement gets a
hearing.
   The New York Court of Appeals, the state's highest court,
agreed to review a lower court ruling that rejected the
regulation, which prohibited insurers from using the human
immunodeficiency virus blood test in underwriting individual
and small-group hospital and medical insurance.
   Court approval of the New York insurance department's
regulation would run counter to the trend of decisions in a
handful of other states. Recently, state regulators'
attention has focused on getting consent for such testing and
maintaining the confidentiality of test results, said an
official with the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners.
   In August l987, the New York insurance department adopted
an amendment to an existing regulation that prohibited
insurers from using the blood test for detection of the AIDS
virus in underwriting, rating or administering claims for
hospital and medical insurance. The ruling also prohibited
inquiries regarding the test on health insurance applications
or in interviews.
   New York regulators believe that the HIV test isn't a
diagnostic test for AIDS, and that the "denial of health
insurance is a most serious consequence of a testing
procedure that indicates only an exposure to a virus," said
Salvatore R. Curiale, New York's superintendent of insurance.
   The New York regulation has never been implemented because
it was challenged by a group of insurers and trade
associations. The state supreme court annulled the amendment
in April 1988. The appellate division of the supreme court
upheld that ruling in February.
   ---
   MCKENNA, CONNER &amp; CUNEO will split into two financially
separate branches.
   The 250-lawyer firm was formed in 1980 from a merger
between Washington-based Sellers, Conner &amp; Cuneo and Los
Angeles-based McKenna &amp; Fitting. Two years after the merger,
each branch reverted to independent management, though their
finances remained linked.
   The current financial divorce proceedings will further
separate the branches, which will coordinate some work with
each other but have little else but their name in common.
Partners at McKenna Conner say the two branches may
ultimately sever their ties completely.
   The law firm's trouble operating as one unit appears to
reflect differences between the two branches in the types of
clients they cater to and in their strategies for future
growth.
   Charles Yonkers, managing partner of the firm's Washington
office, said the East Coast branch, which has traditionally
focused on government contracts work, is now trying to
diversify its practice. By contrast, Mr. Yonkers said, the
West Coast branch has continued to focus on its traditional
clientele, financial institutions.
   Lawyers and consultants say the recent push toward
law-firm consolidation has prompted some firms to rush
blindly into unsuitable mergers. "Firms today are in such a
hurry to merge . . . that they miss critical steps," said
Howard Mudrick, who specializes in law-firm mergers at
Hildebrandt Inc., a Somerville, N.J., consulting firm.
   ---
   Amy Dockser Marcus and Beatrice E. Garcia contributed to
this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dow Jones Reports
   2nd-Quarter Net Fell
   28% on Flat Revenue
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Dow Jones &amp; Co. reported a 28% drop in
second-quarter net income, reflecting an earnings slump in
the publishing company's information services activities.
   Earnings fell to $34.9 million, or 35 cents a share, from
$48.4 million, or 48 cents a share, in the year-earlier
period. Revenue edged up to $441.6 million from $437.7
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Operating income for Dow Jones's business publications
rose 7.5% to $37.6 million, despite flat revenue and a
decline in advertising linage. Business publications include
The Wall Street Journal, its overseas editions and Barron's
magazine.
   At Dow Jones's information services group, however,
operating income slumped 53% to $27.6 million. Information
services consists of Telerate, which provides financial
market data via computer, as well as various database
packages and wire services.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Dow Jones common stock rose 37.5 cents to close at $23.50 a
share. The stock had sunk to a seven-year low of $21.50
earlier this month as securities analysts lowered their
earnings estimates in expectation that the information
services results would be weak.
   Some analysts are concerned about Telerate's efforts to
establish a foreign-exchange trading service. That venture
ran up a pretax start-up loss of $51 million last year, when
it was 50%-owned by Telerate and 50%-owned by American
Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. Telerate and the currency-trading
service now are owned solely by Dow Jones. By setting up a
currency trading service, Telerate is competing with Reuters
Holdings PLC, which dominates the foreign-currency data
market.
   A Dow Jones spokesman said the trading service's losses
are narrowing, but the service "isn't expected to be
profitable this year or next." The service's software is
being upgraded, he said, and developing a revenue base will
take time. "This is a long-term commitment by Dow Jones," he
added.
   Dow Jones said Telerate's other North American business
was hurt by "retrenchments taking place at major Wall Street
investment firms and throughout the savings and loan
industry."
   Dow Jones said its second-quarter earnings were reduced 12
cents a share by increased interest expense and good will
amortization charges relating to its January 1990 acquisition
of the 33% of Telerate that it didn't already own.
   Dow Jones also said that "a significant reduction in the
rate of expense growth is expected in the second half in the
information services segment, notably at Telerate." It also
said Wall Street's retrenchment and its impact on revenue is
expected to continue.
   In the second quarter, Ottaway Newspapers Inc., Dow
Jones's community newspapers unit, reported a 16% drop in
operating income to $10.6 million.
   In the quarter, Wall Street Journal advertising linage
declined 8.7% while Barron's linage was off 7.4%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Tumble 385.85 Points to 32152.43
   As Rumors, Interest-Rate Worry Subdue Trade
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks tumbled in shallow activity, subdued by
rumor-driven, interest-rate concerns and system trading,
traders said.
   London shares, meanwhile, slipped at the close of moderate
trading after Wall Street failed to drag the key indexes from
the negative territory in which they languished throughout
the day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues fell 385.85 points to
32152.43.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index rose
140.96 points to 32293.39.
   Tuesday's volume on the first section was estimated at 350
million shares, down from 401.7 million shares Monday.
Decliners markedly outnumbered advancers 727 to 220, while
171 issues were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section fell 24.64 points, or 1.04%, to 2337.77.
   The second section index dropped 10.05 points, or 0.24%,
to 4387.67.
   Investors noted that general profit-taking had been due
for the second section, which had risen a total of 286.14
points, or 6.99%, since June 25.
   Yesterday's volume in the section was estimated at 40.1
million shares, down from 45.8 million shares Monday.
   Early morning rumors in Sydney's foreign-exchange market
that the Bank of Japan may raise its official discount rate
soon had little impact on the Tokyo markets during the
morning, traders said.
   But in the afternoon, Tokyo stock and bond markets
weakened on news that U.S. investment advisory firm Smick
Medley International predicted Sunday that the Japanese
central bank is highly likely to raise its discount rate over
the next several months.
   The firm argued that the issue isn't on the principle of
raising rates but rather on the timing. "There is now an 80%
to 90% chance the Bank of Japan will raise interest rates
over the next several months,"the firm said in a report.
   "Obviously, the report is having a big impact on the
(stock) market," said Greg Byndy, manager of equity trading
at Merrill Lynch Japan Inc. Particularly because of the stock
market's thin volume, the report effectively squeezed prices
as participants tried to discount the news, Mr. Byndy said.
   The dollar, which had already been weaker against the yen,
fell further after talk on the report hit the markets,
although observers emphasized that bearishness on the dollar
stems more from uncertainty about the outcome of this week's
Houston economic summit of seven leading industrialized
nations.
   But the bond market came off amid the Smick Medley news,
with the yield on the benchmark, the No. 119, 4.8% coupon of
1999, rising to 7.255%, up 5.5 basis points, or hundredths of
a percentage point, at the Tokyo Stock Exchange close.
   As the stock market continues its sluggishness while
digesting currency and interest-rate speculation, program
trading and selective institutional participation outside of
the first section has been predominant, traders noted.
   In the morning, spotty, index-linked selling was canceled
out by light program buying, while a mixed amount of both
later in the day had a somewhat neutral impact on the Nikkei
Index, observers said.
   Futures were trading at a reasonably large spread to the
cash index for most of the day, traders noted.
   Institutions have generally stayed clear of the stimulated
fluctuations on the broad market, moving instead to the
second section, over-the-counter, and other major city
indexes.
   While these markets have vigorously recovered from
post-crash lows of early April, traders stressed that they're
susceptible to tremendous volatility.
   Holding up well yesterday were pharmaceuticals, a typical
safe play when the yen's direction is uncertain, and some
retail and manufacturing shares.
   Chugai Pharmaceutical gained 50 yen to 1680 yen (33 cents
to $11.11), Banyu rose 40 yen to 1310 yen, and Yoshitomi rose
30 yen to 1830 yen.
   Ito-Yokado rose 10 yen to 4070 yen, and Noritake rose 60
yen to 1680 yen.
   Uni Charm rose 20 yen to 2300 yen, Wacoal rose 10 yen to
1440 yen, Kao Corp. added 20 yen to 1590 yen, and Lion rose 2
yen to 983 yen.
   Although Kyocera and Sony were hit by profit-taking, other
high-technology shares managed to sustain small gains.
   TDK rose 10 yen to 7370 yen, Pioneer Electronic added 10
yen to 6380 yen, and Aiwa added 30 yen to 2430 yen.
   Kyocera fell 140 yen to 8760 yen, while Sony fell 110 yen
to 8700 yen.
   Big losers included securities firms and banks, steel and
shipbuilding shares.
   In London, one trader blamed the market's drop on Wall
Street's lower opening. "We were looking for a rise in Wall
Street but it didn't happen," the trader said.
   The day's main feature was sterling's continued strength,
with the pound quoted as high as $1.8270 early in the
session.
   This strength caused a number of U.K. stocks with heavy
overseas earnings to be downgraded by analysts, dragging the
entire market lower. Among those to be singled out were
Glaxo, ICI, Reuters and Racal.
   Volume was moderate with 440.7 million shares changing
hands, compared with 387.3 million issues Monday.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index fell 10
points to 2327.5. The Financial Times 30 Share Index dropped
4.3 points to 1855.
   Shares to buck the trend and end higher included Cable &amp;
Wireless, up 6 pence at 530 pence (11 cents to $9.58), on
heavy U.S. buying. Hawker Siddeley gained 10 pence to 615
pence.
   Shares to ease included ICI, down 8 pence at #11.40; Reed
International, down 13 pence to 446 pence, General Accident,
down 9 pence to 527 pence, and Allied Lyons, down 8 pence to
488 pence.
   Trafalgar shed 15 pence to 288 pence, while
Trusthouse-Forte fell 10 pence to 290 pence on concern that
its London-based hotels will lose foreign tourist business
because of the strong pound.
   Other companies downgraded on sterling worries also saw
their stocks fall. Glaxo was down 1 pence at 829 pence,
Reuters eased 2 pence to #12.59, while Racal shed 1 pence to
204 pence.
   Elsewhere, shares closed higher in Stockholm and Madrid
but fell in Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich, Brussels, Amsterdam and
Milan. South African gold stocks also closed lower.
   Also, stocks ended higher in Hong Kong, Seoul, Taipei,
Wellington and Manila and lower in Singapore and Sydney.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                       % This
                       Jul 9    Jul 6    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .............  332.5    331.5    + 2.3
   Britain ..........  696.5    697.1    - 3.4
   Canada ...........  389.4    390.4    -10.0
   Japan ............ 1311.4   1312.2    -20.8
   France ...........  556.6    559.3    - 1.8
   Germany ..........  310.7    309.8    + 8.9
   Hong Kong ........ 2526.2   2503.0    +20.5
   Switzerland ......  231.8    231.3    + 5.0
   Australia ........  327.6    321.1    - 1.1
   World index ......  526.0    524.4    - 7.3
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Government Meets With Huge Success in Sale
   Of Resolution Funding's Thrift `Bailout' Bonds
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   LIL REV FRE FNM JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Resolution Funding Corp.'s sale of 30-year
"bailout bonds" was a huge success, a sign that investors are
far more comfortable with 30-year securities than the oddball
40-year variety the agency sold previously.
   Resolution Funding, or Refcorp, is the federal agency
created to raise cash to finance the government's bailout of
the troubled thrift industry. Yesterday's auction was
Refcorp's fourth, and marked the agency's return to issuing
30-year bonds after two disastrous auctions of 40-year bonds
in January and April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But unlike its previous bombs, yesterday's auction "was
tremendous," said Alan McClymonds, co-head of government
trading at First Boston Corp. He said that bidding for the
bonds was stronger than at some recent Treasury auctions.
   The Treasury, which auctioned the bonds yesterday on
behalf of Refcorp, said it sold $5.03 billion of Refcorp
bonds at an average yield of 8.93%, nearly 0.40 percentage
point higher than yields on 30-year Treasury bonds. At the
first Refcorp auction of 30-year bonds in October, the
average yield was 8.15%.
   The Treasury said it received a total of $15.48 billion in
bids for the $5.03 billion bonds it sold, a bid-to-cover
ratio of 3.1-to-one. That was the best bid-to-cover ratio at
any Refcorp auction and even better than on the Treasury's
own 30-year bonds in recent auctions.
   The Refcorp sale "saw unusually strong demand by any
standards, and compared to the Refcorp 40-year auctions, it
was like night and day," said F. Ward McCarthy, a managing
director at Stone &amp; McCarthy Research Associates Inc.
   Buyers ran the whole gamut of investors. Individuals, life
insurance companies and pension funds were attracted by the
relatively high yield.
   Other buyers, such as corporations and municipalities,
apparently bought bonds as part of a complex plan to defease
existing debt. Recently, one credit rating agency and the
accounting firm of Deloitte &amp; Touche issued reports
suggesting the credit quality of Refcorp debt is high enough
to use for defeasing purposes. The Treasury Department
encouraged the firms to issue the reports.
   "We had been working on a number of ways to increase
demand for Refcorp bonds and this was one of them," said
Michael E. Basham, deputy assistant secretary of the
Treasury.
   Defeasance is a technique whereby a bond issuer may
discharge old, low-rate debt by purchasing a smaller amount
of higher-yielding U.S. Treasury debt. The Treasurys are put
in a trust to service the old debt being retired.
   While the Refcorp bonds don't carry the full faith and
credit backing of the U.S., the Treasury guarantees interest
payments, and principal payments are secured by zero-coupon
Treasurys, purchased by Refcorp from the government.
   In a recent report, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. cited the
Deloitte &amp; Touche report as a factor that would stimulate
demand for Refcorp bonds.
   Traders also said many bond-market arbitragers were
attracted to the wide "spread," or gap, between yields on
Refcorp bonds and 30-year Treasury bonds, which yielded about
8.56% yesterday. Some of these arbs expect the gap to narrow
in the next few weeks, which should cause Refcorp prices to
rise.
   Traders at First Boston estimate that arbs purchased about
$2.5 billion of the Refcorp bonds while selling U.S. Treasury
30-year securities. The selling was one factor that caused
Treasury prices to move lower. The benchmark 30-year bond
fell 1/4 point, or $2.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount. The bonds briefly rose after the Refcorp auction
results were released, but didn't hold those levels very
long.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Although Treasury bond prices ended lower, analysts said
the bond market showed surprising firmness considering that
the value of the U.S. dollar sank yesterday.
   Typically, bonds prices fall in tandem with a decline in
the dollar. But that relationship may be changing, at least
when the Japanese yen is involved. According to James Capra,
senior vice president at Shearson Lehman Government
Securities Inc., Treasury prices have recently held firm or
risen on days when the dollar is off against the yen. Mr.
Capra said he first noticed the pattern in early May.
   The bond market doesn't react negatively to a rising yen
anymore, he said, largely due to speculation that a stronger
yen encourages Japanese investors to jump into the U.S.
market and buy Treasury bonds, which then of course are
viewed as cheap.
   In trading, the benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at
a price of 101 27/32 to yield 8.56% compared with 102 4/32 to
yield 8.54% on Monday. The latest 10-year notes ended at a
price of 101 28/32 to yield 8.57% compared with 102 to yield
8.55% on Monday.
   Short-term rates were unchanged.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate, Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Long Island Lighting Co. bonds outperformed the broader
investment-grade bond market after Monday's credit rating
upgrade from Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. The utility recently
settled two suits that posed threats to its health.
   Lilco's 8 5/8 general and refunding bonds due in 2007 were
5/8 point higher since S&amp;P's announcement and about three
points higher since a federal appeals court ruling on July 2
that effectively settled a dispute with New York State
concerning cost overruns at a nuclear power plant. The bonds
now trade at 90 to yield 9.90%.
   In the junk-bond market, bonds of Revlon Inc. jumped after
company owner Ronald Perelman said he would sell a 15% stake
in a subsidiary company to help repay bank debt. Revlon's
11.75% senior subordinated notes jumped 1 7/8 point to 90
7/8. Junk bonds are high-yield, speculative-grade securities
that have low credit ratings or no ratings at all.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Tax-exempt issues ended unchanged to 1/8 point higher.
   In one of the largest deals of the session, a PaineWebber
Inc. group tentatively priced $870 million of New York State
Dormitory Authority revenue and special obligation revenue
bonds for the State University Educational Facility.
   The bonds were priced to yield from 5.80% for special
obligation bonds due in 1991 to 7.68% for revenue bonds due
in 2014.
   Among actively traded bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% of 2018 were 1/8 higher at 98 3/4 to yield
7.30%.
   Ahead on the calendar, Phoenix, Ariz., is scheduled to
sell today $137.6 million of bonds, including $65 million
street and highway user revenue bonds, via competitive bid at
noon EDT.
   No large negotiated issues are expected to be priced
today.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Although the Japanese yen soared yesterday, Japanese
government bonds ended weaker due to renewed speculation that
the Bank of Japan will soon raise its discount rate.
   Feeding the latest speculation about rates was a statement
by Washington D.C.-based investment advisory firm Smick
Medley International that Japan's central bank is highly
likely to boost its discount rate "in the next several
months."
   Smick Medley's report, which didn't cite any sources,
serves to reinforce recent expectations that the Bank of
Japan's grip on credit is going to remain tight and may get
tighter in the coming months. For several weeks analysts in
Tokyo have been saying that the chances are increasing that
the Bank of Japan will boost its discount rate again to
combat the money supply's explosive growth and other
potential inflationary pressures as well as defend the yen's
recent recovery.
   At the 3 p.m. JST close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
benchmark 10-year yen bond was quoted at a price of 86.74,
down 0.22, to yield 7.255%. (Yields quoted here are in local
terms and differ from yields calculated for this market by
U.S. investment firms, which tend to use the semiannual
compound measure to compare yields across markets.)
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-securities prices ended unchanged to off less
than 1/8 point after an uninspired session.
   Three real-estate mortgage investment conduit offerings
for which pricing details were announced Monday appear to be
off to a good sales start, traders said.
   The offerings are a Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. $500
million remic from Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., backed
by 9.5% Freddie Mac securities; a $400 million Government
National Mortgage Association issue from Fund America
Investors Corp. by Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., backed by Ginnie
Mae 10% securities; and a $400 million Federal National
Mortgage Association issue by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., backed by
Fannie Mae 9.5% securities.
   Among actively traded secondary issues, Ginnie Mae 9.5%
were off 1/32 at 99 1/32 to yield 9.77%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pay at Shearson's New Lehman Bros.
   Upholds Venerable Name's High Tone
   ----
   By William Power and Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The recently created Lehman Brothers division
of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. is already living up to the
tony image of its famous name -- at least when it comes to
pay.
   Shearson's new proxy statement shows that the two men
chosen to head the division, which includes all of Shearson's
investment banking and trading operations, received the
fattest paychecks in 1989 among current Shearson executives.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two are Sherman R. Lewis Jr., who received more than
$1.6 million in cash compensation last year, and Richard S.
Fuld Jr., who was paid almost that amount, the proxy
statement says.
   The statement doesn't include departed executives, such as
Peter A. Cohen, formerly chairman, and Jeffrey Lane, formerly
president, or Shearson's new chairman, Howard L. Clark Jr.,
who came on board in January.
   The 184-page proxy statement was issued by Shearson prior
to the firm's annual meeting, scheduled for Aug. 9. At the
shareholders' meeting, the firm's merger into American
Express Co., which owns a 60% stake in Shearson, will be
formally approved.
   On another pay front, the proxy statement discloses that
Mr. Cohen will be reimbursed, through next March 31, as much
as $30,000 a month in "out-of-pocket office, staff and other
expenses of a nature similar to those paid by the company
prior to his resignation." As previously reported, Mr. Cohen
will technically remain a Shearson consultant through March
31, as part of a severance agreement his lawyer negotiated
that is valued at $10 million or more.
   Among other things, the proxy statement discloses that Mr.
Cohen agreed not to hire away from Shearson before 1993 any
employee paid more than $40,000 a year, or any employee
before December 1991.
   Despite the big pay envelopes for Messrs. Lewis and Fuld
at the Lehman Brothers division, Shearson's overall
compensation levels still pale, compared with other big
securities firms. The three top executives at Morgan Stanley
Group Inc. received 24% pay increases last year, boosting
their salaries to more than $5 million apiece. Then again,
Morgan Stanley posted net income of $443 million last year;
Shearson earned $110 million.
   In a carefully worded section of the new proxy statement,
Shearson addresses continuing speculation that American
Express will eventually sell all or part of the firm.
"American Express's present intention is to continue to
operate (Shearson) as a separate business after the merger,"
the proxy statement reads. "American Express does not at this
time have plans to sell or dispose of all or part of"
Shearson.
   In late January and February, American Express discussed
merging Shearson with Primerica Corp.'s Smith Barney, Harris
Upham &amp; Co. unit. Shearson and American Express previously
said the talks with Primerica, run by a former Shearson
chairman, Sanford Weill, were terminated.
   Shearson is engaged in a big retrenchment and
reorganization effort. The firm has announced the closing and
consolidation of 67 U.S. branch offices, 2,000 layoffs, a
slashing of advertising expenses, and the sale of
"nonessential corporate assets," including aircraft, artwork
and its Beaver Creek, Colo., ski resort, built for $25
million. (Shearson said it is still accepting bids for the
resort.)
   Shearson also will soon change its name back to Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc., as it attempts to recapture some past
glory by emphasizing the Lehman Brothers name left over from
its 1984 acquisition of Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb Inc.
   The new proxy statement says that Shearson returned to
profitability for the two months ended May 31, and that the
firm "expects to be profitable for the entire second quarter
of 1990." Shearson had a $915 million first-quarter loss, a
record deficit for any quarter, mostly attributable to its
retrenchment costs but also because of operating losses.
   The proxy statement says Dillon, Read &amp; Co., the
investment bank retained to advise Shearson on its merger
into American Express, was paid $2.5 million in fees, not
counting expenses.
   Former President Gerald R. Ford, a Shearson director,
received $125,000 for consulting services in 1989 and will
receive the same amount in 1990, the proxy statement says.
Another director, Howard L. Clark, former chief executive
officer of American Express and father of Shearson Chairman
Howard L. Clark Jr., also received $125,000 in consulting
fees in 1989 and will receive the same amount this year.
   Willkie Farr &amp; Gallagher, Shearson's longtime law firm,
was paid $14 million for services during 1989, not including
certain investment banking fees. Willkie Farr partner Jack H.
Nusbaum is a Shearson director.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norwest Holds Talks
   On Possible Purchase
   Of Denver Bank Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   NOB UBKS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Norwest Corp. is holding discussions with
United Banks of Colorado Inc. over a possible acquisition of
the Denver bank-holding concern.
   In a joint release, the companies said "no definitive
agreement has been reached," and cautioned there is "no
assurance" a deal will be struck.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rumors the company might be the recipient of a bid sent
United Banks of Colorado shares upward on unusually heavy
volume yesterday, before trading was halted late in the
session. The announcement came after the close of trading
yesterday.
   National over-the-counter trading in United Banks was
halted late in the session. At that point, the stock was
trading at $20, up 1 1/8 from Monday's close.
   While the stock seems likely to climb today, yesterday's
closing price values United Banks at about $306 million.
   The state of Colorado will open to nationwide interstate
banking in January. United Banks, the state's largest holding
company with assets of $5.9 billion, disclosed in April that
it has held talks with out-of-state banking companies
interested in a possible acquisition aimed at gaining entry
to the state. Norwest, with assets of about $26.7 billion,
was among those identified by United Banks as discussing an
acquisition.
   Norwest currently has banking operations in Minnesota,
Wisconsin, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, North Dakota,
South Dakota, Montana, and Arizona, and it recently reached a
definitive agreement to acquire Wyoming National Bancorp.,
its first bank in that state. Norwest, which in May paid $215
million to acquire First Interstate Corp. of Wisconsin has
made it clear that it intends to pursue further growth
through acquisition.
   United Banks of Colorado has a book value, or
shareholders' equity, of $26.47 a share. Acquisitions of
financially healthy financial institutions typically involve
a price in excess of book value, which suggests that any
Norwest proposal for United Banks would cost it upwards of
$400 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush's Worst Tax Idea So Far
   ----
   By Floyd J. Gould
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   As bad public policy goes, the proposal for an 0.5% tax on
stock transactions is something of a champion. All at the
same time, this tax would increase the volatility of stock
markets, knock roughly 5% off the Dow Jones average, damage
the ability of new companies to raise capital and drain
liquidity from already endangered U.S. financial markets. And
all to try to raise $10 billion in federal revenues -- $10
billion that surely will not materialize.
   The Treasury arrives at its $10 billion figure via the
simple expedient of multiplying 0.5% by the value of the $2
trillion trading on the New York Stock Exchange each year.
Two trillion dollars times 0.5% equals $10 billion of found
money. The assumption here is that making trading more
expensive and less profitable will not reduce the number of
trades executed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But it will of course. And in consequence, not only will
the government gather less in revenue, but the stock market
will be pushed toward even greater volatility than it shows
today. Advocates of the transaction tax claim that it would
encourage long-term investment, and therefore reduce "excess"
volatility. But a long-term investor is not just one who buys
100 shares of utility stock, sticks them in a safe deposit
box and waits for retirement.
   Pension fund and mutual fund money managers, who remain in
the market for long periods of time, adjusting their
portfolios as circumstances change are long-term investors
too. They play the important role of capitalizing sector
trends, arbitrating differences in rate of return across
industry groups and sending capital from low-return to
high-return sectors.
   One effect of a transaction tax would be to discourage
such investors from engaging in such active management of
their portfolios. This is because the transaction tax adds to
transaction costs. When the benefits of a particular trade
are less than the transaction tax, investors will be
dissuaded from trading. They will disregard information that
would justify small increases or decreases in the prices of
stocks. However, as information continues to flow, a point
will be reached where the benefits of doing the trade will
exceed the cost of the tax. The tax, in other words, will
cause stock prices to move in bigger jumps, both up and down,
than they now do.
   In other words, rather than promoting swift and continuous
adjustment to new information, a transaction tax would cause
prices to jerk and lurch. For smaller, less liquid, firms the
fluctuations will be exacerbated.
   The first of these swings will occur as soon as the tax
looks likely to become law. Combined with other pending laws,
the tax would quickly wipe some 5% -- or 150 points -- off
the value of the Dow Jones average. Here's why.
   Investors have historically expected an average 3%
after-tax real growth in the value of their equities over
time. At the current rate of inflation, roughly 4%, that
translates into 7% after-tax nominal growth in capital value.
   Under the present tax regime, a company must earn 14.7%
annually in order to satisfy its investors. After paying its
34% corporate income tax, a company that earns 14.7% will
have 9.7% to distribute to its owners. If it, as most
companies do, kicks out 3% of earnings to shareholders in the
form of dividends, it will retain 6.7% of earnings. This
should be reflected in appreciation of the value of the
stock.
   From the shareholders' point of view, a 3% dividend will
translate into a 2.2% return on investment after paying
personal taxes. The 6.7% of earnings that are retained will,
after payment of the current 28% capital gain, translate into
a 4.8% return on investment. And of course, 2.2% after-tax
return from dividends plus a 4.8% after-tax capital
appreciation add up to the required 7% return.
   Now add an 0.5% transaction tax to the calculation. The
shareholder now needs a 7.2% increase, instead of a 6.7%
increase, in the after-tax, after-3% dividend value of the
company if he is to earn his nominal 7%. Redoing the
arithmetic, that means the company must earn a nominal 15.5%,
instead of 14.7%. That additional increment it will now have
to earn doesn't sound like much, but it adds up to a 5%
increase in the cost of capital.
   Well of course, companies can't summon up the necessary
improvement in earnings with a snap of the fingers. So a 5%
increase in the cost of capital will mean a corresponding 5%
depreciation in asset values -- and thus 5% off the value of
equities.
   Some in the Bush administration dream of trading off the
transaction tax as part of a deal that would also cut the
capital gains rate to 20% from 28% and boost the top personal
income tax rate to 33% from 28%. This deal would not be worth
doing, at least not from the point of view of equities
markets.
   The combined effect of the lower capital-gains tax rate
plus the higher top personal income tax rate would be to
reduce the pre-tax nominal return needed to earn a post-tax
7% (made up, remember, of 3% real growth and 4% inflation) to
9.3% from the 9.7% mentioned above. That would cut the cost
of capital by 4% and, presumably, boost the value of the
equities markets by 4%.
   But the 0.5% transaction tax would wipe 5% off the value
of those markets. So all this finagling will simply have the
effect of increasing the cost of capital by 1%. The
transaction tax will annihilate the advantage of lower
capital-gains taxes.
   ---
   Mr. Gould, a professor at the University of Chicago, is
president of Investment Research Co. Victor Canto, president
of Laffer, Canto &amp; Associates, contributed research to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PHONY REPORTS of nonwage payments lead the scheme's
promoter to conviction.
   A federal jury in Fargo, N.D., has found Roger N. Elvick
of Moorhead, Minn., and three others guilty of filing false
documents with the IRS. Elvick is said to have concocted and
promoted a widespread scheme to file Form 1099 reports
showing nonwage payments of millions of dollars to officials
and others. Undetected false 1099s may lead to needless and
costly audits. The defendants were accused of trying to
harass people they felt had wronged them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also convicted: Ronald W. Knutt, Natalie C. Telemaque and
Thomas D. Porter. Sentencing hasn't been set; maximum prison
terms for the offenses range from three to five years. The
first of six persons facing similar charges in Albuquerque,
N.M., Jean R. Canon, is to go on trial tomorrow. A second,
Peggy R. Williams, may go on trial Monday. A videotape of
Elvick presenting his tax-protest and harassment scheme was
found in the Farmington, N.M., office of Mrs. Williams and
her husband, Clinton P. Williams, a co-defendant.
   Elvick and his three co-defendants refused to attend their
trial in Fargo. They stayed in jail and called no witnesses
in their defense.
                                                                                                       

   SPURIOUS 1099s have sparked 65 criminal investigations in
16 states.
   That's up from 40 such investigations two months ago. So
far, the IRS has intercepted 3,343 forms reporting phony
payments of $20.5 billion and filed by 271 persons in 29
states, says Tim Wellesley, director of the Fargo district,
which began coordinating the cases last fall. Some of those
people also filed 115 tax returns for 1988 and 1989 falsely
claiming refunds of $8.3 billion.
   The IRS and the Justice Department decline to discuss the
continuing investigations; but the areas include North
Dakota, Minnesota, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, and New York.
A man facing marijuana charges in Sacramento, Calif., is said
to have filed false 1099s naming federal and state judges and
law-enforcement officials; he hasn't been charged with a
crime related to the 1099s. In Sioux City, Iowa, the Justice
Department got a civil injunction ordering a man not to file
false 1099s or take other actions to harass IRS agents.
                                                                                                       

   CAN COMPUTERS TAKE OVER the selection of returns for
audit?
   The IRS already uses computers to score returns for
possible audit. Returns with high scores then go to human
classifiers, who analyze the issues to determine whether they
warrant auditing. Now "artificial-intelligence" experts are
developing a computer system to emulate the decision-making
processes of the IRS's best classifiers. The system will be
used this year in the Andover, Mass., service center to
classify 12,000 1989 returns with high scores.
   The IRS says it got good results in a previous test of a
prototype, using returns from earlier years that already had
been classified and having expert classifiers analyze any
differences. For 63% of the returns, the computer did a
better job than staff classifiers did. The staff did better
with 18%. The results were the same for 19%.
   If the Andover test goes well, the system will be tested
in Atlanta next year. It could be in use in all 10 centers in
a few years.
                                                                                                       

   THE PAYOFF: Ex-mayor Lee Alexander of Syracuse, N.Y.,
pleaded guilty in 1988 of extortion and evading taxes. Now
the Tax Court says he owes taxes of $667,681, plus civil
fraud and other penalties, on unreported kickback income of
$1.3 million.
                                                                                                       

   A FLAT FEE of 25 cents is charged in California for each
used tire left with dealers; the state's tire-recycling fund
gets the cash. Critics note that vehicle-fleet owners might
avoid the tax by dumping cast-offs themselves and wonder why
the fee isn't imposed on sales of new tires.
                                                                                                       

   CHANGES IN CONTROL and recapitalizations occurring after
last March 31 must be reported by certain corporations, under
the 1989 tax act. Newly proposed IRS rules limit reporting to
transactions valued at $10 million or more. The IRS expects
about 10,000 filings a year on new Form 8820.
                                                                                                       

   HE MADE HIS MARK by writing wrong, the Tax Court says.
   Edward Voccola of Cranston, R.I., was an owner and manager
of an auto-body shop. IRS auditors said he endorsed over
$100,000 in insurance-company checks for customers' repairs
in 1973 and 1974 and kept the cash without reporting it as
his income or the firm's. Voccola was convicted of insurance
fraud and perjury, but he and the firm went to court to
contest IRS claims for taxes and civil fraud penalties. The
script for his plea: He couldn't have signed the checks,
because he can't read or write.
   Voccola even claimed he had others sign his name to a
marriage-license form, a voter-registration form, a power of
attorney, and many other witnessed or notarized documents.
But no one took the stand to endorse his claims, and a
handwriting expert testified that the same person had signed
31 of the documents over 25 years. Also, Voccola wrote his
signature in court, albeit laboriously and apparently to
distort it.
   Judge Shields ruled that Voccola signed the checks and
found him and the firm liable for fraud penalties.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Groups volunteering to participate in Tax
Counseling for the Elderly next year must apply to the IRS by
Aug. 15; for information, phone 202-566-6603. . . . IRS
Revenue Ruling 90-53 says South African taxes for years after
1987 don't qualify for foreign credits against U.S. taxes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Battle Is Growing Over Raising Top Tax Rate;
   Outcome May Be Key to Success of Budget Talks
   ----
   By Alan Murray and Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In this year's battle over the budget, the
top rate is rapidly becoming the bottom line.
   Democrats say basic fairness demands that the top income
tax rate on high-income Americans be raised from its current
28% to at least 33% -- especially if President Bush insists
on cutting the tax rate on capital gains. But many
Republicans are equally adamant in their opposition to such a
move, defending the 28% top rate as the Holy Grail of
Reaganomics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The controversial issue could well be the downfall of the
budget talks. On the other hand, if one side capitulates or a
compromise is reached, it could be the key decision that
allows a massive tax-increase bill to become law.
   Inside the Bush administration, the issue is sparking
intense debate. Publicly, administration officials all say
they oppose any effort to raise the top rate. But privately,
opinions are split.
   Some top administration officials have expressed a
willingness to compromise on the rate issue -- provided
Congress agrees to the other key elements of a budget
package. But White House Chief of Staff John Sununu is
adamantly opposed to any effort to touch the top rate.
   On Capitol Hill, the battle lines are even more firmly
cast. Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) of the House Ways
and Means Committee says anything less than a 33% top rate
"is something that the Democrats have to walk away ashamed
of."
   Indeed, many even say tax rates must go higher than 33% to
penalize the very wealthy who were the prime beneficiaries of
the tax cuts of the Reagan years. "I've got a Democratic
caucus that wants a 36% rate," Mr. Rostenkowski says.
   But Sen. Robert Packwood of Oregon, like many other
Republicans, says he is "unalterably opposed" to raising the
rates. Sen. Packwood, the top Republican on the Senate
Finance Committee, adds that if negotiators at the budget
summit can't find an alternative to raising the top rate,
which was just lowered a few years ago, "then we're out of
luck."
   At the heart of the controversy is an anomaly of the 1986
Tax Reform Act known as the "bubble." That provision requires
high-income taxpayers to pay a 5% surtax on certain portions
of their income. The purpose of the surtax is to nullify the
benefit these taxpayers get from the personal exemption and
the lower, 15% tax rate.
   For a married couple without children, the surtax kicks in
when taxable income reaches $78,400, and kicks off after
income exceeds $185,730. For taxpayers whose income falls
within this "bubble" range, the marginal rate -- that is, the
rate on each additional dollar earned -- is 33%.
   In recent years, the bubble has been a target of heavy
criticism among Democrats, who complain it's unfair for
couples earning less than $185,730 a year to pay a higher
marginal tax rate than those earning more, who pay only 28%
on each additional dollar.
   To solve this anomaly, Democrats want to add a new top tax
rate of 33%. That would be a tax increase for the 600,000
Americans now above the bubble range, raising $3.8 billion
for the government in the first year and nearly $42 billion
over five years.
   As a compromise, some administration officials have
discussed a plan that would eliminate the bubble by adding a
new, 31% tax rate. The result would be a tax increase for
couples earning more than $185,730 a year, but also a small
tax cut for those in the bubble range. There would be no
change in government revenue, allowing the president to claim
he didn't raise income taxes.
   The compromise proposal has some support among
Republicans, since those receiving tax cuts would outnumber
those receiving tax increases by seven to one. "I have to see
the whole package," says Rep. Rod Chandler (R., Wash.). "But
that's a reasonable idea. I am kind of impressed."
   For other Republicans, however, such tinkering with the
top rate is heresy. "I could not sign onto anything that
raises the rates," says Sen. Packwood. White House Chief of
Staff Sununu apparently agrees, and privately has even
suggested bursting the bubble by eliminating the surtax and
imposing instead a solid top rate of 28%.
   In response to such hard-fought positions, White House and
congressional tax experts are toying with a variety of other
options to hit the rich without raising rates. One idea,
mentioned in private talks by Mr. Sununu, would limit the
deduction for state income taxes to a specific number, say
$15,000 a year. Other ideas would limit the deductions to a
percentage of adjusted gross income or subtract a given
amount from total deductions.
   The problem with such formulations is that they would
effectively reduce some of the most politically sacred
deductions in the tax code, such as the mortgage-interest
deduction, the charitable deduction and the deduction for
state and local income taxes.
   In some ways, the issue is more symbol than substance.
Fewer than five million of the nation's about 110 million
taxpayers -- or less than 5% -- would be affected by any
change in the top rate. What's more, under the current system
no taxpayer ultimately has to pay more than 28% of his or her
income in taxes -- even those in the bubble whose top
marginal rate is 33%.
   "I think it's really mostly aesthetics," says Joseph
Minarik, executive director of the congressional Joint
Economic Committee. "Some people will see it and have some
discomfort about it. But I don't think the bubble is worth
bleeding and dying over."
   Nevertheless, many Democrats are determined to stake their
claim on the issue. In their view, the bubble is a symbol of
the tax policies of the Reagan years, when the top tax rate
on high-income Americans dropped from 70% to 28% -- reducing
the progressiveness of the tax system. They see President
Bush's proposal to cut the capital-gains tax rate as yet
another giveaway to the rich.
   At best, Democrats say they are determined to make certain
the tax bill of 1990 doesn't continue the Reagan trend. "If
you are going to have a big tax increase this year," says
James Wetzler, New York state tax commissioner and an adviser
to New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, "the upper income people ought
to pay something."
   ---
                           Rate Wars
                                                                                                       

   Individual Income Tax Rates on Taxable Income, For 1990
                                                                                                       

   UNMARRIED INDIVIDUAL
                                                                                                       

   0 to $19,450                                  15%
   $19,450 to $47,050                            28
   $47,050 to $109,100*                          33
   $109,100 and over                             28
                                                                                                       

   MARRIED COUPLE FILING JOINTLY
                                                                                                       

   0 to $32,450                                  15%
   $32,450 to $78,400                            28
   $78,400 to 185,730*                           33
   $185,730 and over                             28
                                                                                                       

   *The maximum amount of income subject to the 33% rate
depends on the number of exemptions claimed by the taxpayer.
This table assumes two exemptions for married couples filing
jointly and one exemption for unmarried individuals.
                                                                                                       

   Source: "Overview of the Federal Tax System," 1990
edition, House Ways and Means Committee
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Orthopedic Services Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   OSII
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   ORTHOPEDIC SERVICES Inc., a Wayne, Pa.-based maker of
orthopedic appliances, said it made an initial public
offering of three million common shares at $16 each. Proceeds
will be used to repay debts and redeem preferred stock, and
for working capital. Lehman Brothers and Paribas Corp. are
co-managers of the underwriting group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP I.BR PSR FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

bonds due July 1, 2020, priced at 99.352 to yield 9.942%. The
first mortgage bonds were priced at a spread of 1.40
percentage points over the Treasury's 30-year bond and are
noncallable for 10 years. Rated single-A-3 by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and triple-B-plus by Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters led by
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   New York State Dormitory Authority -- $869.7 million of
bonds, including $530.3 million of revenue bonds and $339.4
million of special obligation bonds, priced by a PaineWebber
Inc. group to yield from 5.80% for special obligation bonds
due in 1991 to 7.68% for revenue bonds due in 2014. The
revenue bonds are due May 15, 1992-2004, 2010, 2014, 2016 and
2017. In this category, current interest serial bonds are
priced to yield from 6.50% in 1992 to 7.55% in 2004. There
are $63.9 million of 7.50% term bonds priced at 99.75 to
yield 7.52% in 2010, $172.1 million of 7.38% term bonds
priced at 96.63 to yield 7.68% in 2014, $133.3 million of 7%
term bonds priced at 92.75 to yield 7.65% in 2016 and $42.3
million of 6% term bonds priced at 82.25 to yield 7.55% in
2017. Term bonds due in 2010 are non-callable. Ratings of
single-A by Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P are expected.
The special obligation bonds are due Nov. 1 and May 1,
1990-2000, with capital appreciation bonds due May 1 and Nov.
1, 2001-2010. These current interest serial bonds are priced
to yield from 5.80% in 1991 to 6.70% in 2000. Serial bonds
due in 1990 weren't formally reoffered. Capital appreciation
bonds are priced to yield from 6.75% in 2001 to 7% in
2006-2010. Triple-A ratings are expected from Moody's and
S&amp;P.
   California Housing Finance Agency -- $243.7 million of
home mortgage revenue bonds due Aug. 1, 2010, 2014 and 2030,
with capital appreciation bonds due Feb. 1 and Aug. 1,
2001-2005, tentatively priced by a Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets group to yield from 7% in 2001 and 2014 to 7.63% in
2030. There are $31.3 million of 7 1/4% term bonds priced at
par due in 2010, $21.8 million of 7% term bonds priced at par
due in 2014 and $161.8 million of 7 5/8% term bonds priced at
par due in 2030. Capital appreciation bonds are priced to
yield from 7% in 2001 to 7.20% in 2004 and 2005. The bonds
are rated double-A by Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P.
Interest on the bonds due in 2030 will be subject to the
federal alternative minimum tax that may be imposed on
certain investors.
   Wisconsin -- $200 million of 10 months operating notes,
due June 17, 1991, mostly via a BT Securities Corp. group.
The firm purchased $175 million of the notes. All of the
notes carry a coupon of 6 1/4%, with $100 million of notes
priced to yield 6.10% and $75 million of notes priced to
yield 6.12%. A PaineWebber Inc. group purchased the remaining
$25 million of the notes and priced them to yield 6.09%. The
notes are rated MIG-1 by Moody's and SP1-plus by S&amp;P.
   Massachusetts Port Authority -- $91.1 million of revenue
bonds, Series 1990, due July 1, 1992-2004, 2010 and 2020,
tentatively priced by a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group
to yield from 6.50% in 1992 to 7.60% in 2020. Current
interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.50% in 1992
to 7.35% in 2004. There are $17.7 million of 7 3/8% term
bonds priced at 98.71 to yield 7.50% in 2010 and $53.1
million of 7 1/2% term bonds priced at 98.82 to yield 7.60%
in 2020. The bonds are rated double-A by Moody's and Fitch
Investors Service Inc. and double-A-minus by S&amp;P, except for
bonds due in 1997-2020, which are insured and rated triple-A
by Moody's and S&amp;P. Interest on the bonds will be treated as
a preference item in calculating the federal alternative
minimum tax.
   Missouri Housing Development Corp. -- $85 million of
single-family housing revenue bonds, due June 1, and Dec. 1,
1992-2005, 2013, 2016 and 2022, were tentatively priced by a
George K. Baum &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.10% in 1992 to
7.75% in 2022. Current interest serial bonds are priced at
par to yield from 6.10% in 1992 to 7.15% in 2005. There are
$22 million of term bonds priced at par to yield 7 1/4% in
2013. There are $12.8 million of term bonds priced at par to
yield 7 5/8% in 2016 and $34 million of term bonds priced at
par to yield 7 3/4% in 2022. The bonds are rated triple-A by
S&amp;P. Interest on the bonds will be treated as a preference
item in calculating the federal alternative minimum tax that
may be imposed on certain investors.
   Broward County School Board, Fla. -- $67.7 million of
certificates of participation, due July 1, 1991-2002, and
2010, were tentatively priced by a Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. group
to yield from 6.00% in 1991 to 7.29% in 2010. Current
interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.00% in 1991
to 7.05% in 2002. There are $38 million of 7 1/8% term bonds
priced at 98 1/4 to yield 7.29% in 2010. The bonds are
insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
   East Baton Rouge, La. -- $56 million of single-family
mortgage revenue bonds, Series A due Feb. 1 and Aug. 1,
1993-2003, 2008, 2015, 2020 and 2023, and Series B due Aug.
1, 2012, were tentatively priced by a Howard Weil Labouisse
Friedrichs Inc. group to yield from 6.40% in 1993 to 7.82% in
2023. Series A current interest serial bonds are priced at
par to yield from 6.40% in 1993 to 7.25% in 2003. There are
$5.2 million of term bonds priced at par to yield 7 5/8% due
Aug. 1, 2008. There are $4.5 million of term bonds priced at
par to yield 7.40% due Feb. 1, 2015. There are $16.8 million
of term bonds priced at par to yield 7.60% due Feb. 1, 2020,
and $16.9 million of 7.80% term bonds priced at 99 3/4 to
yield 7.82% due Aug. 1, 2023. Series B consists of a single
$6 million tranche of bonds priced at par to yield 7.40% due
Aug. 1, 2012. The bonds are backed by the Government National
Mortgage Association and rated triple-A by Moody's. Interest
on the Series A bonds will be treated as a preference item in
calculating the federal alternative minimum tax that may be
imposed on certain investors.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Banco di Roma, London branch, (Italian parent) -- $150
million of floating-rate depository receipts due August 1999,
priced at par, via Shearson Lehman Hutton Ltd. Coupon at
margin 0.05 point above six-month London interbank offered
rate. Callable at par on every payment date from August 1993.
Puttable at par on payment dates in 1993, 1995, 1997.
   World Bank (supranational) -- 250 million New Zealand
dollars (US$147.9 million) of 12 1/2% international bonds due
July 25, 1997, priced at 100.90, via Fay Richwhite Co.
   World Bank -- 10 billion pesetas ($98.7 million) of 13
3/4% bonds due July 24, 1995, priced at 101.40 via lead
managers Banesto.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Africa's Producer Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -- South Africa's producer
price index in May rose 11.3% from a year earlier, the
government's Central Statistical Services said.
   The index was 196.3 points in May, compared with 176.4 a
year earlier, and was up 1.1% from April's revised 194.1.
April's year-to-year increase was 11.6%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Producer prices for imported commodities rose 7.2% in May,
compared with 10.1% in April, and prices of locally produced
commodities rose 12.2% in May and 12% in April.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Medical Care International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MEDC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEDICAL CARE INTERNATIONAL Inc. said it registered with
the Securities and Exchange Commission to offer $50 million
principal amount of convertible subordinated debentures, due
2015. The Dallas-based operator of outpatient surgical
centers said it will use the proceeds to support its
long-term expansion plans and for general corporate purposes.
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. is the lead
underwriter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Greenspan Meets With GOP Senators
   To Hear Concerns About Credit Crunch
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A group of Republican senators summoned
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan to Capitol Hill
to hear their concerns about a credit crunch and a stagnating
economy.
   Mr. Greenspan met in a closed session over lunch with
members of the Senate Republican Conference. Several of the
senators used the opportunity to complain about tightening
credit standards and urge the Fed to ease credit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The senators were on his back about interest rates,
obviously," said Sen. Richard Lugar (R., Ind.) after the
meeting. According to Sen. Christopher Bond (R., Mo.), "There
were a lot of concerns expressed about the credit crunch."
   In his responses, the Fed chairman gave the senators
little reason to expect the central bank to cut interest
rates soon. Instead, he argued that the Fed is walking a very
narrow road right now, with the risk of recession close on
one side, but the risk of accelerating inflation close on the
other.
   The unusual Senate meeting was yet another sign that the
political pressure on the Fed to cut interest rates is
growing increasingly intense. The meeting comes just a few
days after Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady made a rare
public plea for lower interest rates. So far, however, the
Fed chairman shows no sign of budging.
   Mr. Greenspan spent part of the session discussing the
unusual employment figures released last week, according to
several people who attended. He said unemployment remains
very low, and labor-force growth is very sluggish. In
particular, he said, women and young people seem to be
entering the labor force at a surprisingly slow rate. As a
result, there aren't enough new workers to allow the economy
to grow at a much faster rate.
   In addition, the Fed chairman argued that if he eased
credit now, that might boost the economy for the next six
months or so but would ultimately result in more inflation
and force the Fed to crack down even harder in the future.
   Mr. Greenspan declined to say what decisions the Fed's
policy-making committee had made at its meeting last week.
But his comments appeared to reinforce previous reports from
government officials that the Fed has no immediate plans to
ease credit.
   But by acknowledging repeatedly that the Fed is operating
"at the edge" and walking a very narrow line, Mr. Greenspan
also indicated that any sharp change in the economic data
could lead the central bank to change its course.
   Chairman Greenspan also used the opportunity to make a
plea for cutting the budget deficit this year, according to
those who attended. The Fed chairman said that with slow
growth in the labor force, the only way to get the economy
moving is to increase the output, or "productivity," of the
existing labor force. And the best way to improve
productivity, he argued, is to increase investment by
boosting national savings and cutting the budget deficit.
   "He was very strong on that," said Sen. Bond. "He said the
best way to increase savings is to run" a budget surplus.
   The one clear voice of support for the Fed chairman came
from Florida GOP Sen. Connie Mack. According to several
people attending the lunch, Sen. Mack, a former banker,
questioned whether there was really a dangerous credit crunch
under way. He said that when bankers tell borrowers the
regulators won't let them make a loan, what they really mean
is the loan is too risky.
   ---
   Greg Hitt contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Lawsuit Seeks to Ban Sales
   Of Sony's Audio Recorders
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A class-action lawsuit was filed asking a
federal judge to ban Sony Corp. from selling its new digital
audio tape recorders.
   The lawsuit, filed in U.S. district court in Manhattan,
alleges that the recording devices, which make nearly
flawless recordings from compact disks and other sources, are
designed solely to enable consumers to violate music
copyrights by making unauthorized versions. The action was
filed on behalf of songwriters and other owners of music
copyrights in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lawsuit seeks a court order prohibiting Sony from
distributing and marketing the DAT recorders, which it began
shipping to retailers last month, as well as blank DAT
cassettes. The lawsuit also seeks a declaration by the court
that unauthorized home recordings made on the DAT machines
violate music copyrights, and that Sony will be liable for
those alleged infringements.
   Michael Oberman, an attorney for the plaintiffs who
brought the suit, said a recent survey by the Roper
Organization found that nearly everyone interested in buying
a DAT machine intends to tape prerecorded music.
   Sony, in a statement, said the suit is "totally without
merit," adding that "DAT is the latest development of a
product that has been widely used in the U.S. for more than
30 years -- the home tape recorder."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Banks Offer a New Way to Play Foreign Currencies
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI BAC FW EUROP CANDA JAPAN FTU
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Want to try to take advantage of Britain's 13%-plus bank
interest rates, or bet that the Swiss franc will soar in
world currency markets?
   A handful of U.S. banks are now offering special accounts
that allow depositors to invest in foreign currencies without
ever going overseas -- and without giving up the security of
federal deposit insurance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Whether investors should try to take advantage of the
opportunity is another matter. Speculating in foreign
currencies is a notoriously risky business, and even
professional foreign-exchange traders frequently are wrong.
While interest rates in Britain and some other countries
currently look very appealing, a sudden currency swing can
cut into or even wipe out investors' earnings.
   Still, until recently, U.S. residents who wanted to take
the foreign-currency gamble had few options. Investors could
go overseas to open a bank account. They could buy currencies
from a dealer or in the Chicago futures markets. Or,
investors could purchase shares in one of several mutual
funds designed to trade currencies.
   But an American couldn't go to a local U.S. bank and
deposit a foreign currency in an account, because U.S. banks
weren't allowed to offer foreign-currency accounts in the
U.S.
   That also inconvenienced small businesses with customers
or suppliers overseas. If the businesses kept their banking
activity in the U.S., it meant that they had to convert to or
from dollars for every transaction involving a foreign
currency. While the operations could get around that problem
by setting up a foreign bank account, they then faced
headaches like time-zone differences that precluded
transactions during normal U.S. business hours and bank
statements sometimes written in another language.
   Federal Reserve Board concerns about the effect on the
dollar were behind the prohibition on foreign-currency
accounts. Indeed, the Fed was so worried about the possible
consequences in 1973 that it jaw-boned Bank of America into
scuttling plans for such accounts. This past year, however, a
more laissez faire-minded Fed relented and permitted banks to
serve up this previously forbidden fruit as of the start of
this year.
   So far, foreign-currency accounts haven't attracted much
attention. "It's a product in search of a market," says Don
Carson, a senior vice president at First Wachovia's Wachovia
Bank &amp; Trust Co.
   That could change, however, as the accounts become better
known and more widely available. "Just look at the rising
purchases of foreign equities by Americans," says Joanne
Snyder, a product manager for Citicorp's Citibank unit.
   Citibank learned how popular foreign-currency deposits can
be with individuals when it offered Japanese consumers a
money market account denominated in Australian dollars. The
account allowed Japanese consumers to earn the higher
Australian interest rates.
   The few banks currently offering the foreign-currency
accounts -- including Citibank, First Union National Bank of
North Carolina, Wachovia and Bank of America -- are promoting
them chiefly to business customers. Only Citibank is offering
the accounts to U.S. consumers, primarily to wealthy
customers of its private bank. (Bank of America says
individuals could get foreign-currency accounts if they
wanted them enough.)
   When it comes to investment returns, a lot depends on the
individual currency -- and the investor's timing. At
Citibank, a person who put $100,000 into a three-month Swiss
franc account in March could have earned an annualized return
of 34.5%, taking into account both the interest and
foreign-currency gain. But the annualized return on a
Japanese yen deposit would have been 1.9%.
   Citibank's Ms. Snyder hastens to add a disclaimer that
those returns apply only to the three-month period in
question and aren't necessarily indicative of future returns.
   The possibility of high returns isn't the only reason to
have a foreign-currency account. The accounts can also reduce
transaction costs and inconvenience for small businesses and
others who frequently hold large amounts of foreign currency.
   "These accounts will ease companies' operational problems
as well as allow them to avoid conversion costs and to earn
interest on their money," says James E. Brady, who heads
First Union's foreign-exchange department.
   A final, but important, advantage of having a foreign
currency on deposit with a bank in the U.S. rather than
maintaining an account overseas is that each account is
insured up to the equivalent of $100,000 by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.
   Citibank offers two foreign-currency accounts: a money
market account that pays the overnight interest rate in each
currency and a fixed-rate time deposit with maturities of one
month to one year. The accounts are available in five
currencies: British pounds, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars,
Swiss francs and German marks. The minimum deposit is the
equivalent of $50,000. The accounts can be tapped via
international bank drafts but not through regular checks.
   "So far, the people who are using the accounts are being
somewhat conservative but sophisticated," says Ms. Synder.
"Some have the accounts strictly as investments. For others,
it's a matter of convenience."
   Other banks have aimed the accounts at corporate
customers. As Wachovia's Mr. Carson explains, "We don't want
an individual without any bonafide reason to be in one these
accounts and be disappointed when a currency loses value."
   Wachovia offers the most currencies -- 21. It requires an
opening balance of $5,000 for non-interest bearing demand
deposits.
   First Union offers businesses a money market account that
requires a $10,000 opening balance and pays an interest-rate
as high as 1.5 percentage points below the overnight rate in
that currency. The rate depends on the account balance.
   Bank of America requires no minimum balance on its demand
deposit account, which is available in 10 currencies. For
interest-bearing fixed-term accounts available in six
currencies, the bank requires the equivalent of $1 million
for deposits of less than one month and $100,000 for accounts
ranging from one month to a year.
   ---
         How Some Foreign-Currency Returns Compare
                                                                                                       

   Annualized returns (including interest income and gain or
loss on converting from and into dollars) for $100,000
invested on March 1 in three-month deposits at Citibank
                                                                                                       

 Currency        Interest   Foreign Exchange  Total Return
                              Gain or Loss
                                                                                                       

 British Pound     14.41%         6.29%           20.7%
 Canadian Dollar   12.38%         5.12%           17.5%
 German Mark        7.69%         9.01%           16.7%
 Japanese Yen       6.63%        -4.73%            1.9%
 Swiss Franc        8.56%        25.94%           34.5%
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: Figures apply only to the three-month period
March-June 1990 and aren't necessarily indicative of future
returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Red Cross Fails to Note
   Possible AIDS-Tied Blood
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- American Red Cross blood banks failed to
notify the organization's Washington headquarters of 224
possible instances of AIDS contamination, according to the
Food and Drug Administration.
   In all instances, the blood banks had been alerted by
physicians that AIDS patients believed they had been infected
through blood transfusions. All of the blood banks are in the
Washington, D.C., region, which has one of the highest urban
rates of AIDS.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under an agreement with the FDA, the Red Cross has been
required since 1988 to monitor its blood banks more closely
than it had in the past. But most of the cases of possible
contamination occurred before 1985, according to an FDA
spokeswoman.
   The FDA's findings appear in an inspection report awaiting
final review. Its contents were first reported yesterday in
the Philadelphia Inquirer.
   The Red Cross said that since AIDS testing and screening
had begun, "only six cases of transfusion-associated AIDS
have been reported."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Jury Finds
   USX, 2 Union
   Officials Guilty
   ----
   By Gregory Stricharchuk
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   X LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal jury in Birmingham, Ala., found USX Corp. guilty
of 14 criminal counts in connection with a conspiracy to
unfairly influence a labor contract in 1983.
   The Pittsburgh-based energy and steel concern, which faces
maximum fines of $4.1 million, said it was "extremely
disappointed" and plans to appeal the verdict to the U.S.
Court of Appeals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two United Steelworkers union officials, E.B. Rich, 60
years old, and Thermon Phillips, 62, were also convicted.
Messrs. Rich and Phillips each were found guilty of two
counts, including conspiracy and violation of a provision of
the Taft-Hartley Act barring union representatives from
taking something of value from an employer. They each face up
to 10 years in prison and $500,000 in fines.
   The verdicts in the 14-week trial came after two weeks of
jury deliberations.
   The only USX official indicted, former top labor
negotiator J. Bruce Johnston, has yet to face trial on a
four-count indictment, according to a spokesman at the U.S.
attorney's office.
   USX said it believes there was "clear error in the conduct
of the trial which will lead to a reversal of the verdicts."
The company added that it believes the "indictments and
verdicts were the products of strained and erroneous
interpretations of complex statutes."
   The company said it continues to believe that its officers
and employees acted properly throughout the events prior to
and following the Fairfield Works labor contract of 1983.
   Sentencing is scheduled for Aug. 20 before U.S. Judge E.B.
Haltom.
   The case stemmed from 1983 labor negotiations when USX,
then U.S. Steel Corp., sought substantial concessions from
steelworkers to reopen its idled Fairfield works near
Birmingham.
   The U.S. attorney's office said evidence showed that USX
and Mr. Phillips, district director of the United
Steelworkers, and Mr. Rich, sub-director of the union,
conspired to violate the Taft-Hartley Act. One of the
purposes of the act is to eliminate practices that might
impair the impartiality of union representatives or corrupt
collective bargaining.
   Specifically, the government said USX influenced the two
men by arranging for their pensions to be enriched beyond
what they would have received as regular company employees.
For instance, Mr. Rich received a pension based on 30.9 years
of service while he had actually worked only 13 years for the
company. Mr. Phillips received a pension based on 37.75 years
of employment while he had only worked at the company for
five years, between 1946 and 1951.
   The case against Mr. Johnston, who faces charges of
violating federal law by concealing information about the
pension change and failing to inform employees about it, is
expected to receive a boost from the USX verdict.
   In addition, 38 Fairfield workers filed suit in 1988 to
recover income they lost as a result of what they consider an
illegal pact. Their case may also receive a boost from
yesterday's verdict.
   The union said it expects the convictions to be overturned
on appeal. The union said the trial was marked by error and
that testimony that was barred "would have shown that the
pension arrangements at issue were widespread in American
industry, served proper labor-relations purposes and never
had been regarded as unlawful by the Department of Labor."
   The case may influence events far beyond the courtroom.
The Steelworkers union suffered a sharp decline in membership
during the 1980s as steel companies closed plants,
streamlined and laid off thousands of members. The union
began trying to organize smaller plants and businesses in the
service industry to make up for those losses.
   Yesterday's verdict, however, could damage the union's
reputation and its credibility as a representative of
workers. Even before the verdict, anti-union groups were
pinning articles about the case on company bulletin boards to
thwart union organizing attempts.
   USX, for its part, has traditionally been a tough
negotiator with the steelworkers. The two are to begin
negotiations by the end of this year on a new national
contract. Most other major steelmakers negotiated pacts last
year, and USX officials have called them too generous. The
combination of a union seeking to regain credibility damaged
by the verdict, and a company pledged to maintain a hard line
could lead to rancor in those talks.
   ---
   Clare Ansberry contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reporter Who Was Jailed
   Over Source Is Released
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- Two weeks into a six-month sentence,
a television reporter here was freed after a source whose
identity he was protecting identified herself to attorneys.
   "She came forward," Brian Karem, the reporter, said. "I
proved my point and I would keep my promise again." Mr. Karem
surrendered his notes and confirmed the name of the source
who helped arrange a phone interview last year with jailed
murder suspect Henry David Hernandez. Mr. Karem works at
KMOL-TV in San Antonio.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two other sources had already identified themselves, but
Mr. Karem refused to give up his notes or testify without the
permission of the third, Mr. Hernandez's cousin Deborah
Ledesma. He was jailed for contempt of court June 27 and his
case stirred national debate on reporter privilege under the
First Amendment.
   Mr. Hernandez, on trial with his brother Julian for the
March 1989 murder of San Antonio policeman Gary Williams,
said in the phone interview that he shot the officer in
self-defense. Attorneys had insisted that the name of the
third source was important to admission of the interview as
evidence.
   Mr. Karem's request for an emergency stay of the jail
sentence pending an appeal was rejected by the Supreme Court
earlier this week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environment:
   Despite Appeal,
   Saving the Earth
   Lacks Donors
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Despite bulging membership rolls and soaring public
support, the environmental movement has found that raising
money can be tougher than saving whales.
   A weak image, poor organization and corporate wariness
have kept charitable contributions for conservation and the
environment at less than 1% of all giving in the U.S.,
officials say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's an enigma," says Jon Jensen, coordinator of the
Environmental Grantmakers Association, which tries to find
ecologically minded donors. "Almost any public survey says
the environment is one of the top three or four issues on
people's minds, but it doesn't seem to translate to their
pocketbooks."
   Individual donors, who account for 84% of all giving,
still don't seem to think of the environment as a charity.
According to a 1988 study by Independent Sector, a public
interest group, the average American household spends $375
for religious charity and $50 for human services, but only $9
for the environment.
   Environmental groups take part of the blame. Prospective
donors can be bewildered by the 10,000 hopelessly
decentralized groups competing for funds. And the groups rely
on antiquated direct mail to core constituents instead of
broadening solicitation to reach new converts. Also plaguing
the groups is the lingering belief "that if you donate to
environmental groups, they will help the spotted owl and hurt
people," says Kalman Stein, director of the Environmental
Federation of America.
   To fight this, Mr. Stein's organization -- a federation of
23 environmental groups seeking to pool fund-raising efforts
-- has expanded advertisements and started workplace
campaigns, like the United Way's, among federal and state
workers. California companies Apple Computer, Tandem
Computers and Safeway recently agreed to participate.
   Some would-be donors simply assume that Uncle Sam will pay
the environmental tab. But William Reilly, director of the
Environmental Protection Agency, says government funding
isn't likely to return to where it was before the Reagan
cuts. "There are things you can't do without private-sector
help," he says. "We've got to enlist these resources."
   Private foundations, however, have been slow to fill the
gap. Some, such as the Pew Charitable Trust and the MacArthur
Foundation, are longtime givers to conservation causes.
Another exception, the Pittsburgh-based Richard King Mellon
Foundation, last week announced a $21 million land gift to
the nation, calling on other foundations and businesses to do
the same. "We are very hopeful others will join in," says the
foundation's president, Seward Prosser Mellon.
   A few have. This year, the Nathan Cummings Foundation,
with assets of $200 million, and the Surdna Foundation, with
assets of $300 million, both in New York City, have adopted
environmental programs for the first time. A quarter of each
fund's grants will now go to the environment. The McKnight
Foundation of Minneapolis, one of the nation's largest
foundations, this month will consider such a program.
   Apparently, other foundations are also interested. At the
Council on Foundations' annual meeting in April, the
Environmental Grantmakers held a breakfast meeting in a room
made to hold 50. Some 200 foundation representatives crowded
in for the presentation.
   "For a long time environmentalists were an elite group of
middle class whites who couldn't get a broad enough base,"
says Virginia Hayes, president of the American Association of
Fund-Raising Counsel. Now, she predicts, "they've reached
critical mass. They'll be on a funding ascendancy for many
years."
   Right now, though, most foundations still prefer their
traditional causes -- education, health and the arts. A 1988
study by the Foundation Center reported that only 3.6% of
foundation money went to the environment. Many foundations
are reluctant to get mixed up in the movement's controversial
politics. The Ford Foundation, for example, gives to drinking
water projects in rural America and pollution-control
projects in Eastern Europe but avoids items that say
"environment in capital letters," says program officer Walter
Coward, insisting grant recipients consider jobs and
development.
   Businesses and their corporate foundations, meanwhile,
give just 2% to 3% of their charity to the environment, the
Conference Board says. Though such donors have been giving
more recently, environmentalists suspect this is less a
display of philanthropy than an effort to get activists to
leave them alone.
   The Amoco Foundation, for example, doubled its annual
contribution to the Nature Conservancy this year, partly in
reply to public pressure on the oil industry after the Exxon
Valdez oil spill. The foundation also gave land to the Nature
Conservancy in Oklahoma, near an Amoco oil drilling site, to
help ease local opposition.
   When corporate donors do give, the money often goes to
environmental law or research groups, which won't later show
up with picket signs on the company's doorstep. Says Ford
Motor Co. Fund director Leo Brennan: "You don't want to be
kicked in the shins by the shoes you buy."
   Sometimes, the company kicks back. In 1988, when the Arco
Foundation discovered that a longtime grant recipient had
started protesting Atlantic Richfield's oil exploration in
the Alaska National Wildlife Reserve, the foundation dumped
the group.
   To tap into more funds, such groups as the Nature
Conservancy use a nonconfrontational approach. They don't
hassle companies about poor environmental records, and they
don't mind being used for corporate P.R.
   Chevron gave the Nature Conservancy $7 million in water
rights on Colorado's Gunnison River, and then ran TV ads to
brag about it. Toyota gave the Conservancy three trucks and
then ran a print ad praising itself. And when Arco gave the
conservancy 570 acres in Southern California, it hauled out
film crews for an elaborate presentation.
   Patrick Noonan, who started the beggars-can't-be-choosers
program as head of the Nature Conservancy and who now leads
the Conservation Fund, defends halfhearted corporate charity.
"They're going to give the money somewhere," he says. "We've
got a crisis, and we've got a need."
   ---
                   Where Americans Give
                                                                                                       

                                                 AVERAGE
                                PERCENTAGE OF  CONTRIBUTION
   TYPE OF                       HOUSEHOLDS        PER
   CHARITY                      CONTRIBUTING    HOUSEHOLD
                                                                                                       

   Religion                          52.5%         $375
   Human services                    23.9            50
   Health                            23.9            31
   Youth development                 18.5            16
   Education                         15.1            44
   Environment                       10.8             9
   Arts, culture and humanities       8.0            21
   Public and societal benefits       6.5            10
   Private and community foundations  4.8             7
   International                      4.2            12
   Other                              1.3            10
                                                                                                       

   Source: Giving and Volunteering in the United States, 1988
Edition, by Independent Sector
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Khashoggi Counts Dropped
   By U.S. Attorney's Office
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan
dropped the remaining criminal charges against Adnan
Khashoggi, who was acquitted with Imelda Marcos in a federal
racketeering trial last week.
   The motion to dismiss the two counts of conspiracy and
racketeering must be approved by U.S. Judge John Keenan, who
presided over the Marcos trial. In a court filing, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Charles LaBella said the two charges were based
on the same allegations on which Mr. Khashoggi was acquitted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Saudi businessman was extradited from Switzerland in
July 1989 to stand trial on charges of obstruction of justice
and mail fraud in the Marcos case. Under Mr. Khashoggi's
extradition arrangement, he couldn't be tried on the other
two charges, although they remained pending, because
Switzerland doesn't have a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations law.
   Mrs. Marcos, the former first lady of the Philippines who
has lived in Hawaii since 1986, was found innocent of all
charges by a Manhattan federal jury.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Engelhard Ends Degussa Talks
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EC G.DGS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   EDISON, N.J. -- Engelhard Corp. said it ended negotiations
to sell its world-wide gold and silver businesses to Degussa
AG because "acceptable terms" couldn't be reached.
   Engelhard, a specialty chemical concern, said it won't try
to find another buyer for the whole group of gold and silver
businesses. Instead, it will keep the European segment and
attempt to sell the less profitable North American
operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Degussa is a West German chemical and metal producer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST J.NTT JAPAN AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHANGING SWEDEN
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Swedes, long famed for their conformity and civic
obedience, are becoming more unruly and cynical, Swedish
social experts say.
   In a variety of ways, from increasing alcohol consumption
to declining voter participation, Swedes are rebelling
against a system many no longer trust. "It has to do with the
realization that authorities and politicians don't always
have the best interests of the country as their motivation,"
said Stockholm University ethnologist Ake Daun.
   Swedes have been shaken by several cases of politicians
and business leaders who used their influence to obtain money
or political advantage. Those scandals have legitimized
selfishness, said Hakan Lindhoff, a lecturer at the Institute
for Journalism, Media and Mass Communication in Stockholm.
   Messrs. Lindhoff and Daun cited increasing tax evasion and
worker absenteeism. The average Swedish manufacturing worker
led industrial Europe by being absent 47 days in 1989,
according to a study by the Swedish Manufacturers'
Association.
                                                                                                       

   U.S.-SOVIET OIL VENTURE
                                                                                                       

   Anglo-Suisse Inc., a small, closely held U.S.
oil-exploration and production company, has agreed with
Soviet state oil company Varyeganneftegaz to develop two oil
fields in the Tyumen area of Western Siberia, Anglo-Suisse
President Gilles Labbe said. He said the fields are thought
to hold in excess of 500 million barrels of high-quality
crude oil and are now in production. He said the work will
include improving yields from existing wells, returning wells
to production and drilling more, mainly with horizontal
drilling.
                                                                                                       

   NEW DEVELOPMENT FROM NTT
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Corp. said it has
developed a new optic-memory material capable of
super-high-speed information retrieval and greater
information-storage capacity. The new material is said to be
roughly 100 million times faster than currently available
optical-storage materials. An NTT spokesman said the new
material could significantly increase the speed with which
information can be retrieved from a computer's memory. NTT
said using the new material, a full page of a newspaper could
be retrieved in six ten-thousandths of a second.
                                                                                                       

   A SHOPPING CENTER FOR PRAGUE
                                                                                                       

   Three Japanese companies and Czechoslovakia's state-run
Slovak Savings Bank will open a shopping center in Prague, a
spokesman for one of the Japanese companies, Trans-Media
Resources Inc., said. He said the center would be set up in
an existing building at a cost of between $3 million and $7
million and would be geared toward serving foreign tourists.
It also will be used to teach management techniques to local
managers with the aim of opening other shopping centers for
the local population.
                                                                                                       

   CHINESE IN AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                       

   Australia will grant a range of benefits, including the
right to work and free English-language tuition, to the
19,400 Chinese who arrived in the country before China's
crackdown on pro-democracy students last year. To obtain the
benefits, the Chinese must withdraw outstanding applications
for political asylum and apply for a special humanitarian and
refugee status; the special category, effective Aug. 1, gives
the 19,400 Chinese visas to stay in Australia for four years.
                                                                                                       

   HELP FOR HUNGARY
                                                                                                       

   The Export-Import Bank of Japan aims to sign an agreement
with Hungary by the end of August to extend an untied loan
for up to $200 million to the East European country, an Ex-Im
Bank spokesman said. If completed as planned, Hungary would
be the first beneficiary of Ex-Im Bank loans offered as part
of the aid Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu promised for Poland
and Hungary last January.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH KOREAN `TECHNOPOLIS'
                                                                                                       

   South Korea will invest $1.12 billion to develop a
scientific-research complex into a "technopolis" by 1992,
Science and Technology Minister Chung Kun Mo said.
   He said the project -- a city of science, technology and
culture -- would be built not far from the Taedok Complex,
near Taejon, 85 miles south of Seoul.
   Mr. Chung said about 23% of the required funds would come
from the government, with the remainder provided by
businesses. He said emphasis would be given to developing
such high-technology products as high-definition television
and facsimile machines.
   The minister said 32 research institutes would be added to
the Taedok Complex by 1992, bringing the number to 50, and
that a cultural center and medical center also would be set
up there.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   A U.S. Embassy spokesman in Nairobi said the State
Department advised all Americans to defer nonessential travel
to Kenya. "Recent public demonstrations accompanied by
looting and clashes between police and rioters have made
conditions unsafe for travelers," the State Department said.
. . . A survey of world-wide gasoline prices by the
Runzheimer International management-consulting firm showed
the most expensive place to buy gas last month was Abidjan,
Ivory Coast, where the average price per gallon was $4.31.
The cheapest spot was Caracas, Venezuela, with an average
per-gallon price of 21 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grand Met's Burger King
   Is to Test Domino's Pizza
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GME
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Burger King Corp. will add Domino's pizza to its
menu in a one-town test this fall.
   The No. 2-ranked hamburger chain said six-inch pizzas made
by Domino Pizza Inc.'s Pizzazz division will be sold in four
company-owned stores in the Columbia, S.C., market. The pizza
will be clearly identified as coming from Domino's.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Burger King spokeswoman denied that the test is simply a
reaction to McDonald's Corp.'s two-year effort to develop
pizza for its nationwide chain. "We see pizza as a strong,
growing segment of the fast-food market," she said.
   Indeed, Burger King has toyed with developing its own
pizza product for years. Its parent, Grand Metropolitan PLC,
is among the nation's largest makers of frozen, packaged
pizza through its Pillsbury Co. unit.
   The spokeswoman said the experiment with Ann Arbor,
Mich.-based Domino's doesn't preclude tests with other
brands.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Sell
   Monday $18 Billion
   Of Short-Term Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise about $2.1
billion with the sale Monday of about $18 billion in
short-term bills. Maturing bills outstanding total $15.89
billion.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills, which will be dated July 19 and mature on Oct.
18, 1990, and Jan. 17, 1991, respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   UPS Trucks Will Use Gas
   In Los Angeles Experiment
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   X.UPS
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- In a bid for cleaner air, United Parcel
Service Inc. said it will convert 20 of its trucks here to
run on natural gas within the next year.
   United Parcel Service is running the test program in
conjunction with Southern California Gas Co. If the program
goes smoothly, UPS said it will consider converting the rest
of its Los Angeles fleet of more than 2,000 trucks to natural
gas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Southern California Gas said vehicles powered by natural
gas emit 65% less ozone-forming pollutants than those using
gasoline and other fuels.
   UPS has had a similar test program with Brooklyn Union Gas
Co. involving ten trucks in the New York area for more than a
year. "That's going extremely well and that's why we thought
we could expand into Los Angeles," said Siro DeGasperis, a
spokesman for Greenwich, Conn.-based UPS. "The emissions have
been significantly reduced and the things we feared, such as
loss of power, didn't materialize."
   As part of the test program, Southern California Gas will
provide the natural gas and both companies will share the
cost of the conversion equipment for the trucks. A spokesman
for the utility said there are currently about 30,000
vehicles in the U.S. which run on natural gas. Most of those
are owned by gas utilities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Scattered Strikes
   In East Germany
   Trigger Concern
   ---
   Workers Resent Price Rises
   And Fear Loss of Jobs;
   Firms Face Cash Crunch
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- In the second week of German economic union,
West German officials are playing down signs of trouble.
   Bundesbank Director Claus Koehler said East Germans
haven't gone on a buying binge and inflationary potential
remains minimal. He promised that the Bundesbank "is capable
of coming to terms with difficulties" arising from monetary
union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, officials in Bonn and East Berlin are watching
the spreading labor unrest in East Germany with growing
concern. Over the past two weeks, tens of thousands of East
German workers, farmers, sanitation men and even civil
servants have staged scattered strikes to back demands for
job security and higher wages. Yesterday a one-hour work
stoppage by railway engineers disrupted rush-hour train
traffic.
   Labor's complaint focuses on fears of unemployment coming
with Western competition and on having to pay West German
prices from wages amounting to about half of those in West
Germany.
   "You can't have job security and higher wages
simultaneously without large-scale job losses," said Geoffrey
Dennis, chief international economist for James Capel Ltd. in
London. Unless reconciled by policy makers, he said, the
demands could lead to another burst of migration to West
Germany.
   The labor unrest is part of "the adjustment problems when
moving to a free market," he said. "But what we are seeing is
a source of disruption in East Germany that could have an
impact on financial markets if the politicians and the
Bundesbank remain complacent in the belief that all is going
well."
   East Germans withdrew 4.5 billion deutsche marks ($2.72
billion) last week, when most of them were limited to
withdrawals of only 2,000 marks. The sum amounted to only
about a third of the 15 billion East marks in cash
circulating in East Germany's economy before the arrival of
the deutsche mark. "We are still in the process of a
normalization in East Germany's money supply, withdrawals at
this point shouldn't necessarily be unusual," observed a
Bundesbank official.
   About half of East Germany's 8,000 major companies are
expected to face a cash crunch within the next few weeks
after losing half of their cash assets to the conversion
terms set for the deutsche mark. Roughly a third face
imminent bankruptcy.
   Municipalities are in similar straits. The mayor of East
Berlin, Tina Schwierzina, said the East German capital is
verging on a financial collapse. Unless 800 million marks are
injected into the city's finances by year end, she said,
building projects employing 24,000 workers will have to be
dropped.
   On Monday, East Germans could withdraw more deutsche marks
from their bank accounts for the first time. After the week's
hiatus, the day began with long lines outside banks as
consumers lined up for more cash, or merely to check their
new deutsche mark balances for the first time.
   East German prices have shot up. Food prices often are
three to four times above previous levels. Consumers are
showing a heavy preference for newly arrived Western food and
products, ignoring products from East Germany's backward
consumer goods sector.
   For example, East Berlin's vast Alexanderplatz square was
transformed last weekend into a no-holds-barred marketplace
settled by vendors working from the backs of vans, most of
them in from West Germany for a quick profit. Hawkers did a
booming business selling assortments of smoked fish or
sausages. Racks of cheap clothing were quickly picked clean.
   East German officials have promised to crack down on
exorbitant pricing, which they say is at its worst in East
Germany's eastern extremities, where consumers are less able
to shop for better bargains across the West German border.
   Economists say that the breakup of the old East German
retail monopoly and the arrival of more West German chains
will help bring down prices. Yet more entries from the West
only worsen the outlook for East Germany's consumer goods
industries, particularly plants making shoes, clothing,
furniture, electronic goods, office machinery, foodstuffs and
chemical feedstocks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Waste Management Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WMX WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASTE MANAGEMENT Inc. (Oak Brook, Ill.) -- D.P. Payne,
currently a vice president and Midwest area general manager
for International Business Machines Corp., was named a senior
vice president at this waste-handling concern, effective Aug.
1. Mr. Payne, 47 years old, will become one of three senior
vice presidents at the company; in the newly created post, he
will be responsible for Waste Management's strategic
planning, sales and marketing, information systems and
quality control. Separately, Waste Management named Thomas C.
Hau, 54, currently a partner at the accounting firm of Arthur
Andersen &amp; Co., as vice president, controller, effective
Sept. 1. In that post, he succeeds Jerry Girsch, who remains
a vice president and now will serve as controller for Waste
Management's North American operation, in addition to his
other operating duties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Auctions Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government auctioned 850 million
Canadian dollars (US$733.4 million) of 10 3/4% bonds maturing
Dec. 15, 1995.
   The average accepted bid yielded 11.248% for a price
equivalent of 98.002.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Proceeds of the sale will be used for general government
purposes, the department said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oki Electric to Buy Technitron
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   J.OKI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Oki Electric Industry Co., a maker of
communications equipment, agreed to buy Technitron PLC of
Britain, a computer-printer marketing company, for #25
million ($45.2 million), company officials said, and a final
agreement is likely to be signed in August.
   Approval by Technitron shareholders is needed. The
proposed acquisition is part of Oki's plan to expand its
business in the European Community prior to the region's
market unification by the end of 1992. Technitron, which is
capitalized at #15 million and has about 500 employees, had
1989 sales of #77 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since 1977, Technitron has marketed Oki's printers in
Britain, Italy and Scandinavia and these account for more
than 70% of Technitron's printer sales. The Technitron
purchase would enable Oki Electric to capture about 80% of
printer sales in Europe through its own marketing networks.
Oki already maintains three marketing units, one in Britain
and two in West Germany.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Electric Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   GE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GENERAL ELECTRIC Co. (Fairfield, Conn.) -- Susan M.
Walter, previously manager, state government relations, was
named vice president, state government relations, at this
industrial products, financial services, broadcasting,
aerospace and consumer products company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lockerbie Legacy:
   Airlines Try to Improve
   Their Security Abroad
   But Often Are Stymied
   ---
   FAA Rules Clash With Those
   Of Host Nations, Leaving
   The Carriers in the Middle
   ---
   The Dutch Limit X-Raying
   ----
   By William M. Carley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWA PN AMR EUROP MDEST LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   When U.S. Federal Aviation Administration inspectors
checked security at the Brussels airport last year, the
security agents hired by Trans World Airlines flunked.
   And there's nothing TWA can do about it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Belgian government insists that TWA use a local
airport-security company, Belgavia Security Systems N.V.
   "We have absolutely no control over Belgavia," says
Charles Adams, a TWA senior vice president. "I mean, we can
go out there and stand there and tell them what to do, and
they don't pay any attention to us."
   Mr. Adams complained about the problem before a
presidential commission in April. Three months later, with
thousands of Americans beginning the annual summer pilgrimage
to Europe, Belgavia -- which insists the problems are solved
-- continues to X-ray checked bags and screen carry-on items
for TWA in Brussels. Pan American World Airways and American
Airlines are in the same fix.
   That's just one example of the problems that U.S. airlines
have faced as they have mounted a huge effort to improve
security after a bomb in a checked bag downed Pan Am Flight
103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in December 1988. The security
drive is focused on flights to and from Europe and the Middle
East.
   The carriers have been trying to install better equipment
to detect bombs, hire better screeners and give them more
training, and develop more sophisticated techniques for
spotting someone who might, knowingly or unknowingly, be
carrying a bomb in a bag. The FAA also has taken a series of
steps, including trying to post more of its own security
officials overseas to help the airlines improve their
defenses.
   But despite some progress, many of these efforts have run
into all sorts of obstacles. A new device called TNA that is
supposed to detect plastic explosives isn't working very well
in tests. In some cases foreign governments have put up
roadblocks because of parochial concerns, in the name of
sovereignty, or because of honest differences over security
techniques. And some of the FAA's efforts have been stymied,
in part, by disputes with the State Department.
   There has been "continuing improvement in security, but
much remains to be done," says Ann McLaughlin, chairman of
the President's Commission on Aviation Security and
Terrorism, which held the April hearings on airline safety.
   Security experts believe that one sign of progress is a
rapid shift away from the shotgun approach of simply
screening everybody boarding the plane. They say an
additional move, carefully screening a small number of
passengers, increases effectiveness.
   A number of U.S. carriers are adopting elements of a
system developed by International Consultants on Targeted
Security, a firm started by former security officials of El
Al, the Israeli carrier. First adopted by American Airlines,
the system is considered one of the best in the industry. By
using profiles of potential terrorists, it seeks to focus on
the few passengers who may pose a threat.
   Before each international flight, American's computers
scan the passenger manifest, checking six items, such as
passport data and itinerary, to pinpoint certain passengers.
When passengers arrive at the terminal, American screeners
again narrow the list, this time also using behavioral
characteristics.
   Passengers fingered by the list are given intensive
scrutiny by screeners trained much better than those handling
U.S. domestic flights. For example, "we train our
international screeners very carefully on how to search a
bag," says Homer Boynton, managing director of security at
American.
   Pan Am has adopted a version of the plan too. A TWA
subsidiary has developed its own version, and is using it to
handle security in Europe for TWA and, under contract, in
some European cities for UAL's United Airlines and for Delta
Air Lines.
   Another sign of progress is the rapid deployment of the
latest and most effective generation of X-ray machines, whose
screens are color-coded. Though these units won't
specifically detect explosives, as TNA machines are supposed
to do, the color X-ray devices will portray any organic
material as bright orange. Plastic explosives are organic, so
an orange-colored item on the screen tells the scanner to
take a closer look. Astrophysics Research, an EG&amp;G Inc.
subsidiary that makes the color-coded X-ray machines, says
sales are climbing rapidly.
   For every step forward, however, there seem to be steps
backward. TWA's Mr. Adams told the presidential commission
that as security becomes a bigger business, governments and
airports abroad are setting up their own organizations to
create jobs and revenue -- and requiring the airlines to use
them. "That security is not adequate for our needs," he says.
"It doesn't measure up to our standards."
   According to Mr. Adams, an FAA official visited Brussels
airport last year to check Belgavia's performance, "and they
didn't pass." After screeners asked an FAA agent questions
such as "Did you pack your own bag?" and the answer indicated
that the passenger's bags should be X-rayed, Belgavia failed
to do that. The FAA could have fined TWA had the airline been
responsible, but it has no jurisdiction over Belgavia.
   Marc Pissens, general manager of Belgavia, says security
lapses were TWA's fault because the airline wouldn't hire
enough Belgavia guards. He says the problem is solved because
TWA has increased its budget and hired more guards.
   But all three U.S. carriers flying to Brussels -- TWA, Pan
Am and American -- recently complained to the Belgian
government about Belgavia and sought permission to do their
own security. Thus far, the government hasn't taken any
action on their request, the carriers say.
   Jean Paul Emplit, a spokesman for the Belgian Airways
Authority, defends the requirement that a local firm be hired
for airport security. "Each country performs its own security
-- that's normal," he says. "Would you accept Belgian
security forces acting in the U.S.?"
   Monique Delvoy, spokeswoman for the Ministry of Transport,
adds that security has been delegated to a private local firm
integrated with Belgium police forces because the government
doesn't have enough officers itself. "What we don't want is
uncontrolled development of other private security firms,
whose uniforms might be obtained by terrorists and used as a
disguise," she says.
   Adm. James Busey, chief of the FAA, went to Europe last
month to try to improve relations with foreign governments,
including meeting with Belgian authorities. But Belgavia will
still perform security for U.S. carriers.
   In numerous cases, U.S. airlines are getting caught
between FAA orders aimed at improving security and foreign
governments that want to do it another way. Within days of
the Pan Am bombing, the FAA ordered U.S. carriers to X-ray or
search every bag checked in Western Europe and the Middle
East. At London's Heathrow airport, British authorities
initially blocked the move, arguing that it would create long
lines that would jam the terminal, creating a fire hazard. In
the end, the British relented.
   In Amsterdam, however, the Dutch refused to permit
X-raying of every bag, arguing that concentrating on a few
high-risk passengers was more effective.
   "We were in the middle," Tim Thornton, a former Northwest
Airlines vice president, told the presidential commission.
"Sometimes we were in violation of American laws; sometimes
we were in violation of the foreign law. . . . For six
months, it was, you know, whose jail did we want to go to?"
   A spokesman for the Dutch national police will say only
that in discussions with the FAA, "the matter has been
resolved." Industry sources say the Dutch refused to back
down, and the FAA has granted Northwest an exemption to the
new regulation in Holland.
   Airline executives have been asking the U.S. government to
play a greater role. "If we walk into a government and say we
want to do X, Y and Z at your airport to improve security and
they say no to us, what do we do?" asks Mr. Adams of TWA.
"What we're looking for is the FAA to come forward and be the
negotiator."
   For over a year the FAA has been trying to do that, in
part by seeking to deploy 27 security agents abroad. They
would make suggestions, help U.S. carriers deal with foreign
authorities and report major problems to officials in
Washington.
   But the agency has run into resistance from several U.S.
ambassadors. The diplomats play a major role in deciding who
is posted to their embassies and, according to a State
Department document, some object to the FAA security
officials for several reasons: The FAA agents might not have
enough to do, costs might be high, and the ambassadors worry
about encroaching on host-country sovereignty.
   For months the FAA and its parent agency, the Department
of Transportation, have been locked in negotiations with the
State Department and the ambassadors. In the process the
proposed FAA security force has been cut from 27 to 21.
   To further bolster the U.S. airlines in dealing with
foreign governments, the presidential commission recommended
that the State Department create the post of coordinator for
international aviation security, with ambassadorial rank. The
State Department has yet to act.
   Foreign labor unions also can pose problems, as they are
doing for American Airlines. To test its own security, the
carrier, a unit of AMR, has hired a former Dallas bomb-squad
officer who builds simulated bombs and conceals them in bags.
Each month American employees are sent without advance
warning to European terminals with the concealed "bombs" to
see if the airline's screeners will ask the right questions
and search thoroughly enough. (Asked how often "bombs" get
through, Mr. Boynton will say only: "Not very often.")
   In most cities, American employees carrying the simulated
bombs wear hidden tape recorders so a screener's questioning
can be analyzed later, and improved if necessary. But at
Frankfurt, the Works Council, a powerful labor-management
group that functions at nearly every company in Germany,
won't permit taping. Labor representatives apparently fear
tapes might be used as evidence to justify dismissal of a
screener who does poorly.
   Even when carriers can implement tougher security
procedures, their own employees can foul things up. An FAA
rule imposed after Lockerbie bars flights in Europe and the
Middle East from taking off with unaccompanied bags. The idea
is to foil a bomber who checks a bag with an explosive device
and then doesn't board.
   Just last month, agents at a European terminal for one
U.S. airline thought all passengers were aboard a flight,
which then took off for New York. Later, a passenger appeared
at the gate; he had missed the flight, but his checked bag
hadn't.
   Worried airline security officials radioed the jet, which
by then was high over the North Atlantic. The pilot turned
and flew back to London, where the plane stayed overnight. A
search of the bag uncovered no bomb, but the flight was
delayed by a day and the airline incurred an estimated
$100,000 in extra costs.
   Machines using TNA, or thermo neutron activation, had been
touted as the ultimate solution to bomb detection. But they
are running into problems too. The one TNA device now in test
operation, at TWA's terminal at Kennedy airport in New York,
is too slow.
   At Kennedy, virtually all flights from Europe come in
during the early afternoon and leave in the late afternoon.
That means almost all bags going through TWA's terminal must
be handled within a couple of hours. In those hours, the TNA
machine handles only about 400 bags, or enough for one
flight.
   The TNA machine also has a high falsealarm rate, about 8%.
This brings screening to a crawl because bags triggering the
false alarms must go through the machine again or be
hand-searched.
   Worst of all, the machine is calibrated in such a way that
it wouldn't detect a small bomb like the one that brought
down Pan Am 103. But if the machine were set to detect small
bombs, its false alarm rate could soar as high as 20%,
industry sources say.
   The machines, about 45 feet long, also take up too much
room, airlines say. To process every bag at Kennedy airport,
"we would need an army of machines that would take up half
our terminal," says TWA's Mr. Adams. The FAA, which had
proposed that U.S. carriers be required to buy 150 of the $1
million machines and install them at airports around the
world, is holding off.
   A number of airline security officials believe, however,
that the TNA machine or a unit using another technology will
be developed with reduced size and improved capabilities, and
eventually will become practical to use. There also are hopes
that European governments may become more cooperative.
   U.S. airline officials say that the French have become
much more concerned about security since a terrorist bomb
brought down a French UTA airliner over North Africa last
September, killing all 171 on board. UTA has hired Fairfax
Group, a security consultant based near Washington, D.C., to
help improve defenses.
   Still, the job of stopping bombs remains daunting. "The
industry will board 1.1 billion passengers this year, and
we're looking for just one or two bombs," says American's Mr.
Boynton. Moreover, as the carriers tighten security in Europe
and the Middle East, some security experts think terrorists
will shift to putting bombs on planes in Africa or Latin
America, where security is considered abysmally weak.
   "We are making significant progress," says Frank Moss, an
official in the State Department's counterterrorism office,
"but as terrorists develop new tactics and technologies, we
will continue to have to do more."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Inflation Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- The cost of living in West
Germany in June rose 0.1% from the previous month and 2.3%
from a year earlier, the Federal Statistics Office said in
reporting final data for last month.
   The data are based on figures received from all 11 West
German states and are in line with preliminary indications,
based on reports from the four largest states, published at
the end of June.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last month's increase in living costs is similar to that
for April, up 0.2% from March and 2.3% from a year earlier.
The data showed only moderate inflationary pressures in the
run-up to German monetary and economic unification on July 1.
   The June cost-of-living index, in which 1985 prices equal
100, edged up to 106.8 from 106.7 in the previous month and
104.4 in June 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   What Went Wrong in Fall River
   ----
   By Merle Rubin
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Well-known in the field of international studies as the
managing editor of Foreign Affairs and the author of
wide-ranging books and articles on American foreign policy,
James Chace was born in 1931 into the kind of family often
characterized as influential. But he grew up just at the time
that its influence and power base were waning.
   In his lucidly written book, "What We Had: A Memoir"
(Summit, 187 pages, $17.95), Mr. Chace takes a thoughtful
look at his family background, not only as a force that
helped mold him, but also as an example of what went wrong
with the once-prosperous city of Fall River, Mass., where he
was raised.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Chace money came primarily from cotton mills, which
flourished (as mills are wont to do) in wartime with orders
for uniform cloth. By the time young James came on the scene,
however, his father's income was chiefly derived from selling
off equipment and importuning his sister (who'd married a
wealthy man) for contributions. According to Aunt Sue ("the
surest witness of some past no one quite remembered"),
profits from the mills went to finance the political career
of her father, Frank Minthorn Chace, who was president of the
Massachusetts state senate. No provision was made for
reinvesting to buy new machinery so that the prosperity of
the family -- or the town -- would continue.
   Nor was Sen. Chace's attitude exceptional for his time.
The picture of the mill owners that emerges in these pages is
likely to dispel anyone's lingering nostalgia about the good
old days of provident New England businessmen.
   Recounting his boyhood in Fall River and his various
attempts to break out of its confines, Mr. Chace not only
provides a portrait of himself as a young man, but also
summons up the characteristics of the generation that came of
age in the years after the Second World War. Mr. Chace and
his friends at Harvard did not really exemplify the group
that attended school on the G.I. Bill. Disdaining politics --
and other forms of seriousness -- for the aesthetics of
Yeats, Eliot and Dylan Thomas, many later would find
themselves caught up in the emerging structure of the Cold
War, but without the passionate intensity and conviction they
had felt as boys hunting Nazi spies in the years before.
   The weakest portions of Mr. Chace's memoir have to do with
his attempt to deal with the inexplicable streak of violence
in his older brother and, to a lesser degree, in himself.
Although he alludes to this violence, he fails to evoke, let
alone explain it fully enough for the reader to get much
sense of it. Indeed, Mr. Chace is at his best when analyzing
generational trends or evoking cultural contrasts, as he does
so beautifully in his opening reconstruction of how it must
have felt for his mother and grandmother, poor but
respectable people from the pastoral world of the Hudson
River Valley, to arrive in the alien, sullen industrial
environment of Fall River.
   Although the title suggests nostalgia, "What We Had" is
remarkably free from sentimentality. It is a forthright,
intelligent, enjoyable, if uneven book, uneven in that its
strengths as cultural and family history are not matched by
strengths in more introspective realms.
   Tom Grimes's "A Stone of the Heart" (Four Walls Eight
Windows, 131 pages, $15.95) is a novel, but it too conveys a
vivid sense of a boy coming of age.
   Although Michael McManus, the 14-year-old narrator growing
up in a lower-middle-class Catholic family in Queens in the
summer of 1961, is a far cry from James Chace in personality,
generation, religion and social background, there are odd
similarities in their stories. Both have alcoholic fathers
reluctant to assume responsibilities, disillusioned mothers
who retreat from reality, and a troubled and troublesome
brother. In Michael's case, it's his younger brother Rudy,
who is six years old but has never spoken a word.
   Michael's response to his family situation is to eat. He's
the proverbial "fat kid," ransacking the refrigerator for
satisfaction he never finds, each bite of junk food an
unsuccessful antidote to the previous one. Michael's mother
cherishes the hope that her son's aptitude for schoolwork
will lead to a distinguished career as a doctor and entree
into the haven of "fortune and respectability," but Michael
knows he is just "a slightly above average school kid.
Nothing to get excited about."
   Michael's overriding passion is for baseball: and this is
the summer that Roger Maris is challenging Babe Ruth's
single-season home-run record. With that excitement in the
background and the far less pleasant excitement of his family
crises in the foreground, Michael has his hands full.
   As narrator of his own story, Michael displays the humor,
compassion and underlying toughness that enabled him to cope
with the tensions of a family in the process of breakdown.
And though some of the thoughts are a bit pretentious, the
narrative Mr. Grimes has fashioned for him is fast-paced,
funny, dramatic and convincing. Mr. Grimes achieves a great
deal in the course of this short first novel.
   ---
   Ms. Rubin is a free-lance writer living in Los Angeles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Mideast Mood Is Turning to Talk of War
   ---
   Tensions May Be Near
   Breaking Point, Many Fear
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   AMMAN, Jordan -- Coming from the mosque in a teeming
refugee camp, a Palestinian explains why war with Israel is
imminent.
   "Our holy prophet tells us that when all the Jews of the
world are gathered east of the river, we will destroy them
there," says 28-year-old Radi Mohamed. "The coming of the
Soviet Jews shows us that this day is soon."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Across town, in a quiet room of his pink stone palace, a
grim-faced King Hussein drops his voice to a whisper. "People
have had about enough," he says. "The situation could
explode."
   In neighboring Israel, Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir tries
to damp such talk of impending war. "Nobody thinks about it,"
he says. But in the warren of ajoining offices, his
colleagues acknowledge they have thought about it a great
deal, ever since Saddam Hussein's April threat to burn half
of Israel in retaliation for any attack on Iraq. "We didn't
answer. We didn't want to inflame the situation," says Avi
Pazner, Mr. Shamir's spokesman. "Words have power of their
own."
   Violent rhetoric is the common fare of Middle Eastern
discourse. But veteran rulers, politicians and diplomats see
the latest round of tough talk as just one indication of a
region sliding toward war. Tension is so high that when a
recent sandstorm caused a blackout in Cairo, Egyptians
scanned the skies for the Israeli jets they thought had
bombed the Aswan Dam.
   Fakir Jabali, a member of the Palestine Liberation
Organization's military wing, speaks proudly of the increased
numbers of Palestinians volunteering for army training in
Iraq. In Baghdad, a senior government offical coolly weighs
the pros and cons of a chemical-weapons strike on Israel: "We
are not suicidal; we realize that if we burn half of Israel,
half of Iraq also will burn. But they (Israel's population)
are more dense and more vulnerable."
   Alliances are in a state of flux and power struggles are
under way throughout the Arab world. Iraq, one the world's
biggest arms buyers for the past five years, is rapidly
gaining influence over the PLO and neighboring Jordan, both
of which had been in the orbit of Egypt, the only Arab nation
to have made peace with Israel.
   Inside the PLO, Yasser Arafat is losing ground to radicals
who say his attempts at conciliation have been fruitless.
Islamic fundamentalism is on the upsurge everywhere, with one
of its principal tenets the destruction of Israel. Israel
last month installed the most hard-line government in its
42-year history. And all this comes with U.S. influence at
its nadir after a decade of botched mediation attempts.
   Arabs liken the current mood to the months before the 1967
war, with Saddam Hussein's rhetoric reminiscent of then
Egyptian president Gamal Abdul Nasser. When Nasser closed the
Straits of Tiran to Israeli shipping, the Israelis launched a
pre-emptive strike that virtually wiped out the Egyptian air
force. Today, Arabs fear that Israel will find a similar
cause of war in Iraq's acquisition of weapons.
   Some Israelis, meanwhile, see closer parallels with the
period before the 1973 Yom Kippur War, when Arabs launched a
surprise attack as Israel's politicians ignored warnings of
war preparations. Conventional wisdom then, as now, said
Arabs didn't have the military might to risk a confrontation.
Now, Mr. Shamir says Israelis who warn of war probably do so
"because of political interests, in order to criticize the
new government."
   The drift began in earnest in January, with Mr. Shamir's
statement that the mass immigration of Soviet Jews required
"a big Israel." It was, says one Israeli immigration offical,
"a tragic statement." Arabs heard it as a threat to annex
Israeli-occupied Palestinian lands in the West Bank and Gaza
Strip, and campaigned to slow an immigration that ultimately
could add a million people to Israel's 4.4 million
population. As that effort proved fruitless, war-like
rhetoric escalated.
   Ghazi Breigeith, a Palestinian electrician in the West
Bank village of Beit Omar, says Arab leaders bungled the job
of explaining their case. Reaching for a plate of mulberries,
he tries to clarify his feelings about the Soviet
immigration. "If this is mine, and you come and start eating
from it, and invite your friends to share it, how do I know
there'll be anything left for me?" he asks. "If we each have
our own plate, you can eat as you like. If we had our own
state we wouldn't care how many Russians came to Israel, but
right now we have no borders to say this is yours, this is
mine."
   Under the pressures of Israeli settlers and the
Palestinian resistance, some Palestinians are leaving the
West Bank.
   By King Hussein's count, 46,000 have moved to Jordan since
the December 1987 beginning of the uprising. Many Arabs,
including King Hussein, believe it is only a matter of time
before Israel's new hardline government finds a pretext to
push out even larger numbers of Palestinians.
   "Ninety-nine per cent of Israelis would like to get up in
the morning and find no Arabs here, and 99% of Arabs feel the
same" about Jews, says Moshe Yogev, a Jewish settler in the
West Bank town of Efrat, 15 minutes drive from Jerusalem. But
he says that the Soviet influx isn't relevant to that
tension, because less than 1% of the newcomers are settling
in the occupied lands. His own 400-family community has just
two Soviet families so far. Because most settlements have
houses rather than apartments, he says, their prices are too
high for most newcomers.
   But when he gives the cost -- around $70,000 for a
semi-detached villa -- the U.S. born Israeli who has been
translating the interview begins firing off questions of her
own. For two months, she has been looking for a place to buy
in Jerusalem, fearful of being priced out of a rental market
where Soviet demand has pushed rents up 40% to 100%. For
$70,000, she has seen only grim, shabby two-bedroom flats.
   The Soviet influx isn't the only destabilizing by-product
of the changes in the East bloc. While the easing of
U.S.-Soviet tension has lessened the chance of a global
conflict, Arabs fear it has increased regional risks by
eliminating the Soviet/East bloc balance to strong U.S.
support for Israel.
   During the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, the U.S. put its forces
on nuclear alert, fearing that the regional conflict could
drag it into war with the Soviets. Now, such a possibility
has receded to the rear drawer of strategic speculation. Some
military analysts say U.S. attention has gone with it.
   "This region has been the third priority, now it's about
tenth," in U.S. foreign policy, says a senior U.S. military
official who works closely with the Israelis.
   Adding to the risk is arms proliferation in a region
already bristling with missiles, chemical weapons and
Israel's unacknowleged nuclear bombs. As the superpowers
disarm in Europe, the poorer countries of the Middle East
seem set to become each side's dumping ground for cut-price
used arms, while such oil-rich states as Saudi Arabia and
Iraq offer rare sales opportunities in a declining market.
   In March, the U.S. said it planned to sell 700 M-60 tanks
to Egypt, thus accounting for most of the 930 tanks the army
estimates it doesn't now need in Europe. In a report to
Congress, the administration said just under half its
possible $30 billion foreign arms sales is headed for the
Middle East. In the past, such sales have received intense
congressional scrutiny, but with hard-hit defense contractors
fighting for every sale, politicians are less likely to
object.
   The Soviets also have a lot to sell. "Trucks, ammunition,
MiGs, you name it, pay dollars, you'll get it," predicts
Yacov Sheinin, an economics consultant in Tel Aviv.
Meanwhile, Iraq is in the midst of a vast military
industrialization. "It's a good business," says Nizar
Hamdoon, Iraq's deputy foreign minister. "The West has
flourished on it."
   But in the streets of Baghdad, Iraqis seem more sobered
than elated by the war mood. "My son says he'll desert rather
than go back to war," says an Iraqi whose son served through
most of the eight-year conflict with Iran. "He says, Dad, I
don't care if they hang me.'"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Drop 23.27 on Selling
   Linked to Stock-Index Arbitrage
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market fell victim to a late burst
of futures-related selling and finished lower amid a modest
pickup in trading.
   One of the session's most active issues, Pitney Bowes,
became the latest in a series of stocks battered by
earnings-related selling as its second-quarter profit
estimate failed to meet the market's expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 23.27 to 2890.84
despite a solid performance from International Paper, whose
second-quarter earnings report was well received, and broader
market measures posted comparable declines.
   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index fell 3.03 to 356.49, the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Index went down 1.47 to
194.76 and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index dropped 2.33 to
331.94. On the New York Stock Exchange, declining stocks
topped advancers by 969 to 529.
   Prices drifted through most of the session, generally at
lower levels, and then sank in the final hour of trading as
sell programs tied to stock-index arbitrage swept through the
market. The computer-assisted programs involved selling
baskets of stocks and purchasing index-futures contracts to
lock in profits from short-lived differences in price between
the two.
   Big Board volume improved to 147,630,000 shares -- the
highest total since June 22 -- from 119,390,000 Monday.
However, analysts said they don't expect much more
improvement in the volume of trading until the pace of
quarterly earnings releases begins to quicken.
   "It seems like nobody has any real incentive to do much of
anything," said Abby Joseph Cohen, a market strategist at
Barclays de Zoete Wedd. "People are just awaiting all the
earnings reports for the second quarter."
   Pitney Bowes, which said it expects to report slightly
lower earnings for the quarter than it did a year ago,
plunged 6 3/8 to 43 1/2 in Big Board composite trading of 1.6
million shares. Net income for the year-earlier quarter
amounted to 78 cents a share; analysts' forecasts for the
latest period were in a range of 85 cents to 88 cents,
according to Zacks Investment Research.
   Over the past few weeks, issues such as American Telephone
&amp; Telegraph and Caterpillar have come in for similar bouts of
heavy selling following forecasts that failed to live up to
the market's expectations.
   Others are likely to follow suit as the second-quarter
reports begin pouring into the market in the next couple of
weeks, Ms. Cohen said. "As some companies disappoint with
regard to earnings, they'll be taken out and shot."
   Edward J. Laux, head of block trading at Kidder, Peabody &amp;
Co., added that many market players "want to wait and see the
{earnings} numbers" before moving off the sidelines. In the
meantime, Mr. Laux says, "The market is still going to do a
lot of drifting here."
   International Paper gained 7/8 to 52 1/2 after reporting
second-quarter earnings of $1.70 a share. Although the latest
results fell short of its year-ago performance -- the company
posted net income of $2.04 a share in the 1989 second quarter
-- they were better than analysts had generally expected.
   Du Pont added 1/4 to 37 3/8. Chemical industry analysts
are praising the company's management changes, and some
believe the stock is undervalued by comparison to issues of
other large industrial firms, this newspaper reported in its
"Heard on the Street" column.
   Other blue-chip issues that bucked the market's decline
included Minnesota Mining &amp; Manufacturing, which gained 3/8
to 88 3/4, and Woolworth, which firmed 1/2 to 35 1/8. But
several of the market's recent high-fliers headed lower;
Philip Morris eased 7/8 to 48 1/8, Procter &amp; Gamble dropped
7/8 to 88 3/8, General Motors lost 3/4 to 48 1/8 and Boeing
slid 3/8 to 60.
   Handleman fell 3/8 to 13 1/4 on continued speculation that
its relationship with WalMart Stores, its second largest
customer, could be in jeopardy because Wal-Mart has agreed to
acquire Western Merchandisers, another distributor of
prerecorded music.
   Shares of Handleman fell two points Monday following news
of the accord; the stock dropped further even though the
company said the planned acquisition won't have a current
impact on the relationship. Wal-Mart, the Big Board's most
active issue, rose 5/8 to 33 3/8 on 4,565,600 shares;
retailing analysts are expecting a strong June sales report
from the company tomorrow.
   Albany International Class A tumbled 1 1/2 to 14 3/8 as
nearly 1.2 million shares, or more than 32 times the stock's
average daily volume, were traded. Chairman J. Spencer
Standish, who has voting control of the company through his
ownership of Class B common shares, disclosed that he isn't
planning to convert any of the stock into Class A common; the
conversion privilege takes effect Sept. 1.
   Ferro went up 1 to 26 1/2 amid talk that investors Jon M.
Huntsman and Phillip Frost, who both have clearance to
purchase as much as 15% of the company's common shares, were
buying the stock. Messrs. Huntsman and Frost declined to
comment.
   Abbott Laboratories, which delivered a second-quarter
earnings report in line with expectations, gained 3/4 to 42
3/4. Its net income rose 13% from a year earlier.
   Merry-Go-Round Enterprises added 1/8 to 23 3/8. In
reaffirming its buy recommendation on the stock, Alex. Brown
&amp; Sons increased its earnings estimate for the fiscal quarter
ending this month by three cents a share, to 20 cents, and
for the fiscal year ending next January by five cents a
share, to $1.55.
   Marshall Industries advanced 1/2 to 28 7/8 after
estimating that its earnings per share for the quarter ended
May 31 were in a range of 70 cents to 72 cents, up from 50
cents a year earlier.
   USF&amp;G fell 7/8 to 25 3/8 and traded as low as 24 3/4, a
52-week low, reflecting fears that the company's record of
dividend increases could be put in jeopardy because of
earnings weakness. Gloria Vogel, an analyst at Bear Stearns,
said the state of the payout is "a question mark"; she
lowered her estimates of the company's second-quarter and
full-year earnings last Friday.
   UDC-Universal Development lost 1 3/4 to 14 1/2. The
partnership said it expects net income and earnings per share
for the second quarter to be down "significantly" from the
year-earlier levels.
   WMS Industries fell 1 1/2 to 8 1/4 after National
Amusements denied that either itself or its chairman, Sumner
N. Redstone, was interested in a takeover. Mr. Redstone and
National Amusements hold a stake of about 28% in the company.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 0.92
to 357.73. Volume totaled 13,050,000 shares.
   Scandinavia Co. rose 5/8 to 8 3/8 after deciding to join
an investor group making a takeover offer for Bricom Group, a
British commercial services concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Budget Talks Resume Despite Absence
   Of Key Players; Results Expected Soon
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The bipartisan budget talks resumed after a
10-day hiatus, but essentially treaded water with an all-day
discussion of possible changes to the budget process.
   Negotiators said that discussion of the delicate issue of
which taxes to raise was delayed until later this week
because of the absence of such key players as Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But negotiators from both parties said they are confident
that the summit will be considering substantial
deficit-reduction packages by week's end. "In a very short
period of time, you're going to see some packages dropping,"
said House Majority Whip William Gray (D., Pa.).
   Some Democrats have been encouraging New Mexico Sen. Pete
Domenici, the senior Republican on the Budget Committee, to
help speed the talks by putting forward a plan he has been
refining. But it isn't clear he is going to do so anytime
soon. Because Sen. Domenici works closely with the White
House on budget issues, his plan would be seen by all sides
as an opening bid from the Republican side.
   Although Sen. Domenici's plan is still evolving, it
essentially would trim projected spending on defense by $10
billion in fiscal 1991, which begins Oct. 1, and projected
spending on government benefits by another $10 billion,
including increases in Medicare premiums and deductibles,
according to people familiar with it.
   The plan also outlines about $17 billion in tax increases,
including $7 billion in higher alcohol taxes, nearly $3
billion in higher cigarette taxes, $3 billion by cutting the
capital-gains tax and another $4 billion by extending taxes
that would otherwise expire. As much as $8 billion in
additional revenue, if the summit decided to raise more
money, would come from a broad energy tax.
   White House Budget Director Richard Darman is pressing to
reach an agreement before Congress leaves for its August
recess, but he wouldn't say yesterday how likely that is.
"We'll know more by Friday," he said.
   The summit is slated to review detailed proposals for
restraining spending on government benefit programs today and
may also consider defense spending. Participants said they
expect to begin their first broad discussion of taxes
tomorrow.
   Secretary Brady and White House Chief of Staff John Sununu
return late tomorrow night from Houston, where they
accompanied President Bush to the summit of leaders of
industrialized nations. Aides say that Mr. Sununu has been
spending much of his time on the telephone to Washington,
talking both about the budget summit and the pending civil
rights bill.
   Administration officials and some congressional
Republicans say that if the talks fail to find a compromise
by early August, no deficit-reduction package is likely until
after the November elections.
   But some Democrats, noticing the administration's
impatience, figure that the longer the talks go on, the more
willing the administration will be to cut defense and agree
to a more progressive tax increase. They challenge the
administration's assertion that the summit can't act in
September.
   Ironically, Mr. Darman's arrival at the talks, which are
aimed at balancing the budget over the next five years, was
delayed by 45 minutes yesterday because he was testifying
before a House subcommittee on a proposed constitutional
amendment requiring a balanced budget.
   The amendment, which the administration backs, is to come
up for a House vote next week. Rep. Gray, who opposes it,
said he doubts supporters can garner the necessary two-thirds
vote.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   OSHA Sets
   Rules for
   Vehicles
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Labor Department today plans to announce
its first proposed requirements for motor-vehicle safety on
the job.
   The proposal, which would cover some 5.4 million employers
and 35 million workers, will take the department's
Occupational Safety and Health Administration beyond its
usual regulatory realm, largely reflecting OSHA chief Gerard
Scannell's zeal for tackling new areas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It would mandate that employers require employees to
buckle safety belts in salesmen's cars, trucks, and other
vehicles equipped with belts; require motorcycle-delivery
people to use safety helmets; and set up training programs to
enhance certain aspects of safe vehicle operation. The rules
would apply to such jobs as salesmen and service people.
   Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole has also seized on the plan
as a way to promote transportation-related safety. That's an
area in which she made a mark as transportation secretary six
years ago when she promulgated rules that led to widespread
state laws requiring auto safety belts to be buckled up. The
rules also led to current auto-industry moves to equip new
cars with automatically inflating air bags or so-called
automatically fastening "passive seatbelts."
   She in fact picked today, the sixth anniversary of the
rule for belt laws and passive restraints, to announce the
new OSHA vehicle-safety push.
   Mrs. Dole said in an interview that the passive-restraint
rule she issued in 1984 was a "necessary foundation" for the
new OSHA rule proposal. Since 1984, nationwide seatbelt use
has climbed to 46% from 14%, she said. She and Mr. Scannell
agreed early last year to push for the new federal standards.
Mr. Scannell instituted a similar program when he was safety
director at Johnson &amp; Johnson and chairman of the National
Safety Council's motor-vehicle safety committee.
   For both officials, the initiative is venturesome. John
Pendergrass, Mr. Scannell's predecessor as OSHA chief, had
rejected an NSC petition for such requirements, and insisted
that OSHA lacked authority to issue them.
   Mrs. Dole said she has had a much easier job persuading
the White House Office of Management and Budget to accept the
new proposal than she had in trying to "break through the
palace guard" to persuade President Reagan and his OMB and
other White House staffers on the air-bag rule. While top
White House aides wanted to scrap any air-bag requirement in
1984, she reminded them that the Supreme Court had ruled the
Reagan administration's earlier rescinding of the requirement
to be illegal.
   Now, she said, "it's a different climate" in the country.
This time, by contrast, the OMB not only went for the
workplace motor-vehicle idea, but even buttressed it by
helping insert the motorcycle-helmet requirement after OSHA
had gingerly raised the question, she and OSHA officials
said.
   The OMB cited a Louisiana study showing that reinstatement
of the state's motorcycle-helmet law cut cyclist deaths
sharply. The issue has been controversial for many years,
with conservatives saying cyclists shouldn't be forced to use
helmets if they don't want to.
   Mrs. Dole and OSHA noted that motor-vehicle accidents are
the largest single cause of workplace fatalities, accounting
for 36.5% of occupational deaths, with about 2,100 worker
motor-vehicle fatalities and 91,000 injuries resulting in
lost workdays a year. The rule will save more lives than all
other OSHA safety rules issued in the past decade combined,
Mrs. Dole said.
   OSHA estimated that the proposed rule will save between
465 and 684 lives and prevent between 22,221 and 31,635
injuries annually, while costing employers $221 million a
year.
   While some companies such as Johnson &amp; Johnson, Du Pont
Co. and United Parcel Service of America Inc. already have
rather stringent worker motor-vehicle safety rules in effect,
the proposed OSHA requirements would cover 90% of the six
million companies the agency regulates. The rule would
embrace a wide range of vehicles, including cars used on the
job, forklift trucks, bulldozers, and many farm tractors,
though some of these are already covered by OSHA standards,
such as ones dealing with construction projects.
   The proposal will also ask whether bicycles used on the
job, such as in making deliveries, should be covered, whether
vehicles that are unsafe because of poor maintenance should
be addressed, whether OSHA should move to require air bags in
worker-used cars; and whether vehicles without belts should
have to be refitted with belts.
   OSHA is expected to take public comments on the proposal
for about 120 days. The agency also could decide to hold a
hearing late this year or early next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Dollar Falls
   On Prospect
   Of Yen Rise
   ---
   Currency Weakness
   Hurts Bond Prices;
   Stocks Drop 23.27
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar fell broadly against all major
foreign currencies amid expectations of higher Japanese
interest rates and a stronger yen.
   The dollar's weakness helped kill an early-morning rise in
bond prices. Stocks fell under the weight of last-minute sell
programs. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 23.27
points to close at 2890.84 in moderate trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The drop in the dollar stemmed directly from rumors out of
Washington and Houston, site of the economic summit, that the
Group of Seven major industrial nations favors a strong yen
and a stable mark. The dollar fell to 148.30 yen from 151.15
yen in late New York trading Monday, breaking through the
psychologically important level of 150 yen. The dollar
dropped to 1.6425 marks from 1.6530 marks.
   Jeffrey Mondschein, managing director of foreign exchange
at Continental Bank, said the prospect of higher Japanese
rates made it hard for the dollar to gain any ground against
other currencies, especially in the absence of any hope for
easing interest rates elsewhere overseas.
   "Yields from holding foreign investments right now are far
superior" to those on dollar investments, Mr. Mondschein
said, and the expectation that the underlying foreign
currencies will appreciate only adds to the appeal.
   The rumor of an imminent rise in Japanese rates was "the
one the currency market latched onto," said Nicholas Sargen,
an analyst at Salomon Brothers. "The trigger mechanism is
that there is an economic summit going on, which lends
credence to any rumor, no matter how erroneous."
   Not that Mr. Sargen doubts the possibility of higher
interest rates in Japan. A more likely reason to suspect such
a move, he said, is that the overnight money rate in Japan
crept up at the end of June. Japan's central bank now may be
contemplating a rate boost because of a continuing stream of
evidence that Japan's domestic economy isn't slowing down, he
said.
   The latest number, released early in the day, showed that
machinery orders in Japan, an indicator of economic growth,
were up 13.4% in May from a year ago.
   The retreat in the dollar was bad news for U.S. bonds,
said Philip Braverman, chief economist at DKB Securities
Corp., "because it creates a potential loss for foreign
buyers." But he said a successful auction of Resolution
Funding Corp. bonds late in the day bolstered hopes that the
bond market is poised to improve.
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell on volume of 147.6 million shares in New
York Stock Exchange trading. Declining issues far outnumbered
advancers, 969 to 529.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell about a quarter of a point, or about
$2.50 for each $1,000 face amount. The yield on the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose to 8.56%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pan American's June Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   PN
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Pan American World Airways said its June
traffic rose slightly to 2.86 billion revenue passenger miles
from 2.83 billion revenue miles a year earlier.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile. Load factor, or the percentage of available seats
filled, dipped slightly to 70.2% from 70.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the year to date, the Pan Am Corp. unit said it flew
14.7 billion revenue passenger miles, up 11.4% from 13.2
billion revenue passenger miles a year earlier. Load factor
was 63% compared with 60.7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GORBACHEV EASILY WON re-election as head of the Soviet
Communist Party.
   The Soviet president was elected general secretary of the
party by a wide margin only hours after sharply attacking his
critics, accusing them of being out of touch with reality and
guided by "ossified ideological cliches." His speech to the
party congress was an uncompromising assault on the military
officers and party veterans who have been sniping at his
entire perestroika restructuring program. In the election,
conducted by secret ballot, delegates voted by about 3-1 to
reappoint Gorbachev as party leader, consolidating his power
as the country's supreme leader.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Soviet coal miners walked off the job in a 24-hour strike
that was aimed at pressing the government to resign and party
members to give up privileges.
   ---
   A federal judge in New York rejected objections by the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters to proposed rules for
the union's court-ordered elections next year. The judge
called the union's protests "frivolous," and said the rules
are "the linchpin" in a government effort to purge the union
of the alleged influence of organized crime.
                                                                                                       

   Lower court judges ruled in Michigan and Kentucky that
sodomy laws violate the right to privacy under the states'
constitutions. The decisions reflect the success of a
strategy that was adopted by gay activists four years ago to
turn to the state courts rather than to federal courts in
lodging challenges to such laws.
   ---
   A House appropriations panel approved a nearly $30.8
billion transportation bill that would raise federal funding
for aviation and highway programs by $2.3 billion in fiscal
1991 while rejecting Bush administration cuts from rail and
mass transit. The spending ceiling for the highway trust fund
would rise to $14.57 billion.
   ---
   American Red Cross blood banks failed to notify the
organization's Washington headquarters of 224 possible
instances of AIDS contamination, according to the FDA. In all
instances, the blood banks in the Washington, D.C., region
had been alerted by doctors that AIDS patients believed they
had become infected through transfusions.

   AIDS will become one of the top five causes of death among
women of childbearing age by next year if current trends
persist, federal researchers said. They reported that AIDS
already is the No. 1 killer of young black women in New York
and New Jersey. Most other AIDS studies have focused on young
men.
   ---
   A Senate committee is expected today to begin drafting a
$289 billion defense-spending bill slashing at least 100,000
active-duty troops in 1991 while rejecting Pentagon proposals
for comparable cuts in reserve forces over the next few
years. The panel is expected to avoid wholesale termination
of costly new weapons.
   ---
   Doctors reported four cases of liver damage in patients
who took sustained-release forms of the vitamin niacin that
they had purchased without a prescription. Niacin, one of the
B vitamins, recently has been increasingly prescribed by
physicians for heart patients who have elevated levels of
blood cholesterol.
   ---
   NASA's spaceflight director denied an assertion by Sen.
Gore that critical plumbing connections were installed on two
space shuttles even though the parts had failed a test for
leakage. William Lenoir appeared at a Senate hearing
concerning the space agency's recent problems with its
shuttles and the crippled Hubble Space Telescope.
   ---
   Italy's Foreign Ministry said 3,000 Albanians seeking
asylum at three Western embassies in their capital, Tirana,
will be ferried to Italy under an accord still being worked
out. Italian officials said they were hopeful the refugees
could arrive in Italy within two days. The Albanians are
trying to flee the hard-line Communist nation.
   ---
   Arch A. Moore Jr. was sentenced to five years and 10
months in prison and was fined $170,000 for a scheme to
extort money from a coal operator and buy votes. The former
three-term West Virginia governor, a Republican, had pleaded
guilty in April to charges of extortion and obstruction of
justice, along with both tax and mail fraud.
   ---
   Armed Contra rebels appeared on the streets of Nicaragua's
capital, saying they were ready to oppose pro-Sandinista
strikers who were building barricades to protest the Chamorro
government's free-market policy. Many sections of Managua
were impassable amid reports of scattered violence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Transportation
   Spending Clears
   House Panel
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
RAILROADS (RAI)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Appropriations Committee approved
a nearly $30.8 billion transportation bill that would raise
federal funding for aviation and highway programs by $2.3
billion in fiscal 1991 while rejecting Bush administration
cuts from rail and mass transit.
   The spending ceiling for the highway trust fund would grow
to a record $14.57 billion, and an estimated $8.17 billion is
provided for the Federal Aviation Administration, including
$717 million in increased funding for FAA facilities and
equipment and grants-in-aid to airports.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The $1.8 billion total in airport grants is itself a 26%
increase from the current ceiling, and in the aviation and
highway accounts, the underlying measure reflects pressure to
tap into existing trust funds to finance new public works
improvements.
   "Take a good look at this bill, you may never see another
one like it," joked Rep. Lawrence Coughlin (R., Pa.), whose
state delegation helped lead the way in salting away tens of
millions of dollars for road projects not requested by the
administration.
   Coast Guard operating funds, assuming a $160 million
transfer from the Pentagon, would grow at a more modest 6.4%
rate. After years of often favorable treatment, the service
found itself challenged in terms of its effectiveness in the
anti-drug war and the nuts and bolts of ship procurement.
   The legislative report accompanying yesterday's bill cites
recurring problems in cost estimates for separate barge and
cutter programs. And while increasing drug-interdiction
funding to $602.6 million, the committee calls for
effectively ending the use of the speedy, high-profile boats
so identified with the drug war in recent years. Since early
1987, five of the 43-foot vessels, which can travel at a
speed of about 40 miles per hour, have been delivered to the
government at an estimated cost of $325,000 each, a Coast
Guard official said. Yet the committee report directs that
all of a $1.5 million request to operate and maintain the
boats after Sept. 30 be allocated elsewhere.
   Among major rail accounts, an estimated $632 million is
provided for Amtrak, and elsewhere, $12 million is set aside
to finance an increased government role in supporting the
development of magnetic levitation technology for high-speed
trains. Aid for conventional mass transit would grow only
modestly to $3.2 billion, but the bill attempts to reverse
the trend of recent years and would block the
administration's proposed cuts from formula grants to cities,
such as New York, with populations of more than one million.
   Although deficit-reduction talks with the White House are
certain to lead to cuts in the future, the transportation
bill fits a strategy by the Democratic leadership to use the
appropriations process to stake out the party's priorities
going into the fall elections. Back-to-back measures covering
the Treasury and Postal Service as well as the departments of
Labor, Education, and Health and Human Services are to come
before the panel this week, and bills covering agriculture,
natural resources, and military construction accounts are
moving through subcommittees.
   Amid this largesse, influential members have used their
position to help parochial interests. In an unusual display
yesterday, members of the transportation subcommittee
continued to add provisions to the very bill they had been
free to write in a closed-door session weeks ago.
   For example, even as the subcommittee report chastised the
Coast Guard for its procurement practices, Michigan and Texas
lawmakers jockeyed to assist competing contractors, General
Motors Corp.'s Allison Gas Turbine Division and Turbomeca
Engine Corp., a Texas unit of Labinal Corp. of France, which
have an interest in building replacement engines for the
service's troubled HH-65 Dolphin helicopter.
   Elsewhere, more than $243 million was added to the
administration's budget to fund scores of home-state road and
bridge projects, and Pennsylvania benefits here from its
power not only in the transportation subcommittee but also
over defense appropriations. The anticipated $160 million
transfer for the Coast Guard will be decided by the Pentagon
subcommittee, and in what amounts to an annual trade,
subcommittee Chairman John Murtha (D., Pa.) again secured
funding for highways, including $20 million toward the costs
of a project in his district.
   Among Washington lobbying firms, Cassidy &amp; Associates
Inc., remains a major force in securing federal funds, most
conspicuously through the Treasury and Postal Service
subcommittee. An estimated $20.7 billion bill, scheduled to
come before the full committee today, adds $43.5 million to
the administration request for the so-called federal
buildings fund, for example. Those benefiting include at
least five Cassidy hospital and university clients slated to
receive about $13 million for various construction projects.
   Republicans also share in the funds, which include $5
million earmarked by Massachusetts Rep. Silvio Conte for
Brandeis University and $5 million for the Primate Research
Institute in New Mexico backed by Rep. Joe Skeen, the
Treasury subcommittee's ranking GOP member.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Ahold N.V.:
   Asko Drops Takeover Effort
   For Dutch Retail Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   G.ASK N.AHO N.AMR G.DBK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Asko Deutsche Kaufhaus AG's decision to throw in the towel
in its battle with Dutch retailer Ahold N.V. ends nearly a
year of bitter dispute between the two companies and also
demonstrates once again the virtual invulnerability of Dutch
defenses against a hostile takeover.
   West German Asko is a wholesaler of food and other
consumer goods, and a retailer of food and drink. Ahold is a
food retailer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Asko said that it would sell its entire 13.1% stake in
Ahold to a consortium of Dutch and West German banks led by
Amsterdam-Rotterdam N.V. and Deutsche Bank. The banks in turn
will privately place the shares in as wide a distribution as
possible with private investors, according to a statement
issued by Ahold.
   An Ahold spokesman indicated that no further contacts
between the companies is likely given the fact that Ahold and
its partners in the Associated Marketing Services (AMS), a
European retailing alliance, have successfully recruited
another West German company, Allkauf AG, to replace Asko as
the West German representative in the AMS.
   Analysts agree that this marks the end of Asko's bid for a
strong presence in Western Europe outside of West Germany.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Investors Have One Word for Berlitz's Stock,
   And at 36 Times Earnings It's Spelled: `Pricey'
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   BTZ U.MXC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   In any language, shares of Berlitz International are
getting expensive.
   Since the end of April, Berlitz stock has risen 48%.
Yesterday, it closed at 22, meaning that a share now sells
for 36 times the past 12 months' per-share earnings for the
language-instruction company. That puts it in the priciest
10% of all New York Stock Exchange stocks, according to
FactSet Data Systems. Not bad for a company that went public
only last December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1988, Britain's Maxwell Communication acquired
Macmillan, which had owned Berlitz since 1965. In December,
Maxwell offered 44% of Berlitz shares to the public at 16 1/2
each. The price lingered in that neighborhood for several
months, then shot upward.
   A spokeswoman for Berlitz yesterday cited three reasons
for the stock's strength: favorable reports by brokerage
analysts, increased interest in global businesses, and the
opening up of Eastern Europe.
   Gail Raiman, analyst with C.J. Lawrence, sees another
reason. Investors were intrigued when Robert Maxwell,
chairman of Maxwell Communication (and of Berlitz), said
recently that he plans to sell $800 million of "non-strategic
business assets." Some investors figured that this might mean
Berlitz and that Mr. Maxwell might wangle an above-market
price, at least for his own shares and possibly for the whole
company.
   In light of the recent run-up, however, even fans of the
company are beginning to concede that the stock is pricey.
   "We still own some; obviously we still like it," says
Robert Buhrmann, analyst with Sun Bank Capital Management in
Orlando, Fla. "Nobody else has the international reach that
they do, and nobody else can charge the premium price that
they do." He says Berlitz has "a defendable niche," and "we
like niche stocks."
   Even so, Mr. Buhrmann says, "I would not add {to holdings}
at these prices." He suggests that long-term holders
"accumulate" the stock on dips below 20 and "be aggressive"
in buying on any declines below 18.
   Sun Bank Capital owned 365,000 shares as of March 30,
according to CDA Investment Technologies, which tracks money
managers' government filings. The firm expands or trims its
core holdings based on short-term price movements. Lately it
has been trimming its Berlitz holdings. "But I certainly
wouldn't sell all my position," he says. "You know, really
good businesses are hard to find."
   Berlitz should benefit from the increasing unification of
Europe and the growing ties between the old West and East
blocs. It caters to business people who want to learn (or
brush up on) a language before a trip or assignment abroad.
About half of its business comes from Fortune 500 companies.
For its intense, short-term courses, it generally charges
higher prices than competing language schools.
   More than 75% of its business comes from outside North
America: Berlitz is much more likely to teach a Japanese
businessman English than to teach an American businessman
Japanese. Its revenue comes 40% from Europe, 27% from Asia,
23% from North America and 9% from Latin America. For people
apprehensive about the sluggish U.S. economy, that's a plus.
   Analysts expect Berlitz to earn about 67 cents to 70 cents
a share this year, and close to $1 a share next year. The
company will say only that it expects this year's earnings to
top last year's 63 cents a share, but it doesn't quarrel with
analysts' estimates.
   Reported earnings understate the cash flow, because
there's about 50 cents a share in amortization of goodwill,
mostly from the Maxwell acquisition of Macmillan. And debt --
a $50 million bank loan from Societe Generale in France -- is
moderate.
   Nevertheless, the stock is still priced at 22 times next
year's earnings. The average Big Board stock sells for about
16 times last year's earnings -- and even that multiple is a
bit above historic norms.
   At Goldman Sachs, which handled the initial public
offering of Berlitz shares, analyst Robert Adler rates
Berlitz "attractive." But because the stock already has hit
his target price of 22, he says: "I guess I rate the stock an
excellent long-term hold, but I'd be less aggressive at
current levels."
   The company projects that its sales will grow about 15% a
year for the next five years (10% volume increases and 5%
price increases), with earnings growth of perhaps 17% a year
(based on modest improvements in profit margins). That's nice
growth. But it isn't the sort of scorching growth for which
investors usually pay fat earnings multiples.
   ---
   Berlitz International
   (NYSE; Symbol: BTZ)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Language instruction
   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Sales: $216.5 million
   Net Income: $13.7 million; 63 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, March 31, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: 15 cents vs. 17 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   36,066 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 19 million
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rosewood Unit,
   First Executive
   Agree on Truce
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC
</CO>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Rosewood Financial Corp., in a radical new tack
to salvage its investment in troubled First Executive Corp.,
has called a truce with long-time nemesis Fred Carr, chairman
of the struggling Los Angeles-based insurer.
   Under the agreement, Rosewood will get to examine First
Executive's books in return for promising not to challenge
current management at the company's shareholders' meeting on
July 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier this year, Rosewood demanded Mr. Carr's ouster as
part of a highly conditional and ultimately failed $800
million takeover bid for First Executive. The insurer's huge
junk-bond portfolio led to a $775.6 million net loss in 1989.
   As a result of those losses Rosewood, a unit of Rosewood
Corp., which is owned by the trust estate of Texas oil
heiress Carolyn Rose Hunt, has seen a $100 million investment
in First Executive reduced in value to about $25 million.
   But despite such losses, Rosewood apparently is
considering an additional investment to prop up First
Executive and the Texans' truce with Mr. Carr is part of that
effort.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing yesterday,
Rosewood Financial Partners, which is controlled by Rosewood
Financial, said it's considering "the feasibility of
proposing a recapitalization, reorganization or
restructuring" of First Executive.
   As part of that effort, Rosewood reported that it had
entered into an agreement whereby First Executive will give
Rosewood access to the company's confidential financial
information and would consider -- but not guarantee --
increasing "non-affiliate representation" on its board.
   In return, Rosewood which holds a 9.9% stake in First
Executive, agreed not to solicit proxies at First Executive's
July 30 shareholders' meeting and not to vote for or nominate
any board candidate other than Albert G. Handschmacher, a
board member since 1969, who has been nominated for another
three-year term.
   In Los Angeles, Mr. Carr said that First Executive agreed
to provide Rosewood with the confidential information "to be
responsive and responsible" because Rosewood "says it has the
possibility of a proposal." Mr. Carr said he hasn't seen any
such proposal and that First Executive isn't currently
considering any Rosewood board nominees.
   A Rosewood spokesman declined to comment on the accord
beyond information contained in the SEC filing.
   In May, Rosewood proposed that First Executive appoint
Donald F. Craib Jr., former chairman and chief executive
officer of Allstate Insurance Group and Rosewood's candidate
to succeed Mr. Carr, to the board. That proposal was rejected
by First Executive's board and Rosewood has abandoned plans
to nominate Mr. Craib at the shareholders' meeting, according
to a person familiar with Rosewood's position.
   That same individual described the new agreement as an
"opportunity for both parties to put the past aside, focus on
the strengths of the company and focus on what can be done to
enhance the value for all parties."
   Other First Executive investors speculated that the pact
was a result of both Rosewood's inability to finance its own
hostile takeover in a market grown skittish of such attempts
and of Mr. Carr's concerns about other rumored takeover
attempts that would lead to his ouster. "It appears that Fred
Carr has taken the shark with the least teeth," said investor
Travis Reed, who said he owns a 2% stake in First Executive.
   In addition to its First Executive losses, Rosewood
recently lost control of its Dallas-based thrift, Southwest
Savings Association, which was placed under U.S.
conservatorship in May.
   One institutional investor who asked not to be named said
the truce between Rosewood and Mr. Carr could lead ultimately
to an alliance between Rosewood and First Boston Corp. The
investment-banking concern was retained by First Executive
earlier this year to advise the insurer on a financial
restructuring that could include the sale of one or more
operating units. "They can probably come up with a better
deal together rather than fighting each other," the investor
said.
   Mr. Carr declined to discuss First Boston's activities on
First Executive's behalf.
   Yesterday, in national over-the-counter trading, First
Executive stock closed at $3.0625, off 18.75 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Jacobs Suchard AG:
   Philip Morris Denies Rumor
   On Confectionary Unit Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MO Z.JAC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Philip Morris Cos. plans substantial investments in
building up the confectionary and coffee businesses of Jacobs
Suchard AG, according to a vice president of the New York
company's Kraft foods subsidiary.
   "We will invest heavily (in Suchard) in the upcoming
years," said Luc E. Vandevelde in defending as "fair and
attractive" the takeover offer that officially was made
yesterday to shareholders of the Swiss company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He dismissed as an unfounded rumor that Philip Morris is
considering selling off the Suchard confectionary division.
"It would be totally against the spirit of the deal," the
Kraft executive insisted. "We will sell to nobody."
   The acquisition -- valued at nearly seven billion Swiss
francs (about $5 billion) -- was announced last month and is
part of Philip Morris's international expansion strategy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ABB Gets South Korean Job
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   ASEAY S.ABB C.KEP
</CO>
<LP>
   ZURICH -- ABB Asea Brown Boveri AG, an electrical
engineering concern based in Switzerland, said Korea Electric
Power Corp. selected ABB to provide the main equipment for
two gas-fired combined-cycle power plants in South Korea. ABB
said it will get a "substantial part" of the order's total
$750 million value.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Former Governor
   Of West Virginia
   Gets Prison Term
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Former West Virginia Gov. Arch A.
Moore Jr. was sentenced yesterday to five years and 10 months
in prison and was fined $170,000 for a scheme to extort money
from a coal operator and buy votes.
   The 67-year-old Mr. Moore, a three-term Republican
governor, pleaded guilty in April to charges of extortion,
obstruction of justice, and tax and mail fraud. He faced a
maximum penalty of 36 years in prison and fines of as much as
$1.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's not clear whether Mr. Moore will appeal. He couldn't
be reached for comment.
   Attorneys for Mr. Moore had asked to withdraw the guilty
plea, saying the former governor was rushed into his plea.
But federal Judge Walter Hoffman denied the request Monday.
The former governor remains free on bond until July 31, when
he is scheduled to report to a minimum-security prison in
Petersburg, Va.
   Michael W. Carey, a U.S. attorney in West Virginia, called
the sentence significant and proof that even former West
Virginia governors go to jail if they "violate the public
trust."
   The judge sentenced Mr. Moore to concurrent terms of five
years for extortion, six months for mail fraud and two years
for each of two charges of tax fraud. In addition, he was
sentenced to 10 months in prison on the obstruction of
justice charge.
   Prosecutors say Mr. Moore illegally diverted $100,000 in
state funds to his 1984 election campaign, which his
supporters used to buy votes from residents in southern West
Virginia counties.
   The extortion charge relates to a scheme in which he
agreed to use his influence as governor to refund $2.3
million from the state's black-lung fund to a coal operator.
In return, the coal operator agreed to offer Mr. Moore 25% of
the refund in kickbacks, according to the indictments by the
Charleston grand jury.
   The black-lung fund is a coal industry-funded pool of
money that provides payments to disabled miners who suffer
from the disease.
   The tax fraud counts allege that Mr. Moore filed false
campaign finance statements and tax returns in 1984 and 1985.
The obstruction of justice charge related to Mr. Moore's
alleged attempt to influence the testimony of two witnesses
during the investigation.
   Mr. Moore served as governor from 1969 to 1977 and from
1985 to 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDIC Said to Mull
   Filing Civil Charges
   Against Neil Bush
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is
considering filing civil charges against President Bush's son
Neil and other former officials of a Colorado thrift, but a
final decision hasn't been made yet, an agency spokesman
said.
   Neil Bush, a Denver oil businessman, was an outside
director of Silverado Banking Savings &amp; Loan Association,
which failed in late 1988 at an expected cost to the
government of $1 billion. The Office of Thrift Supervision
has charged him in an administrative action with violating
conflict-of-interest rules as a Silverado director. Mr. Bush
has denied any wrongdoing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FDIC routinely files civil charges against directors
and officers of failed institutions, as well as outside
attorneys and accountants, in cases where the government bank
and thrift insurance funds suffer a loss. The agency
typically brings charges of negligence and breach of
fiduciary duty to the institution, seeking to cover its
losses. Banks and thrifts usually carry insurance for their
officers and directors to protect them from such suits.
   ABC News reported last night that the FDIC is about to
file a $200 million civil suit against Mr. Bush and other
former Silverado officials, but the FDIC spokesman, said "no
final decision" has been made on whether to bring a suit.
High-level officials at the FDIC confirmed that a final
decision hasn't been made, but one person said a decision
"isn't too far off."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Oil Prices Advance Due to Anticipation
   Of Cut in World Petroleum Oversupply
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C4
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Oil prices rallied on anticipation of a reduction in the
world's oversupply of petroleum.
   Crude oil prices were up as much as 50 cents a barrel,
enough in some cases to offset all the declines of recent
days. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the futures price
of crude oil for August delivery rose 36 cents a barrel to
$16.94.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although there was debate over the likely duration of the
rally, oil analysts attributed the upturn to two major
factors. These were expectations that the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries finally may curb its
overproduction and anticipation that the latest report by the
American Petroleum Institute would show reduced U.S. crude
supplies.
   Little new information regarding OPEC output prospects
came out of yesterday's meeting of Persian Gulf oil ministers
in Saudi Arabia, where King Fahd is taking a more active role
in efforts to restore stability to oil prices. But the API
statistics, released after trading closed, showed that
drawdowns in U.S. crude inventories last week were more
bullish than expected, totaling nearly 3.7 million barrels.
   Gasoline inventories also fell by 1.7 million barrels last
week, about in line with industry projections. Meanwhile,
fuel futures were stronger yesterday with unleaded gasoline
for August delivery rising 1.01 cents a gallon to 57.86
cents.
   One factor in the firming market was an interruption in
supplies of methyl tertiary butyl ether from Arco Chemical
Co. The company had to reduce deliveries of the high-octane
gasoline additive after last week's explosion at its Houston
plant.
   Still, strength in the gasoline market helped propel U.S.
crude oil prices higher. Also, some U.S. refiners increased
their field postings for the benchmark West Texas
Intermediate crude by 50 cents a barrel to $15.75.
   Shahrokh Nikkhah, a senior vice president with
Prudential-Bache Securities, has turned "cautiously bullish"
on oil prices as a result of this week's upturn. "The $18.50
to $20 level is definitely in sight" for the near-term crude
contract on the New York Mercantile Exchange, he said. "I'm
looking for a move up to the $20 level after the July 25 OPEC
meeting," he added.
   But some others don't believe prices have bottomed yet.
"Prices have every prospect of remaining under pressure" at
least for two more months, said Peter Gignoux, manager of the
Shearson Lehman Hutton international energy desk in London.
   In other markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK and MEATS: As expected, the weekly cold storage
report showed lower-than-normal movement of pork bellies out
of storage, producing a decline in prices of pork belly
futures contracts. Pork bellies are used to make bacon. The
report showed a net movement of 2.9 million pounds of bellies
out of cold storage outside Chicago. That compares with a net
of as much as 4.6 million pounds a year earlier and a 10-year
average net at this time of about four million pounds.
Analysts don't think demand for bacon will keep pace with the
supply of fresh pork bellies. Higher-than-normal slaughter
levels have increased the supply of fresh bellies at a time
when demand for pork is sluggish.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices extended Monday's declines.
September delivery copper was off 0.60 cent a pound at
$1.1675. Traders viewed the decline as a reaction to an
overbought market, in which prices over the past two weeks
rose about 13 cents on unexpected developments. Meanwhile,
one analyst said a cave-in at the El Teniente mine in Chile
last week may cause a loss of 18,000 tons of refined copper
production. Yesterday's price decline occurred even though
London Metal Exchange warehouse stocks of copper were
reported to have declined by 2,325 tons to 51,225 tons, and
Commodities Exchange stocks were off 965 tons to 19,313 tons.
Fred Demler of PaineWebber observed that world-wide mine
production of copper was off 3 1/2% in March and April from
the same months last year. Also, he noted, shipments of
copper world-wide were up 10% in the first four months of the
year from a year earlier. However, he expects demand to
soften later in the year.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Gold futures prices declined moderately
on Middle Eastern selling, while silver was slightly higher
and platinum edged lower. August delivery gold was off $2.80
an ounce at $357.10. September silver ended with a gain of
one cent an ounce at $4.875. October platinum was off $1.10
an ounce at $488.90. Selling of gold, thought to be by the
same Middle Eastern interests that caused prices to break
sharply on several recent occasions triggered early price
weakness yesterday. Jeffrey Nichols, president of American
Precious Metals Advisors Ltd., Toronto, observed that while
the amount of bullion sold didn't appear to be significant,
traders are so nervous about the Middle Eastern selling that
they tend to liquidate holdings as soon as it develops.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kirschner Medical Disputes
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   KMDC
</CO>
<LP>
   TIMONIUM, Md. -- Kirschner Medical Corp. said it settled
all legal disputes with ALM Equipment Hospitaliers S.A., a
former supplier of surgical lights to Kirschner's Chick
division.
   Although terms of the settlement were not disclosed,
Kirschner said the agreement ends the company's liabilities
to ALM, and it will allow Kirschner to recover about $1.76
million from reserves previously established for those
liabilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kirschner manufactures orthopedic instruments and
implants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   AIDS Is Poised
   To Be Top 5 Killer
   Of Young Women
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<LP>
   If current trends continue, AIDS will become one of the
top five causes of death among women of child-bearing age by
next year, federal statisticians predicted.
   The researchers said that already AIDS is the number one
killer of young black women in New York and New Jersey.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new analysis by researchers at the federal Centers for
Disease Control in Atlanta is one of the first attempts to
gauge the impact of the AIDS pandemic on women of
child-bearing age. Heretofore, studies of the incidence of
AIDS and its cause, the human immunodeficiency virus or HIV,
have concentrated largely on young men.
   "Unlike numbers of deaths from cancer, heart disease and
unintentional injuries, the number of deaths due to HIV
infection in women has direct implications about the number
of deaths that will occur in infants and children due to HIV
infection," the researchers wrote in this week's issue of the
Journal of the American Medical Association.
   About 80% of the nearly 2,000 AIDS-stricken infants born
last year acquired their HIV infection from their mothers,
the researchers noted. This number is expected to rise
sharply as more HIV-infected women bear children. It costs
$18,000 to $42,000 a year to care for each of these stricken
infants. "As the number of pediatric cases increases, the
medical and social costs will become staggering," they wrote.
   Deaths from HIV infection in women aged 15 to 44 years,
jumped to 1,430 in 1988 from 18 deaths in 1980 in the first
year of the pandemic. By 1988, HIV accounted for 3% of all
deaths in young women and was the eighth leading cause of
death of this age group. The death rate from the deadly virus
was 40% higher in 1988 than in 1987.
   "The number of new cases of AIDS in women of reproductive
age continues to increase" with 2,825 such deaths reported in
1989, the researchers said. "If current mortality trends
continue, AIDS can be expected to become one of the five
leading causes of death {in young women} by 1991," they
forecast.
   Young black women are dying of HIV infection at a rate
nine times higher than white women of the same age. In New
Jersey, the death rate among black women was more than 40
deaths per 100,000 persons in the population, compared with a
rate of about four per 100,000 for young white women. In New
York, the death rate among young black women was almost 30
per 100,000 persons vs. about eight among young white women.
   In both New York and New Jersey, AIDS topped both cancer
and heart disease as a cause of death among young black
women, the researchers said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Datapoint Corp.:
   Depressed Computer Sales
   Produce the Layoff of 91
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   DPT
</CO>
<LP>
   Datapoint Corp., citing continued depressed sales of its
computer systems, said it's laying off 91 employees effective
immediately.
   The layoffs at the San Antonio, Texas, headquarters
effectively close Datapoint's corporate sales efforts in the
U.S. The company now will rely on third-party resellers for
domestic sales, a company spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier this week, the troubled computer and
communications concern lost an appeal in a
patent-infringement case brought against it by Northern
Telecom Inc. A company spokesman, however, said there wasn't
any connection between the layoffs and the appeal decision.
   For its third quarter ended April 28, Datapoint reported a
loss of $8.4 million, or $1.07 a share, compared with a loss
of $21.3 million, or $2.35 a share, the year earlier.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Datapoint
shares closed yeserday at $2, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hewlett-Packard Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HWP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PALO ALTO, Calif. -- Hewlett-Packard Co. said its Canadian
unit agreed in principle to acquire Idacom Ltd., Edmonton,
Alberta. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The agreement is subject to approval by Idacom
shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Idacom, which is closely held, is a supplier of electronic
instruments used in data communication. It employs 120
people.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Paper
   Reports a 19% Drop
   In 2nd-Quarter Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PURCHASE, N.Y. -- International Paper Co. reported that
second-quarter earnings dropped 19% on lower prices for
uncoated printing and writing paper and for containerboard,
used in making corrugated cartons.
   The results substantially exceeded analysts' expectations,
however, and investors buoyed the company's stock price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The paper, packaging and wood-products giant said its
European paper and packaging operations performed strongly,
as did specialty products, which include chemicals used in
paints and adhesives; fabrics; and commercial photographic
film and paper.
   Second-quarter earnings sank to $185 million, or $1.70 a
share, from $229 million, or $2.04 a share, in the same
period a year earlier. Sales rose 6.7% to $3.2 billion from
$3 billion.
   The results "were significantly better than I was
expecting," said Mark S. Rogers, analyst at Prudential-Bache
Capital Funding, who had pegged International Paper earnings
at $1.55 a share.
   In linerboard, used to line corrugated packaging, and
market pulp, the basic material for paper, "the down trend
wasn't as strong as I thought," Mr. Rogers said, adding that
those product areas are likely to continue to drop
industrywide in the second half.
   But while uncoated paper hurt the year-to-year comparison,
prices have been recovering quarter to quarter this year, and
"that's sustainable," the analyst said. "That product area
looks well-positioned and is on a cyclical upturn after
bottoming (early) this year."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
International Paper's shares rose 87.5 cents to $52.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lack of Victims Hurt
   Chicago Futures Case
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The government's first prosecution of Chicago
commodities traders may have gone awry partly because it
became the Case of the Missing Victims.
   Throughout the seven-week trial, the government didn't
produce a single customer to testify that he had been ripped
off by exchange insiders. There were no grandmothers who had
lost their savings, no banks that had been bilked. "No
ultimate alleged victim was called to testify; that's very
unusual," says Robert Tarun, a former assistant U.S.
attorney.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Defense attorneys were able to emphasize that no customers
or brokerage firms ever complained about the trades that
formed the basis for the alleged fraud.
   That and other weaknesses in the government's case led a
jury on Monday to set back the most ambitious investigation
ever of alleged corruption at Chicago's two big futures
exchanges. In essence, the jury found two traders in the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange's Swiss Franc pit guilty of eight
counts of stealing only $200 from customers. On the remainder
of the more than 100 counts, the jury either found the two
traders and a co-defendant innocent or couldn't reach a
verdict.
   The jury was deadlocked on a conspiracy count against one
trader, Robert Mosky, under the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act. (The two other traders, David Zatz
and Danny Scheck, were charged with lesser violations of
commodity law.) In interviews, several jurors said a
significant number of their peers refused to consider the
conspiracy portion of the government's case, believing the
prosecutors hadn't come close to proving it.
   Juror Terry Elkins, a 44-year-old plant engineer, said he
even believed a government agent had tried to lure traders
into breaking the law. Juror Jill Schleff, a former teacher,
said the lack of evidence that any major wrongdoing occurred
left her wondering as she went into the jury room, "Why were
they even arrested?"
   The outcome of the trial, the result of an elaborate and
expensive undercover investigation dubbed "Operation
Hedgeclipper" at the Chicago Merc and "Operation Sourmash" at
the Chicago Board of Trade, threatens to cripple the
prosecution's ongoing investigation. So far, 48 individuals
have been indicted as a result of the investigation. Sixteen
of those indicted have pleaded guilty to fraud charges and
are cooperating with the government.
   Prosecutors had hoped to tap into a public backlash
against 1980s-style greed. Prosecutors had hoped that, as
traders turned into witnesses, convictions would top 100 and
perhaps reach beyond the trading floor to clearing firm
officials.
   Though the government lacked a target on the order of Ivan
Boesky, some Justice Department officials hoped the futures
case would rival Wall Street's insider-trading investigation.
But the small-change nature of some of the Swiss-franc pit
charges proved to be a far cry from the suitcase full of
money and illegal million-dollar trades the Wall Street probe
exposed.
   Allowing the Swiss franc trial to be the leadoff court
case to develop out of the investigation also appears to have
been a blunder. The Swiss franc pit trial "was the defense's
best case. The government's case was highly technical," a
defense attorney said. Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel
Gillogly conceded as much at one point in the trial. "There's
no sex, drugs and rock `n' roll here, this is a thinking
man's case," he said.
   Government attorneys cited scheduling conflicts between
defense lawyers and federal judges for the Swiss franc case
going to trial first. But prosecutors could have delayed
asking a grand jury to indict the Swiss franc traders. Trials
of traders who worked in the Japanese yen pit at the Chicago
Merc and the soybean pit at the CBOT are set to begin in
September.
   None of the cases the government plans to bring involve
huge amounts of money, but the counts listed in the Swiss
Franc case involved less than the rest. The dollar amount
allegedly stolen from customers in many of the trades was as
little as $12.50 a futures contract -- the minimum price
increment, or tick, by which foreign currency futures trade
on the Merc. Four of the trades that underlie the fraud
charges against Mr. Zatz resulted in profits to the trader of
$50 or less a trade.
   This represented a minuscule portion of the trades
conducted in the pit. Mr. Mosky, for instance, was indicted
on less than 0.1% of the trades he made in 1988.
   The cornerstone of the prosecution's case was a series of
more than 100 secret tape-recordings that undercover FBI
agent Randall Jannett made while posing as a futures trader
from February through December of 1988. Yet no single tape
was a "smoking gun" that clearly illustrated fraudulent
trades.
   Nearly all the tapes concerning the three defendants
consisted of arcane and often confusing bantering among
traders about price quotes and the number of futures
contracts each had to buy or sell. Mr. Jannett interpreted
the trading tapes from the witness stand for 15 days, often
comparing them in mind-numbing detail to reams of exchange
trading data and brokerage firm records. One result of the
hours of testimony delivered in a "just the facts"
policeman's monotone was that some jurors fell asleep during
the trial.
   While listening to the tapes the jurors also had to juggle
the government's transcript and another, covering certain
tapes, compiled by Mr. Scheck's attorney, Harvey Silets. The
defense transcript provided different interpretations and
attributions for several conversations.
   The government's intent in interpreting each tape was to
illustrate that the trades were made non-competitively. The
government alleged that the traders acted as part of a
conspiracy to skim customer profits. The most common fraud
alleged occurred when Mr. Mosky, the broker handling customer
orders, got "local" traders trading just for themselves to
accept losing trades to cover errors Mr. Mosky made in
executing customers' orders. Mr. Mosky then allegedly repaid
the locals with non-competitive trades that the locals could
immediately convert into a profit in the market, pocketing
gains that rightly belonged to Mr. Mosky's customers. Mr.
Scheck and Mr. Zatz, both local traders, participated in the
scheme, prosecutors said.
   But defense attorneys aggressively cross-examined the
agent, maintaining that most tapes represented two traders
confirming earlier trades that the
agent-turned-neophyte-trader had failed to notice. They said
he was too inexperienced to understand or see what was
happening in the pit on many occasions.
   "Jannett's position was if he didn't see it, it didn't
happen," said Mr. Silets, Mr. Scheck's attorney. In his
closing arguments, Mr. Silets asked: "What did Jannett have,
some sort of force field out of Star Trek around him?"
   The attorney got Mr. Jannett to concede that a trade he
said he observed as being below the market price, and
therefore non-competitive, could have happened 20 seconds
earlier than the time he recorded the event in his hidden
microphone. If it had occured 20 seconds earlier it would
have been executed at what was then the market price.
   In addition to checking trades, many of the fraud counts
against Mr. Mosky were the result of honest mistakes he made
while trying to get all his customer orders executed under
chaotic market conditions, said Elliot Samuels, Mr. Mosky's
attorney. Error rates of 10% or more aren't considered out of
the ordinary for busy Merc brokers, he said.
   "This is life in the pits. It's not pleasant, it's not
serene, it's not pretty, but things get done," Mr. Samuels
told the jury.
   Prosecutors attacked what they called the Wizard of Oz
defense, which painted a picture of pit trading as too
complex for "mere mortals," such as jurors or FBI agents, to
understand. The government agent "pulled back the curtain"
and disclosed the corruption in the Swiss franc pit, just as
a Great Plains flimflam artist was disclosed as the true Oz,
said James Fleissner, an assistant U.S. attorney.
   The government says its inclination is to retry the three
traders on the 86 counts on which the jury was deadlocked.
   ---
   Scott Kilman and Jeff Bailey contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Paramount Communications Inc.:
   Movie Firm Plans to Boost
   Its Stake in TVX Broadcast
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI TVXGC CCI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Paramount Communications Inc. said it will increase its
holdings in TVX Broadcast Group Inc. and may seek to acquire
the remaining minority interest in the Virginia Beach, Va.,
television station owner.
   Paramount paid about $110 million for a 79% stake in TVX
late last year, when it also acquired $30 million in TVX debt
obligations. Paramount said it agreed to purchase an
additional 757,852 TVX shares from Citicorp Venture Capital
Ltd. and First Capital Corp. of Chicago for $7.50 a share,
increasing its holdings to 83.3%. Paramount, a New York-based
movie and TV entertainment concern, said it would offer to
acquire the remaining shares at the same $7.50 price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paramount last year exercised its option to purchase the
TVX stake in a move seen as an expansion into broadcasting.
   With about seven million TVX shares outstanding on a fully
diluted basis, purchase of the remaining shares would cost
about $52 million at the $7.50 a share price.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AirTran's Mesaba June Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ATCC
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- AirTran Corp. said June traffic at its
Mesaba Aviation unit rose 18% to 18.3 million revenue
passenger miles from 15.5 million.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The regional carrier said its load factor, or percentage
of seats filled, dropped to 51.9% from the year-earlier
61.7%. The drop reflects an increase in capacity and an
unusually high year-earlier load factor, Mesaba said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- SunTrust Banks Inc.:
   Second-Quarter Net Rose
   3% After Reserve Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   STI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SunTrust Banks Inc., Atlanta, reported a 3% increase in
second-quarter net income, to $88.5 million, or 69 cents a
share, reflecting an additional provision in its loan-loss
reserve.
   In 1989's second quarter, SunTrust had net of $85.9
million, or 66 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As reported, a special examination by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency prompted the banking company to
provide loan-loss reserves of $64.6 million for the quarter.
That figure is $24.8 million more than the 1989 second
quarter and $26.6 million more than the 1990 first quarter.
   SunTrust said the negative effect of the additional
provision on earnings was partially offset by two unrelated
purchase accounting adjustments on earlier acquisitions
totaling about $19 million.
   The company, which has $31.3 billion in assets, said
nonperforming assets totaled $503 million as of June 30,
compared with $296.3 million a year earlier. The most recent
figure includes $322.1 million in problem loans.
   For the first six months of the year, net rose 3.8% to
$176.4 million, or $1.38 a share, from $169.9 million, or
$1.31 a share, the year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Summit Leaders
   Agree to Study
   Soviet Economy
   ---
   U.S. Holds Talks to Resolve
   Old Claims So Moscow
   Can Use Capital Markets
   ----
   By Peter Truell and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP JAPAN CANDA AFRIC LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- The leaders of the industrial world agreed to
make a major study of the Soviet economy by year end to
define that country's needs, as the U.S. disclosed it is
negotiating with the Soviets to resolve longstanding
financial claims as a prelude to lifting restrictions on
Soviet borrowing in U.S. capital markets.
   But at the annual economic summit here, leaders of the
U.S., Japan, West Germany, Italy, Britain, France, Canada and
the European Community weren't able to break the deadlock on
agricultural subsidies in current international trade talks.
President Bush and Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney
rejected a compromise proposed by British Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher yesterday morning, U.S. and British
officials said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Later in the day, Mr. Bush presented a U.S. compromise
proposal on agriculture based on a recent paper by Aart de
Zeeuw, chairman of the agricultural negotiating committee at
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, according to U.S.
Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter.
   The paper was intended to serve as a catalyst for the GATT
talks in Geneva. The negotiations pit major food-exporting
countries such as the U.S., which favor the eventual
elimination of farm subsidies, against the EC, which argues
that such subsidies are needed to maintain Europe's social
fabric.
   Mr. de Zeeuw proposed dividing agricultural subsidies into
four categories: domestic supports such as direct payments to
farmers; measures applied at borders, such as import quotas
and tariffs; export subsidies; and health and sanitary
requirements imposed on importers.
   Mr. de Zeeuw recommended that trading nations agree to put
a ceiling on internal supports, according to officials
familiar with the text of his plan. He would convert all
border measures to tariffs. Export subsidies would be reduced
quickly and eventually eliminated. And nations would adopt a
code to assure that health regulations aren't used to
restrict trade.
   "In my opinion, we'll either have some appropriate
reference to the {GATT proposal} or we'll agree to disagree,"
Mr. Yeutter said of the summit. "It's too late to paper over
our differences," the agriculture secretary said. "The
president understands that, and he's communicated that to his
negotiating colleagues."
   Staff members were preparing to work through the night in
hopes of reaching an agreement by the time the summit
concludes today.
   The summit's political communique, published yesterday,
masked the tensions on trade and focused instead on the
increasing acceptance of market-oriented democracy throughout
the world. The 1990s should be "a decade of democracy," the
communique said, welcoming recent moves toward democracy in
Eastern Europe and Latin America. President Bush and the
other summit leaders also gave a qualified endorsement to the
more tentative political and economic changes in the Soviet
Union and South Africa.
   In that context, the summit nations agreed yesterday to
proceed with a study of the Soviet economy and its
requirements. The study would be conducted by the
International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development and the new European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady told reporters.
   The study is a compromise between the U.S. and the EC,
which recently commissioned a separate study. That would have
excluded the U.S., Canada and Japan. The new study will draw
on the much greater resources of the IMF and World Bank,
which are dominated by the U.S., and American officials
believe these organizations will do a more rigorous analysis
of Soviet needs.
   The Soviets also could soon have better access to U.S.
financial markets, which has been blocked under U.S. laws
that prohibit debtors in default from returning to American
financial markets. The Soviet Union, struggling to modernize
its economy, is willing to negotiate its debts outstanding,
while the U.S. is prepared to help the Soviets gain access to
financial markets.
   The Soviet Union has substantial debts to the U.S.
unsettled from earlier eras. These include $300 million in
borrowings by the Czarist government and the provisional
Kerensky government prior to the Bolshevik revolution of
1917. The sum owed would amount to many billions of dollars
if accrued interest is taken into account. The Soviets also
owe the U.S. about $700 million for military hardware and
other war-related aid provided during World War II.
   "We'll have to find a way to resolve it somewhere short of
their claim and our claim," said Secretary of State James
Baker. "It's a negotiation under way." Besides being
ineligible for commercial bank credit from the U.S., the
Soviets can't receive loans backed by U.S. government
guarantees because of the disputed loans.
   The Soviet Union and its floundering economy have
attracted much of the attention at this summit. President
Mikhail Gorbachev wrote to President Bush before the
gathering asking for economic aid and technical assistance.
The U.S. so far has extended only limited technical
assistance to the Soviets.
   Asked whether the U.S. would advance economic aid to the
Soviets, Mr. Baker said, "I don't think you should ever say
never." But he added, "There are, as I think we articulated,
particular problems that face the United States today in
using taxpayer dollars to provide economic assistance to the
Soviet Union." The U.S. approach could change if the Soviet
Union makes a fundamental effort "toward free-market reform,"
reduces the scope of military spending and cuts aid to
governments such as Cuba, which he said, "support
instability."
   In their political communique, the summit leaders affirmed
they would help countries that choose freedom, and they said
political and economic freedoms are "closely linked and
mutually reinforcing." They said Europe is "at the dawn of a
new era" because of changes in Eastern Europe and the
unification of Germany, but added that the industrial
countries shouldn't neglect reforms elsewhere, including such
countries as Nepal, Namibia and Chile.
   The communique said sanctions should remain on China
because of the massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in
Beijing. But it acknowledged some "recent developments"
there. The summit also offered the prospect of some expansion
in World Bank lending to China, particularly to address
environmental concerns.
   The language on China was designed to finesse differences
between Japan and the other summit nations. Unlike its
partners at the summit, Japan favors resuming lending to
China and soon will restart a $5 billion loan held up since
the Beijing killings in June 1989.
   The summit group congratulated Namibia and Chile on their
democracies, and urged Cuba and Romania to do more to foster
democracy. It also sounded a cautionary note on the surge of
ethnic and religious violence, saying "such intolerance can
lead to conflicts, which can threaten fundamental human
rights."
   On South Africa, the summit leaders said they hope for "a
peaceful transition to a non-racial democracy and the
complete dismantlement of the apartheid system." The group
called on all parties to "refrain from violence or its
advocacy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Public Service Co. of Colorado:
   Westinghouse Team Chosen
   For Conversion of Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   PSR WX MRN
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Public Service Co. of Colorado selected a team of
Westinghouse Electric Corp., Morrison Knudsen Corp. and Black
&amp; Veatch to negotiate a contract for the decommissioning and
conversion of the Fort St. Vrain nuclear power plant in
Colorado.
   Westinghouse said the contract is expected to be worth
about $200 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The project, which will include converting the nuclear
plant into a 330-megawatt gas-fired facility, is expected to
be completed in five years. The Fort St. Vrain plant, 40
miles from Denver, closed in 1989.
   Westinghouse is a Pittsburgh-based broadcasting, financial
services and power generation concern. Morrison Knudsen,
based in Boise, Idaho, is a construction planning firm. Black
&amp; Veatch, based in Kansas City, Mo., is an engineering and
architectural design firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hitachi's Maxell Corp.,
   TDK Unit Face Suit
   Filed by Wholesaler
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TDK HIT
</CO>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Two electronics companies, Maxell Corp. of
America and TDK Electronics Corp., were charged with
antitrust violations in a suit brought by a local wholesaler.
   Closely held Micro Computer Supply Inc., which sells
computer diskettes and other computer supplies and
accessories, alleged that Maxell and TDK engaged in
discriminatory pricing practices, including the granting of
discounts to wholesalers of the firms' consumer products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit, filed in U.S. District Court here, doesn't seek
specific damages.
   Neither Maxell, a unit of Hitachi Ltd. in Japan, nor TDK,
a unit of TDK Corp., also based in Japan, could be reached
for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Martin Marietta Corp.:
   Firm Wins NASA Contracts
   For a Total of $24.7 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   ML
</CO>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Martin Marietta Corp. said it was awarded contracts valued
at $24.7 million to build instruments for two National
Aeronautics and Space Administration space exploration
missions.
   The aerospace and defense company, of Bethesda, Md., said
it will receive $11.6 million to build the so-called Cometary
Ice and Dust Experiment, to be used to study the elemental
and chemical composition of dust and ice particles from the
comet Kopff.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the second contract, for $13.1 million,
is for a spectrometer that will fly aboard the astrophysics
facility scheduled for launch in 1997. The device will enable
scientists to measure the energy level of rays recieved from
extremely distant celestial bodies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NCR Gets $10 Million Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   NCR FNG
</CO>
<LP>
   DAYTON, Ohio -- NCR Corp. said it received a $10 million
contract to automate Fleet/Norstar Financial Group's network
of branch offices with NCR's FTS II branch automation system.
   NCR, which makes computers and bank and retail automation
systems, said the contract could exceed $20 million over the
next three years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Textron to Settle
   Whistleblower Suit,
   Pay $17.9 Million
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TXT
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Textron Inc. agreed to pay the government
$17.9 million to settle civil charges that the company
fraudulently sold the U.S. Coast Guard faulty helicopter
engines.
   A former procurement official with another company
involved in the helicopter contract charged in May 1988 that
the engines broke down and required extensive repairs far
more quickly than Textron had promised they would. The
whistleblower, Robert Ballew, will receive 15% of the
settlement, or $2.7 million, under a federal law that
provides incentives for individuals to report fraud against
the government. The Justice Department said the settlement
was the largest-ever in a whistleblower lawsuit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The engines involved in the case were used in the Coast
Guard's primary drug interdiction and rescue helicopters. The
settlement, which concludes a lawsuit against Textron, will
enable the Coast Guard to avoid as much as $60 million in
costs because the company also has promised to maintain the
engines and supply replacement parts for as long as six
years, the Justice Department said. Textron is based in
Providence, R.I.
   Textron Lycoming, a division of the parent company, was a
subcontractor on a project to produce engines that would
operate 2,400 hours of flight time between overhauls, the
Justice Department said. The Coast Guard claimed that the
engines usually ran fewer than 600 hours of flight time
before requiring extensive repairs.
   Textron's Lycoming said the settlement will facilitate the
normalization of relations between Lycoming and the Coast
Guard. The company added that the settlement doesn't
constitute an admission of wrongdoing by Lycoming.
   The company also noted that provisions had been made for
the cost of the settlement and that Lycoming's 1990 financial
results won't be affected by the decision.
   During a two-year investigation, the government also found
evidence that while modifying the engines to make them
capable of flying in snow, Textron Lycoming charged the Coast
Guard for items unrelated to the approved modifications.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Oncor Seeks Approval
   From FDA to Sell
   Cervical Cancer Test
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   ONCR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   GAITHERSBURG, Md. -- Oncor Inc. said it has applied for
pre-market approval from the Food and Drug Administration to
sell a DNA-based test for cervical cancer.
   Oncor, which already markets the test in other countries,
sells the test in the U.S. for research purposes. If the new
application is approved, Oncor would be allowed to sell the
test to labs for widespread use on human patients.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An Oncor spokesman said the company's application for
pre-market approval also fulfills a clause in its
international marketing agreement with Medscand AB of Sweden,
which helped fund the test's development. Under the
agreement, Medscand will pay Oncor the final $200,000
installment of a $500,000 development fee within 30 days.
   Stephen Turner, Oncor's chairman and chief executive
officer, said he envisions the Human Papillomavirus Analysis
System as a second test, to verify results from the widely
used Pap smear. "The data isn't there for broad screening"
with the Oncor system alone, Mr. Turner said.
   The company estimates the immediate U.S. market for the
test at about 2.4 million women. Oncor expects to sell the
testing kits to labs for about $15 each. The labs would then
charge the patient $70 to $100 to administer the test.
   Mr. Turner said he expects the FDA review to take from six
to 12 months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bell Group Ltd.:
   Maxwell Told to Put Stake
   In Concern Back on Market
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   A.BLL A.BON U.MXC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   British publisher Robert Maxwell must put back on the
market a 14.9% stake in Bell Group Ltd. of Australia that he
acquired in April. But his lawyers said he may be able to
retain the stake.
   Bell Group, an affiliate of Bond Corp. Holdings Ltd.,
publishes the main morning newspaper in Perth, the West
Australian, and Mr. Maxwell has been seeking a foothold in
Australian newspaper publishing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Maxwell purchased the stake in Bell Group for 485,900
Australian dollars (US$390,400), or one Australian cent a
share, from David Aspinall, managing director of Bell Group,
and regulators alleged that the sale breached Australia's
takeover rules. Mr. Aspinall, who earlier acquired a 16.6%
stake in Bell Group, was deemed to be an associate of the
controlling holder, Bond Corp., so his purchase should have
triggered a takeover offer for the whole company, regulators
said.
   In the settlement, Mr. Aspinall must offer for sale his
5.4 million Bell Group shares and Mr. Maxwell must offer his
shares. The shares will carry a reserve price that hasn't yet
been disclosed. Bell Group shares currently are trading at
seven Australian cents. Mr. Maxwell can bid for the shares he
already owns, and if no other buyer offers the reserve price,
Mr. Maxwell can retain the shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Pacific Sets
   Pacts for Utah Plant
   With German Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN APFC G.DYN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAS VEGAS, Nev. -- American Pacific Corp., a specialty
chemical maker and industrial real estate developer,
announced definitive cooperation agreements with Dynamit
Nobel AG of West Germany for the design, construction and
operation of a sodium azide plant in Iron County, Utah.
   Sodium azide is the main chemical used to inflate
automotive air bags. There is no U.S. producer of the
material, American Pacific said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The estimated capital cost of the plant, which will be
owned and operated by American Pacific's American Azide Corp.
unit, is about $20 million. The plant is to have annual
capacity of 1,000 metric tons. A metric ton is equal to about
2,204.62 pounds. Dynamit Nobel, which will provide technical
assistance to help get the factory completed and running, has
retained the option to purchase 30% of the common stock of
American Azide.
   Dynamit Nobel's obligation to proceed with the project
beyond the first phase, however, is subject to American
Pacific's getting the required financing. "Although there can
be no assurance that financing will be obtained, the company
has had preliminary discussions with a number of financing
sources and is optimistic that satisfactory financing
arrangements will be made," said Fred D. Gibson Jr., American
Pacific's chairman.
   The plant will be built by United Engineers &amp; Constructors
Inc., a division of Raytheon Co., Lexington, Mass.
Construction is planned for the spring of 1991 and the
plant's start-up for the 1991 fourth quarter. The plant will
be designed for "timely and economic expansion" to 2,000
metric tons of capacity annually, American Pacific said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Kirin Brewery Co.:
   Profit Projections Revised
   On Strong Demand for Beer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   KNBWY
</CO>
<LP>
   Tokyo-based Kirin Brewery Co., Japan's top beer brewer, is
revising its 1990 sales and profit projections upward in view
of unexpectedly strong demand.
   Kirin officials said that sales will total some 1.3
trillion yen ($8.6 billion), up 3.1% from a February
projection of 1.26 trillion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company expects profit to total some 34 billion yen,
as much as 36% higher than an initial 25 billion yen
forecast.
   Officials said the company has decided to change the 1990
projections, despite an average 6.7% price increase in March,
because of stronger-than-anticipated demand for its beer.
   Sales volume, which in February was projected to rise 5%
over 1989, was up 8% between January and June, officials
said. It is expected to rise 6% for the year.
   Officials said a new beer that went on sale last spring,
called Ichiban-Shibori (First Run), has been selling much
faster than expected, while another brand, Kirin Lager, has
also been in brisk demand.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   I-Flow Elects Earhart
   To Added Post of Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   IFLO WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Donald M. Earhart, I-Flow Corp.'s
recently named president, was elected to the additional post
of chief executive officer and as a director.
   Mr. Earhart, 46 years old, is the third chief executive at
I-Flow since the company went public Feb. 1. He succeeds
Michael A. Pentopoulos, 44, who was named interim chief
executive officer after cofounder Eric Brown stepped down in
late February. Mr. Brown resigned because of "strategic
differences with the board," an I-Flow executive said
yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Earhart joined the company as president and chief
operating officer in June. "I came on board with the promise
that I would become CEO in a short period of time," Mr.
Earhart said.
   His appointment to the board expands it to five members.
Mr. Pentopoulos resigned to pursue his business interests in
a number of other medical ventures.
   Prior to joining I-Flow, Mr. Earhart was vice president of
Allergan Inc. and president of its optical division. He also
spent seven years in various executive posts at Bausch &amp; Lomb
Inc.
   I-Flow is developing a multi-drug infusion system for the
home health-care market. Mr. Earhart said the company expects
to have its first product available for sale by year end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Societe Lyonnaise des Eaux:
   Water-Treatment Company
   Plans Merger With Builder
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F.SLE F.DUM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Societe Lyonnaise des Eaux, a diversified French
water-treatment group, and building company Dumez S.A. said
they plan to merge but declined to provide further details
until after their boards meet to approve the plan.
   The two companies, which obtained a suspension of their
shares on the Paris stock exchange Monday, said their boards
will meet today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move came as a surprise to some analysts, who didn't
expect Lyonnaise des Eaux to merge with a company whose
profit margins are generally only half its own and whose
business is vulnerable to swings in demand for construction.
Some analysts suggested, however, that the merger would allow
the two companies to catch up with their main rivals in
efforts over the last two or three years to build
multiservice conglomerates.
   Lyonnaise des Eaux shares were suspended Monday at 702
francs ($126.60) each, while Dumez shares were frozen at 641
francs each. At those levels, the common stock of Lyonnaise
des Eaux and Dumez would be worth just over 20 billion francs
and seven billion francs, respectively. Lyonnaise des Eaux
also has several convertible bonds outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Conseco to Acquire
   Life Insurance Group
   Of Lomas Financial
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   LFC CNC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   CARMEL, Ind. -- Conseco Inc. said it agreed to acquire the
life insurance group of Lomas Financial Corp., a Dallas-based
mortgage banking concern, in a transaction valued at $165
million.
   Conseco, an insurance holding company, said it will
acquire the group through Conseco Capital Partners Limited
Partnership, which it created with institutional investors to
acquire and operate life insurance companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company will pay $140 million in cash and $25 million
in junior pay-in-kind securities for the group, which
consists of three insurance companies in Indianapolis, Little
Rock, Ark., and Salt Lake City. As of March 31, the group had
total assets of $860 million.
   The proposed purchase would be the second acquisition made
through Conseco Capital Partners. Late last month, the
partnership acquired Great American Reserve Insurance Co.
from Temple-Inland Inc., Diboll, Texas, for $143.5 million.
   Conseco said the planned transaction is subject to
approval by the bankruptcy court that has jurisdiction over
Lomas's proceedings under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code, which protects the company from creditors'
lawsuits while it forms a plan to repay debts, and by various
states' insurance regulatory agencies. The deal is expected
to be completed by this autumn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Schering-Plough
   Announces Program
   For Early Retirement
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   SGP
</CO>
<LP>
   MADISON, N.J. -- Schering-Plough Corp. announced a
temporary program that may induce early retirements, at a
pretax cost projected at "less than $15 million."
   The drug maker said the program won't affect earnings
materially. The company said it continues to project that per
share earnings will rise 18% to 20% this year. For 1989, the
company had net income of $471.3 million, or $4.18 a share,
on sales of $3.16 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Schering offered enhanced pensions to nearly 900 U.S.
employees who are 55 years or older with at least 10 years of
service. An undisclosed number of foreign employees received
comparable offers.
   The program, available until Aug. 10, gives retiring
employees an extra five years of age and length of service
for purposes of calculating pension benefits. That means
bigger pensions.
   The program applies retroactively to employees who retired
on or after last Dec. 31, the company said.
   Though it's costly in the short term to induce
retirements, many companies do so in order to lower long-term
head counts or payroll costs. Retiring workers often can be
replaced with younger, lower-paid workers, and in some cases
companies manage to get along without any replacements.
   Because of divestitures and cost-cutting moves, Schering's
head count has declined in recent years. A company spokesman
said there were 21,300 employees at the end of 1989, down
from 25,000 five years earlier. Schering said its retirement
incentives "may serve to further streamline the
organization."
   Schering closed at $48.125, down $1.25, in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oracle Systems Corp.
   Reports a 58% Rise
   For Fiscal 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   ORCL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   BELMONT, Calif. -- Oracle Systems Corp. posted a 58%
increase in fourth-quarter earnings after a disappointing
third quarter.
   Oracle said net income for the quarter ended May 31 was a
record $53 million, or 39 cents a share, compared with $33.5
million, or 25 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter.
Revenue was up 55% to a record $334.4 million from $215.9
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The results are in contrast to the software company's flat
income growth in the third quarter, when Oracle broke a
five-year streak of rapid growth. The poor results caused its
stock to plunge 31% to $17.5 in one day. The stock began
climbing again in May, closing at $22.375, up 87.5 cents, in
national over-the-counter trading yesterday. The
fourth-quarter results were announced after the close of
trading.
   Oracle attributed the improved earnings, in part, to
improved cash flow and stronger-than-expected cash
collections for the quarter. Last March, the company blamed
its third-quarter debacle on accounting glitches and said it
would resume high growth in the fourth quarter. The flat
third quarter shook Wall Street out of a long love affair
with Oracle, which had quarterly net growth rates in 1989
ranging from 65% to 84%.
   For the fiscal year, Oracle said, net income was up 44% to
$117.4 million, or 86 cents a share, from $81.8 million, or
61 cents a share the previous fiscal year. Revenue increased
66% to $971 million from $584 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- DNA Plant Technology Corp.:
   Biotech Firm Wins Patent
   For Crop Protection Process
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DNAP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   DNA Plant Technology Corp. said it received a U.S. patent
for a gene-based method of protecting crops from certain
fungi, including those that cause rotting in fruits and
vegetables after they have been harvested.
   The Cinnaminson, N.J., biotechnology firm said the patent
covers its process of transferring into various plants the
gene for chitinase, an enzyme that breaks down chitin, a
crucial component of many fungi.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many plants naturally produce chitinase, but not in
sufficient quantities or at the right time to fight off
harmful fungi, the company said. Currently, chemical
fungicides are used to protect plants.
   Products incorporating the new process would not reach
supermarkets before the mid-1990s, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Noxso Corp.:
   Patent Received for Process
   In Plant's Pollution Control
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   NOXO
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Noxso Corp., Pittsburgh, said it received a patent for a
process to remove sulfur and other pollutants from coal-fired
power plants. The company's sole business is the development
and commercialization of this pollution-control technology.
   Noxso said the patent is the last of three covering its
process to remove sulfur and nitrogen oxide from burning
high-sulfur coal. The process involves the use of absorbent
beads made from aluminum oxide and coated with sodium. The
latest patent covers the regeneration stage of the process,
which chemically treats the materials used so they can be
reused, Noxso said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Charter Federal, FBI
   Investigating a Theft
   At Branch in Virginia
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CHFD
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   BRISTOL, Va. -- Charter Federal Savings Bank said the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the thrift are jointly
investigating the embezzlement of at least $1.2 million from
one of the firm's branches.
   Charter said the scheme involved the diversion of funds
deposited by a small number of customers at the Jefferson
Street branch in Roanoke, Va., principally through
certificates of deposit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   L. Aubrey Goodson, Charter's president, said the prime
suspect is a former bank employee who held a "responsible"
position at the branch and quit shortly before the loss was
uncovered. The former employee's whereabouts are unknown, Mr.
Goodson said.
   Mr. Goodson added that the thrift is not sure if any other
employees might have been involved.
   Charter said its previous and current bonding companies
refused to cover the loss, and the thrift said it plans to
file suit against them if no agreement can be reached.
Charter's depositors are also insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.
   Charter said the embezzlement won't affect its ability to
repay its depositors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- All Nippon Airways:
   Purchase of About 30 Jets
   For $3.31 Billion Planned
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.ANA MD F.ABI
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   All Nippon Airways of Japan will spend three months
examining four passenger airplanes and intends to purchase
about 30 medium-sized jets for a total of 500 billion yen
($3.31 billion), an official said.
   The planes include the 767-X, a high-technology jet that
can seat 407 people, being developed jointly by Japan and the
U.S.; St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s MD-11 with a
seating capacity of 380; and the European consortium Airbus
Industrie's A-330, with a capacity of 385, and its A-340,
seating 262 to 295.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All Nippon, which operates 105 aircraft and is scheduled
to receive a previous order for 20 more jets at year end, is
one of several airlines shopping for a new generation of
wide-body aircraft to replace older McDonnell Douglas DC-10s,
Lockheed Corp. L-1011s and Boeing 747s.
   All Nippon will introduce the new planes over four to five
years starting in 1995, the official said. This is aimed at
meeting increasing passenger demand from three big airport
construction projects in Japan planned for completion by the
mid-1990s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Government Contracts
   Just Industry Welfare?
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Concerning your May 22 article "Raytheon Wins Army
Contract of $414 Million," I find it very interesting how
this wonderful country of ours and its leaders have developed
a unique system of social/economic benefits. For those in
need, welfare programs have always been, if not grudgingly
promulgated, done so in a way to make recipients of benefits
feel somewhat less than full, productive citizens.
   When it comes to industry, as very clearly noted, there
seems to be an air of what a nice thing has been
accomplished. Avoiding layoffs, as by this "Army contract"
(God forbid it should be called a welfare program), is
laudable insofar as the workers are concerned, but one
wonders whether a cheese-manufacturer client of mine in
Brooklyn, whose business has fallen off, might be helped by a
Pentagon contract for a few tons of cheese so as to keep his
work force employed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Harold B. Somer
   Westbury, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Abbott Laboratories:
   Pharmaceutical Firm Posts
   13% Rise in Quarterly Net
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ABT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, Ill., citing
"continued productivity improvement, higher volume and better
product mix," said second-quarter earnings climbed 13%, on a
14% increase in sales.
   The maker of hospital products and pharmaceuticals
reported second-quarter earnings of $240.2 million, or 55
cents a share, up from $212.6 million, or 48 cents, a year
earlier. Per-share figures reflect a decrease in shares
outstanding to 437.1 million from 447.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales were $1.50 billion in the latest quarter, up from
$1.32 billion.
   Abbott chairman and chief executive officer Duane L.
Burnham said the company expects to report record sales and
earnings "for the 19th consecutive year" in 1990.
   For the six months, Abbott's net income was $465.2
million, or $1.06 a share, up 15% from last year's $410.5
million, or 92 cents a share. Sales in the period rose 13% to
$2.94 billion from $2.61 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Paramount Pictures
   Names D. Kirkpatrick
   To Movie Group Post
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- David Kirkpatrick was named executive vice
president of the motion picture group of Paramount Pictures,
a new post.
   Paramount Pictures is a unit of Paramount Communications
Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kirkpatrick resigned as president of production of the
Walt Disney Pictures and Touchstone Pictures divisions of
Walt Disney Co., effective July 20. While there he helped to
oversee the production of "Pretty Woman" and "Dick Tracy."
   David Hoberman, president of Touchstone Pictures and Walt
Disney Pictures, said Mr. Kirkpatrick's departure was
voluntary and amicable. But he said, "There was a little
frustration. He wanted more personal control over films and
mangement. We continue to be very close friends."
   Prior to his tenure of more than a year at Disney, Mr.
Kirkpatrick was president of the motion picture group of
Weintraub Entertainment Group for two years. He also had an
eight-year tenure at Paramount, where his last title was
executive vice president of production.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Castle &amp; Cooke Inc.'s
   DeLorenzo Is Named
   To Executive Posts
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CKE
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- David A. DeLorenzo, 43 years old, was named
executive vice president of Castle &amp; Cooke Inc. and president
of its Dole Food Co. subsidiary.
   Mr. DeLorenzo, formerly president of Dole Produce Co.,
also joins David Murdock, Raymond F. Henze III and Alan B.
Sellers as a member of the office of the chairman at Castle &amp;
Cooke, a holding company with interests in food and real
estate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dole Food's former president, Robert W. Fisher, 52,
recently resigned to become president of PPI Del Monte
Tropical Fruit Co., a unit of London-based Polly Peck
International PLC.
   Mr. DeLorenzo joined Castle &amp; Cooke in 1970 and has held
various management positions at the company. He is a graduate
of Colgate University and holds a master's degree in business
administration from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton
School.
   Also, Harry E. Stephens III, acting senior vice president
of Castle &amp; Cooke's Dole Packaged Foods Co., was named
president of the unit. Mr. Stephens, 40, joined the parent
company in 1986 as vice president, planning and business
development.
   Castle &amp; Cooke recently delayed indefinitely its planned
spinoff of Dole Food, because of financing concerns and
uncertainty about the tax treatment of the transaction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- UDC-Universal Development L.P.:
   Builder to Report Decline
   In Net for Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   UDC
</CO>
<LP>
   UDC-Universal Development L.P., citing partly a weaker
housing market in California, said it expects to report
second-quarter net income "significantly" lower than the
year-earlier $12 million, or $1.11 a share.
   The Tempe, Ariz., builder of family and adult residential
communities said new-home closings in the latest quarter fell
3% to $87 million from the record $89 million a year earlier.
UDC-Universal also attributed the decline in net to lower
margins, fewer home closings in California, and the company's
partial recapitalization last year. The company said it will
report second-quarter earnings in early August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company noted that demand for housing in Arizona has
improved from a year earlier, and said it expects increases
in California sales as new subdivisions open in the second
half. UDC-Universal builds in Arizona, California, Florida,
Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   SUMMIT LEADERS AGREED to study the Soviet Union's economy
to define its needs, and the U.S. disclosed it is talking
with the Soviets to resolve longstanding financial claims as
a prelude to lifting restrictions on Soviet borrowing.
Meanwhile, the summit participants, from seven nations and
the EC, failed to break their deadlock on agricultural
subsidies, as Bush and Mulroney rejected a compromise offered
by Thatcher.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dollar fell against major currencies amid expectations
of higher Japanese interest rates and a stronger yen. The
U.S. currency's weakness helped kill an early rise in bond
prices. The stock market sagged, bringing the Dow Jones
industrials down 23.27 points.
   ---
   John A. Mulheren Jr. was convicted of conspiracy and three
counts of securities fraud after a trial in which Ivan Boesky
testified for the government. But the jury seemed to be
deadlocked on 26 other counts.
   ---
   Southeast farmers could face a drought as severe as one in
1986 if no significant rain falls in the next week or two.
Much of the corn and soybean crop is already in poor
condition.
   ---
   S&amp;L bailout officials approved a plan to arrange sales of
sick thrifts before they fall under U.S. control. The
officials believe such thrifts lose value after the
government takes over.
   ---
   Small investors won a legal victory as New York's highest
court ruled they can bring disputes with brokers to an
independent arbitration panel, not just an
industry-subsidized forum.
   ---
   USX and two union officials were convicted by a federal
jury in an alleged conspiracy that led to a concessionary
labor contract in 1983.
   ---
   Fed chief Greenspan met with GOP senators to hear their
concerns about a credit crunch and a stagnating economy, but
he gave little reason to expect an interest-rate cut soon.
   ---
   Motor-vehicle safety rules for employers and workers are
to be proposed today by the government. They would mandate
safety-belt use on the job, and would require
motorcycle-delivery people to wear helmets.
   ---
   Oil prices rallied in anticipation of a reduction in the
world's oversupply of petroleum. The price of crude gained as
much as 50 cents a barrel.
   ---
   American Airlines said it will impose surcharges on
passengers originating travel from five U.S. airports
beginning Sunday. The carrier cited higher costs at the
facilities.
   ---
   Textron agreed to pay the government $17.9 million to
settle charges that it fraudulently sold the Coast Guard
faulty helicopter engines.
   ---
   Rosewood Financial promised not to challenge First
Executive's management in exchange for access to the
struggling insurer's financial data.
   ---
   Budget negotiators expect to develop substantial
deficit-reduction packages by the end of the week.
   ---
   McDonnell Douglas is revamping the management of its
helicopter operation, and the unit announced that five
executives are leaving the firm.
   ---
   French brokerage group Tuffier plans to slash its work
force, sell its headquarters and possibly cede control to an
outside investor.
   ---
   Bernard Tapie Finance's shares were suspended by
regulators from trading due to a lack of data about the
firm's plan to buy 80% of Adidas.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 147,630,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2890.84, off 23.27; transportation 1145.62, off 3.47;
utilities 203.60, off 1.51.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3411.03, off
2.06.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 130.66, off 0.39;
spot index 132.11, off 0.24.
   Dollar: 148.30 yen, off 2.85; 1.6425 marks, off 0.0105.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American President
   Appoints John Lillie
   To New Top Position
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   APS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- American President Cos. named John M.
Lillie, 53 years old, to the newly created post of president
and chief operating officer, effective Aug. 6.
   American President is a transportation services and
container distribution concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Lillie was elected a director on the company's board
in January. Mr. Lillie, a general partner with the private
investment company of Sequoia Associates, in Menlo Park,
Calif., is a former chairman and chief executive officer of
the Lucky Stores Inc. grocery chain.
   American President also said it named Timothy J. Rhein,
49, as a director, increasing board membership to 13 from 12.
Mr. Rhein is president and chief executive officer of
American President Domestic, the company's domestic
transportation subsidiary.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Time Warner Ratings
   On Debt, Preferred
   Are Affirmed by S&amp;P
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it affirmed its
ratings on debt and preferred stock of Time Warner Inc. but
remains concerned about the company's sizable debt repayments
coming due in March 1992.
   The ratings concern noted that Time Warner's agreement to
guarantee $650 million of debt of Pathe Communications Corp.
"appears unlikely to be consummated." That debt was to help
finance Pathe's proposed $1.3 billion takeover of MGM/UA
Communications Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement prompted a review of the company's debt
rating because, together with other recent acquisitions, it
would have increased Time Warner's "already substantial
financial risk," S&amp;P said.
   Pathe has said it is seeking other financing, prompting a
lawsuit by Time Warner.
   S&amp;P affirmed $1.5 billion of rated long-term debt at
double-B, and $5.6 billion of preferred stock at
single-B-plus. Commercial-paper ratings weren't under review.
   Referring to the 1992 debt repayments, extendable to March
1993, "which are expected to require refinancing," S&amp;P said
its outlook for Time Warner's debt rating is negative.
   Repeating previous statements, S&amp;P said it continues to
consider Time Warner's business positions, cash-generating
capacity, and asset values favorably, "despite the company's
aggressive financial profile."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hilton Hotels Profit
   Fell 9% in 2nd Period
   On 3% Revenue Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HLT
</CO>
<IN>
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Hilton Hotels Corp., feeling the
effects of new competitors in the Las Vegas, Nev., casino
market, reported a 9% drop in second-quarter earnings to
$38.2 million, or 79 cents a share, from $42 million or 87
cents a share a year earlier.
   Revenue for the hotel and casino company rose 3% to $273.8
million from $265 million a year earlier. Operating income
dropped 8% to $73.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Operating income from the casinos dropped 21% to $29
million for the quarter, while the hotel segment posted a 3%
increase in operating income to $44.8 million. Much of the
decline came from the Las Vegas Hilton, which reported an
unexpectedly sharp 56% decline in operating results.
   Maurice Scanlon, Hilton's senior vice president-finance,
attributed part of the year-to-year decline at the Las Vegas
Hilton to a strong quarter a year earlier, and to a decrease
in wagers at table games. That stemmed largely from new
competitors, including Golden Nugget Inc.'s Mirage casino
resort.
   For the six months, net income rose 15% to $63.3 million,
or $1.31 a share, from $55.1 million, or $1.14 a share, a
year earlier. Revenue rose 10% to $593.1 million from $490.1
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Airlines
   Slates Surcharges
   At Five Airports
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Airlines said it will impose surcharges on
passengers originating travel from five U.S. airports
beginning Sunday.
   The airline, a unit of AMR Corp., of Fort Worth, Texas,
said it was setting a special "passenger facilities charge"
because of what it says are higher costs associated with the
airports.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The airports and the surcharges are: New Jersey's Newark,
$4; New Orleans International, $1.50; New York's La Guardia
and Florida's West Palm Beach and Fort Myers, $1.
   The surcharge will be imposed only on passengers
originating travel in those cities. Passengers making round
trips from these cities will be charged only once.
   American said it was passing along to passengers special
costs associated with landing at those airports. A spokesman
for American said: "Our corporate real estate people
identified charges we feel are excessive or unreasonable to
our cost of doing business at these airports."
   At Newark, for example, the airline said it was paying
gate fees it considers too high. American has recently taken
over several gates from NWA Inc.'s Northwest Airlines and it
said the airport was charging it $1.5 million more than
Northwest had paid annually.
   At the two Florida airports, American was quibbling with
what it considered unreasonably high airport operating
budgets. Typically, airports pass along increases in their
operating budgets to the airlines that land there. In New
Orleans, the dispute centers on landing fees.
   At La Guardia, American is disputing certain construction
costs, specifically the type of flooring used in its new
terminal.
   Several years ago, American imposed similar charges on
passengers flying out of Las Vegas when it was disputing
construction costs at that airport. The surcharge lasted for
18 months, an American spokesman said, before it was dropped.
   The spokesman said American planned to keep the current
surcharges in effect for one year, after which it will have
recouped the extra costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Yields Mixed on CDs
   During Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage firms were mixed in the week ended
Tuesday.
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs sold directly by
banks were flat to slightly lower. The average yield on a
six-month consumer CD remained at 7.64%, while one-year CDs
slipped to 7.82% from 7.83%, according to an 18-bank survey
by Banxquote Money Markets, a New York information service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs sold by leading
broker-dealers were up slightly. Average yields on one-year
CDs rose to 8.19% from 8.15%, while average yields on
two-year CDs rose to 8.32% from 8.22%, according to
Banxquote.
   Meanwhile, average yields for large-denomination CDs,
which typically require deposits of $90,000 or more, were
also up slightly. Average yields on one-year jumbo CDs rose
to 7.93% from 7.88%, while five-year maturities climbed to
8.23% from 8.20%.
   The increase in yields on broker-sold and
large-denomination CDs was in response to a slight rise in
Treasury yields last week, said Norberto Mehl, chairman of
Banxquote. Big brokerage firms usually negotiate rates with
banks and thrifts whose CDs they sell; banks tend to adjust
yields more quickly on jumbo CDs in response to changes in
Treasury bill yields because they compete for the same
insitutional money.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Group to Defend Civil Rights of Hackers
   Founded by Computer Industry Pioneer
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   BLS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   A computer pioneer has formed a group to defend the civil
rights of hackers, computer users who are at the center of a
controversy over how best to crack down on electronic crime.
   Mitchell Kapor, creator of the single most popular program
for PCs, 1-2-3, and founder of Lotus Development Corp.,
yesterday unveiled the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which
is being underwritten by Mr. Kapor and Steve Wozniak,
cofounder of Apple Computer Inc. The group will assist in the
legal defense of hackers accused of crimes and will research
legal issues involving computer communications.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kapor began his campaign on behalf of hackers in late
May, but with the exception of Mr. Wozniak, who no longer has
an active role in the industry, he has been unable to gain
broad support in the computer world. So far, many of the
industry's biggest names have decided against wading into the
controversy, including wealthy ex-hacker William Gates, now
chairman of Microsoft Corp. He considers the legal issues too
murky.
   Mr. Kapor's defense of hackers -- who use their knowledge
of the intricacies of computer networks to enter, or "hack,"
forbidden databases -- comes in the wake of a series of
investigations into computer crime this year by the Secret
Service, which enforces federal laws in this area. The
biggest investigation, dubbed Operation Sun Devil, led to a
May 8 raid that resulted in five arrests and the seizure of
40 computers and 23,000 data-storage disks in 14 cities.
   Mr. Kapor contends that the government's crackdown
threatens the rights of computer users and may stifle
creativity, saying that some teen hackers are going to become
"the technological innovators of tomorrow." Some prosecutors
disagree. Mr. Kapor's attitude is that "there's something
holy and sacred about computers that exempts those who use
them from ordinary rules," said Gail Thackeray, an attorney
with the state of Arizona.
   Far from oppressing the inquisitive, the Secret Service
says it is simply cracking down on people who exploit
loopholes in computer security to steal credit card numbers
and charge thousands of dollars of goods and telephone
services. "These people are not the Lewis and Clarks of the
21st century," said Dale Boll, who runs the Secret Service's
fraud division.
   Mr. Boll said that, among other things, the Secret Service
uncovered a plot to disrupt emergency telephone service in
nine states through the introduction of a virus, or
disruptive software program, into the computer system of
BellSouth Corp.
   On Monday, three men -- said to be members of the Legion
of Doom, a loose association of about two dozen hackers from
around the country -- pleaded guilty in Atlanta to stealing
software and access codes from BellSouth. Ironically, the men
gained entry into BellSouth's sophisticated computer network
using an old-fashioned method: they found a telephone number
for a central computer in a company trash bin.
   Despite the guilty pleas, the government is coming under
fire for failing to bring its cases to court more quickly.
Mr. Boll says it will be months before the government even
seeks indictments stemming from its May raids because the
Secret Service still must sift through huge amounts of
electronic evidence.
   The delays frustrate people caught up in the May 8 raids,
some of whom vigorously protest their innocence. Steve
Jackson, who runs a games company in Austin, Texas, saw
Secret Service agents seize several personal computers and
business information on May 8, including the manuscript for a
fantasy game called "cyberpunk,"in which hackers wield power
through computers. It was six weeks before Mr. Jackson got
his equipment back, but by then the disruption had forced him
to lay off eight of his 17 employees, he said.
   Mr. Jackson said he has never received an adequate
explanation of why his company was searched. The Secret
Service said the company was targeted because one of Mr.
Jackson's employees was being investigated.
   Also troubling to Mr. Kapor is the closure of a
computerized bulletin board run by a University of Missouri
student, who was indicted in February on several counts of
interstate wire fraud and transportation of stolen property.
   Mr. Kapor contends the closure of the bulletin board
amounts to a restraint on free speech, but the government
asserts that the student knowingly distributed stolen
information using the bulletin board.
   ---
   John R. Wilke in Boston contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Movies:
   Disney Said to Plan Release
   Of `Tracy' on Video for Fall
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- Just when the deafening hype surrounding
"Dick Tracy" seems to be on the wane, Walt Disney Co. is
quietly gearing up for another marketing offensive: the home
video release of the film, said to be planned for November.
   Disney hasn't yet decided whether to price "Dick Tracy"
for the rental market or for sale directly to consumers,
according to industry sources. The "sell-through" market
holds out the lure of a bigger payoff than the rental market
but also carries bigger risks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Individuals close to the company confirm the timing of the
videocassette push, but Bill Mechanic, president of Disney's
video division, denies that such a decision has been made.
This may be for good reason: "Dick Tracy" is still playing at
more than 2,200 theaters around the country; it grossed a
respectable $6.6 million last weekend for a total of more
than $80 million after one month in release, and any public
indication that a video release is a few months away would
send theater owners howling.
   Industry executives expect Disney to choose the
sell-through market for "Dick Tracy." In sell-through,
marketing and manufacturing costs are higher, and sales are
hard to predict: Earlier this year, Disney shipped too many
copies of "Honey, I Shrunk the Kids" and had to endure a high
percentage of returns from stores. But the rewards can be
hefty. Last Christmas, Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Video unit
rushed out "Batman" -- the movie with which Disney hates to
have "Dick Tracy" compared -- and sold nine million units.
   "Dick Tracy" is expected to go sell-through for reasons
that speak directly to its strengths and weaknesses so far in
theaters. Though it's no "Batman," at its relatively low cost
"Dick Tracy" is indisputably a success. "It'll blow right
through $100 million, and that's the first checkoff point for
sell-through," says Tom Adams, analyst for the consulting
firm Paul Kagan Associates.
   The bad news is that "Dick Tracy" isn't mesmerizing the
"core audience" of viewers, particularly males, in their
teens and early 20s. These are "repeaters," who go to the
same movie again and again and boost movies such as "Batman,"
the "Indiana Jones" and the "Star Wars" pictures into the
stratosphere.
   Instead, according to an exit poll based on opening-night
attendance by research firm CinemaScore, "Dick Tracy" is
strongest with the youngest and oldest moviegoers. For "Dick
Tracy," 31% of the audience was over 35 years old; that age
group accounted for only 18% of the audience for "Batman."
And although 22% of the "Batman" audience was between 18 and
24, "Dick Tracy" only garnered 17% of that age group.
   "Usually the only time you get this is with kiddie movies,
when parents bring their kids," says Harold Mintz, analyst
for CinemaScore. "It's getting both ends."
   This is, however, good news for a video release. Video
buyers tend to be older than moviegoers, and 60% of video
sales are for gifts, says Amy Innerfield, general manager of
Video Flash, a tracking service of Alexander &amp; Associates.
"People will buy this for their kids," she says, "and almost
everything from Disney is a collectible."
   Moreover, Ms. Innerfield says, "there's a hole in the
market" for older viewers in the coming Christmas season,
when other leading sell-through titles will include "Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles," Disney's own "Peter Pan" and "The
Little Mermaid" (in a second promotional push), the Mary
Martin "Peter Pan" from Good Times Video and "All Dogs Go to
Heaven" from MGM/UA. Most of the other big films of the
summer, such as "Die Hard 2" and "Total Recall," are likely
to be priced as rentals and released early next year.
Industry executives are divided on the prospects for Disney's
"Pretty Woman." Some think Disney is so aggressive in video
that it will price the movie at sell-through and release it
this year despite the non-kiddie subject matter.
   Ironically, the crowded video field may be hurting
business at the box office now. "Repeaters are a problem for
Hollywood in general this summer," says Martin Grove, film
analyst for the Hollywood Reporter and Baseline. "The 12- to
22-year-olds used to spend the money, but now tickets are as
high as $7.50, and you can wait six months and see it for
$2." Furthermore, he says, repeaters can't repeat because
they're too busy rushing to see the next incipient
blockbuster.
   Even so, Disney has been quietly spreading the word among
video distributors that "Dick Tracy" is much better the
second time around, even if it's in the audience's living
rooms. "It's the perfect sell-through title for Christmas,"
says Elliot W. Stone, chairman of Philadelphia-based West
Coast Video Ltd., the nation's second-largest video retailer.
   J. Ronald Castell, senior vice president of programming
for Blockbuster Video, the largest chain, adds, "People
aren't negative about `Dick Tracy'; they say it's OK, but
they all comment on the way it looks." That, he says, is
important for video buyers seeking to add to their
collections.
   And though strolling tourists this summer seem to display
Bart Simpson more than Breathless Mahoney, Disney says
consumers do want to take home "Dick Tracy" merchandise.
Preliminary reports indicate that sales of "Dick Tracy"
products were more than double those of merchandise
surrounding Disney's "Who Framed Roger Rabbit" during the
first two weeks, according to Ann Osberg, vice president of
film and television licensing for Disney's consumer products
unit. It has sold "a couple of hundred million dollars at
retail," she says.
   Larry Carlat, editor of Toy and Hobby World magazine,
cautions, "I don't think this is going to be long-lived once
the movie goes away."
   Perhaps so, but under Disney's scenario, the movie won't
be going away, just changing venue. Domestic theatrical
revenues represent only about 20% to 30% of a film's total
take these days, and Disney aims to start its video push for
"Dick Tracy" while the marketing glow of the film is
lingering.
   But with the movie still in theaters, an announcement of
Disney's plans isn't likely soon. Last summer, thousands of
video retailers assembled for their annual convention in Las
Vegas, Nev., eagerly anticipating a statement of Warner's
intentions for "Batman." The studio gave a presentation,
video chief Warren Lieberfarb addressed the throngs -- and
the subject didn't come up. "He went out the back door,"
recalls Vern Fross, senior vice president of sales and
marketing for Commtron Corp., the largest video distributor.
Warner announced its plans after Labor Day.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Without the Glue,
   The Conservatives
   Are Balkanized
   ----
   By Albert R. Hunt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   American Conservative Union head David Keene this week
invited Pete Dupont to meet with a select group of
conservatives. The topic: a populist response to George
Bush's abandonment of his no-new-taxes pledge. The
president's move, the former Delaware governor and Republican
presidential candidate says, requires the GOP to "consider
how to restore leadership to our cause."
   Conservatives are deep in frustration and ferment these
days. After a decade and a half of dominating American
politics, there's fear in the ranks that they are losing
their edge. Certainly, they've lost their central benefactor,
Ronald Reagan, and they've lost the central idea,
anti-communism, that propelled their success. Love of the
Gipper and hatred of the commies was the glue that held
together the disparate elements in the conservative
coalition: libertarians and Jesse Helms's
let's-put-government-cops-in-every-bedroom faction;
supply-side tax-cutters and balanced-budget, creditor-class
Republicans; internationalists and isolationists; Wall
Streeters and Main Streeters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Conservatives are debating whether to challenge Mr. Bush
or merely to consider his presidency an acceptable holding
action until the next Reagan surfaces. "Conservatism is still
the dominant idea in the land, but the movement isn't very
vibrant right now," acknowledges John Buckley, a conservative
political strategist and member of the first family of
American conservatism. "Since Reagan and the dissolution of
communism, there has been a concomitant Balkanization."
   Nowhere has that been more evident than in the fallout
over Mr. Bush's abandonment of his no-new-taxes pledge, which
some conservatives feel is the domestic equivalent of losing
the anti-communism issue. Now, economic conservatives are
left debating how to fashion initiatives on issues such as
education (with some success) and the environment (with not
much success) that go beyond "Just Say No."
   Schisms are equally apparent on social issues. While
conservative politicians seized on the movement for a
constitutional amendment against flag-burning, many
conservative intellectuals and columnists lambasted it as a
feeble effort to recapture the traditional-values issue.
   Likewise, right-wing "populist" attacks on obscene art
have split the libertarian and traditional-values
constituencies. Although it's doubtful this really is a major
issue, a conservative consensus may form around opposing most
federal funding for art but steering clear of censorship.
   Conservative angst is equally acute in the debate over
post-Cold War foreign policy. Isolationist strains are
resurfacing, as personified by Patrick Buchanan, a former top
Nixon and Reagan aide, now a television commentator and
columnist.
   Mr. Buchanan pushes the idea of a fortress America, ending
the U.S. presence in NATO and Asia and abolishing foreign
aid. "Our going-away gift to the globalist ideologues should
be to tell the Third World we are not sending the gunboats to
collect our debts, but nor are we sending more money," he
says. "The children are on their own."
   But that is unacceptable to the internationalists --
"missionaries," Irving Kristol calls them. Also unacceptable
to these conservatives is a growing strain of right-wing
populism on international economic issues. For instance,
California Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, a former Reagan speech
writer and one of the ascending younger conservative
politicians, is a neo-protectionist.
   There's no lack of conservatives trying to grapple with
these issues, from think tanks like the eccentric Rockford
Institute to the influential Heritage Foundation, and from
House GOP Whip Newt Gingrich to lesser-known officials such
as Wisconsin Gov. Tommy Thompson.
   So far, though, nothing resembling a consensus has
emerged, and meanwhile, conservatives are faced with an even
tougher task: Finding the new Reagan. The most natural
candidate is HUD Secretary Jack Kemp, who probably generates
more ideas than any other politician in America. But he has
two drawbacks for conservative activists: As a member of the
Bush administration, he can't lead the movement for a new
agenda; and his upbeat, inclusive approach to politics is
inconsistent with the anger that has been a sustaining
element of the conservative movement.
   Within conservative circles, Mr. Buchanan and evangelical
minister Pat Robertson are probably the two most discussed
potential challengers to George Bush. While the White House
desperately wants to avoid any right-wing insurgency in 1992,
though, it views these two as not very threatening, and views
its conservative critics in general as paper tigers.
   Even Rep. Gingrich says some of the Bush critics are
rooted in the politics of yesteryear. "They define
conservatism by common situs picketing and the Panama Canal
treaties," the GOP whip says. "These aren't the issues of the
1990s."
   These aren't altogether bad times for conservatives. Many
of the more interesting current ideas -- vouchers for
education, home ownership for public-housing tenants --
suggest that the right still has more vitality than the left.
Moreover, while emotional issues like abortion test the
conservative coalition, it's well to remember that the
Democrats' New Deal coalition flourished for almost four
decades in the midst of the struggle over civil rights, an
even more wrenching issue. Irving Kristol notes that
conservative carping about Mr. Bush sounds like liberal
complaints about Harry Truman 40 years ago.
   Still, it's hard to think of George Bush as the Harry
Truman of this age. And while David Keene's meeting may be
provocative, it's even harder to think of Pierre S. du Pont
IV as the leader of a "populist" revolt, conservative or
otherwise.
   ---
   Mr. Hunt is the Journal's Washington bureau chief.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   $15 Billion for What?
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP LATAM MDEST AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   What would Mikhail Gorbachev's Soviet Union do with $15
billion? This is the amount of aid that West Germany and
France would like their partners at the Houston economic
summit to send to the Soviets. While opponents of aid are
arguing, correctly, that the Soviet bureaucracy would surely
waste the money, there is another dimension to this question.
What reason is there to believe that most of this $15 billion
would spend any time at all in the Soviet Union? Hard
currency is fungible. It can go anywhere, buy anything.
   According to figures cited in May by National Security
Adviser Brent Scowcroft, Soviet transfers to some of its most
prominent client states add up to something over $15 billion.
The Rand Corp. breaks down the Soviet aid disbursements this
way: Cuba: $5 billion; Afghanistan: $3 billion; Vietnam: $2.5
billion; Syria: $1.5 billion; North Korea: $1 billion; Libya:
$1 billion; Angola: $1 billion. The total is $15 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To their credit, President Bush and Secretary of State
Baker have pressed the Soviet leadership relentlessly on the
question of its continuing aid to the Cubans. And Messrs.
Gorbachev and Shevardnadze have been equally persistent in
rebuffing these entreaties. This is no small matter.
   Despite various reports that the Soviets are unhappy with
Castro, there is little concrete evidence that the Soviet
Union is prepared to step down from its relations with Cuba
or, for that matter, with Afghanistan, Vietnam, Syria and
Libya. In no sense is the behavior of these countries
consonant with the reformist image that Mr. Gorbachev asks
the West to accept as genuine.
   Indeed at the risk of being sniffed at by our more
credulous colleagues for "old thinking," it should be plain
that the Soviet Union's relations with these states remains
rooted in the Cold War. How come? Why is it that Mr.
Shevardnadze simply cuts off Secretary Baker or Western
reporters when asked about Cuba or his apparently bankrupt
treasury's ability to keep sending aid to these other
dictatorships?
   The Soviet Union, of course, has a concrete military
presence in both Cuba and Vietnam. And while the Red Army, on
balance, may be out of Afghanistan, the Soviets continue to
rely on that country's compliant communist government for
natural gas. The Syrian relationship is predicated almost
wholly on continuing purchases from the Soviet arms industry.
Whatever the state of play in the external Soviet empire,
there is absolutely no reason why a "helpful" West should now
start transferring hard-currency aid or credits to a Moscow
that can't and won't promise not to pass along the money to
these pariah nations.
   Fidel Castro to this day continues to throw into his
dungeons opponents who dare to speak out for democratic
reforms. Some of Mr. Gorbachev's former clients in Eastern
Europe already have begun to wind down their long
relationship with Fidel. Most recently, Czechoslovakia's
Vaclav Havel sent Castro a stiff letter denouncing his
continuing human-rights violations. Two days ago, seven Cuban
dissidents sought asylum at the Czech Embassy in Havana;
there is no expectation that Castro will give them exit
visas.
   The West Germans have been pressing the hardest in Houston
for aid to the Soviets, and no doubt have an interest in
linking aid to their unification drive and desire to rid East
Germany of Soviet troops. But they have to understand we also
have a special interest in the presence of an unreformed
Stalinist state in our own back yard.
   Most likely, the Houston summit will address the Soviet
aid question in its communique later today. We hope that it
shows some understanding that at this point in time, putting
cash in the Kremlin's hands is not yet a policy that is
either economically or morally defensible.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   RTC Seeks to Arrange Sales of Sick S&amp;Ls
   Before They Are Seized by Government
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The savings and loan bailout agency approved
a new policy aimed at saving taxpayer funds by arranging
sales of sick thrifts before they are placed under government
control.
   Resolution Trust Corp. officials hope the new policy will
help trim their bulging inventory of insolvent thrifts and
induce buyers to take more of the assets of thrifts, along
with deposits and branches. Bailout officials said they plan
to test the program with about 10 thrifts over the next three
months. If it works, as many as 160 to 180 of the thrifts the
government believes may fail in the next year could be
handled under the new policy, the officials said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though the new policy, which still must be reviewed by the
RTC Oversight Board, is similar to the method bank regulators
have used for years with sick banks, it is a major strategy
change in the S&amp;L bailout and is likely to receive tremendous
scrutiny from Congress.
   Bailout officials believe insolvent thrifts are losing
much of their value after the government takes them over, as
depositors take out funds and longtime management leaves the
institutions. The lower value translates into lower bids from
investors and thus higher costs for the government in
cleaning up the thrifts. Since February 1989, the government
has taken over about 460 thrifts and has sold off or
liquidated 209 of them, though the buyers often take only the
deposits and branches and the government must keep the
low-quality loans, real estate and other assets of the S&amp;Ls.
   Under the so-called accelerated-resolution program
approved by the RTC yesterday, the government will try to
market thrifts that aren't yet insolvent but that the
government believes it may have to take over within a year.
The RTC's list of about 3,500 bidders who have said they are
interested in investing in S&amp;Ls will be notified that the
thrifts are on the block. In a sale, the thrift would be
closed by the government, then reopened immediately in the
hands of the buyer. The investment of old shareholders would
be wiped out, but managers would be kept if the government
felt they hadn't contributed to the decline of the
institution.
   "We're trying to keep the institutions together," said
William Seidman, RTC chairman. "The franchise value is in the
customers, the core deposits and the key personnel."
   But Rep. Bruce Vento (D., Minn.), who heads a House
Banking Committee task force overseeing the bailout, said he
was skeptical of the move. "It shows a certain tentativeness
about the bailout on the part of the administration. After
putting 460 S&amp;Ls into conservatorships and receiverships, now
they are saying maybe we can do it another way."
   Added Mr. Vento, "This program will be in competition with
RTC. They have mountains of assets over there. I'm worried
they could stop concentrating on selling their own assets."
   Still, some people interested in bidding for thrifts said
the new policy would draw more bidders and higher offers.
John Oros, a partner in the mergers department at Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co. in New York, said some buyers have been reluctant
to deal with the RTC because offers can languish for many
months after bidders spend as much as $500,000 to assess an
institution's value. Under the accelerated policy, the RTC
hopes to sell institutions within 90 days after notifying
potential bidders that an institution is available.
   Under such sales, Mr. Oros said, buyers may be willing to
take more of a thrift's assets. More bidders will be willing
to spend the sums necessary to look over a thrift's assets,
Mr. Oros said, "if they know the government will respond
definitively in 90 days."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jury Convicts Mulheren on a Charge
   Of Conspiracy, Three Counts of Fraud
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A federal jury convicted John A. Mulheren Jr.
of one count of conspiracy and three counts of securities
fraud. But the jury appeared to be deadlocked on the
additional 26 counts.
   Mr. Mulheren, the former chief of Jamie Securities Co.,
listened impassively to the partial verdict, which came in
the middle of the seventh day of jury deliberations and after
a trial that lasted nearly two months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The jury acquitted Mr. Mulheren's co-defendant, Leonard
DeStefano, of both counts against him. Mr. DeStefano, 33
years old, was a trader for Jamie Securities, which is now
defunct.
   The partial verdict came as a setback to Mr. Mulheren and
his attorney Thomas Puccio. Mr. Puccio had staked Mr.
Mulheren's defense on trying to discredit the testimony of
Ivan F. Boesky, the convicted former stock speculator who
made his debut as a government witness in the case against
the 41-year-old Mr. Mulheren.
   The jury of eight women and four men found that Mr.
Mulheren had conspired with Mr. Boesky to violate securities
laws. The jury also found that Mr. Mulheren had committed
securities fraud by manipulating the price of Gulf &amp; Western
Inc. shares in 1985. But the jury failed to return verdicts
on the remaining counts.
   Judge Cedarbaum, who said she wasn't convinced the jury
was irreparably deadlocked, sent them back to continue
deliberating on the remaining counts.
   The jury still hasn't determined whether Mr. Mulheren is
guilty of conducting a series of trades that the government
alleged were designed to generate tax losses for Mr. Boesky's
trading firm and to help Mr. Boesky evade net capital
requirements.
   Mr. Mulheren said he was confident that he had a "good
shot" at reversing the partial verdict on appeal. Prosecutors
in the case declined to comment on the partial verdict. Mr.
Puccio also declined to comment.
   The partial verdict was returned at about noon yesterday.
When U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum polled the
jurors on their verdict, juror Arnold Falgiano replied that
he had found Mr. Mulheren guilty "with a heavy heart."
   Mr. DeStefano is now a trader at the New York securities
firm of Spear Leeds &amp; Kellogg, where Mr. Mulheren once
worked. After hearing the verdict, Mr. DeStefano said, "I
believe John is innocent. When I heard he was guilty, I was
unhappy." But Mr. DeStefano said, "Justice was served, at
least with respect to me."
   Mr. DeStefano had once had the opportunity to accept a
grant of immunity from prosecution in exchange for his
testimony against Mr. Mulheren. But the trader, who had never
earned more than $65,000 working for Jamie Securities,
rejected that offer and chose to fight the charges against
him.
   Individuals familiar with the case say Mr. Mulheren, too,
was offered -- but rejected -- a relatively lenient deal by
prosecutors in the U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan. In
1988, prosecutors are understood to have told Mr. Mulheren he
could plead guilty to a single count involving a books and
records violation to avoid being indicted. That count,
prosecutors are said to have told his attorney, would likely
result in probation, rather than prison time.
   But Mr. Mulheren dismissed his previous attorney, Otto
Obermaier, who is said to have counseled him to plead guilty
to the charge, and then hired Mr. Puccio. Mr. Obermaier is
now the U.S. attorney in Manhattan.
   Mr. Mulheren gained widespread publicity in February 1985
when he set out from his Rumson, N.J., home in army fatigues
with a loaded rifle. He told his wife he was going to shoot
Mr. Boesky. State gun charges against Mr. Mulheren were
deferred on the condition that he comply with conditions of
probation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A&amp;P Ends Capital
   To U.K. Firm, Citing
   Poor Management
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GAP U.ISO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Great Atlantic &amp; Pacific Tea Co. said it won't
commit any more capital to Isosceles PLC of the U.K., but
would be willing to manage the supermarket company, with is
struggling with heavy debt.
   "We could do a better job of managing the company" than
those who are currently making decisions, A&amp;P Chairman James
Wood said at the annual meeting. All the same, he added, "we
haven't been invited to take management control despite the
obvious need." A&amp;P has a 20% interest in Isosceles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A&amp;P, which is 52%-owned by Tengelmann Group of West
Germany, reported a 12% rise in net income for the fiscal
first quarter ended June 16. The increase was achieved
despite a 1% decline in sales -- and despite net interest
expense equivalent to seven cents a share in connection with
the company's investment in Isosceles.
   Mr. Wood said first-quarter net income was $51 million, or
$1.33 a share, up from $45.4 million, or $1.19 a share, a
year earlier.
   Sales were $3.40 billion, down from $3.44 billion. Mr.
Wood said 13 fewer stores were in operation in the latest
period. He also cited "a sluggish sales climate in several
regions that should improve as the year goes along."
   The company also announced a quarterly dividend increase,
to 20 cents a share from 17.5 cents a share. The dividend is
payable Aug. 6 to shares of record July 20.
   Last fall, as the result of a takeover battle over Gateway
Corp. of Britain -- which Isosceles won -- A&amp;P in turn wound
up with a 20% interest in Isosceles. A&amp;P is "carefully
evaluating the current situation" as Isosceles develops plans
to restructure heavy debt incurred in the Gateway takeover,
Mr. Wood said.
   A company spokesman said A&amp;P's investment in Isosceles is
valued at about $150 million at current exchange rates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Encore Computer
   To Post Sizable Loss
   For Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ENCC
</CO>
<LP>
   FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. -- Encore Computer Corp. said it
expects to report a significant second-quarter loss. The
company also said it plans to lay off about 130 employees
from its staff of 1,825 workers.
   Encore, after years of struggling, appeared to be poised
for a turnaround in April 1989, when it acquired Gould Inc.'s
computer business from Nippon Mining Co. of Japan. At a
stroke, Encore increased its sales sixfold, acquired a big
presence in Europe, and quintupled its sales force to 165
people.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, however, Encore's chairman and chief executive
officer, Kenneth G. Fisher, said that a revenue shortfall and
restructuring costs linked to new product introductions would
result in a sizable loss for the second quarter.
   The company declined to estimate the loss, saying it would
report final results in about two weeks. For the year-earlier
period, Encore had a net loss of $14.9 million, or 48 cents a
share, on revenue of $41.5 million.
   The new products are Encore's Seahawk and Gemini computer
systems, used primarily in flight simulators to train
military and commercial pilots. A company spokesman said the
revenue shortfall stemmed from a gap in sales as the company
moved to bring the new products to market. The Seahawk
computers, the spokesman said, are now being shipped to
customers, and the Gemini systems will start to be shipped in
the fourth quarter.
   The restructuring costs, Encore said, would result in the
layoff of about 130 people. The company spokesman said the
cutbacks will be made "across the board," in such departments
as manufacturing, finance and customer service.
   Despite the setback in the second quarter, Mr. Fisher,
citing the company's focus on its new products, said:
"Revenue could return to profitable levels in the third
quarter."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Court Says
   Tribunal Can't Cite
   Firms for Contempt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian Federal Appeal Court ruled that
Canada's Competition Tribunal doesn't have the power to
punish for contempt those who fail to comply with its orders.
   The tribunal, which was established in 1986, hears
competition cases and issues orders against anti-competitive
practices. The agency's jurisdiction was challenged by
Chrysler Canada Ltd., a unit of Chrysler Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler Canada was summoned before the tribunal for
alleged contempt of a tribunal order requiring the company to
supply auto parts to Richard Brunet Co., a Montreal concern.
It appealed the contempt case to the Federal Appeal Court,
claiming that the tribunal didn't have the jurisdiction to
punish for contempt.
   The court, in granting Chrysler Canada's appeal, said it
might be desirable for the tribunal to have the power to
punish for contempt. But the court said "it seems that
Parliament thought otherwise" when it passed legislation
establishing the tribunal in June 1986. The tribunal's
members include Federal Court judges and experts in such
fields as business and economics.
   The federal government's Bureau of Competition Policy,
which brought the case against Chrysler Canada before the
Competition Tribunal, said it was studying the court ruling
and would issue a statement later.
   The appeal court's decision is the Competition Tribunal's
second jurisdictional setback this year. In April, the Quebec
Superior Court ruled unconstitutional various operations of
the tribunal and certain merger provisions of the federal
Competition Act. The Quebec Superior Court ruling has been
appealed to the Quebec Court of Appeal by the Bureau of
Competition Policy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900711-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900711-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Casino Analyst Files
   Claims Against Firm,
   Trump Over Firing
</HL>
<DATE>
07/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Marvin Roffman, the casino analyst who lost
his job after making critical remarks about the financial
prospects for Donald Trump's Taj Mahal casino, has taken
legal action against both his former firm and Mr. Trump.
   Mr. Roffman filed an arbitration claim for wrongful
discharge against his former employer, Janney Montgomery
Scott, a securities firm owned by Penn Mutual Life Insurance
Co. The claim is being brought before a New York Stock
Exchange arbitration unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Roffman also is suing Mr. Trump in a Pennsylvania
federal court alleging that Mr. Trump interfered with Mr.
Roffman's employment by threatening to sue Janney Montgomery
unless Mr. Roffman publicly apologized for his remarks about
the Taj Mahal.
   For each action, Mr. Roffman is seeking compensatory
damages in excess of $1 million, plus unspecified punitive
damages. He also is seeking reinstatement by Janney
Montgomery Scott.
   On March 20, the day Mr. Roffman's negative comments about
the casino appeared in this newspaper, Mr. Trump wrote a
letter to Norman Wilde Jr., president of Janney Montgomery,
stating: "I am now planning to institute a major lawsuit
against your firm unless Mr. Roffman makes a major public
apology or is dismissed."
   Mr. Roffman first sent an apologetic letter to Mr. Trump
but withdrew it the next day, saying: "I retract the letter."
That day, Mr. Roffman was fired.
   Mr. Trump's attorney denied the casino owner and developer
had anything to do with Mr. Roffman's termination.
   An attorney for Janney Montgomery said Mr. Roffman was
fired for repudiating a letter to Mr. Trump apologizing for
his remarks about the Taj Mahal. The attorney said the letter
was written by Mr. Roffman after his supervisor warned him,
in writing, not to send it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
