<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Now It's the Ukraine's Turn
   ----
   By Adrian Karatnycky
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   The Ukrainian Supreme Soviet declared the Ukraine a
sovereign state on Monday. The Ukrainian proclamation
asserted the republic's right to create its own currency,
raise its own army, collect tariffs and erect enforceable
borders. The Ukrainian parliament served notice that
Ukrainian citizens will fulfill their military service only
on their own territory, expressed its preference that the
Ukraine become a neutral state outside the Warsaw Pact and
rejected the "production, deployment and use of nuclear
weapons" -- a big step for a region that is a major basing
point for the Soviet nuclear force. Yet far from signalling a
dangerous lurch toward nationalist xenophobia, the Ukrainian
parliament's action was an important victory for an emerging
non-communist patriotic movement, firmly rooted in democracy.
   With a population of 52 million, the Ukraine is a major
chunk of the Soviet economy. The republic produces
one-quarter of Soviet agricultural output, more than 40% of
the Soviet Union's nuclear energy and some 10% of its coal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the first three years of the Gorbachev era, from
1985 until 1988, the Ukraine remained quiet under the rule of
Brezhnev crony turned Gorbachev ally, Vladimir Shcherbitsky.
The republic learned silence from its immense suffering under
Stalin. Between 5 million and 7 million Ukrainians died at
Stalin's hand and each month brings reports of newly
discovered killing fields, like Bykivnia near Kiev, which
holds as many as 300,000 victims.
   But Ukrainian quiescence ended in 1988, when crowds of as
many as 200,000 began to gather in unsanctioned and often
brutally repressed rallies. An energetic, democratic reform
movement, the Ukrainian Popular Movement, or Rukh, appeared.
   In the 10 months since it was founded, Rukh has emerged as
a formidable political force. It now claims 3 million
supporters. Most of Rukh's reform communist members have quit
the party.
   When the Ukrainian parliament began meeting in May, Rukh
members quickly turned it into a boisterous forum for radical
political debate. Sessions were televised throughout the
republic. Nationalist deputies, more than a dozen of them
former long-term political prisoners, got a large public
audience for the first time. In the nationalist hotbed of
Lvov, a new newspaper, For a Free Ukraine, has been launched,
with an initial print of 100,000. Dozens of samizdat
newspapers are proliferating at workplaces and in urban
centers, all of them spreading the message of Ukrainian
independence.
   Public opinion is shifting toward non-communist forces.
The call for self-determination has been propelled by the
Ukraine's mounting ecological crisis: the aftermath of the
Chernobyl nuclear accident, the poisoning of the Dnieper and
Dniester rivers and the rampant mining of uranium which has
placed the Ukraine first in the world in oncological
illnesses.
   Western analysts have long differentiated between the more
nationalist western Ukraine and the more Russified eastern
segment. But Rukh leaders such as Orest Vlokh see a different
dichotomy emerging. "Increasingly, the divide is not between
East and West, but between North and South," says Mr. Vlokh,
a physicist and member of the Supreme Soviet. In the
predominantly rural southern Ukraine, the memory of Stalin's
terror, coupled with the legacy of domination by the Ottoman
Empire, has long blocked the emergence of a normal civil
society and political ferment.
   Meanwhile, supposedly accommodationist east Ukrainian
cities such as Kharkov are quickly radicalizing. Kharkov, a 1
million-strong industrial center, once served as the capital
of the Bolshevik Ukrainian republic. But radicals and
pro-independence forces won more than one-third of the city's
seats in the national parliament. Kharkov is home to a new,
independent Ukrainian trade union confederation, Unity. Even
in the mining center of Donetsk, where nearly half the
population is Russian, the movement toward sovereignty is
gaining. One independent miner's leader told me, "The Ukraine
is very rich. It has enormous economic potential. The Donbas
workers will support sovereignty and independence for the
Ukraine if it makes economic sense."
   Even Ukrainian Communists are coming to realize that they
can no longer be protected by the center, a point driven home
by the recently concluded Party Congress in Moscow. While
hardliners were staging a futile challenge to Mikhail
Gorbachev, the Ukrainian parliament angrily took the
unprecedented step of voting to recall the 63 Communist Party
parliamentarians "who left for the congress without the
session's permission."
   The Ukraine's Communists are seeking to cling to their own
base of support and enhance their power by appealing to the
public mood for self-determination. As such, they are
repeating a pattern that emerged twice before: in the 1920s,
when Ukrainian National Communism led to a brief flowering of
Ukrainian culture, and in the early '70s, when the Ukrainian
party's first secretary was purged on charges of promoting
nationalism.
   Mikhail Gorbachev has been slow to react to the rising
nationalist unrest throughout his empire. He now confronts a
growing challenge in the Ukraine and elsewhere. Having
already abandoned the idea of "federalism," Mr. Gorbachev may
well be forced to retreat from his concept of a "union of
sovereign republics" and to embrace reluctantly the concept
of a confederation with a much diminished central government.
   The Ukraine's re-emergence on the world stage is likely to
provoke profound unease among Western policy makers. This is
not Lithuania: The Ukraine is the linchpin in the Soviet
empire. Yet now is precisely the right time for the West to
establish links to the Ukraine's emerging political leaders,
who -- contrary to stereotypes -- are men and women of
moderation, sincerely committed to the rights of national
minorities, resolutely hostile to anti-Semitism and
profoundly devoted to the parliamentary road to democracy.
They offer a vision of a peaceful evolution from an empire in
crisis to a stable community of democratic European states.
   ---
   Mr. Karatnycky, director of research at the AFL-CIO
department of international affairs, is co-author of "The
Hidden Nations: The People Challenge the Soviet Union,"
coming this fall from Morrow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Opera:
   Peter Sellars at Glyndebourne
   ----
   By Mark Swed
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   Lewes, England -- Los Angeles is hardly an unfamiliar
landscape to most of the world. It is seen too often on
television and in movies to be that. So Peter Sellar's notion
of using the city as the setting for a production of "The
Magic Flute" might have seemed almost banal had it originated
anywhere but here. But at the Glyndebourne Festival, bastion
of upper-crust British opera-going, Los Angeles might as well
be Pluto.
   Glyndebourne luxuriates verdantly in East Sussex, an
80-minute train ride south of London, where an atmosphere of
stuffy upper-class insularity has pervaded the festival for
more than 50 years. Audiences don evening dress and devour
lavish picnics on the lawn during the long intermission. And
Mozart opera is revered.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Into this rarefied preserve, Mr. Sellars, the young
American director who thrives on shaking things up, has,
depending upon your point of view, either trespassed on a
pure and noble tradition or breathed some much needed new
life into it. Most British critics have rallied behind the
Spirit of Glyndebourne Past. Max Loppert of the Financial
Times called the production "the flattest, laziest, emptiest
piece of work in festival history."
   Mr. Sellars obviously has succeeded in disturbing the
serenity of Glyndebourne, but he has more in mind than that.
In a welcoming note to the audience he announced his goal of
staging "the struggle within each character between the flesh
and the spirit." Coming from the man who already had achieved
something similar at his much-discussed stagings of Mozart's
three Da Ponte operas for the PepsiCo Summerfare festival in
New York, this was not just program chatter.
   At PepsiCo, Mr. Sellars also used modern settings. But the
dramatic power of those productions sprang from deeper causes
than the transformation of Don Giovanni into a Harlem drug
dealer, the transplantation of Figaro's marriage from an
18th-century villa outside Seville to modern Manhattan's
opulent Trump Tower, or the devolution of "Cosi fan Tutte"
from 18th-century Naples to an American seaside diner of
today.
   Vivid and provocative as these changes of scene may have
been, Mr. Sellars's greatest directorial stroke was to infuse
his mundane modern characters with nobility of spirit and to
make their crises as moving as those of periwigged creatures
of the aristocratic past. Mr. Sellars did that not through
visual effects and shocking dislocations of time, but by
relying on the music to show character and emotion.
   People who don't like Mr. Sellars's work -- and the opera
world seems pretty evenly divided between those who do and
those who don't -- often object to the way he underscores
nearly every musical phrase in an aria with some sort of
exaggerated expressive gesture. But that also is the source
of the dramatic vitality of his work. And since music is a
more universal language than words for conveying feelings,
Mr. Sellars's outlandish updatings generally work well, even
when they contradict the letter of the libretto.
   At Glyndebourne, Mr. Sellars never expected his modern-day
scenic trappings to fit perfectly with the opera's fairy-tale
surface or its many layers of symbolism underneath. Instead,
what he came up with was a group of not-so-strange characters
in a strange land.
   Tamino is a kid in blue jeans lost at the Los Angeles
airport. The Queen of the Night is any mother fighting to
hang on to her rebellious daughter. Papageno, though
anachronistically retaining his traditional bird-catcher
garb, suffers like everyone else, his suicide attempt no
longer farcical but truly disturbing.
   Sarastro's temple looked like an underground garage.
(Adrianne Lobel's ingenious set was divided horizontally. The
top half featured pastel postcard projections of Los Angeles,
as if the scenes were played out on a billboard on Sunset
Blvd.) But here Mr. Sellars became a bit fuzzyheaded about
just who the priests were, leaving the impression of a
Synanon group or a spiritual cult. Tamino is led underground
by three boys on skateboards.
   Without exactly spelling it out, Mr. Sellars seemed to be
presenting Tamino and Pamina as drug addicts undergoing
rehabilitation. And Monostatos pursued them in a three-piece
suit, like a narc.
   But what separates this "Flute" from Mr. Sellars's other
Mozart productions is that he was not in the mood to explain
himself, as he usually does. "The Magic Flute" is a mystic
and mysterious opera, and in an effort to keep it so, Mr.
Sellars discarded all the spoken dialogue from the libretto.
This left behind a series of purely musical scenes, some of
them brilliant.
   Tamino and Pamina's trial by fire and water is perfectly
and lucidly set in front of a raging fire in the Malibu hills
overlooking the Pacific. Papagena's transformation from a
dying old woman in a wheelchair to a young woman is a
heart-rending, easily comprehensible image of renewal.
   But Mr. Sellars also can be too mysterious, keeping the
audience guessing where the lines are drawn between fantasy
and reality. And sometimes he appears to do things simply
because they look good, as with the obscure hand gestures
(based on the signing of the deaf) that his characters
perform in sync with the music.
   Still, Mr. Sellars seems on his way toward creating a
rarity in the opera world, a really satisfying "Flute." And
it is to Glyndebourne's credit that it supported him in the
effort with a young and convincing cast headed by Kurt
Streit, an eloquent Tamino, and James Maddalena, an intense
Papageno. Lothar Zagrosek conducted with the urgency this
show requires.
   Following its final sold-out performances this month, the
production will tour Britain in the fall, be videotaped for
the BBC and the home market, and return as part of next
summer's all-Mozart festival here. Glyndebourne's official
appetite for Mr. Sellars and California apparently has not
been appeased even by the prospect of a repeat of this year's
turbulence. Festival planners are hoping to get Mr. Sellars
to create a new opera with the U.S. composer Tod Machover
based upon Thomas Pynchon's recent novel of post-hip life,
"Vineland." But the notoriously farouche Mr. Pynchon so far
has shown not the slightest inclination to give Glyndebourne
the rights to his book.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Where Does the Real Danger Lie for Fund Investors?
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Many investors consider a mutual fund risky if its share
price zigzags wildly. This is why so many investors avoid
stock funds and instead leave their money in money market
funds and bond funds. But specialists warn that the really
worrisome risk isn't volatility, but inflation.
   "If you're 40 years old and investing for your retirement,
then investing in fixed-income funds is a much riskier
approach," Kenneth Gregory, who runs a San Francisco
investment advisory firm, Litman/Gregory &amp; Co., says. "By the
time inflation and taxes are taken into account, the chances
of beating inflation are much lower" than with stock funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At first blush, Vanguard Money Market Reserve -- Prime
Portfolio seems like a safe investment. The fund has never
had a down quarter. In the past 15 years, the fund's worst
return for any of the 60 quarters was 1%.
   Twentieth Century Select, on the other hand, is the sort
of fund that can leave investors lying awake at night. This
growth-stock fund posted losses in 17 of the past 60
quarterly periods. In the 1987 fourth quarter, which included
the Oct. 19 stock market crash, it got pounded for a 23%
loss.
   Compared with Vanguard Prime Portfolio, Twentieth Century
Select is the riskier investment, right? If risk is equated
with wild price fluctuations, this certainly is true.
   But if risk is defined instead as preserving capital
against the ravages of inflation and Uncle Sam, then Vanguard
Prime Portfolio turns out to be a real loser. In the past 15
years, the Vanguard Prime Portfolio money market fund posted
an average annualized return of 9.1%, barely ahead of the
6.1% annualized inflation rate. Deduct taxes, and the
money-fund investor made hardly any money at all. By
contrast, Twentieth Century Select posted an annual return of
23.1% over the past 15 years, easily outpacing both inflation
and the tax man.
   Though most stock funds have posted some atrocious
quarterly and 12-month returns in the past 15 years, the
results look far more respectable if an investor stuck it out
for at least three years. "The longer the period, the more
the odds are in your favor," say Mr. Gregory, who, in
addition to his investment counseling business, writes a
mutual fund newsletter, the L/G No-Load Fund Analyst.
   Investors have known for years that some investments are
more volatile than others. But the debate about risk took on
a sharper focus in the 1970s, when the so-called betas became
a favorite Wall Street investment concept.
   A beta measures a stock or stock fund's volatility
relative to the stock market, as measured by the Standard &amp;
Poor's 500 stock index. The S&amp;P 500 has a beta of 1.
Twentieth Century Select, which is more volatile than the S&amp;P
500, has a beta of 1.3. A low-risk fund such as Vanguard's
Wellington Fund, which holds both stocks and bonds, has a
beta of 0.74.
   "People look at our funds and say they're too volatile,
based on our betas," Robert Puff, a member of Twentieth
Century's five-man stock-picking team, says. "But common
stocks are not meant to be short-term investment vehicles.
People should think about stocks the same way they think
about their home."
   Part of the problem, Mr. Puff says, is that many investors
buy stock funds near market peaks, and then don't have the
patience to hang on through a market slump. "One of the major
determinants of a mutual fund investor's success is totally
outside the control of the mutual fund company, and that's
the decision of when to invest," he says. "The biggest risk
is putting all of their money to work at the peak of the
market."
   One way to avoid this problem, Mr. Puff says, is to use
dollar cost averaging, investing fixed amounts at regular
intervals, regardless of what is happening in Neff's Windsor
Fund, both of which have good long-term records but poor
recent performance. The two funds are closed to new
investors. Investors who want to invest with Michael Price
can buy Mutual Beacon, which has been managed by Mr. Price
since 1985. One drawback: It has a steep $50,000 minimum.
   John Neff's talents are available through a publicly
traded dual-purpose fund called Gemini II. Gemini II has two
classes of shares outstanding, income shares and capital
shares, which are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
can be bought and sold just as any other stock. The income
shares get all the dividends kicked off by the fund, while
the capital shares pick up all the capital gains. Taken
together, the two classes of shares are trading at a minute
discount to the value of the fund's portfolio.
   ---
                   Calculated Risk
                                                                                                       

   Over the past 15 years, some top-performing stock funds
have produced dismall short-term results. But those investors
who hung on through the rough patches ended up with decent
long-term performance.
                                                                                                       

                                                    15-YEAR
                      WORST    WORST      WORST     TOTAL
 FUND                 QUARTER  12-MONTHS  3-YEARS*  RETURN**
                                                                                                       


 Brandywine Fund***   -29.9    -17.6      8.7       24.5
 Mutual Shares****    -16.2    - 6.3      9.8       20.4
 Nicholas Fund        -16.7    -11.5      7.5       19.8
 20th Century Select  -23.2    -21.2      6.6       23.1
 Vanguard
   Wellington*****    -12.4    - 4.4      4.6       13.4
 Vanguard
   Windsor****        -18.6    - 6.4      6.1       18.1
 Standard &amp;
   Poor's 500         -22.5    -13.1      4.5       14.1
 Vanguard Money
   Market               1.0      4.5      5.6        9.1
 Prime Portfolio
                                                                                                       

   *Annualized total return.
   **Total return, which is share price change plus
dividends, for 15 years ended June 30, 1990.
   ***Fund launched in 1985; prior results are for a private
account.
   ****Closed to new investors.
   *****Fund buys both stocks and bonds.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Litman/Gregory &amp; Co., San Francisco.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Industry Focus:
   Big Three, UAW to Begin Talks Today
   ---
   Japan Firms Are Hidden
   Presence in Costs vs. Jobs Fight
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR GM C JAPAN F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The United Auto Workers union and the Big Three
U.S. auto makers begin negotiations today that pit union
demands for total job security against the companies' need to
cut labor costs to compete with Japanese rivals.
   UAW leaders and negotiators for General Motors Corp. will
kick off their talks with the traditional handshake across
the bargaining table this morning. The current contract for
some 450,000 auto workers expires Sept. 14. In the coming
weeks the union will pick one of the Big Three as the target,
and negotiate a pact to serve as the pattern for the other
two companies. Most union and company officials expect GM
will be the UAW's target, in large part because of the clout
wielded by the head of the union's GM negotiating team, vice
president Stephen P. Yokich.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But all these familiar rituals are being overshadowed by
the struggle the UAW and the Big Three face to stop the
erosion of their influence in the auto industry and the
overall U.S. economy.
   That loss of power is directly related to the seven major
Japanese auto makers who have set up so-called transplant
factories in the U.S. since 1982. Japanese auto makers now
control a record 28% of the U.S. car market, up from 24% a
year ago. For the first half, the Big Three controlled 65% of
U.S. car sales, down from 69% a year ago. This shift has led
GM and Chrysler Corp. to order shutdowns of five U.S. plants
in the three years since the last UAW-GM contract was signed.
   The stiffening Japanese competition is also a big factor
in the sales and profit crunch that has hit the Big Three.
Through the first half of the year, industrywide auto sales
were down 3.4%, but the Big Three sold 6.5% fewer U.S. built
vehicles than they did a year ago. Detroit's second-quarter
profits are likely to be the lowest since the recession years
of the early 1980s.
   "The transplants will be a hidden presence at the
bargaining talks," says Harley Shaiken, a labor professor at
the University of California in San Diego.
   Almost all of the major issues in the auto negotiations
are being defined by the Japanese. The UAW wants
Japanese-style no-layoff assurances. The companies, in turn,
want concessions that will make their hourly labor and
health-care costs as low as those of the Japanese.
   The Japanese may even factor into the UAW's calculations
should the Sept. 14 deadline pass without an agreement.
Industry experts say that if the UAW calls a strike, it risks
giving the Japanese an opportunity to grab more market share
and undermine union jobs.
   Halting the loss of jobs is the union's No. 1 issue.
   "There's going to be a tremendous push in job security,"
says Stan Marshall, the UAW vice president in charge of the
Chrysler bargaining team. That means renewed efforts to stop
the auto makers from sending jobs to lower cost nonunion and
overseas shops, and tightening restrictions on plant
shutdowns.
   Three years ago UAW leaders thought they had stopped plant
closings when the Big Three promised to lay off workers only
when demand slackened sharply. But GM and Chrysler found a
loophole that allowed them to "indefinitely idle" some plants
-- ceasing production, laying off thousands of workers and
keeping only a skeleton crew for maintenance.
   Those actions helped the two companies stanch the flow of
money from unproductive operations, but they soured relations
with the union.
   GM "lost the trust of the union, and they have to win that
trust back," says the UAW's Mr. Yokich. "I want an agreement
where they don't close plants, period," he says.
   The job security issue is all the more complicated because
at least one of the Big Three could conceivably meet the
union's terms. Ford Motor Co., which shut down nearly all of
its excess plant capacity in the early 1980s, is now capable
of running its factories at close to 100% even during times
of weak demand. But most analysts say GM and Chrysler will
have to close more plants to match Ford's efficiency.
   Ford officials have sent unusually strong signals that
they would be happy to be the target, and set the contract
pattern for the domestic industry.
   On the company side, the issues boil down to the question
of cost. Ford estimates its labor costs are $8 an hour higher
than the best Japanese operations in the U.S. Of that amount,
about $5.50 an hour is attributable to higher pension and
health care costs for a work force whose average age is 45 --
a decade or more older than the average worker at a Japanese
plant. Similar patterns hold at GM and Chrysler.
   Health-care costs are "a mega issue" for the companies,
one high level Ford labor executive says. But he adds that he
sees little hope for substantial reduction of the cost gap
with the Japanese plants. UAW leaders have vowed not to
accept any health-care cuts, and recently sanctioned a
seven-week strike at one auto supplier company in a
successful effort to avoid health-care cutbacks.
   Union leaders also vow to push for increased pensions. Any
hope that the companies could avoid spending more on
retirement probably died after GM nearly doubled pensions for
outgoing chairman Roger B. Smith and other top executives in
May, company officials concede.
   Meanwhile, Chrysler has declared that its precipitously
falling profits and market share could make it impossible to
match a deal struck at GM or Ford. Anthony P. St. John,
Chrysler's top labor executive, has said the UAW's tradition
of "pattern bargaining," in which the union uses the first
contract negotiated as the model for the other two, is no
longer appropriate for an industry in which there are now 10
major manufacturers operating with widely divergent cost
structures.
   It's unlikely, however, that Chrysler will get enough
support from its larger rivals to defeat the pattern system.
At Ford, negotiators say they don't want a rival to get a
break that effectively punishes Ford for running its
operations more successfully.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Lens Imitating Human Eye Is in Sight
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   PRD
</CO>
<LP>
   There are eight kinds of eyes in nature -- ranging from
flies' multifaceted orbs to our own fast-focusing versions.
Now researchers are working on a ninth.
   A robot eye to emulate human vision remains a distant
dream -- scientists still don't know much about the higher
brain-processing involved in seeing. But an emerging
technology called binary optics promises to help replicate
some of the eye's basic, scene-interpreting functions,
revolutionizing machine vision.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's just one of dozens of applications for the
technology, say binary-optics researchers. Their to-do list
includes making advances in medical lasers, cameras,
high-definition television, surgically implanted eye lenses
and the creation of three-dimensional images. The advent of
binary optics "compares to the invention of the microchip in
importance," declares Jack Blais, president of Optical Filter
Corp., Natick, Mass., which makes parts for military
night-vision systems and other products based on the
technology.
   That remains to be seen. But the technology does represent
a leap in optics analogous to the leap in electronics when
researchers began etching tiny circuits on silicon chips.
During the past few years, companies such as Texas
Instruments Inc., American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.,
Minnesota Mining &amp; Manufacturing Co., Honeywell Inc.,
Rockwell International Corp., Perkin-Elmer Corp., Polaroid
Corp. and General Electric Co. have placed research bets on
binary optics. Largely an offshoot of federally funded
defense research, the technology is rapidly becoming yet
another high-tech front on which U.S. companies will face
stiff competition from Japanese and European concerns.
   Sometimes called diffractive optics, it combines
refraction, the bending of light by lenses, with diffraction,
the breaking up of light waves by sharp edges or narrow
apertures; credit-card holograms are based on diffraction.
Among other things, the combination promises high-quality
optics made with cheap, plastic lenses fabricated by
computer-controlled machines.
   For instance, single refractive lenses typically cause
aberrations, such as bending blue light more than red.
Engineers traditionally solve the problem in cameras and
other devices by adding corrective lenses. With binary
optics, however, the corrections are made by carving
diffraction patterns -- many fine, staircase-like notches --
on the surfaces of conventional lenses. That enables a
single, cheap lens to do what once required multiple,
high-quality ones.
   At Polaroid and other companies, for example, "there's
been a big kick during the past two or three years" to
develop inexpensive, plastic camera lenses based on binary
optics, says Peter Clark, a Polaroid researcher. Similarly,
various companies are working on cheaper lens systems for
laser printers, compact disk players and other devices in
which light beams must be channeled and focused. Researchers
caution, however, that problems remain to be worked out
before the new technology can be used commercially.
   Another variation on binary optics involves placing arrays
of microscopic, optical components on computer chip-like
devices to meld, redirect or otherwise manipulate light rays.
This form of the technology is being explored by Rockwell,
AT&amp;T and other companies for optical computing, in which
light beams would be used to carry massive flows of
information without cumbersome wires.
   The idea of combining refraction and diffraction isn't
new, but the computer-design and fabrication technology to
make it practical "really came together" only recently, says
Michael Morris, a researcher at the University of Rochester's
Institute of Optics. One of the enabling technologies is a
computer-driven, lathe-like machine that rotates lenses on
cushions of air and notches them with diamond-tipped cutting
tools. Binary optics researchers also have borrowed
techniques from integrated-circuit-making to plant rows of
tiny lenses and other optical parts on silicon chips.
   One of first major consumer products based on the new
technology is expected to be implantable replacements for eye
lenses. Cataract and other patients whose damaged natural
lenses are replaced by plastic ones can see distant objects
but can't focus on nearby things without glasses. Using
binary optics, Minnesota Mining's 3M Vision Care unit has
developed "dual-focus" lenses enabling patients to clearly
see both near and far objects. The company says it plans to
begin marketing the lenses in the U.S. next year.
   At the other end of the binary-optics spectrum, Chromatek
Inc., based in New York, plans to use the technology to
distort vision. With the help of Massachusetts Institute of
Technology's Lincoln Laboratory, a leader in binary-optics
research, it is developing eyeglasses that would give a
three-dimensional look to specially colored television or
movie images. Chromatek, contends a spokesman, soon "will be
able to make glasses for pennies that are far better" than
the red-and-green spectacles previously used for 3-D effects.
   Perhaps the technology's most intriguing prospect,
however, is its potential for shedding light on problems that
have stymied progress in robot-vision research. For years,
scientists have tried to simulate the eye's ability to pick
out important things in images, such as edges and moving
objects, by translating thousands of dotlike picture
elements, or pixels, into numerical data and analyzing them
with sophisticated computer programs. But in the real world,
scenes change much faster than computers can analyze them. To
replicate only our edge-perceiving abilities with this
approach, according to one estimate, would require millions
of personal computers working in parallel. And that's just
for one eye.
   Binary optics promises seeing devices that work more like
our eyes, says Wilfrid Veldkamp, a researcher at MIT's
Lincoln Lab who is spearheading work in the area. He
envisions chip-like devices with thousands of tiny optical
and electronic components that would simulate certain of the
eye's nerve cells, called the amacrine layer. The cells help
pre-process and simplify images before they are sent to the
brain. The approach, which he has dubbed amacronics, would
drastically cut the amount of data to be analyzed for motion
and edge detection. "We probably won't solve the mystery of
the eye in my lifetime," he says. "But we're building a
technology that will get us to the type of things the eye
does."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mattel Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MAT
</CO>
<LP>
   MATTEL Inc. (Los Angeles) -- Jill E. Ottinger, previously
vice president, marketing and design, at the View Master
Ideal unit of Tyco Toys, was named vice president, product
design, a new position at this toy maker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Put Space Programs in the Capitalist Orbit
   ----
   By David P. Gump
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Three strikes, and NASA should be out:
   -- The space shuttle fleet is grounded again, this time
for unexplained fuel leaks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   -- The $2.8 billion Hubble Space Telescope is half blind
until corrective lenses are delivered in 1993.
   -- All funding for the Moon/Mars initiative has been cut
by Congress.
   Vice President Dan Quayle's office this week announced an
outside review of the space agency's tasks. But the
confluence of disasters makes a wider truth clear: Government
agencies are unsuited for exploring outer space. The U.S.
should cast off NASA's centrally planned aerospace welfare
state and create something effective: a capitalist space
program. The key is to fire the bureaucrats working on the
moon, Mars and space station plans, and put the savings into
cash incentives for space exploration.
   To start, offer $40 million to any American who spends a
year in orbit on U.S.built facilities. This "Space
Homesteading Incentive" will make reaching the orbital
frontier roughly a break-even proposition, as virtually all
of the $40 million will be needed to pay expenses. Expensive?
Just put a cap on the number of people -- say, 100 a year.
For only $4 billion annually, the orbital frontier would be
swarming with Americans. Diverting $4 billion from NASA's
annual budget will leave the agency with $10 billion for
science projects and the expensive space shuttle.
   Many more than 100 people would seek a Space Homesteading
Incentive, so a kind of reverse auction would determine who
received the payments. That is, the lowest bidders will win
funding. As homesteaders find profitable occupations they
will bid down the individual payments even lower. Eventually
the amount they receive will drop to zero. This in turn will
spawn a private space habitat industry and invigorate the
launcher industry.
   NASA, by sorry contrast, has squandered $4 billion
planning for its gold-plated space station. Total crew size:
eight.
   The tiny crew of the NASA space station exposes the
central flaw of government space programs. They're so
expensive that only a handful of elite pilots and scientists
can ever hope to experience space directly. No wonder public
support for space has waned -- voters realize they aren't
invited to the final frontier.
   Orbital incentives open that frontier to the rest of us.
Launch firms will compete to offer space settlers the best
balance of safety and price. In orbit, space habitats will
compete for business by specializing in various markets. Some
will cater to business researchers, who need absolute
stillness and privacy for their zero-gravity experiments.
Others will become orbital fuel depots and transportation
nodes, with a constant bustle and vibration that would poison
zero-gravity research. Still others will innovate with the
most spartan of living quarters, for those homesteaders
shopping for the lowest rents in space.
   After a decade, the orbital economy likely will become
self-sustaining. Congress then can shift the incentives to a
new target, the moon. The vibrant orbital economy will
provide tools for creating moon settlements at modest cost.
Then by 2010, Congress could offer Mars homestead incentives.
By contrast, NASA's plans for 2020 foresee three astronauts
making a brief visit to Mars, with a dozen others in orbit or
on the moon. It is not inspiring.
   NASA succeeded with the Apollo Program because it had a
political goal: Walk on the moon before the Soviets. Now we
have economic goals, which are nearly impossible for
bureaucrats to achieve.
   For example, NASA created the space shuttle for the
central purpose of slashing the cost of putting people and
cargo into orbit. A recent Rand study found, though, the
space shuttle quadrupled per-pound launch costs. Then NASA
conceived the space station. Projected costs have soared
beyond $37 billion by NASA's reckoning; outside experts
expect it to cost far more. No activity in space can make
economic sense at those prices.
   Orbital incentive plans require no bureaucrats, no
multi-volume books of contract specifications and no audit
teams. Space homesteaders will simply get their passports
date-stamped when they leave Earth, and date-stamped when
they return. For every fraction of a year spent in orbit,
they collect their slice of $40 million.
   Free enterprise will do the rest.
   ---
   Mr. Gump is author of "Space Enterprise: Beyond NASA"
(Praeger, 1990) and president of a start-up space company in
Great Falls, Va.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Regional Banks
   Report Profits
   Rose to Records
   ---
   But Second-Period Earnings
   Fell at Money Centers
   As Loan Woes Persisted
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   ONE NOB WFC MEL CCI MHC CHL
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Reversing a general malaise in earnings, several big
regional banks reported record net income for the second
quarter and only modest increases in loan problems.
   Columbus, Ohio-based Banc One Corp. and Norwest Corp.,
Minneapolis, boasted record profits, with earnings rising 14%
and 12%, respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One-time gains on asset sales helped fuel results at San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo &amp; Co. and Mellon Bank Corp.,
Pittsburgh. Wells Fargo's results gained 58%, and Mellon's
net more than doubled.
   Noting the positive response by the banks' share prices to
the news, Michael Plodwick, an analyst at C.J. Lawrence,
Morgan Grenfell Inc., said, "The quality banks -- and they're
few and far between -- are getting recognized."
   Meanwhile, major banks continued to struggle with rising
loan problems and weak commercial loan demand. Citicorp's
earnings were down 37%, in line with analysts' expectations,
as bad loans continued to rise. A $100 million restructuring
charge at Manufacturers Hanover Corp. resulted in a 69% drop
in earnings. And though Chemical Banking Corp. saw its loan
quality improve, earnings were off 12%.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
Citicorp was up 12.5 cents, closing at $21.875. Manufacturers
Hanover closed at $31.625, up 75 cents. Chemical rose 37.5
cents to $24.375. Norwest fell 12.5 cents to $20.875.
   Wells Fargo gained $1.50 to close at $80.125. Mellon
closed at $25.875, up 37.5 cents. And Banc One rose 12.5
cents to $29.125.
                                                                                                       

   Citicorp

   Sluggish corporate finance activity in the U.S. coupled
with a hefty provision to cover possible loan losses combined
to produce another weak quarter for the U.S.'s biggest
banking company.
   Nonperforming assets, particularly commercial real estate
loans, climbed at a slower pace than at several of Citicorp's
big competitors that have reported earnings in recent days.
Commercial nonperforming assets, including foreclosed real
estate, climbed to $4.5 billion, up 24% from first-quarter
levels. Total nonperforming assets, including developing
country loans, stood at $8.4 billion at the quarter's end.
   Net charge-offs of commercial loans declined 32% to $92
million. Analysts found reassurance in the fact Citicorp's
charge-off for highly leveraged corporate loans was only $52
million in the quarter, slightly below the first-quarter
level. Federal bank examiners recently conducted a targeted
review of such loans, and some analysts had braced themselves
for an unpleasant surprise. Citicorp also wrote off $631
million of Brazilian loans, as required by federal
regulators.
   The loan-loss provision was $473 million, down from $570
million in the first quarter.
   Judah Kraushaar, a Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. analyst, said:
"There were no outsized increases in any problem areas.
That's encouraging. Still, Citicorp has got to accelerate its
asset sales to rebuild capital, demonstrate further moderate
rises in problem real estate loans and bring its overhead
expenses for its commercial bank in North America into line
with its revenue."
   Meanwhile, Citicorp's robust global consumer banking
business, led by its credit cards and New York branch system,
continued to hum along, chalking up $266 million in profit, a
28% increase. Commercial banking in developing countries
posted a 44% increase in profit to $138 million.
   However, losses in the information business widened to $54
million, and earnings for commercial banking in Europe, North
America and Japan remained an anemic $42 million.
                                                                                                       

   Chemical Banking Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Bucking a general deterioration in loan quality, Chemical
reported an improvement in loan health. Nonperforming assets
fell $245 million to $3 billion, including $268.2 million in
mandated charge-offs of Brazilian and Argentine loans.
Excluding developing country loans, charge-offs totaled $63.7
million, about $12 million less than the year-earlier
quarter.
   Though higher than some analysts' estimates, Chemical's
results were below the year-ago level, despite a lower
loan-loss provision and lower tax expenses.
   Both interest income ($510.2 million) and non-interest
income ($338 million) fell from a year ago, primarily
reflecting the absence of interest payments from Brazil and
lower gains on venture capital investments. Also, the net
interest rate margin, or difference between what the bank
earns and pays on funds, widened to 3.18% from 3.02% in the
first quarter.
   Also counter to an industrywide trend, Chemical said its
corporate finance fees were "substantially" above the
first-quarter level.
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturers Hanover
                                                                                                       

   The restructuring will chop the payroll by 7%, or about
1,400 jobs, and lead to the closing or reduction in size of a
number of unspecified businesses. A spokesman wouldn't say
where the cuts would come. According to one bank executive,
staff at the bank's Geoserve unit, basically its data and
transaction processing business, will be trimmed 20%.
   Looking ahead, the cuts are expected to save about $125
million a year on a pretax basis. The company said the bulk
of those savings won't be realized until next year.
   Excluding the charge, Manufacturers earnings declined 12%
to $93 million from $106 million, reflecting slack corporate
loan demand and the absence of interest payments by Brazil
and Argentina.
   Nonperforming loans, excluding developing country loans,
climbed $84 million from first-quarter levels, or 10%, to
$915 million. It is believed that the increase is
attributable to $153 million in troubled loans to developer
Donald Trump. Total nonperforming loans slipped 14% to $2.47
billion, reflecting $450 million in charge-offs of loans to
Brazil and Argentina.
   The company's $83 million provision to loan-loss reserves
matched the net charge-offs for domestic loans.
   Commenting on the reserves, Chairman John F. McGillicuddy
said, "We believe that our reserve for possible credit losses
is adequate to cover risks inherent in the refinancing
country portfolio."
                                                                                                       

   Wells Fargo &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Wells Fargo's earnings jumped because of a $116.5 million
pretax gain from the partial sale of its investment advisory
business to a joint venture with Nikko Securities Co., Japan.
Without the special gain, profit would risen 11% to $163.8
million, or $3.06 a share.
   Such "core" earnings growth in the current hostile bank
environment "is very good," said Donald Crowley, an analyst
for Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
   Wells Fargo's 29% return on assets, excluding the special
gain, is one of the two or three highest returns among big
U.S. banks.
   The main concerns about Wells Fargo relate to its large
portfolios of leveraged buy-out and commercial real estate
loans. Regulators recently completed an examination of the
LBO loans, and Wells Fargo reported a jump in nonaccruing LBO
credits to $292 million from $160 million in the previous
quarter.
   But nonperforming real estate assets didn't increase
overall, troubled construction loans fell, total
nonperforming assets increased by only $110 million, and "the
LBO examination has now come and gone," said Richard
Fredericks, an analyst for Montgomery Securities. Wells Fargo
also recently passed an examination of its commercial real
estate loans.
                                                                                                       

   Mellon Bank Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Earnings, excluding a $74 million gain on the sale of a
consumer finance unit, were flat at $68 million, or $1.19 a
share.
   Analysts said the results were in line with expectations,
but they differed on Mellon's performance. "In these
turbulent times in banking, relative stability is pretty
good," said Lacy Schockley, an analyst at Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co. But Charles Cramner, an analyst at
Shearson Lehman, said: "It's a pretty weak quarter. The real
problem for Mellon is they aren't generating much in
revenue."
   Like most banks, Mellon was hurt by the deteriorating real
estate market. Mellon's nonperforming domestic real estate
loans surged 53% from the first quarter, to $330 million.
That increase was offset when Mellon removed from
nonperforming status its investment in Grant Street National
Bank's senior preferred stock. That move enabled Mellon to
take $71 million in assets off nonperforming status.
   Overall, nonperforming assets increased 5%, to $603
million.
   Frank V. Cahouet, Mellon's chairman and chief executive
officer, characterized the quarter as "a period of continued
progress," and he cited the completion in May of Mellon's
purchase of branch offices from Meritor Savings Bank as a
critical step in building the bank's Mid-Atlantic market.
                                                                                                       

   Banc One Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Banc One was bolstered by its growth in Texas, reporting
higher earnings despite a big increase in loss provisions to
cover bad real estate loans in the Midwest.
   Banc One also said it completed an offering of 10 million
shares, and most of the $282 million in proceeds will be used
to retire short-term debt. Despite the rise in nonperforming
loans, John B. McCoy, Banc One's chairman and chief executive
offering, said the stock offering wasn't a requirement by
bank regulators, but was a move to improve the company's
capital position.
                                                                                                       

   Norwest Corp.
                                                                                                       

   With $26.8 billion in assets at June 30, Norwest said
profit rose mostly because of a strong performance at the
national finance unit. Profit at Norwest's banking operations
was lower than planned, the company said, reflecting higher
loan losses.
   The company said net interest income surged 15% to $298.8
million from $259.2 million a year earlier, reflecting growth
in loans and other earning assets.
   Nonperforming assets edged up to $229.5 million from
$214.5 million at March 31. In the second quarter, Norwest
set aside $59.5 million for future loan losses and charged
off $67 million of loans.
   The reserve for losses stood at $321.3 million at June 30.
   ---
                      1990                 1989
                 in         per        in        per     %
              millions     share    millions    share   chg.
                                                                                                       

                  Second-Quarter Net Income
                                                                                                       

 Citicorp      $248        $0.64      $395      $1.11   -37
 Chemical
   Banking      113.1       1.02     128.6       1.65   -12
 Mfr Hanover     33         0.31     106         1.87   -69
 Wells Fargo    232.4       4.40     147.4       2.68   +58
 Mellon         142         2.80      64         1.27    d
 Banc One ..    104         0.70      91.3       0.64   +14
 Norwest ...     70         0.68      62.5       0.60   +12
                                                                                                       

                   Six-Months Net Income
                                                                                                       

 Citicorp      $479        $1.24      $924      $2.63   -48
 Chemical
   Banking      264.8       2.57       246.5     3.14  +7.4
 Mfr Hanover    129         1.51       209       3.70   -38
 Wells Fargo    392.2       7.45       288.9     5.24  + 36
 Mellon         207         4.07       141       3.03  + 47
 Banc One       205.8       1.40       178.5     1.24  + 15
 Norwest        138.4       1.33       123.1     1.18  + 12
                                                                                                       

   d-Percentage change over 100.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   WELLS FARGO &amp; Co.'s second-quarter return on assets was
1.29%. The return was incorrectly stated in yesterday's
edition.
   (WSJ July 19, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CMS Energy Corp. Partnership
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CADILLAC, Mich. -- CMS Energy Corp. and Cogeneration
Michigan Associates said they have formed a partnership to
build and operate a 34-megawatt wood-fired independent power
project in Cadillac. Each company will hold a 50% equity
ownership interest in the project.
   The plant's electric output will be sold to Consumers
Power Co. under a previously negotiated long-term contract.
Construction of the $66 million project is scheduled to begin
in spring 1991, with operation expected by January 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodity Funds Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The average managed commodity fund rose 1.7% in
June, according to Norwood Securities, which tracks the
performance of 135 publicly offered commodity funds.
   Norwood said there were 91 "gainers," with an average rise
of 3.1% in June.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first six months of 1990, the funds showed an
average gain of 6.1%, Norwood said. There were 100 funds
advancing, with an average gain of 9.7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's Trade Surplus
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's merchandise trade surplus widened to
958 million Canadian dollars (US$826.9 million) in May,
partly because of an increase in motor-vehicle exports to the
U.S., Statistics Canada, a government agency, said.
   In April, the surplus totaled C$371 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Exports of trucks and other motor vehicles to the U.S.
rose by C$367 million in May. The U.S. took 74% of the total
May exports and supplied 70.5% of Canada's imports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coca-Cola Net
   Grew by 19%
   In 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   KO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Coca-Cola Co. said second-quarter net income
rose 19% on strong growth overseas, despite weak sales at
home.
   The soft-drink giant, which earns roughly 80% of its
income outside the U.S., reported earnings in the period of
$409.9 million, or 61 cents a share, compared with $345.5
million, or 49 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose
18% to $2.74 billion from $2.33 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The results were in line with analysts' expectations.
   "Overseas is really what did it," said Emanuel Goldman, a
beverage-industry analyst with PaineWebber Inc. in San
Francisco, "especially margin expansions in Europe and the
Pacific."
   In Western Europe, where Coke generally earns about
one-third of its profit, operating profit jumped 25%, Mr.
Goldman said. The increase was paced by a 42% gain in
concentrate and syrup sales in Spain, the company reported,
and a 20% jump in such sales in Britain.
   Coke sells concentrates and syrups to local bottlers, who
mix the formulas with carbonated water to produce soft
drinks.
   In the Benelux region, Coke said, concentrate and syrup
sales increased 17%, but they were flat in West Germany as
bottlers reduced bloated inventories.
   In the U.S., where profit margins on soft-drink sales are
smaller than abroad because of stiffer competition, Coke said
its concentrate and syrup sales grew just 1% in the period.
Specifically, the company cited "slower restaurant-industry
traffic" as the cause of its domestic softness, a trend
confirmed by some restaurant operators. Coke derives about
onethird of its U.S. volume from so-called fountain sales to
restaurants.
   "Around here, the restaurant business is down about 20%,"
said Steven Abdow, president of the specialty restaurant
division of Springfield, Mass.-based Abdow Corp., which
operates a chain of Big Boy restaurants in western New
England. "Our own business is down between 3% and 5%" from a
year earlier, he said.
   Coke said its fountain sales are picking up this quarter,
thanks to "new distribution" coming on line. In May, Coke
wrested away the fountain business of Grand Metropolitan
PLC's Burger King restaurants from Pepsi, an account that Mr.
Goldman estimated will add about 7% to Coke's fountain sales.
   For the six months, Coke said net grew 15% to $693.4
million, or $1.02 a share, from $605.3 million, or 85 cents a
share. Revenue also jumped 15%, to $4.89 billion from $4.24
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Du Pont, Kansai Set Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   DD J.KNP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Del. -- Du Pont Co., a chemical concern, said
it agreed to form a joint venture, effective Aug. 1, with
Kansai Paint Co. of Osaka, Japan, to supply coatings to
Japanese and South Korean auto makers with operations in
North America.
   Du Pont said that the venture, Du Pont-Kansai Automotive
Coatings Co., will include auto parts suppliers in its
market, and that it is the first in North America between
U.S. and Japanese suppliers of auto finishes. Du Pont will
own 60% of the venture, for which it projected first-year
sales of about $40 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   H. Nelson Furman, formerly a business manager in Du Pont's
finishes business, is the venture's president, and J.
Ishiwatari, formerly president of Kansai's U.S. unit, is
executive vice president.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Trade Deficit Narrowed
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ZURICH -- Switzerland's trade deficit in June narrowed to
516 million francs ($363.9 million) from a revised May gap of
889 million francs, the government announced.
   In June 1989, the deficit was 974 million francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While exports in June, at 7.6 billion francs, were little
changed from the levels in the previous month and in June
1989, imports slowed somewhat, to 8.18 billion francs in June
from 8.6 billion francs in May and 8.8 billion francs the
previous year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy's Enimont Sells Subsidiary
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   I.EMT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- Enimont S.p.A. said it sold its pharmaceutical
unit Sclavo S.p.A. for 100 billion lire ($82.5 million) to
Marcucci Group, an Italian maker of blood derivative products
and vaccines.
   The sale was expected after Enimont re-acquired complete
control of Sclavo in May from former partner U.S. firm Du
Pont Co. At the time, Enimont rejected Du Pont's offer to
take control of Sclavo, saying the company played a strategic
role in Italy's national health network and therefore should
remain in Italian hands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With the acquisition, the Marcucci group will enlarge its
Italian market share to 50% from 33% and become one of
Europe's leading producers of pharmaceutical products derived
from blood, an Enimont spokeswoman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Seat Nets $370,000
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange said a seat sold
for $370,000, down $15,000 from the previous sale July 11.
Seats are currently quoted at $330,000 bid and $410,000
asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Kubota Says Heads
   Of Stardent Sought
   Money for Silence
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   KUB
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   OSAKA, Japan -- A top Kubota Corp. executive, responding
to allegations that the Japanese company fraudulently
obtained U.S. computer technology, said two Silicon Valley
entrepreneurs brought the charges only after their private
demand for a $7 million payment was refused.
   Last Thursday, the founders of a supercomputer graphics
company filed a lawsuit in Superior Court in Santa Clara,
Calif., alleging that Kubota forced the merger of their
company with another -- a combination that became Stardent
Computer Inc. They alleged that Kubota then began to transfer
the technology to one of its subsidiaries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Masahiro Yoshida, a Kubota managing director, cast
events in a different light in an interview at the company's
headquarters here.
   He characterized the allegations as "bold-faced lies" and
portrayed Kubota as the savior of a struggling U.S.
technology company that couldn't find U.S. capital. Kubota's
only mistake, Mr. Yoshida indicated, was perhaps naively
stepping into a high-technology market characterized by rapid
ups and downs and heated personality clashes -- much
different than the staid Japanese market.
   Mr. Yoshida displayed a copy of a letter dated June 1,
1990, and signed by Joseph Alioto, attorney for Allen Michels
and Matthew Sanders, the co-chairmen of Stardent who filed
the suit. In the letter, various grievances the pair had
against Kubota were outlined, and a request was made for a
payment of $3.5 million apiece, to be paid in the form of a
five-year consulting fee. The letter indicated the two men
would quietly leave the company without bringing charges if
they received the money.
   "If we had paid the money they had demanded at the
beginning, does that mean we can pay money to steal American
technology?" Mr. Yoshida asked.
   Mr. Michels acknowledged that Mr. Alioto sent a letter to
Kubota proposing a $7 million settlement, which the two
considered "reasonable." But other evidence of Kubota's
alleged wrongdoing emerged after the letter was sent, he
said.
   As to accusations that the pair is presenting "bold-faced
lies," Mr. Michels said, "That's why we have courts. We have
a significant amount of evidence that we feel will back up
our complaints."
   Mr. Alioto said the pre-suit request for a settlement that
Mr. Yoshida referred to was disclosed in the suit and didn't
constitute a big disclosure.
   Mr. Yoshida's remarks were the company's first detailed
response to the allegations, although Kubota apparently plans
a strong counteroffensive. The company has scheduled a news
conference in Tokyo Friday to discuss the matter. Mr. Yoshida
said Kubota hadn't yet formulated a legal strategy because
the company hasn't yet seen the lawsuit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fuqua Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FQA
</CO>
<LP>
   FUQUA INDUSTRIES Inc. (Atlanta) -- This consumer products
and services company named these vice presidents to the new
posts of senior vice presidents: James M. Bahin, 45 years
old, operations; John F. Bartels, 45, chief financial
officer; Colin W. Brown, 41, general counsel and secretary;
James R. Foster, 44, finance, corporate development and
treasurer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Elf Aquitaine Acquisitions
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AQU E.CES BCM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine will pay about
three billion francs ($540 million) for its planned
acquisition of a 25% interest in Spain's Cia. Espanola de
Petroleos and slightly less than one billion francs for 3.2%
of Banco Central, according to a newspaper interview with a
senior official of the state-controlled French energy group.
   Alain Guillon, president of the group's Elf France unit,
said in an interview with the business daily La Tribune de
l'Expansion that both purchases are aimed at reinforcing the
group in southern Europe, in line with its drive to have
marketing and refining operations in areas where it is
present in exploration and development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Elf announced both planned purchases Monday, but didn't
provide financial details or price estimates at that time.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TRW Profit Fell 10%
   In Second Quarter;
   Operating Net Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TRW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- TRW Inc. reported a 10% decline in
second-quarter profit because of increased interest costs and
a higher tax rate.
   The automotive-parts, aerospace and electronic-services
concern said that operating profit rose 4%, and that its
major businesses "continue to perform well in a persistently
difficult environment."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net income dropped to $63 million, or $1.01 a share fully
diluted, from $70 million, or $1.12 a share, in the 1989
second quarter. The company traditionally reports share
earnings on a fully diluted basis.
   Sales rose 14% to $2.1 billion from $1.84 billion.
   Interest costs rose to $46 million from $38 million in the
year-earlier quarter, reflecting higher borrowings, mainly to
finance acquisitions.
   Sales of auto and truck parts jumped 20% to $1.04 billion,
mainly because of higher sales of air bags and other
occupant-restraint systems. The group's operating profit rose
8% to $84 million. Higher engineering, product-development
and start-up expenses in the restraints business, weaker car
and truck sales in North America, and the unsettled Brazilian
economy limited the gain in operating profit, TRW said.
   TRW's space and defense segment reported a 9% rise in
sales to $862 million, and a "slight" increase in operating
profit to $61 million. Reduced government funding on certain
programs and a stretchout of others contributed to the
group's lower profit margins, as did higher investment to
develop future business, the company said.
   Sales of information systems and services rose 5% to $190
million, but operating profit declined about the same
percentage to $18 million. The company blamed a sales decline
at units performing maintenance service on electronic
equipment produced by other companies, and costs of
downsizing those businesses.
   For the first half, TRW reported net of $120 million, or
$1.93 a share, down 14% from $139 million, or $2.24 a share,
a year earlier. Operating profit rose 5%, TRW said. Sales
rose 13% to $4.09 billion from $3.63 billion.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
TRW fell 25 cents to close at $46.875.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Swiss Franc Rally Depresses Dollar
   Against Major European Counterparts
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A Swiss franc rally that began and ended
within a half-hour depressed the dollar against all major
European currencies. The selling of yen to buy the Swiss
currency limited the dollar's decline against the Japanese
unit, however.
   Official comments that credit policy in Switzerland will
remain tight began yesterday's most important
foreign-exchange activity, highlighting the market's
interest-rate sensitivity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The high-yield currencies benefited from the market's
focus. A surge by the Canadian dollar in the last hour of New
York trading pushed it to a 10-year high. The British pound
and the Australian dollar also gained strongly on the day.
   A U.S. trade report that met expectations was generally
ignored by currency traders, who have recently paid attention
only to news that has a direct bearing on investment yields.
   Instead, the market prepared itself for Federal Reserve
Board Chairman Alan Greenspan's testimony today before the
Senate Banking Committee. Dealers hope that the head of the
U.S.'s central bank will indicate whether easier monetary
policy is in store.
   "There is no doubt that interest rates are the dominant
factor in the currency markets right now," said Nicholas
Sargen, director of research for Salomon Brothers.
   The dollar ended yesterday at 1.1533 Canadian dollars,
down from C$1.1585 late Monday. The close was the worst for
the U.S. dollar since September 1980.
   Anthony Franz, a senior account executive for corporate
foreign exchange at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
New York, said most of the buying of the Canadian dollar came
after futures trading at Chicago's International Monetary
Market ended for the day. He said Canada's announcement of a
four-part bond offering beginning Aug. 1 helped Canadian
dollar demand.
   Participants in the Canadian bond auction would first have
to buy Canadian dollars, putting upward pressure on the
currency's value.
   Rumors that the Swiss central bank was preparing to ease
monetary policy have recently been supported by daily
declines in the base Swiss lending rate. The Swiss franc had
been declining as a result, most notably Monday.
   But yesterday, a spokesman for the Swiss National Bank
reiterated that the growing supply of Swiss francs, which
caused Switzerland's base interest rate to decline to 10.5%
yesterday from 11% Friday, is the result of market activity
rather than intentional policy. This time the
foreign-exchange market listened and took quick profits on
long, or overbought, dollar and yen positions.
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at
1.4045 Swiss francs and 1.6440 marks, down from 1.4180 francs
and 1.6547 marks late Monday in New York. The U.S. currency
was also changing hands at 147.80 yen, down from 148.15 yen
in New York late Monday. Sterling was trading at $1.8165,
above $1.8040.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was
trading at 147.30 yen, down from Tuesday's Tokyo close of
148.20 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at
1.6420 marks, down from Tuesday's Tokyo close of 1.6562
marks.
   The Swiss franc buying began about an hour before noon in
New York. "When the Swiss-dollar rate came down, it came down
very fast. We called but couldn't get through. We had a hard
time getting a price," said Ty Tan, a New York dealer with
Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank.
   The selling of dollars for Swiss francs dropped the U.S.
currency with equal suddenness against the mark.
   The U.S. unit weakened only marginally against the yen,
which was also sold against the Swiss franc. The Swiss unit
climbed almost two yen between its intraday extremes of
104.07 yen and 105.81 yen. The Swiss currency closed in New
York yesterday at 105.23 yen, above 104.48 yen late Monday.
   "Just because there are more Swiss francs floating around
doesn't mean they are easing credit policy," Walter Simon, an
assistant vice president for Bank Julius Baer, said of the
Swiss central bankers. Because currencies are traded as much
on interest-rate expectations as on interest rates, Mr. Simon
said, the reaffirmation of Switzerland's tight money policy
was significant.
   Meanwhile, any mention by the Fed chairman of U.S. credit
policy easing, even if only to repeat remarks made last week,
could cause dollar-selling, according to Keith Raphael, Chase
Manhattan's second vice president for foreign exchange. In
buttressing themselves against such a reaction, dealers bid
the dollar lower against the yen in late New York trading
after holding it steady most the session.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $362 an ounce, down $1.30. Estimated
volume was a light 2.5 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted
at $359.60 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raytheon Wins Navy Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN GMT
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raytheon Co. received a $68.3 million Navy
contract for Trident missile-guidance parts.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gatx Terminals Corp., a unit of Gatx Corp., received an
$11.3 million Defense Logistics Agency contract for fuel oil.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hourly Wages Rose in Italy
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   ROME -- Hourly wages in Italy rose an average of 3% in May
from April and were up 7.8% from a year earlier, the state
statistics bureau Istat said.
   Istat attributed the sharp monthly increase to the
automatic indexation for inflation in all wages covered by
collective bargaining procedures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Premark Will Take
   2nd-Period Charge;
   Restructuring Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PMI
</CO>
<LP>
   DEERFIELD, Ill. -- Premark International Inc. said it will
take an after-tax charge of $15.9 million, or 50 cents a
share, in the second quarter for certain restructuring
actions at its Tupperware unit.
   Premark said that while its earnings for the quarter will
"decline substantially" compared to the year-earlier as a
result of the charge, the company doesn't expect to report a
loss for the quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the second quarter of 1989, Premark, a consumer and
restaurant concern, earned $23.7 million, or 68 cents a
share, on sales of $657.9 million.
   Earlier, Premark said it expected lower earnings for the
quarter, as "declining dealer activity remains a challenge
for Tupperware's U.S. business, and difficult industry
conditions hamper its food equipment group's domestic
operations" as well as certain other businesses.
   The company said on a pretax basis, it expects to save
about $25.8 million through 1992, and $12.5 million annually
after that, as a result of actions associated with the
charge.
   These actions include the elimination of more than 300
jobs at Tupperware's U.S. manufacturing plants and the
closing of a plant in Rhode Island, the company said. In
addition, it said Tupperware's Orlando, Fla., headquarters
will trim its staff by about 15%, or 100 workers.
   Premark said the moves will help improve results in the
near term, as well as "position the company to generate
increased growth and broaden its customer base over the long
term."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   Witnesses for the Prosecution: Plea Bargains and Perjury
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   "And those were the only two lies that you can remember
that you've told?"
   "I don't know. Other lies. I'm sure I have lied more than
that."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Have you lied 1,000 times, Mr. Boesky?"
   "The answer is very simply, sir, I've lied more than
twice. I can't tell you how many times more than twice."
   "Have you lied 900 times?"
                                                                                                       

   So it went with Ivan Boesky's remarkable testimony in the
trial of former trader John Mulheren Jr. Mr. Boesky, the man
whose arbitrage depended on the slightest ticks in share
prices, swore he can't remember within $200 million how much
he was worth after his plea bargain. His memory had to be
"refreshed" about a past of trading suitcases of cash for
inside information. A confused jury convicted Mr. Mulheren on
four counts, none of them as serious as insider trading, but
was hopelessly deadlocked on 26 others.
   Mr. Boesky's selective memory raises a question that also
wafts from several other recent federal prosecutions: What
obligation do prosecutors have to make sure their
plea-bargained witnesses tell the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth? Legal appeals from several recent
convictions suggest that in some high-profile cases
prosecutors embraced false evidence by their witnesses.
   Many of these cases were brought during the time Rudolph
Giuliani was U.S. attorney in Manhattan. His successor, Otto
Obermaier, declines to discuss specific cases, but says the
obligation on prosecutors is clear. "Prosecutors may never
utilize perjured testimony in support of attempting to obtain
a conviction." If perjury occurs, "where the case then goes
depends very much on who said what about whom and how
relevant it is to a particular issue in the case." If perjury
is on a minor issue, it "doesn't always warrant a reversal of
a conviction."
   Mr. Obermaier acknowledges there's a risk with
plea-bargained witnesses. "As prosecutors, we must deal with
whoever has information," he says. "We just hope that the
deal we make is not Faustian."
   To his credit, Mr. Obermaier recently took a doubly
unusual step. He not only indicted a former government
witness for perjury, he also signed the indictment himself.
The indicted witness is Anthony Guariglia, who was one of the
top officials at Wedtech, the South Bronx defense firm that
bribed government officials. He got a token sentence by
agreeing to testify against others, including Robert Wallach.
   Mr. Wallach, best known as a friend of Edwin Meese, was
convicted under RICO. His supposed racketeering was mailing
two fraudulent bills for legal work for the firm. Mr.
Guariglia gave key evidence that the alleged fraud was that
the bills were actually prepayment for work Mr. Wallach would
do when he took some unnamed job at the Justice Department.
   At the trial, prosecutors blocked efforts by Mr. Wallach's
lawyers to introduce evidence that Mr. Guariglia was a
frequent liar. There was excellent evidence that he had
committed perjury on the stand when he said he'd stopped his
high-stake casino gambling after he copped his plea with
prosecutors. Assistant U.S. attorneys argued that just
because Mr. Guariglia had signed gambling markers in Atlantic
City, this was not proof he'd gambled.
   Mr. Obermaier disowned this absurd position after former
Federal Appeals Judge Robert Bork filed an appeal for Mr.
Wallach. Mr. Bork noted that reversal of a conviction "is
virtually automatic if the government knowingly uses perjured
testimony." Mr. Guariglia has now been indicted for perjury;
Mr. Wallach still faces six years in jail pending his appeal.
   Mr. Obermaier's office is now drafting its response to an
appeal filed last week in another case that alleges perjury.
It took prosecutors three trials to convict GAF official
James Sherwin for paying trader Boyd Jefferies to manipulate
the price of Union Carbide stock. The case was odd because
Mr. Sherwin had no clear reason to want Union Carbide stock
nudged up one-eighth point to close at $22 several days
before GAF sold its Union Carbide shares.
   Mr. Jefferies, fingered by Mr. Boesky for relatively minor
trading violations, said Mr. Sherwin asked him to manipulate
the share price. One of Mr. Jefferies's assistants, James
Melton, testified he called Mr. Sherwin to report that he had
bumped up the price as requested. Prosecutors said no phone
records were kept of the call. But just before the end of the
trial, defense lawyers found WATS-line records in an AT&amp;T
underground vault. The records showed no such call to Mr.
Sherwin.
   Mr. Sherwin's appeal, which will be argued by New York
lawyer Arthur Liman, calls testimony about the possibly
phantom phone call "outright perjury." It cites a Supreme
Court rule "not only that the prosecutor avoid soliciting
false testimony but that he not sit idly by and allow it to
go uncorrected when it is given."
   The record of federal prosecutors in other complex
white-collar cases is not encouraging. The granddaddy case of
bad information driving abusive prosecutions came to be known
as the Giuliani Three -- Robert Freeman, Richard Wigton and
Timothy Tabor. Prosecutors took information given to them by
Martin Siegel, who admitted he swapped inside information for
$700,000 in cash from Mr. Boesky, to bust the investment
bankers in the glare of the cameras. After two years,
prosecutors admitted they had no case against Messrs. Wigton
and Tabor. They did extract the infamous "Your Bunny has a
good nose" mail-fraud plea from Mr. Freeman.
   It's not clear whether the wrongful prosecution was due to
bad information peddled by Mr. Siegel or by overeager
prosecutors happy to assume Wall Street was riddled with
inside traders. Prosecutors admitted in court papers that
"certain errors" were caused by "the government's own
misunderstanding of information provided by Siegel."
   The incentive to give testimony is strong. Mr. Boesky got
18 months and kept a huge fortune. Mr. Guariglia got five
months in a halfway house. Mr. Jefferies got community
service in Aspen teaching youngsters how to play golf. Mr.
Siegel got two months. In contrast, Drexel Burnham Lambert's
Lisa Jones faces 10 months in jail for perjury by failing to
tell prosecutors about stock parking by her boss.
   The danger of enticing perjury in exchange for a reduced
sentence is greatest in white-collar crime and other areas
where the law is often vague or depends entirely on
intentions. A legitimate trade can easily be described as
manipulation or insider trading. A straightforward legal bill
can become a misleading bill for lobbying. Who will know?
Indeed, the temptation to lie to prosecutors may be
irresistible for crooks who are already con men.
   Federal prosecutors now seem set on making
savings-and-loan executives the next big targets. In this
hothouse atmosphere, it will be child's play for real crooks
to cut their sentences by helping to criminalize what may be
perfectly legal loans. Potential plea bargainers need to hear
that federal prosecutors won't offer high rewards for
low-value information.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vishay Intertechnology Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VSH U.CRY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MALVERN, Pa. -- Vishay Intertechnology Inc. said that the
board of Crystalate Holdings PLC unanimously recommended that
its shareholders accept a 90-pence-a-share ($1.62) tender
offer from Vishay.
   Crystalate Holdings, a British electronics firm, has about
31.6 million shares outstanding, putting the total price of
the offer at about $51 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Vishay, an electronics concern, would also assume about
$24 million in debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HEALTH COSTS
   ----
   By Pamela J. Podger
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   BAX
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Physician Assistants
   Lend a Thrifty Hand
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   PROSPECTS brighten for physician assistants, a career
category the Labor Department pegs for 28% job growth in this
decade.
   PAs, who must work under a doctor's supervision, tackle
about 70% of typical medical procedures, such as physical
exams and patient histories, freeing up doctors for more
complex tasks. They're allowed to prescribe medicine in 26
states. Specialized PAs even stitch up patients after
surgeons finish operating.
   Enrollment in two-year PA courses, after ebbing for
several years, increased 10.4% last year, according to a
University of Iowa study. The U.S. has 52 accredited
programs, and about 22,000 graduates are already practicing.
The American Academy of Physician Assistants, Alexandria,
Va., says most PAs work in group practices or in hospitals.
   "In practical terms, a PA acts like a physician at a
fraction of a physician's salary," says Dr. A.S. Freedberg,
who worked with a PA at Harvard University Medical School's
Boston health clinic.
   The lower salaries offer a cost-effective way for
physicians to expand their practices, says the American
Medical Association in Chicago. Many PAs earn about $35,000
to $45,000 a year, similar to the range for nurse
practitioners. A general practice doctor earns about $94,600.
   The government also reaps cost savings from PAs. Work done
by PAs in hospitals and nursing homes is reimbursed at a
lower rate by Medicare. Providers using PAs are reimbursed at
par or slightly below a physician's fee in 41 state-run
Medicaid programs.
   PAs are sought not only by crowded city hospitals, but by
rural clinics. Many PAs, saddled with less tuition debt than
doctors, can afford to work in communities of up to 250,000
people.
                                                                                                       

   Home Intravenous Care
   Catches On Rapidly
                                                                                                       

   GIVING patients intravenous treatments in their homes
costs 25% to 50% less than similar care in hospitals,
analysts say.
   Patients pay about $300 to $350 a day for home nutrition
infusions. By contrast, the average patient bill at community
hospitals in the U.S. is about $789 a day, says the Health
Insurance Association of America, a Washington-based trade
group of 320 commercial health insurers.
   In the past decade, the home-treatment industry has grown
rapidly as more patients opt for antibiotics, chemotherapy
and nutrition care at home and more doctors gain confidence
in the service. Analysts expect the market to hit $2.5
billion next year.
   "We're finding the fastest-growing segment is in
antibiotic {and antiviral} treatments, especially in the last
year because of AIDS treatments," says a spokesman for
Caremark Homecare, a unit of Baxter International Inc. in
Deerfield, Ill., that claims about a third of the market.
   The home treatments are started by a visiting nurse, who
sets a catheter in a patient's arm or leg and teaches the
patient how to connect a feeding tube, for example, from a
nutrition drip. The prescribing doctor receives and monitors
reports from the nurse.
   "If the patient is stable, home infusion is cheaper,
because there isn't the hospital overhead," says Neal
Bradsher, medical analyst at Hambrecht &amp; Quist Inc.
                                                                                                       

   U.S. Casts a Cold Eye
   On Prostate Expenses
                                                                                                       

   CONVENTIONAL surgery for swollen prostate glands is
targeted by the U.S. as an "overpriced procedure."
   The federal Health Care Financing Administration, which
sets prices for Medicare payments, complains that the
procedure typically costs about $3,594 to $5,513, plus
surgeon fees.
   Urologists say the condition, which doesn't always lead to
surgery, affects about 50% of men by age 60 and 80% to 90% by
age 80. As the population ages and even more men are
affected, pressure seems sure to increase from Medicare and
private insurers to lower treatment costs.
   Mary Ellen McCarthy, pharmaceutical analyst at Shearson
Lehman Hutton, predicts these pressures will drive down
expenditures for prostate surgery by 1995 to about $3.4
billion from about $4.8 billion, while alternative treatments
will grow to about $1 billion from $30 million.
   In anticipation of this shift, less-invasive procedures
are cropping up. Intra-Sonix Inc., Burlington, Mass., awaits
federal approval for its miniaturized ultrasound and laser
technology that surgeons would use to visualize the shape and
size of the prostate and then to zap it with a cauterizing
laser beam. The targeted tissue is discarded by the body in
two to three weeks.
   The Intra-Sonix procedure is estimated to take 10 minutes,
requiring one day in the hospital and costing about $1,000,
plus surgeon fees. By contrast, the 368,000 conventional
surgeries done last year averaged a one-hour operation and
6.4 recovery days in a hospital, says the American College of
Surgeons in Chicago.
   Rival treatments that show promise are enzyme-blocking
drugs to shrink the prostate, hyperthermia to heat the tissue
and a balloon device that squeezes the prostate from within
the urethra to widen the passage.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH INSURANCE brokers and employee-benefits consultants
overwhelmingly expect the trend toward managed care, or
third-party review of primary-physician care, will keep
expanding through the 1990s, according to a survey
commissioned by Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. . . . Top
executives of large hospitals earn 90% of the base pay of
corporate executives and 83% of total cash compensation,
concludes a poll by William M. Mercer Inc. of 168 executives
in the largest U.S. hospitals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Some Virginia Asbestos Victims Seek
   To Bar Change in Manville Injury Trust
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A group of asbestos victims in Virginia asked
a federal appeals court to halt efforts by a U.S. judge in
Brooklyn, N.Y., to overhaul the Manville personal-injury
trust.
   The asbestos victims, who recently won court judgments
totaling $60 million against the trust, asked the court to
lift a stay ordered last week barring the trust from making
any payments. The stay was issued by federal Judge Jack B.
Weinstein in Brooklyn, who is pressuring the trust to
restructure its financing to make up for its huge shortfall
in cash.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In their appeals-court filing, the Virginia plaintiffs
said that Judge Weinstein overstepped his jurisdiction and
that changes in the structure of the trust are prohibited
under bankruptcy law. The trust was set up in 1986 to enable
Manville Corp. to emerge from bankruptcy-law proceedings; the
trust, which generates funds largely through its ownership of
Manville stock, is independent of the Denver-based company.
   Robert R. Hatten, an attorney for the Virginia plaintiffs,
said his clients are being unfairly penalized by Judge
Weinstein's efforts to change the trust.
   "These people all proceeded through every step set forth
in the Manville reorganization plan. They followed everything
they were told to do" in making claims against the trust, Mr.
Hatten said. Now that a federal court in Virginia has entered
judgments in the cases, however, "we've had the rug yanked
out from under us," he said.
   In ordering the stay on payments by the trust, Judge
Weinstein said the stay could be lifted Aug. 6 if the trust
comes up with a way to restructure its financing and change
the way it pays claimants. But Mr. Hatten said that the stay
was likely to be renewed and that changes in the trust's
financing could hurt the Virginia plaintiffs' efforts to
collect their money.
   "The district court {in Brooklyn} acted in unprecedented
fashion by undertaking, without a motion by any party and
without a fair opportunity for affected claimants to protect
their rights, to stay payments and executions of judgments
that were about to go forward across the U.S. under the terms
of the confirmed Manville reorganization plan," the
plaintiffs said in their filing.
   The filing asked the appeals court to rule that Judge
Weinstein lacks authority to change the trust radically
because it was part of a bankruptcy-court reorganization.
   "Even if the trust does ultimately run short of current
funds . . . such a circumstance doesn't give a district court
the power to substitute another reorganization plan that it
favors," the plaintiffs said in their appeals-court request.
   Meanwhile, attorneys for plaintiffs and defendants in
other asbestos cases questioned the validity of a federal
judge's order in Cleveland Monday setting up a nationwide
asbestos class-action lawsuit.
   Lawyers on both sides said motions were likely to be made
to overturn the order by Judge Thomas D. Lambros. But they
also said that it is unclear what the immediate impact of his
order will be.
   "It's vague enough that no one knows exactly what he
means," said John Kazanjian, an attorney for the Center for
Claims Resolution, which represents several former asbestos
makers.
   In issuing the order, Judge Lambros said a national class
action is necessary because the defendants don't have enough
money to pay all the claims.
   Several attorneys, however, dispute Judge Lambros's
assertion, and they say the judge failed to take necessary
steps to determine whether enough money or insurance coverage
is available among all the defendants. "Many of the
defendants would violently disagree," said Gita Rothschild,
an attorney for Owens-Illinois Inc., Toledo, Ohio, a former
asbestos maker. "A handful of defendants have said they lack
the money or insurance coverage."
   Another issue is whether a judge can simply order a class
action without a hearing on who will make up the class. Judge
Lambros was unavailable for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nynex Chief Defends Firm's 1988 Probe
   Of Junkets by Employees, Suppliers
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Nynex Corp. Chairman William C. Ferguson,
eager to "separate sensationalism from facts," said his
company moved quickly in 1988 to investigate improper
activities by Nynex purchasing employees and disclosed its
findings fully to state regulators.
   However, Mr. Ferguson didn't dispute the few facts that
have emerged about a series of gatherings at Florida resorts,
dubbed "Perverts Conventions" by participating employees of
Nynex's Materiel Enterprises unit and some of its suppliers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The week-long sessions, disclosed in The Wall Street
Journal last week, took place annually from 1984 to 1988.
Documents filed with the New York State Public Service
Commission by Nynex showed that activities included hiring
women to provide entertainment and sex for attendees. Nynex's
New York Telephone unit, under pressure to boost profits, is
trying to win approval from the commission of a $1.4 billion
rate increase.
   Mr. Ferguson met with reporters in the company's boardroom
in midtown Manhattan to respond to questions concerning the
company's handling of its investigation. He said the
employees took the trips on their own time, although he
conceded there was some evidence suppliers may have paid for
some of the hotel rooms.
   He said that commission investigators were given all
documents compiled in Nynex's 1988 investigation and that
they pledged that the documents wouldn't be released to the
public.
   However, requests for information from commission lawyers
and analysts examining New York Telephone's latest rate
request indicate that the commission is still seeking
information about the Florida meetings.
   The 1988 inquiry led to the dismissal of conference
organizers Lawrence Friedman, former vice president of
purchasing at Materiel Enterprises, and John Marino, who
reported to Mr. Friedman. In all, Nynex now says its
investigation "determined that eight individuals had violated
our code of business conduct," which barred meetings with
suppliers that could be construed as conflicts of interest.
   The 1988 investigation wasn't the first by Nynex into the
conduct of Materiel Enterprises employees. Similar
allegations against Mr. Friedman and others arose in 1985 and
were investigated. But the findings weren't disclosed to
authorities because the company didn't find any evidence that
its code of conduct had been violated, said Mr. Ferguson.
   Mr. Friedman sued Nynex in 1988 for emotional distress and
religious discrimination and the following year settled out
of court for $1 million. He also agreed to keep quiet about
the circumstances surrounding his dismissal. Mr. Ferguson
defended the payment as inexpensive compared with the
potential cost of a protracted court battle with Mr.
Friedman.
   "I'm sick and tired of this," said Mr. Ferguson, a 38-year
veteran of the phone business who last year took over the
chairmanship and chief executive duties from Delbert C.
Staley. "I'm trying to get on with my administration and I'm
having to deal with all these things from yesterday." He said
he hadn't learned of the conventions until mid-1988.
   Meanwhile, the two executives who headed the purchasing
unit since 1984 have retained their jobs. Paul C. O'Brien,
who held the top spot between 1984 and 1985 when reports of
improprieties first surfaced, is now president of New England
Telephone. Peter L. Haynes has been president of the unit
since 1985.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Socialism Is Dead; Leviathan Lives
   ----
   By James Buchanan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   More than a century ago, the German philosopher Friedrich
Nietzsche announced the death of God. This dramatic statement
was intended to suggest that religion had ceased to serve as
an organizing principle for the lives of individuals or for
the rules of their association. Since Nietzsche, the God
pronounced dead was replaced in man's consciousness by
"socialism." And I want to match Nietzsche's announcement
with the comparable one that "socialism is dead" -- a
statement that seems much less shocking than Nietzsche's
because it is being heard throughout the world in 1990.
   In a very real sense, the loss of faith in socialism is
more dramatic than the loss of faith in God, because the god
that was socialism took on forms that were directly
observable. There were no continuing unknowns waiting to be
revealed only in another life, and the promised realization
of the socialist ideal could not be infinitely postponed.
Socialism promised quite specific results; it did not
deliver.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One can only look back in amazement at the monumental
folly that caused the intellectual leaders of the world, for
more than a century, to buy into what F.A. Hayek called the
"fatal conceit" that socialism embodied. How did we come to
be trapped in the romantic myth that politically organized
authority could satisfy our needs more adequately than we
might satisfy them ourselves through voluntary agreement,
association and exchange?
   This fatal conceit was almost universal. Let us now beware
of current attempts to limit acceptance of the socialist myth
to those who were the explicit promulgators and defenders of
the centrally planned authoritarian regimes of the Soviet
Union and its satellites. There were socialists everywhere,
in all societies and, even in the face of the evidence that
continues to accumulate, there are many who still cannot
escape from the socialist mind-set. And even for those of us
who have, however begrudgingly, acknowledged that the
socialist god is dead, there may not have emerged any faith
or belief in any non-socialist alternative. We may accept
socialism's failure; we may not accept the alternative
represented by the free market or enterprise system, even as
tempered by elements of the welfare state.
   Socialists everywhere, confronted with the evidence that
economies organized, wholly or partially, on socialist
principles cannot deliver the goods, are now making desperate
efforts to redefine the term "socialism," which British
socialist and scholar Alec Nove defined in 1987 as a society
in which "the means of production of goods and services are
not in private hands."
   It is now almost universally acknowledged that a
private-ownership, free-enterprise economy "works better"
than Mr. Nove's socialized economy, in which decisions are
made by state or cooperative agencies. The individualized
market economy "works better" than the socialized economy in
the sense that it produces more goods. But it also works
better in the sense that it allows individuals more liberty
to choose where, when and to what purpose they will put their
capacities to produce values that they expect others to
demand.
   A threshold was crossed in the 18th century when we
learned how the rule of law, stability of private property
and the withdrawal of political interference with private
choices could unleash the entrepreneurial energies that are
latent within each of us. Humankind seemed near to the
ultimate realization of its social potential. How did the
socialist vision emerge to threaten, and in part forestall,
this future? And why did the principles of classical
political economy, which seemed so strongly to suggest the
relative superiority of a market economy, lose their
persuasive powers so quickly?
   We must, I think, appreciate the rhetorical genius of Marx
and his ability to convert arguments advanced in support of
market organization into what could be made to appear to be
support for a particular distributional class, the
capitalists. By clever substitution of emotion-laden
terminology, the market system became "capitalism," and the
search of every person for his own advantage became the
profit-seeking of the greedy capitalists. This rhetorical
genius, coupled with totally erroneous economic analysis
embedded into pseudoscientific jargon about the laws of
history, was highly successful in elevating the
distributional issue to center stage, to the relative neglect
of the allocational and growth elements that were central in
the classical teachings.
   (I speak as one who shared fully in the socialist
mind-set, from which, thanks to Frank Knight, I escaped
relatively early in my career. But I appreciate the appeal of
the Marxist-socialist ideas even if, now, I cannot explain
it.)
   Recall that during its early decades, the Soviet Union was
held out as paradise by socialists in the West. After World
War II, Eastern Europe was absorbed into the Soviet political
orbit and the countries of Western Europe socialized their
economies to greater or lesser degrees. Even where economies
were largely allowed to remain free, Keynesian-inspired
macromanagement was supported by arguments about the tendency
of capitalism to generate massive unemployment.
   Between the early 1960s and today, socialism became ill
and died. What happened? There were two sides to the coin:
"market success" and "political failure." The accumulation of
empirical evidence must ultimately dispel romance. And the
evidence did indeed accumulate to demonstrate that
free-market economies performed much better than politically
directed or planned economies. Contrast, for example the West
German "Wirtschaftwunder" with the demonstrable failures of
the socialist experiments in Britain in the late 1940s and
early 1950s. Honest evaluation suggested that the centralized
economies of the Soviet Union, China and East European
countries were not successful in producing goods and
services.
   Ideas also matter. And here the record of the academic
economists remains, at best, a very mixed bag. The welfare
economists of the early and middle decades of this century
were almost exclusively concerned with demonstrating the
failures of markets, in order to provide a rationale for
political interferences. But the public-choice revolution in
ideas about politics, and political failures, was also
sparked primarily by academic economists.
   When the behavioral models of economics are applied to
"public choosers" -- to those who participate variously in
political roles, as voters, politicians, bureaucrats,
planners, party leaders, etc. -- the romantic vision that was
essential to the whole socialist myth vanishes. If those who
make decisions for others are finally seen as just like
everyone else, how can the awesome delegation of authority
that must characterize the centralized economy be justified?
   This loss of faith in politics, in socialism broadly
defined, has not, however, been accompanied by any
demonstrable renewal or reconversion to a faith in markets,
the "laissez-faire" vision that was central to the teachings
of the classical political economists. There remains a
residual unwillingness to leave things alone, to allow the
free market, governed by the rule of law, to organize itself.
We are left, therefore, with what is essentially an attitude
of nihilism toward economic organization. There seems to be
no widely shared organizing principle upon which persons can
begin to think about the operations of a political economy.
   It is in this setting, which does seem to be descriptive
of the era into which we are so rapidly moving, that the
natural forces that generate the Leviathan state emerge and
assume dominance. With no overriding principle that dictates
how an economy is to be organized, the political structure is
open to exploitation by the pressures of well-organized
interests. The special-interest, rent-seeking, churning state
finds fertile ground for growth in this environment. And,
depending on the relative strength of organized interests, we
observe quite arbitrary, politicized interferences with
markets.
   This setting, which I have referred to as Leviathan, has
much in common with the mercantilist-protectionist politics
that Adam Smith attacked so vehemently in "The Wealth of
Nations" in 1776. The same barriers that Adam Smith sought to
abolish are everywhere resurging; and the same arguments are
heard, both in support and in opposition. The arguments for
Leviathan's extensions are not versions of the socialist's
dream; they are, instead, simple efforts to claim a public
interest in a single sector's private profit.
   There will be no escape from the
protectionist-mercantilist regime that now threatens to be
characteristic of the post-socialist politics in both Western
and Eastern countries so long as we allow the ordinary or
natural outcomes of majoritarian democratic processes to
operate without adequate constitutional constraints. If we
know that politics fails and that its natural proclivity is
to extend its reach beyond tolerable bounds, we must
incorporate constraints into a constitutional structure. A
depoliticized economic order is within the realm of the
possible, even if the accompanying faith in market
organizations is not fully regained. We can protect ourselves
against the appetites of the monster that the Leviathan state
threatens to become.
   The organized polities of the nation-states, and the
associations among those states, must be kept within
constitutional boundaries. The death throes of socialism
should not be allowed to distract attention from the
continuing necessity to prevent the overreaching of the
state-as-Leviathan, which becomes all the more dangerous
because it does not depend on an ideology to give it focus.
Ideas, and the institutions that emerge as these ideas are
put into practice, can be killed off and replaced by other
ideas and other institutions. The machinations of
interest-driven politics are much more difficult to dislodge.
Let us get on with the task.
   ---
   Mr. Buchanan, a Nobel laureate in economics, is professor
of economics at the Center for Study of Public Choice at
George Mason University. This article is adapted from a
speech he delivered in Sydney, Australia, in March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   The Man Who Saved Cambodian Dance
   ----
   By Eileen Blumenthal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Reminders of the killing fields lurk in the
simplest social encounters. Sitting in a New York apartment,
half the world away from home, Proeung Chhieng, artistic
director of the Classical Dance Company of Cambodia, suddenly
noticed a small framed picture across the room: It was a
photo of his sister, a former dance star who was killed by
the Khmer Rouge. He hadn't seen her, or even her photograph,
in 15 years. Another time, watching my videotapes of
Cambodian refugee dancers, Mr. Chhieng saw a woman he hadn't
seen since Khmer Rouge times -- a woman who, before the war,
had been his fiancee.
   Mr. Chhieng, visiting from Phnom Penh, was here to make
arrangements for his troupe's appearance at the Los Angeles
Festival in September. That engagement will be followed by
several others, including performances at the Kennedy Center
in Washington, D.C., and the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No dance company from Cambodia has appeared in America
since 1971, when a troupe of 45 played at the Brooklyn
Academy. Mr. Chhieng, then 22 years old, was one of the young
stars. At the time, spectators watching dancers in sequined
velvet and brocade sarongs, curling and angling their bodies
in exquisite legato gestures, could little have imagined that
just a few years later most of those artists would be dead.
They, along with a million other Cambodians, were victims of
a mad cultural revolution by Khmer Rouge communist fanatics.
No one could have predicted that the dance form itself -- one
of the most beautiful in the world -- would be on the brink
of extinction.
   Today, with the Khmer Rouge maneuvering to seize power
once again, Mr. Chhieng's quick, shy smile belies his fear
for his country. His obsession is to restore Cambodia's art
from the rubble the Khmer Rouge left. And in New York, as in
Phnom Penh (where we've worked together on oral histories of
Cambodian dance), Mr. Chhieng's modesty, and privacy,
camouflage a life and career placed treacherously near the
power brokers of Cambodia's tragic history.
   The grand-nephew of one of Cambodia's renowned dance
masters, Mr. Chhieng was raised in the palace, which was the
home of the royal dance troupe. He recalls, as a toddler,
hearing the music for the monkey role, the only role in
Cambodian court dance played by boys. He'd race from his
living quarters to the ornate, saffron-roofed dance rehearsal
pavilion, arriving just in time to catch the last few
moments. He fell in love with what he saw.
   Mr. Chhieng and one of his sisters became apprentices to
the Royal Ballet -- and eventually stars. His signature role
was the white monkey general Hanuman, one of the most popular
characters in the Reamker, the Cambodian version of the great
Hindu epic, the Ramayana.
   After Prince Sihanouk was overthrown by a right-wing coup
in 1970, Mr. Chhieng accompanied the Queen Mother, the
leading patron of the dance, to her son's exile in China. But
he returned to Cambodia to continue dancing -- in time to be
caught in the Khmer Rouge nightmare.
   Mr. Chhieng will not talk about his experiences from 1975
to 1979 under the Pol Pot regime. "Thinking about it creates
too much pain -- and too much anger. My way to deal with
Khmer Rouge is to fight them, by rebuilding the dance they
destroyed."
   According to his resume, Mr. Chhieng, like virtually
everyone else, worked as a farmer in Pol Pot's
concentration-camp state. Both his parents, 12 of his 13
brothers and sisters, and most of his other relatives were
killed.
   As soon as the Khmer Rouge were expelled in 1979, the
handful of surviving Cambodian artists began working together
to reassemble the shards of their culture. Within weeks, they
were able to mount a dance performance for the Cambodian New
Year. It was a makeshift affair, but it was a start. When a
friend urged Mr. Chhieng to flee with him to the Thai border,
where food and medicine were available and third-country
resettlement might be possible, he refused: "I said, `This is
where the best teachers are. It's here that the dance can be
restored.'"
   It was. In 1981, Cambodia's great champion of the arts,
Chheng Phon, set up a new Fine Arts School in the wasteland
of Cambodia's once-elegant capital. With a whole generation
of dancers lost, the school had to start from scratch,
teaching young children. The staff worked against time,
hoping they could transmit the art to a new generation before
the few surviving masters, such as Chea Samy, passed away.
Now, the dancers they've been training for 10 years are
extraordinary. They form the core of the company scheduled to
come to America.
   During his advance visit here, Mr. Chhieng was anxious to
catch up with the work of Cambodian dancers living abroad. He
tracked down phone numbers of artists in America, including
friends and colleagues he'd lost touch with because of the
continuing isolation of Cambodia by the world outside the
Soviet bloc. "Hello," he would begin, "this is Chhieng `sva
saw,'" Chhieng the white monkey.
   When he met with fellow artists, politics and decades-long
separations didn't seem to matter. They began by pooling
information about the fate of former colleagues -- who was
alive, who dead. Then came shop talk: Where could you still
get the special glittery wormlike beads for classical
costumes, ones that wouldn't turn black after a few wearings?
Who was now making "mkot," the gilded replicas of royal
coronation crowns worn in the classical dance?
   Mr. Chhieng also spent hours watching my videotapes of
Cambodian refugee dancers in America and in the Thai border
camps run by the Khmer resistance factions. He was on the
lookout for any pieces that might be missing in Phnom Penh,
and anxious to survey the quality of the field. At the TV
monitor, as in classes in Phnom Penh, he was a tough task
master. He gave a running commentary (in our mixture of
Khmer, French, English and body language). "To move an arm
like that is nothing," he said, imitating a graceful, fluid
movement from the screen. "It must engage the whole body --
and the spirit." Then he redid the gesture with a depth of
expression the first movement hadn't approached. But, he
hastened to add, "for the camp it's all right. It's good that
they're doing it." Another time, watching a boy play a
monkey, he leapt up in imitation: "It's easy like that. This
way {he dropped into a deep, wide plie} is much harder -- but
it's much more sprightly and expressive." Still, he added
quickly, "It's important that they're trying to keep it
alive. We're all Cambodians. The dance contains the soul of
Cambodia."
   ---
   Ms. Blumenthal is a professor of theater arts at Rutgers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bill On Money Laundering
   Clears Banking Committee
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Banking Committee passed a bill
that would give bank and savings-and-loan regulators the
power to close a financial institution that had been
convicted of money laundering.
   The regulators would be given that power in cases where
both the institution and high officials of the bank or thrift
had been convicted of money laundering. The regulators would
also be allowed to take over an institution convicted of
money laundering and replace its management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The legislation, approved on a voice vote, is aimed at
combatting what law-enforcement authorities say is vastly
increased money laundering by the illegal drug trade.
   Another provision, aimed at stopping money laundering in
unregulated check-cashing and foreign-exchange outlets, would
allow the Treasury Department to force banks and thrifts to
identify such outlets if they are depositors in the
institution.
   The committee's bill is similar to legislation that passed
the House in April.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Iraq's Hussein Threatens Force to Make
   Gulf Neighbors Toe Line on Oil Output
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Iraqi President Saddam Hussein turned his threatening
rhetoric away from Israel and toward neighboring Persian Gulf
nations, threatening to use force if they continue driving
down the price of oil by exceeding production quotas.
   Speaking on Iraqi television, Mr. Hussein said some gulf
leaders had been "inspired by America" to take part in a plot
to depress Arab oil revenues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Raising our voice against the evil is not the final
resort if the evil continues," he said. "There should be some
effective act to bring back things to their right place. . .
. Iraqis will not forget the proper saying that cutting necks
is better than cutting (our) means of living. Oh God
Almighty, be witness that we have warned them."
   Although these threats are stronger than some he made in
the past, this isn't the first time Mr. Hussein has indicated
he has his eye on the leadership of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. In a long-running effort to
dominate the Middle East, the Iraqi president was moving in
that direction a decade ago -- until sidetracked in late 1980
by the war with Iran. Since the cease-fire in that war, his
aggressiveness within OPEC has resurfaced.
   On the basis of its oil reserves, second only to Saudi
Arabia's, Iraq already was a power in OPEC. But its oil
installations were badly damaged and its production capacity
curtailed by the eight-year war with Iran.
   For more than two years now, Iraqi oil officials have been
taking increasingly bigger roles in OPEC affairs. More
recently, President Hussein's strategy has been to force up
oil prices. In that regard, he blames Kuwait and the United
Arab Emirates for "economic warfare" against Iraq and others
because of the world oil glut brought on by their chronic
cheating on OPEC quotas. Since February, the Iraqi president
has been threatening retaliation against such overproducers.
A few weeks ago, he wrote harsh letters to the rulers of
Kuwait and the UAE, demanding they reduce output.
   Now, Mr. Hussein's belligerence may be a product of Iraq's
postwar economic squeeze. With its war debt estimated at as
much as $80 billion, Iraq is the most dependent on oil
revenues of all the major OPEC members. A reconstruction
program, which has seen the rebuilding of the former
frontline cities of Basra and Faw, as well as a vast military
buildup, has been hampered by this year's decline in oil
revenues.
   Revenues have fallen some 20% from last year's estimated
$15.5 billion level. Oil provides around 95% of Iraq's
foreign exchange earnings, and over a year every $1 drop in
the price of oil costs Iraq an estimated $1 billion.
   Moves against overproduction by the United Arab Emirates
and Kuwait started at the Baghdad Arab summit last May. The
United Arab Emirates has been overproducing its OPEC-set
production quota by about one million barrels a day and
Kuwait by some 200,000 barrels a day. Partially as a result,
oil prices have fallen from OPEC's benchmark target of $18 a
barrel to as low as $14 a barrel. Prices have recently come
back to $15 a barrel following pledges by Kuwait and the UAE
to adhere to OPEC quotas.
   In his television speech, Mr. Hussein said that since the
collapse of communism in Eastern Europe, the U.S. is seeking
to become the only world superpower and aims to control Gulf
oil.
   "Saddam Hussein has been speaking as though he's the head
of the Arab world," said Don Kerr, a Middle East expert at
the Institute for Strategic Studies in London. In April, Mr.
Hussein threatened to "burn half of Israel" with chemical
weapons if it attacked Iraq. "He has been the voice of the
Arabs standing against Israel, against Western economic
imperialism, and here again he is the voice of the Arabs
against the venal agents of the Western powers," said Mr.
Kerr.
   But Mr. Kerr doesn't expect the gulf states to be much
intimidated by Mr. Hussein's threats. "Arabic rhetoric always
is colorful, so it's natural in the region for people to
discount what they are hearing," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merrill Lynch, Charles Schwab Net Rose,
   PaineWebber Profit Fell in 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   MER PWJ SCH
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Three securities firms fired the opening
earnings shots in what is expected to be the first profitable
quarter for Wall Street in nine months.
   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., boosted by a surge in investment
banking, reported a 5.6% rise in second-quarter net income
and a 13% increase in profit from continuing operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PaineWebber Group Inc. posted a 2.9% drop in profit but
had a 6.1% gain in per-share earnings because of a stock
buy-back program. And Charles Schwab Corp., parent of the
discount brokerage firm, reported a 14% increase in net.
   After Merrill's results were announced, Michael Goldstein,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co., boosted his
full-year estimate of Merrill's earnings to $1.95 a share
from $1.45. He called the company's stock "attractive for
both value investors and those anticipating favorable equity
market conditions." But some analysts remain unimpressed,
arguing that the cyclical downtrend in most areas of the
securities industry will continue to dog Wall Street.
   "Although the tone of the reports is better than expected,
the bottom line is that the main {securities} businesses
still tend to be weak," says Dean Eberling, an analyst at
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   The modest gains nevertheless were a welcome relief on
Wall Street. That's because as a group, brokerage firms are
believed to have become profitable in the second quarter
after posting pretax losses of $486 million for the first
period and $91.7 million for the 1989 fourth quarter.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Merrill rose 62.5 cents to $25.125 a share, PaineWebber fell
25 cents to $19.25, and Charles Schwab closed unchanged at
$16.
   In the latest period, Merrill had net of $74.1 million, or
64 cents a share, up from $70.2 million, or 62 cents a share,
a year earlier. Many analysts had expected its per-share net
to be 34 cents to 40 cents. The year-earlier period included
$4.5 million, or four cents a share, from discontinued
operations of the firm's real estate unit, which was shed in
the 1989 third quarter. Revenue fell 1.1% to $2.87 billion
from $2.9 billion.
   Merrill's results were boosted by an 8% increase in
investment banking revenue and a 14% jump in asset management
and custodial fee business. The investment banking business
was propped up by corporate underwriting and advisory fee
services, including a $2.25 billion issue for Walt Disney Co.
   Daniel P. Tully, president and chief operating officer,
said Merrill has several investment banking deals in the
pipeline that will be announced within 30 days. And Thomas
Patrick, Merrill's chief financial officer, said he expects
investment banking business in the third quarter to run at a
"little better pace."
   The firm's cost-cutting is starting to make a dent in
expenses. Operating expenses excluding insurance fell 4%, and
total expenses eased 1% to $2.75 billion.
   "They did chip away at them a bit, but expense levels are
still way too high," says Lawrence Eckenfelder, an analyst at
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. "I don't have a lot of
confidence that they'll come down significantly further."
   "They can't have it both ways," counters Mr. Tully, noting
Merrill's higher earnings. "We believe our trends are in the
right direction on the expense side," Mr. Tully says,
although he adds that there's "still a lot of work to be
done."
   PaineWebber had net of $14.6 million, or 35 cents a share,
compared with $15.1 million, or 33 cents a share. Revenue
increased 8% to $468.2 million from $433 million.
   PaineWebber's results were aided by a 73% revenue spurt in
trading for its own account, particularly in the bond and
international stock areas. But reduced revenue from merchant
banking and a jump in the cost of settling lawsuits offset
the trading gains, said Donald B. Marron, chairman and chief
executive officer.
   Expenses -- bloated by expansion of PaineWebber's futures
and options business and its recruitment of top brokers --
rose 9% to $445 million.
   Charles Schwab's net rose to $4.8 million, or 17 cents a
share, from $4.2 million, or 15 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Industry Focus:
   Earnings of Big Three Auto Firms Fell
   Up to 54% in Period, Analysts Estimate
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The Big Three U.S. auto makers had their worst
second quarter since the recession years of the early 1980s
as their combined earnings dropped as much as 54%, analysts
estimated.
   General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp.
were hurt as competition from Japanese auto makers forced
them to squeeze profit margins in their core North American
vehicle operations, analysts said. In addition, GM and Ford
probably broke even or were unprofitable on their Brazilian
operations, which have been hobbled by economic turmoil
there.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Combined second-quarter profit at GM, Ford and Chrysler
are expected to be $1.47 billion to $1.84 billion -- about
half of the $3.2 billion combined profit a year earlier.
That's the lowest the Big Three's combined profit has been
for the April to June period since 1982. That year, combined
profit was $869.2 million.
   "It was a lousy quarter given that spring is usually very
strong," said John A. Casesa, auto analyst at Wertheim
Schroder &amp; Co. in New York. The second quarter is often the
strongest period of the year for auto industry earnings.
   Weak sales are only part of the problem. So far this year,
total U.S. car and truck sales are just 3.4% behind the
year-ago period. But Japanese auto makers are winning a
greater share of the shrinking market, forcing Detroit to
continue profit-gobbling discount deals despite relatively
tight inventories. Analysts estimate the Big Three still are
spending about $400 more per vehicle on incentives than a
year ago, even though rebate costs have eased somewhat since
earlier this year.
   "Industry sales aren't at recessionary levels but their
earnings are close to it," said Ann Knight, auto analyst at
PaineWebber Inc.
   Just last month, the Big Three took a step to offset the
expense of rebates by announcing broad, midyear price
increases. Ford led the pack, and GM and Chrysler followed
shortly thereafter.
   Analysts say higher prices, coupled with tight
inventories, could boost profits in the second half. "With
inventories the best they've been in five years, rebates
coming down and prices going up, this sets the stage for an
upside surprise in the second half," said Scott Merlis, auto
analyst with Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   But in the just-ended quarter, Ford and GM derived the
bulk of their automotive profits from Europe, where the
market is still relatively strong, analysts said.
   At GM, analysts estimate second-quarter earnings tumbled
as much as 48% to between $756 million, or $1.20 a share, and
$900 million, or $1.30 a share. GM earned $1.45 billion, or
$2.23 a share, a year ago.
   GM may have done relatively better than its rivals because
it managed to hold its share of the North American car market
at 35.7%, virtually the same level as a year ago, and
increase slightly its share of the European market, analysts
said.
   GM probably earned money on its North American vehicle
operations in the quarter, but "from a profitability
standard, GM is a European company," said Morgan Stanley's
Mr. Merlis.
   At Ford, second-quarter earnings fell as much as 60% to
between $571 million, or $1.25 a share, and $752 million, or
$1.65 a share, analysts said. The No. 2 auto maker reported
earnings of $1.41 billion, or $3 a share, a year earlier.
   Ford's biggest problem in the quarter was its U.S.
passenger car business. After three years in a row of gains,
Ford saw its share of the car market slide two percentage
points to 20.8% in the first half. The redesigned Ford
Escort, introduced in the second quarter, is off to a slow
start and one-time gold mines, like the Ford Mustang, are
losing luster as they age.
   "They are feeling the heat from GM's aggressive pricing
and Japanese competitors," said Mr. Casesa of Wertheim
Schroder.
   Ford also saw its share of the European market slip by a
tenth of a percentage point, anaylsts said. But Europe
remains a strong market for the auto maker, and the company
is doing well in the U.S. truck market, analysts said. Its
profitable new Explorer off-road vehicle, launched in March,
is selling briskly.
   Chrysler, which has no significant overseas operations,
was hit hard from two directions in the second quarter,
analysts said. Its share of the U.S. car market slumped to
8.9% in the first half from 10.6% a year ago. And competitors
are introducing new minivans and off-road vehicles, such as
Ford's Explorer, which threaten Chrysler's dominance in both
those lucrative light truck markets.
   The result: Chrysler's profit fell as much as 60% to as
low as $138 million, or 60 cents a share, some analysts said.
Others said Chrysler's profit could be as high as $190
million, or 85 cents a share. But that's still down sharply
from $341 million, or $1.46 a share, a year earlier.
   "What has been paying the bills at Chrysler has been
strong sales of minivans and Jeeps, but it's difficult to
continue to maintain {profit} margins in this competitive
environment," said John V. Kirnan, auto analyst at Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southmark Cedes
   Partnerships' Control
   To 2 Ex-Managers
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   SM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southmark Corp said it ceded control of 33
limited partnerships to two former executives and
restructured mortgages that Southmark held on some assets
owned by those partnerships.
   Southmark also hired the former executives, John W.
Galston and Eugene H. Rosen, to provide investor-relations
services on 53 additional partnerships for which Southmark
remains general partner. The two had been engaged in proxy
fights to replace Southmark as general partner of its
privately held partnerships. Mssrs. Galston and Rosen
resigned two years ago as top managers at the company's
Southmark/Envicon syndication arm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The men, now principals of Limited Partner Investor
Monitoring Committee, Inc. (LPIMC), began their proxy
contests last year after Southmark filed for bankruptcy law
protection. The real-estate and financial services
conglomerate lost 33 of the contests.
   Under terms of the settlement, LPIMC will replace
Southmark as general partner of those partnerships. In
addition, Southmark will reduce interest rates and
subordinate principal on the partnership-related mortgages
the company holds so that the properties can handle their
debt service again. The parties agreed to drop their
lawsuits, and LPIMC agreed not to challenge Southmark's
control of the other 53 private partnerships.
   The restructured mortgages are held by Southmark's wholly
owned San Jacinto Savings Association, or are to be
contributed to the Houston thrift as part of the company's
plan of reorganization, confirmed by a bankruptcy court judge
Monday. A Southmark spokesperson said the settlement won't
have a material effect on the plan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sale of IBM's
   Low-Tech Lines
   Being Weighed
   ---
   Talks on $3 Billion Buy-out
   Said to Be Under Way
   With Potential Suitor
   ----
   By Randall Smith and Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM GE JPM SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. is considering the
sale of low-technology businesses, such as electric
typewriters and keyboards, in a buy-out that could total
about $3 billion, Wall Street and industry executives said.
   The possible sale of the businesses is the latest sign of
a new urgency among IBM executives to make each business
stand on its own to strengthen the company's financial
performance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As part of a cost-cutting campaign, the computer giant has
been looking for ways to get out of marginal businesses and
has simply decided that it can't make some of these
low-profit-margin items as inexpensively as its competitors
can, the executives said. In addition, these businesses are
no longer central to IBM. While electric typewriters, for
example, were once a mainstay of IBM's office equipment
business, they were supplanted in the 1980s by the
proliferation of desktop computers and other word processing
systems.
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, IBM closed at $120.75, down $1.625.
   In Armonk, N.Y., an IBM spokesman declined to comment. The
industry executives cautioned that many details remain to be
worked out before a sale can be completed. Still, they said
that IBM is talking with a potential buyer, and that an
agreement may be announced by the end of this month. The
possible buyer's identity couldn't be confirmed.
   The current plan provides for a leveraged buy-out, with
some employees getting equity -- an arrangement that, while
commonplace in the 1980s, would be unusual for a business
owned by IBM.
   A leveraged buy-out also would raise some troubling issues
for IBM, because such transactions are sometimes followed by
layoffs to cut costs and help enable the acquirer to repay
the debt used in the purchase. Yet a key tenet of IBM's
culture is a tradition of no layoffs. When IBM has sold
businesses in the past, it has tried to allay employee fears
on that subject, and IBM's concerns about employee morale are
apparently part of what remains to be worked out.
   Besides typewriters and keyboards, the computer industry
executives said, the sale also could involve low-end
printers. All three products are made at IBM's plant in
Lexington, Ky. The number of employees there wasn't
available. IBM has already turned over much of its typewriter
marketing and service to other companies. It also backed away
from a similar business, copiers, by selling most of the
operations to Eastman Kodak Co. two years ago.
   The move would be embarrassing for IBM, because it spent
several hundred million dollars a few years ago to modernize
and automate the Lexington facility, and touted it as an
example of how a U.S. manufacturing facility could compete
with the Japanese.
   Still, IBM executives have indicated they will bite the
bullet, if they must, to cut costs. In the fourth quarter,
IBM took a $2.4 billion charge to cover a reduction of 10,000
jobs and some plant consolidations. It also has been pruning
operations where possible; just last week, it said it was
selling its automated teller machine operations into a joint
venture with Diebold Inc., after capturing only about 5% of
the worldwide market.
   A Wall Street source said IBM is being advised on the sale
by Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., the securities unit of
American Express Co. Advisers for the potential buyer are
believed to include the investment banking unit of J.P.
Morgan &amp; Co., as well as the Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. unit of
General Electric Co.
   Executives of Shearson, Morgan and Kidder all declined to
comment.
   Any sale of these typewriter, keyboard or printer
businesses would underscore IBM's intention to get out of
marginal businesses, because, while IBM has sold assets it
built up in ventures with other companies, it rarely parts
with home-grown businesses such as these.
   IBM's business as a whole has performed better than
expected this year, with earnings up 6.8% in the first half
to $2.45 billion, or $4.26 a share, on a revenue rise of 9.8%
to $30.68 billion. But IBM isn't out of the woods yet.
   Sales of mainframes declined in the second quarter, and
IBM must manage a ticklish transition late this year and next
year, as it moves to a new generation of mainframes that the
company is expected to announce this fall. Customers often
stop buying products while they pause to evaluate new ones,
creating an awkward slowdown in sales.
   IBM's mainframe competitors also have been taking market
share away from the company in the past couple of years, and
some industry executives worry that the new generation of
machines expected from Amdahl Corp. and Hitachi Ltd. may
accelerate that erosion of market share. Mainframes account
for roughly half of IBM's sales and nearly two-thirds of its
earnings, so any problems in that area would ripple through
IBM's business.
   Even while announcing solid earnings on Monday, IBM
Chairman John Akers cautioned in a statement that "much
remains to be done this year."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cooper Industries Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Cooper Industries Inc. said it retained the
investment banking firm of Dillon, Read &amp; Co. to advise it on
the possible sale of its Arrow-Hart Components business.
   The electronic products manufacturing concern said the
sale would include manufacturing operations in the U.S. and
Plymouth, England, which have combined annual revenue of
about $25 million. Cooper acquired the operations in 1981
with the acquisition of Crouse-Hinds Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cooper didn't disclose what price it would seek for the
Arrow-Hart operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commercial-Paper Rates
   Fall at Citicorp Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate fell to 8.01% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.21% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $380 million were submitted. Accepted bids
were at 8.01%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said that the average rate fell to 7.9647%
at its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from
8.16% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $381.2 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 7.924% to 7.98%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Going Strong:
   In Japan, the Economy
   Shakes Off Stock Drop
   And Continues Robust
   ---
   Nikkei's Dive in First Quarter
   Has Little Lasting Effect
   On Investment, Spending
   ---
   Mrs. Akiyama Goes Shopping
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli and Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN HIT
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   AKITA, Japan -- Seiichi Suda's business is booming. The
electronics factories the entrepreneur owns are operating
flat out, and Mr. Suda is feeling prosperous enough that he
just bought a slick new $60,000 Nissan Infiniti, with
ash-gray leather seats and a telephone.
   Guzzling an iced coffee to fight off the summer heat in
this coastal city 400 miles north of Tokyo, the voluble
49-year-old laughs when he remembers how uneasy he felt last
winter. Tokyo's stock market was plunging relentlessly. More
than $1 trillion in capital, the equivalent of one-third of
Japan's annual output, was wiped out. The world's second
largest economy seemed at risk.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I was so fearful then," Mr. Suda recalls. "I worried for
the economy and my business. But now it seems like a bad
dream. It means nothing."
   As Mr. Suda's personal experience shows, the market
battering that traumatized big investors in the first three
months of this year has proven surprisingly painless to
Japan's, and the world's, economy. The effect of the plunge,
declares Yasuyuki Yoshida, a senior analyst at Mitsubishi
Research Institute, was "just psychological."
   In fact, the Japanese economy continues to grow, having
roared ahead at an annualized rate of 10.4% in the first
quarter. The 44-month expansion, powered by buoyant corporate
and consumer spending, is Japan's second longest in modern
times. Analysts generally expect the Japanese economy to grow
at least 4.5% to 5% for 1990, not as fast as in the first
quarter but a very healthy clip. Next year, Japan seems all
but certain to extend its streak beyond the record 57-month
Izanagi Boom of the 1960s.
   The strength of Japan's economy is also reaching abroad:
Imports are surging, and exports from Japan, aided by a weak
yen, are on the rise again. Bolstered by such fundamental
strengths, the Japanese stock market has recovered more than
half of its first-quarter losses, closing yesterday at
33172.28, up 150.55.
   In fact, some economists now say the stock plunge may have
been just the tonic Japan's economy needed to ward off a bout
of inflation that could have brought growth to an abrupt
halt. "There was a dual economy in Japan: the financial
economy of the stock market and the real economy," says Kengo
Inoue, manager of the Akita branch of the Bank of Japan and
the central bank's former head of domestic economic research.
"The financial economy was inflated before the crash. Some
people may have thought that it was sustainable. We never
did."
   It was the Bank of Japan's decision to impose the higher
interest rates that triggered the stock-market dive. The aim
of raising rates was to curb asset inflation -- inflation
that critics say the Bank itself had fed by wrongly trimming
interest rates to all-time lows in early 1987. When last year
ended, share prices were towering at nearly quadruple their
levels of five years earlier. Japanese land prices had also
surged, doubling in five years.
   Fearful this asset inflation would trigger price inflation
and choke economic growth, the Bank of Japan last year began
constraining credit by raising interest rates. The financial
markets at first ignored the rate increases, but in early
January began unraveling. The Nikkei index of 225 stocks
didn't bottom out until it reached 28002.07 April 2, some 28%
below its record close of 38915.87 at the end of 1989.
   Nonetheless, the bank's strategy now appears to have
worked, almost beyond anyone's expectations. Prices lately
have stabilized. The latest wholesale price statistics show a
meager 0.9% year-to-year increase for June; in January, by
contrast, producer prices were up 2.6% from a year earlier.
   To be sure, there are weak spots in Japan's economy that,
along with higher interest rates, could work to slow Japan's
economy later this year. The tight labor market is a prime
example. There are currently 141 jobs for every 100
applicants in Japan (the highest ratio in 16 years), which is
forcing many manufacturers to spend more than planned on
automating their factories. Still, national wage negotiations
earlier this year locked in moderate wage increases for many
workers at least through next April, reducing the risk of
wage-fed inflation.
   Most important, consumer and corporate confidence has
withstood the shocks of both the stock-market crash and
higher consumer interest rates, which are now double levels
of a year ago. (Mortgage rates, for example, are now as high
as 10%.) Few people have curtailed spending in light of lower
stock prices. One reason is that individuals aren't
especially big stock owners in Japan -- they own one share in
five, whereas adults in the U.S. own one in four -- and thus
weren't big losers in the market plunge. The Long-Term Credit
Bank of Japan Ltd. estimates in one scenario that the
negative effect of this year's market decline on personal
consumption will be only 0.2% -- hardly enough to dent
Japan's economic progress.
   Itoko Akiyama's experience illustrates the resilience of
the Japanese consumer. With the money she made investing in
stocks over five years, the Japanese housewife bought a new
red Mercedes-Benz, remodeled her suburban Tokyo apartment and
dressed her three teen-agers in the latest fashions. After
the market soured, Mrs. Akiyama's stockholdings were worth
25% less, but will she stop spending? "No," she says, after
finishing a lunch with a friend at an elegant downtown Tokyo
restaurant. "I still have plenty of profits. And the market
will recover."
   Such confidence is just what government planners here want
to hear. Small investors like Mrs. Akiyama are taking profits
and continuing the consumer-spending spree driving the
economy. Non-investors are spending more of their rising
wages.
   In May, after the stock market had about gotten through
its bad patch, consumers put on a show of strength: retail
sales jumped 12.5% from a year earlier. Luxury cars are in
such demand that for some of them, buyers must wait as much
as a year for delivery. Even housing starts have shrugged off
the interest-rate increase; they were up 31% in April from a
year earlier after climbing 60% in March.
   Corporations have remained just as free-spending, as a
tour around Akita, a port town on the Sea of Japan, makes
clear. Akita Electric Co., a Hitachi Corp.
semiconductor-making subsidiary, initially planned to spend
$200 million on new machinery this year. But, driven by
strong sales, a need to keep pace with new technologies and
hopes of offsetting its labor supply problem with more
automation, the company has decided to raise that spending to
$400 million.
   "This is a competitive industry," says 66-year-old Kogo
Sato, who set up Akita Electric 20 years ago. "To compete, we
have to spend." Like many big Japanese companies, Hitachi can
afford to. The five-year boom on Tokyo's stock market made it
easy for big companies to raise fresh funds, and many big
concerns, including Hitachi, Toyota Motor Corp. and
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., are sitting on billions
of dollars in cash. More than 32 Japanese companies earned
profit of more than $70 million each last year simply on the
income from their cash hoards.
   Seiichi Suda, the electronics business owner, demonstrates
how most businessmen barely broke stride during Japan's
recent rise in interest rates and stock market turmoil.
Energetic and sporting a crew cut, Mr. Suda subcontracts
assembly work from Japan's giant electronics makers. His
small empire includes six separate electronics companies and
a pair of insurance concerns employing a total of 1,800
people and generating sales of $150 million a year, quadruple
sales of five years ago. Mr. Suda estimates that, in another
five years, sales could top $330 million.
   Even though he borrows two-thirds of the money he uses for
new investments, he says higher interest rates haven't
deterred him. "I'm trying to improve efficiency so I can
compete with bigger companies," he says. "Business is great,"
he adds. "You can't stop just because interest rates go up."
In a May survey, the Bank of Japan found that Japanese
manufacturers invested 16.5% more than they did the year
before.
   That willingness to spend could be a long-term boon for
Japanese companies, economists say. Rivals in the U.S. are
facing a possible crunch because of lenders' caution, while
competitors in Europe will be focusing much of their
investment on the East bloc. Heavy corporate investment now
in research and new equipment could help Japanese companies
gain an important lead over international rivals.
   For the moment, though, Japan's spending is generally good
news for its trading partners, since the country's domestic
demand -- the combined spending of consumers and corporations
-- has been strong enough to pull along some other economies,
too. Japan's imports in 1989 grew to $210.8 billion, up 12.5%
from the previous year. Its exports were up 3.9% to $275.2
billion.
   Exports have lately shown signs of faster growth. Despite
the Bank of Japan's higher interest rates, investors haven't
been induced to put more money in yen. The currency has
remained relatively weak, dipping at one point as low as 160
yen to the dollar, about 12% below its average level in 1989.
   The weak yen means Japanese products are cheaper for
buyers overseas, and that has been spurring exports,
economists say. In the first quarter, exports surged at an
annual rate of 38.7%. The weak yen also means that Japanese
companies' earnings from foreign operations will jump this
year in yen terms. Nikko Securities Co. recently estimated
that total corporate profits for Japanese companies in the
year ending March 1991 will climb 4.1%, after rising 8% in
the year ended March 31.
   "Corporate earnings should set a record for consecutive
years of growth," concurs Nomura Securities Co.'s research
unit. The record now is five years, from 1965 to 1970.
   All of which has helped the stock market recover a good
deal. In a reversal of gloomy forecasts in April, many
analysts now expect the economy to remain on track and the
Nikkei index to end 1990 even higher than where it closed at
the end of 1989.
   "There are many happy people," says Harumi Ichiki, a
director of Sumitomo Life Research Institute Inc., a think
tank. "This year's pay rises are higher than last year's,
there is almost full employment, people can enjoy overseas
travel, and the country is the world's biggest creditor
nation. It's hard to say we aren't happy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   NASA Is Faulted Over Hubble Snafus
   For Not Copying Military Satellite Tests
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GMH
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Aeronautics and Space
Administration is being asked to learn a lesson from its
snafus with the Hubble Space Telescope: When it comes to
space, follow the military.
   Sen. Albert Gore (D., Tenn.), who heads the Senate science
and space subcommittee, chewed out NASA for failing to
conduct tests the military routinely conducts on spy
satellites. At a hearing today, a Senate appropriations panel
plans to probe NASA's test procedures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But telescope scientists and former NASA officials say the
Pentagon is at the root of some of Hubble's problems. The Air
Force limited the number of NASA managers who could oversee
Hubble early in the program, the scientists and officials
say. They add that the space agency, facing cost overruns and
schedule delays, counted too heavily on Pentagon inspectors
and Hubble contractors to catch problems with the telescope.
   "There was a problem of constraining costs from day one"
with Hubble, says Rep. George Brown, (D., Calif.), a senior
member of the House Science and Space Committee and a former
member of the Intelligence Committee. "NASA kept trying to
squeeze an extra buck, {while} cost is no consideration to
the military."
   Moreover, say optical scientists appointed by NASA to look
at the Hubble flaw, NASA made a fundamental error in its
testing program. Once the agency rejected the military tests
as too expensive and unlikely to yield the precision data it
wanted, it didn't substitute simple tests that could have
caught Hubble's defect.
   "Replacing common sense with sophistication was part of
the problem," says John Mangus, a NASA optics expert who is a
member of the Hubble review board. "There are sanity checks
you {can} use."
   Bill Colvin, NASA's inspector general, says he fears that
the lack of controls that let Hubble's problems go undetected
for 10 years, still dogs the space agency. "I have concerns
about the space station -- that we will repeat the same
mistakes," he says.
   NASA's problems with the $2.5 billion Hubble surfaced late
last month when the agency found a defect in one of the
orbiting telescope's mirrors. That problem leaves Hubble
myopic and puts off for at least three years half the
experiments astronomers had planned. But the problems began
in 1977 when Perkin-Elmer Corp.'s optics division, purchased
last year by the Hughes Aircraft division of General Motors
Corp., won a $63.4 million contract to build the mirror and
pointing system.
   According to an investigation by the House Appropriations
Committee in 1983, the Air Force insisted that NASA restrict
to 90 people -- half its usual staffing -- the number of
people who could oversee the project. The Pentagon "wished to
limit the number of NASA personnel `penetrating' contractors
who were also working on classified Department of Defense
projects," the report said. At the time, Perkin-Elmer was
believed to be making the optical system for the KH-9 spy
satellites.
   The restrictions ended in 1979, the report said, but NASA
was slow to increase its Hubble oversight staff. From 1979
through 1981, when Hubble's mirrors were being polished and
tested, only three NASA personnel oversaw work at
Perkin-Elmer's Danbury, Conn., optics facility, says John
Rich, who heads the Hughes subsidiary.
   "NASA couldn't put the numbers of technical people in the
plant to monitor {the project} as they usually do," says
James Beggs, who headed the space agency in the early 1980s.
   Instead, he says, NASA depended on Air Force inspectors
who were at Perkin-Elmer to look after Hubble. Rep. Brown,
who has reviewed both military and civilian space programs,
says the longstanding rivalry between the Air Force and NASA
may have gotten in the way. (The Air Force declined to
comment.)
   Neither Perkin-Elmer nor NASA discovered that one of the
Hubble mirrors was seriously flawed. To guard against such a
mishap, Sen. Gore and Rep. Brown say the Pentagon insists on
an elaborate test for military satellites in which mirrors
are aligned as they would be in space to ensure the mirrors
are accurately formed.
   NASA rejected that test because it was costly and because
the agency didn't feel the test would yield accurate enough
information on the quality of the Hubble mirrors. Optics
experts say the military test isn't crucial -- if substitute
tests are used. But NASA and Perkin-Elmer rejected the
substitutes, too.
   The defect in Hubble was so coarse -- as much as 25 times
worse than the prescribed accuracy -- that a number of simple
tests could have caught the flaw, including one holding a
knife's edge to the mirror and measuring the shadows it
casts.
   Richard Harms, a scientist at Applied Research Corp.,
Landover, Md., who oversaw a second of Hubble's five
instruments, says he had to fight for months in the mid-1980s
just to get NASA to do a so-called lens-cap test. That test
involves shining a light in the front of the telescope to
make sure it comes out the back -- the equivalent of making
sure you remove a lens cap on a camera before snapping a
picture.
   "The reasoning was if you can't do a test that meets
specifications, why do the test at all," he says. "The reason
is you test to the best capability to guarantee you don't
have a horrible error."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Health Care Needs
   Good Business Sense
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   High hospital costs in Kalamazoo are attributed by your
reporter ("Rival Operations -- Competitive Anomaly: Consumers
Pay More in 2-Hospital Towns," page one, June 6) to the
existence of competition between two hospitals, the
implication being that a monopoly would be better. The story,
however, also supports an even more ironic hypothesis -- that
Kalamazoo's large corporate purchasers of hospital services
are responsible for the high costs and their own plight.
   After years of trying to encourage the hospitals to
cooperate rather than compete (probably the cooperation
envisioned would have been unlawful under the antitrust laws
in any event), Kalamazoo's employers are apparently now
considering for the first time purchasing health care just as
they purchase other goods and services -- with price as a
central consideration. Theodore Cooper, M.D., who was quoted
as chairman of Upjohn Co. but who still sounds like the U.S.
assistant secretary of health he once was, admits, "We've
never tried to bid one {hospital} against the other." If
employers had negotiated with the hospitals for particular
services, demanding good quality and a competitive price in
return for their employees' business, the duplication of
services and high prices they complain of would never have
occurred.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Clark C. Havighurst
   Durham, N.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baptist Press's Chiefs Axed
   By News Service's Owners
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The top officers of Baptist Press, a prominent religious
news service used by nearly 500 newspapers and magazines
nationwide, were fired by the executive committee of the
Southern Baptist Convention, which owns the service.
   The dismissals of Al Shackleford, 58 years old, director
of the Nashville, Tenn.-based news service, and Dan Martin,
51, its editor, were made effective immediately after the
committee voted in closed session yesterday in Nashville. The
committee named no replacements for the two men, leaving the
43-year-old news service's future unclear.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In June, the committee told the two men to resign by Sept.
30 or they would "be dealt with harshly." They refused. Last
week, the Associated Church Press -- representing 195
Protestant, Catholic and Eastern Orthodox publications --
wrote to Baptist officials urging them to retain Messrs.
Shackleford and Martin.
   Although the committee offered no explanation for its
action, its chairman, Sam Pace of Lawton, Okla., earlier
issued a statement accusing Mr. Shackleford of bias against
fundamentalists, who recently wrested control of the Southern
Baptist Convention from a more moderate faction.
Fundamentalists believe the Bible is literally true in
matters of religion, science and history.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fiat Unit Joins GE
   In Project to Develop
   Jumbo-Jet Engine
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GE FIA F.SNM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   EVENDALE, Ohio -- General Electric Co.'s jet engine
division said the aviation subsidiary of Italy's Fiat Group
has signed up as a 10% partner on GE's new jumbo-jet engine
program, the GE-90.
   The Fiat unit, Fiat-Avio S.p.A. of Turin, Italy, will
share in GE-90 development, production and revenue, GE
Aircraft Engines said. GE has estimated development costs at
between $1.2 billion and $2 billion. The engine will compete
with products by United Technologies Corp.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney
division and Britain's Rolls-Royce PLC in a market valued at
between $50 billion and $100 billion over 20 years, beginning
when the next generation of wide-body jets are launched in
the mid-1990s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GE announced this month that France's Snecma committed to
a 25% stake in the new engine. GE has said it wants to limit
its role in the GE-90 program to a 60% interest, while using
foreign partners to share the development costs and risk and
to help in marketing overseas.
   For the GE-90, Fiat-Avio will develop the engine gearbox
and drive system and participate in the aerodynamic,
mechanical and structural design and development of the
low-pressure turbine, GE said.
   Fiat also agreed to an 11% participation in a new GE
gas-turbine engine, the LM-6000, for marine and industrial
use, and to increase its role as a supplier of low-pressure
turbine parts for GE's existing CF6-80C2 jet engine, which
powers current wide-body aircraft.
   GE, headquartered in Fairfield, Conn., has interests in
aerospace, financial services, broadcasting and industrial
products.
   Separately, GE said it will lay off 670 workers, or 14% of
the work force at its Pittsfield, Mass., plant, which makes
products for the electric utility industry and the military.
About 80% of the cutback involves GE's Power Delivery &amp;
Controls division. The remaining cuts will affect GE's
aerospace division at the plant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Hewlett-Packard Insiders Sold Shares
   Totaling $5.6 Million Up to Mid-June
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   HWP TNEL KOL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Insiders at Hewlett-Packard Co. sold $5.6
million of the company's shares between mid-May and mid-June,
according to filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
   In total, 17 executives and one director trimmed their
holdings by 118,275 shares, the filings show. Altogether, the
sales represented 9% of total officer holdings in the Palo
Alto, Calif., computer company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The wave of selling began May 16, the day the company
reported disappointing second-quarter earnings, prompting a
6% drop in the price of Hewlett-Packard stock over the next
two days. May 16 also was the day that some insiders were
freed to sell shares granted to them in 1985, said Ann
Baskins, assistant secretary.
   Five years ago "our board approved some significant gifts
{of stock} to the top people in the company," but sales of
the shares were restricted until May 1990, she said. In
addition to the open-market sales, insiders "surrendered to
the company" 69,000 shares to pay taxes on the 1985 stock
grant, she said. The surrenders trimmed insider holdings by
6%.
   The insiders sold at an average price of $47.34 a share,
SEC filings show. In New York Stock Exchange composite
trading yesterday, Hewlett-Packard shares closed at $47.875,
up 12.5 cents.
   The largest sale was by David W. Packard, a director and
son of the company's chairman. He sold 21,060 shares June 12
at $48.63 a share; he retains 559,539 shares, SEC filings
show. Executive Vice President Richard Alberding sold 17,500
shares, 30% of his total holdings. Mr. Alberding declined to
comment; Mr. Packard couldn't be reached for comment. The
other insiders sold between 181 and 14,960 shares.
   ---
   THE GOOD BOOK: Two insiders at Bible publisher Thomas
Nelson Inc. purchased 134,510 shares in June for over $1
million, SEC filings show.
   They paid about $7.50 a share, according to the filings.
In trading on the over-the-counter market, Thomas Nelson
shares closed yesterday at $8.50, down 12.5 cents.
   Sam Z. Moore, president of the Nashville, Tenn., company,
bought 42,846 common shares and 14,816 Class B shares June
20. The private purchases increased his holdings, according
to the company, to 1,037,085 shares. He couldn't be reached
for comment.
   Brownlee O. Currey Jr., a Nelson director who is chairman
of the Nashville Banner newspaper, privately purchased 76,848
common shares the same day, raising his stake to 100,000
shares. Mr. Currey said he sees Nelson as in a turnaround
position. In the mid-1980s, the company diversified into the
cookbook and greeting card businesses, and "they didn't work
out the way we hoped," he said. The company reported losses
for fiscal 1985 and 1986.
   But in the fiscal year ended March 31, earnings were 60
cents a share, compared with 46 cents a year earlier, on a
20% revenue gain. The firm has returned to its "main business
-- the Bible business," said Mr. Currey.
   ---
   CHART TOPPER: The largest purchase in this week's Insider
Trading Spotlight chart was part of a previously reported
increase in the amount of Kollmorgen Corp. stock held by a
group including Tinicum Inc. The group raised its stake in
Kollmorgen, a Simsbury, Conn., manufacturer of motors and
electro-optical systems, with open-market purchases of
707,100 shares between May 11 and June 12, SEC filings
disclosed earlier.
   Now, separate SEC reports show that 378,807 of those
shares were purchased by Eric Ruttenberg, a Kollmorgen
director and a principal in Tinicum, a New York investment
group. Mr. Ruttenberg, who paid $4.2 million for the shares,
said he bought them on behalf of Tinicum because "we like the
company."
   Kollmorgen stock closed yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange at $12.125, down 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   B.SAB EUROP BAB KLM FREST TAXES JAPAN AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKS (BNK)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   A BLOW FOR SABENA
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Brussels Commercial Court found Sabena World Airlines
guilty of violating a European Community competition law that
prohibits concerted practices that prevent, restrict or
distort competition.
   SWA, the new Brussels-based joint venture between Sabena,
British Airways and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, has a virtual
monopoly on traffic rights out of Belgium. In its decision,
the court prohibited SWA from winning new takeoff and landing
slots at Brussels airport for an indefinite period,
regardless of appeals.
   This interdiction could seriously undermine SWA's
expansion plans and cause its two airline partners to lose
interest. British Airways and KLM each paid $50 million last
year for 20% stakes in the venture, leaving the rest to
Sabena, now a holding company. Their idea is to transform
Brussels airport into a major European hub by increasing
flight frequencies and adding new routes that link secondary
cities via Brussels.
   Sabena said it would appeal the court's decision to limit
slots. KLM and British Airways declined to comment.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH KOREAN TAX CHANGE
                                                                                                       

   South Korea plans to curtail tax favors granted to foreign
businesses starting next year, the Finance Ministry said.
Officials said the ministry has drafted a plan calling for
granting tax favors only to foreign businesses investing in
high technology; even for those companies, the tax-exemption
rate would be cut to 50% from the present 100%. Finance
Ministry officials said the proposed changes are intended to
ensure fairer competition between Korean and foreign
companies.
                                                                                                       

   OVERCROWDED FEZ
                                                                                                       

   Morocco said that the ancient city of Fez was falling into
decay through overcrowding and that 100,000 residents would
have to leave. The population has swollen from 120,000 to
over 300,000 without any new houses being built, said Moulay
Ahmed Alaoui, minister of state without portfolio. Local
authorities have set up a private company to build 25,000
apartments in satellite towns over the next five years to
house 100,000 people now living within the city walls. "Some
houses formerly occupied by one family are now occupied by 30
families, with as many as three families living in one room,"
he said.
                                                                                                       

   RICE PRICE INVESTIGATION
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Fair Trade Commission has started an investigation
into alleged price-fixing collusion among 12 rice wholesalers
in Hokkaido, a Japanese news agency said, quoting commission
sources. The wholesalers handle rice marketed outside control
of the government; more than 50% of Japanese rice is priced
by such wholesalers. The sources said the case may affect the
government's plan to further deregulate rice distribution,
including the planned formation of rice exchanges in Tokyo
and Osaka.
                                                                                                       

   SPANISH BANK MERGER
                                                                                                       

   Two of Spain's largest savings banks, Caixa de Pensions
and Caixa de Barcelona took a major step toward merging into
the nation's biggest financial institution. The two
Barcelona-based banks successfully passed the first obstacle
in their path by winning approval from the Catalonian
regional government. The merger, which must be authorized by
Spain's Finance Ministry, would create one of Europe's
biggest banks. Combined deposits of both banks are estimated
at more than four trillion pesetas ($39.48 billion), said a
Caixa de Pensions spokesman.
                                                                                                       

   OPENING UP VIETNAM
                                                                                                       

   Vietnam has amended its foreign-investment law to let
private groups cooperate with foreign organizations, the
official Vietnam News Agency said. Only state entities were
allowed such contacts under the original law issued in 1987.
The report said the amendment opened the field to private
groups "except in some areas reserved for the state sector
such as {the} defense industry and economic or technological
branches of strategic significance for the economy."
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN TO BAN DRIFT NETS
                                                                                                       

   Japan will stop drift-net fishing in the South Pacific
this season, said the Japanese Embassy in Canberra,
Australia.
   The statement, drafted by Tokyo's Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, said Japan would suspend drift-net fishing in the
coming 1990-91 season, a year before the date set by a United
Nations resolution.
   Drift nets have been criticized by conservationists for
indiscriminately killing marine life. Australia has joined
many other Pacific nations in calling for their use to be
banned.
   Hailing Japan's decision, New Zealand Prime Minister
Geoffrey Palmer said: "This announcement removes a very
significant irritant from discussions with Japan about the
scope for environmental and other cooperation in the region."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Australian teen-agers are risking their lives by taking to
sewers on bicycles and skateboards in imitation of the stars
of the U.S. TV series "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles," police
in Melbourne said. In one recent incident, 18 officials spent
four hours chasing a group of children through sewers; the
children escaped. . . . The Sherpas, a tribe of mountaineers
and high-altitude guides in Nepal, want Mount Everest to be
renamed for a Nepalese climbing hero, said a Japanese news
agency. The mountain was named after Sir George Everest, a
British surveyor general of India.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   PEG BUD EUROP GE J.SEY CANDA RPOW J.DDS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Electric Capital Corp. -- $250 million of notes,
due July 24, 2008, is being offered with an 8 1/2% coupon
rate at prices based on prevailing market conditions at the
time of sale to investors. Investors can put their notes in
five years at par. The non-callable notes were priced
initially at par to yield 8.5%, a spread of 0.22 percentage
point above the Treasury's five-year notes. Rated triple-A by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.,
the issue will be sold through underwriters led by Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets. GECC is the financial arm of General
Electric Co.
   Kaiser Permanente -- $200 million of 9.55% debentures, due
July 15, 2005, was priced at 99.656 to yield 9.593%. The
non-callable debentures were priced at a spread of 1.15
percentage points above the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated
double-A-2 by Moody's and double-A by S&amp;P, the issue will be
sold through underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. Kaiser
Permanente is a large prepaid health care delivery system.
   Public Service Electric &amp; Gas Co. -- $125 million of first
mortgage and refunding bonds, due July 1, 2020, was priced at
par to yield 9.75%. The bonds, which are nonrefundable at a
lower interest cost for five years, were won in competitive
bidding by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., who bid 99.626 for a net
cost to the company of 9.787%. Rated single-A-1 by Moody's
and single-A by S&amp;P, the bonds were priced at a spread of
1.30 percentage points above the Treasury's 30-year note. The
bonds were issued by a subsidiary of the Newark, N.J.based
Public Service Enterprise Group Inc.
   Anheuser-Busch Cos. -- $100 million of 8 3/4% notes, due
July 15, 1995, through Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. The company said
the notes will be offered to the public at 99.92% of the face
amount to yield 8.769%. Proceeds will be used for general
corporate purposes, the company said, including repayment of
short-term debt incurred to fund working capital requirements
and the Sea World acquisition that was completed in late
1989. The notes are being issued under a previous shelf
registration that Anheuser-Busch filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, the company said.
   Northern Illinois Gas Co. -- $50 million of first mortgage
notes, due July 15, 1995, was priced with a coupon of 8.70%
at 99.896 to yield 8.725%. The issue was won in competitive
bidding by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, which offered a
price of 99.546 for a net interest cost to the company of
8.814%. The notes, which are non-callable for four years,
were priced at a spread of 0.42 percentage point above the
Treasury's five-year note. The issue was rated double-A-1 by
Moody's and double-A by S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   Connecticut -- $325 million of general obligation bonds,
due July 15, 1991-2010, excluding 1994, 1999 and 2002, were
tentatively priced by a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group
to yield from 5.80% in 1991 to 6.95% in 2007-2010. There are
no term bonds. The bonds are rated double-A by Moody's and
S&amp;P.
   New York State -- $225 million of various purpose general
obligation bonds, due July 15, 1991-2020, apparently were won
by a First Boston Corp. group with a bid setting the true
interest cost at 6.807%. The bonds, rated single-A by Moody's
and S&amp;P, were priced for reoffering to yield from 6.00% in
1992 to 7.15% in 2009-2020. Bonds due in 1991 aren't formally
reoffered.
   San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit -- $159 million of
sales tax revenue refunding bonds, Series 1990, due July 1,
1992-2004, 2009, 2010 and 2011, with capital appreciation
bonds due 2001-2004, were priced by a Smith Barney, Harris
Upham &amp; Co. group. The bonds are priced to yield from 5.90%
in 1992 to 7.04% in 2009. Current interest serial bonds are
priced at par to yield from 5.90% in 1992 to 6.70% in 2000.
There are $56 million of 6 3/4% term bonds priced at 97 to
yield 7.04% in 2009. There are $13.9 million of 6 3/4% term
bonds priced at 98 to yield 6.94% in 2010. There are $14.9
million of 6 3/4% term bonds priced at 97.95 to yield 6.94%
in 2011. Bonds due in 2010 and 2011 are non-callable. Capital
appreciation bonds are priced to yield to maturity from 6.65%
in 2001 to 6.75% in 2003 and 2004. The bonds are rated
single-A-1 by Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P, excluding
bonds due in 2009-2011 and capital appreciation bonds due in
20012004, which are insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and
S&amp;P.
   West Virginia School Building Authority -- $102.9 million
of capital improvement revenue bonds, Series 1990 B, due July
1, 1991-2007, 2010, 2017 and 2020, were tentatively priced by
a Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. group to
yield from 5.90% in 1991 to 7.22% in 2017. Current interest
serial bonds are priced to yield from 5.90% in 1991 to 7.05%
in 2003. Bonds due in 2004-2007 aren't formally reoffered.
There are $11.1 million of 6.75% term bonds priced at 95.50
to yield 7.18% in 2010. There are $36.3 million of 6.75% term
bonds priced at 94.50 to yield 7.22% in 2017. There are $21.2
million of 6% term bonds priced at 86.25 to yield 7.11% in
2020. The bonds are insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and
S&amp;P.
   Michigan State Hospital Authority -- $101 million of
hospital revenue bonds, Oakwood Hospital Obligated Group
issue, Series 1990 A, due July 1, 1992-2002, 2010 and 2018
were tentatively priced by a Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. group to
yield from 6.10% in 1992 to 7.18% in 2018. Current interest
serial bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.10% in 1992 to
7.00% in 2002. There are $29 million of 7% term bonds priced
at 99.00 to yield 7.09% in 2010. There are $50.5 million of
7.10% term bonds priced at 99.00 to yield 7.18% in 2018. The
bonds are insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Maryland Health and Higher Education Facilities Authority
-- $89.5 million of revenue bonds, Francis Scott Key Medical
Center issue, Series 1990, due July 1, 1995-2005, 2010 and
2023, were tentatively priced by a Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. group
to yield from 6.35% in 1995 to 7.10% in 2010 and 2023.
Current interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield from
6.35% in 1995 to 7.00% in 2005. There are $12.5 million of 7%
term bonds priced at 98.94 to yield 7.10% in 2010. There are
$60.5 million of 6.75% term bonds priced at 95.56 to yield
7.10% in 2023. The bonds are insured and rated triple-A by
Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Indiana Municipal Power Agency -- $88.5 million of power
supply system revenue bonds, 1990 Series A, due Jan. 1,
1993-2005, and 2015, were tentatively priced by a Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.30% in 1993 to 7.35% in
2015. Current interest serial bonds are priced to yield from
6.30% in 1993 to 7.20% in 2005. There are $55.9 million of
7.10% term bonds priced at 97.17 to yield 7.35% in 2015. The
bonds are rated single-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Illinois Housing Development Authority -- $64.9 million of
residential mortgage revenue bonds through a Bear, Stearns &amp;
Co. group. The issue, which includes 1990 Series B, due Aug.
1, 1993-2000, 2010 and 2023, with capital appreciation bonds
due 2001-2006, and 1990 Series C, due Aug. 1, 1993-2000,
2010, and 2017, with capital appreciation bonds due
2001-2006, is priced to yield from 6.10% for Series C bonds
due in 1993 to 7.75% for Series B bonds due in 2023. Series B
consists of $45.9 million of bonds. Series B current interest
serial bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.30% in 1993 to
7.00% in 2000. There are $3.6 million of term bonds priced at
par to yield 7.13% in 2010 and $39.4 million of term bonds
priced at par to yield 7.75% in 2023. Capital appreciation
bonds are priced to yield to maturity from 7.20% in 2001 to
7.60% in 2005 to 2006. Series C consists of $19.2 million of
bonds. Series C current interest serial bonds are priced at
par to yield from 6.10% in 1993 to 6.80% in 2000. There are
$4.3 million of term bonds priced at par to yield 7.40% in
2010 and $11.6 million of term bonds priced at par to yield
7.50% in 2017. Capital appreciation bonds are priced to yield
to maturity from 7.05% in 2001 to 7.40% in 2005 and 2006.
Ratings of double-A by Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P are
expected. Interest on the Series B bonds will be treated as a
preference item in calculating the federal alternative
minimum tax that may be imposed on certain investors.
   Philadelphia Regional Port Authority -- $56.1 million of
lease revenue bonds, Series 1990, due Aug. 1, 1991-2005, 2010
and 2020, were tentatively priced by a Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
group to yield from 5.90% in 1991 to 7.22% in 2020. Current
interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 5.90% in 1991
to 7.05% in 2004 and 2005. There are $9.3 million of 7.13%
term bonds priced at 99.75 to yield 7.15% in 2010. There are
$31.9 million of 7.20% term bonds priced at 99.75 to yield
7.22% in 2020. The bonds are insured and rated triple-A by
Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Washington State -- $54.2 million of general obligation
capital appreciation bonds, Series AT-5, due Aug. 1,
1997-2012, apparently were won by a Lehman Brothers group
with a bid setting the true interest cost at 6.9478%. The
bonds, rated double-A by Moody's and S&amp;P, were priced for
reoffering to yield to maturity from 6.55% in 1997 to 7.10%
in 2009-2012.
                                                                                                       

                       ASSET-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Fleetwood Credit Corp. -- $122 million of securities
backed by recreational vehicle loans are being offered with a
coupon rate of 9% at 99 18/32 to yield 9.204% through First
Boston Corp. The offering, FCC 1990 -- a Grantor Trust, was
priced at a yield spread of 0.94 percentage point above the
interpolated three-year and four-year Treasury notes.
Underlying loans are being serviced by Fleetwood Credit, a
unit of Fleetwood Enterprises. Legal final maturity is July
15, 1997. The issue has an expected average life of 3.4 years
assuming monthly prepayments at 1% of the original loan
balance. The offering is expected to be rated triple-A by
Moody's and S&amp;P, based on the quality of the underlying loans
and a surety bond from Capital Markets Assurance Corp., a
unit of Citicorp.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   New South Wales Treasury Corp. (Australia) -- 500 million
Australian dollars (US$392 million) of zero-coupon bonds due
Sept.3, 2010, priced at 8.6875 via Merrill Lynch
International Ltd. Guaranteed by the Crown in right of New
South Wales.
   General Electric Capital Corp. (U.S. parent) -- $250
million of 8 5/8% bonds due Aug. 2, 1993, priced at 101.10 to
yield 8.73% less fees via Bankers Trust International Ltd.
Fees 1 3/8.
   Seiyu Ltd. (Japan) -- $250 million of bonds due Aug. 2,
1994, with equity-purchase warrants, with a fixed 4 3/4%
coupon at par via Nomura International. Each $5,000 bond
carries one warrant, exercisable from Aug. 16, 1990, through
July 19, 1994, to buy company shares at an expected premium
of 2 1/2% to the closing share price when terms are fixed
Tuesday.
   SBC Finance, Cayman Islands, (Swiss parent) -- $150
million of 9% bonds due Aug. 6, 1993, priced at 101.97 to
yield 8.77% less fees via Swiss Bank Corp. Guaranteed by
Swiss Bank Corp. Fees 1 3/8.
   Saskatchewan (Canada) -- 200 million Swiss francs ($142.4
million) of 7% public bonds due Aug. 17, 2000, priced at 101
3/4 to yield 6.75%, via Credit Suisse.
   Great Belt A/S -- 15 billion yen ($101.5 million) of 7.2%
(annual) coupon bonds due Nov. 10, 1995, priced at 101.85 via
LTCB International Ltd.
   Swedish Export Credit Corp. (Sweden) -- 100 million
Canadian dollars (US$86.3 million) of 12 3/4% bonds due Aug.
10, 1992, priced at 101 3/4 to yield 12.37% less fees via
Bankers Trust International Ltd. Fees 1 1/8.
   General Electric Capital Corp. Canada (U.S. parent) -- 100
million Australian dollars of 14 1/4% bonds due Aug. 7, 1995,
priced at 101.75 via Merrill Lynch International Ltd.
   RPM Inc. -- $75 million of convertible subordinated
debentures launched Monday with coupon indicated at 6 1/2%-6
3/4% and premium of between 13% and 17%. Matures July 15,
2005, lead manager Paine Webber International Inc.
   Inabata Co. (Japan) -- 110 million marks ($66.9 million)
of bonds with equity-purchase warrants at a fixed 4 7/8%
coupon due Aug. 2, 1994, and priced at par, via Nomura
Europe. Guaranteed by Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. Each 5,000
mark bond carries five warrants, exercisable from Aug. 20,
1990, to July 19, 1994, to buy company shares at an expected
premium of 2 1/2% above the closing share price when terms
are fixed Tuesday. Each 50,000 mark bond contains one
certificate with 50 warrants attached exercisable under the
same terms.
   Daido Steel Sheet Corp. (Japan) -- 91 million Swiss francs
of privately placed convertible notes due Sept. 30, 1995,
with a fixed 5% coupon at par, via Union Bank of Switzerland.
Call option beginning March 31, 1993, at 104 and declining by
one point semiannually. Acceleration clause beginning Sept.
30, 1990, at 105 and declining by 1/2 point semiannually.
Each 50,000 Swiss franc note is convertible from Aug. 16,
1990, to Sept. 14, 1995, at a 2.5% premium over the closing
share price Tuesday, when terms are fixed.
   Sakurada Co. (Japan) -- 85 million Swiss francs of
privately placed convertible notes due Sept. 30, 1994, with a
fixed 3 3/4% coupon at par, via Yamaichi Bank (Switzerland).
Put option on Sept. 30 at a fixed 105.25 to yield 6.057%.
Each 50,000 Swiss franc note convertible from Aug. 22, 1990,
to Sept. 22 at 2.5% premium over closing share price
Thursday, when terms are fixed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Arthur J. Gallagher &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AJG
</CO>
<LP>
   ROLLING MEADOWS, Ill. -- Arthur J. Gallagher &amp; Co. named
chief executive officer Robert E. Gallagher to the additional
post of chairman.
   Mr. Gallagher, 67 years old, at the same time ceded the
president's title to former vice president, operations, J.
Patrick Gallagher, 38, who added the title of chief operating
officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The financial services concern also named former executive
vice presidentJohn P. Gallagher, 62, to the new post of vice
chairman.
   John P. Gallagher is the brother of Robert Gallagher and
the father of J. Patrick Gallagher.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GSU UJB CJER SUBN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   GULF STATES UTILITIES CO. -- Moody's Investors Service
Inc. said it raised the ratings on about $2.4 billion of
senior debt of this Beaumont, Texas-based utility. In making
the upgrade, the ratings concern cited the recent settlement
of a four year-old legal dispute related to power purchases
from Southern Co., Georgia. Moody's raised the ratings on
GSU's first-mortgage bonds and secured pollution control
revenue bonds to Ba-2 from Ba-3, and raised the unsecured
pollution control revenue bonds, Eurodebentures and
convertible debentures to Ba-3 from single-B-1. Ratings on
the utility's preferred and preference stock were confirmed
at Caa.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   THREE NEW JERSEY BANKS saw their credit ratings cut by
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., which cited loan portfolios weakened
by the slump in the real estate market. The rating on the
preferred stock of UJB Financial Corp., Princeton, fell to
triple-B-minus from triple-B; the subordinated debt of
Central Jersey Bancorp, Freehold, dropped to double-B-plus
from triple-B; and the senior debt of Summit Bancorp, Summit,
dropped to triple- B-plus from single-A. Overall, the
downgrades by the New York credit-rating company affect
securities valued at $30 million at UJB, $22 million at
Central Jersey, and $157 million at Summit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Environmental Control
   Elects Esher Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ECGI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PENNSAUKEN, N.J. -- Environmental Control Group Inc. said
its president and chief executive officer, Brian Esher, 42
years old, assumed the additional duties of chairman,
succeeding John Stoddard, who left the company for "personal
reasons."
   Mr. Stoddard had held the position of chairman since early
1989; he relinquished duties as chief executive to Mr. Esher
in September.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The asbestos abatement and insurance company also reported
net income of $481,000, or seven cents a share, compared with
year-earlier net of $971,000, or 14 cents a share; revenue
fell to $14.7 million from $17.2 million.
   The company also said it has relocated its headquarters
from Maple Shade, N.J., to an existing facility in
Pennsauken.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Roche Holding AG:
   First-Half Sales Rose 6%;
   Higher 1990 Net Expected
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.HR
</CO>
<LP>
   Roche Holding AG, parent of a Swiss drug and chemical
group, said in Basel that its first-half group sales rose 6%
to 5.18 billion francs ($3.65 billion) from 4.89 billion
francs a year earlier.
   The company also said that it expects to post a higher
profit this year, although in this regard it also mentioned
exchange rate uncertainties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit in 1989 rose 33% to 852 million francs on a 21%
increase in group sales to 9.81 billion francs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   National Foods Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NATIONAL FOODS Inc. (New York) -- Steven I. Bachenheimer,
president and chief operating officer since July 1989, left
this closely held maker of kosher deli products under the
Hebrew National name. A spokesman for the company said Mr.
Bachenheimer decided to leave "because of irreconcilable
differences about corporate growth priorities." Mr.
Bachenheimer confirmed his decision to leave as a result of
disagreements with National Foods Chairman Isidore Pines. He
said they "haven't been able to agree on how to go about
making the company grow." Harvey Potkin, previously senior
vice president, succeeds Mr. Bachenheimer, who said he has no
specific plans after leaving National Foods.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   By Helping Others,
   We Also Got Help
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   Thank you for your wonderful May 18 page-one piece on our
company ("Off the Dole: How Private Company Helps Welfare
Clients Find and Keep Jobs"). The response has been
excellent. First, the state of New York has found the funding
to keep the company going. Second, we have had responses from
hundreds of interested officials, businesses and citizens
requesting information and pledging their support. Third, it
has led to a host of other media coverage: MacNeil/Lehrer
Reports, American Management Association, Continental
Magazine, ABC News and 60 Minutes.
   None of this would have been possible without the special
abilities of your reporter Ellen Graham. We happen to deal
with many media people. It is often difficult for them to
grasp the complex interrelationship of the business, policy
and humanistic aspects of what we do. Her insights, sensitive
questions and persistence were very unusual.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Without the attention it is questionable whether our
company could have continued.
   Lee Bowes
   Chief Executive
   America Works
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Deutsche Bank Seeks More
   Of East German Venture
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DBK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- West Germany's largest banking
group, Deutsche Bank AG, said it's in "intensive talks" aimed
at boosting its minority ownership of its big East German
banking venture to almost 100%.
   Georg Krupp, Deutsche Bank's management board member
responsible for Eastern Europe, said Deutsche Bank is
proposing "a powerful capital increase" in Deutsche
Bank-Kreditbank AG, a joint venture; East Germany's newly
formed financial holding company Deutsche Kreditbank AG holds
47%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The remaining ownership in the venture is divided among a
few East German industrial groups.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Tidying the Revolution
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN EUROP FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   World leaders are coming to resemble those sanitation
workers who come in and sweep up after a parade. The people
make a dramatic gesture, and then the leaders come in a few
months later to make everything tidy.
   When the German people streamed through the Berlin Wall,
they effectively declared Germany a single sovereign nation,
able to choose its own alliances. Thus, not long after the
wall came down, it was clear that Germany would remain in
NATO. The diplomacy of the past several months merely gussied
up that certainty. The final touch came Monday when Mikhail
Gorbachev finally agreed to pull the 350,000 Soviet troops
out of East Germany within the next three or four years so
that a united Germany could have "full and unrestricted
sovereignty."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The diplomacy has been conducted competently. The Soviets
first tried to play on aroused European fears about renewed
German hegemony, with Foreign Minister Shevardnadze's bizarre
suggestion that there be an international referendum on
German reunification. Then the Soviets played on left-wing
idealism, suggesting that Germany should join both NATO and
the Warsaw Pact as part of one happy family of nations. The
Soviets also appealed to technocratic gradualists, saying
Germany could be part of NATO politically, but not
militarily. Then they suggested that Germans reunify slowly
under the supervision of the victorious World War II powers.
   It must have then been clear to the Soviets that their
wild proposals were going nowhere. Mr. Gorbachev must have
realized that even though he could do nothing to prevent
Germany from staying in NATO, he could nonetheless charge a
fee for acknowledging the arrangement. So he entered into
negotiations to settle on a price, which has now been met,
but not made public. Mr. Gorbachev reportedly told Premier
Mitterrand, "the same day the reunification of Germany is
announced, a general will be sitting in my armchair." But
that was wind. Mr. Gorbachev still has his seat.
   On the Western side, the patient handling of the issue
serves as a model of Western diplomatic cooperation. At the
Houston Summit, the leaders, under the influence of Prime
Minister Thatcher, arrived at a compromise whereby the G-7
powers would not give joint aid to the Soviets, but
individual nations could. The unspoken message was that aid
will not help the still-unreformed Soviet economy, but is
worthwhile if it will seal Germany's membership in the
alliance. The London NATO summit sent the proper military
signals, and to climax the deal, Chancellor Kohl flew to
Zheleznovodsk with his checkbook.
   The German-Soviet agreement brings NATO up to date. There
is no need to find a replacement for NATO through distended
disarmament talks. Instead, the Western powers can now focus
on issues that were swept under the rug in order to strike
this deal. The West forsook independence movements in the
breakaway republics so as not to ruin negotiations on
Germany. Now that the West's house is in order there is no
need to ignore the yearnings of the Soviet peoples. The U.S.
decision to meet with members of the Russian democratic
opposition party is an important step in the right direction.
   Western leaders need not worry about having a vision for
the future. The people will lead the parade. The leaders need
only follow and formalize.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Industry Output
   Increased 0.4%
   During June
   ---
   Utilities' Production Led
   Rise Due to Heat Wave;
   Capacity Use Up a Bit
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The nation's industrial production rose
modestly last month, bolstered by a jump in utility output
during a torrid late-June heat wave, the Federal Reserve
reported.
   Industrial output grew 0.4% in June following a 0.6%
increase in May. With the rise in production, the country's
factories, utilities and mines used more of their capacity in
June: 83.5%, up from 83.3% in May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The modest growth in output was higher than many analysts
expected, but it still left economists disagreeing over the
state of U.S. industrial health.
   The 2.1% leap in utility output, largely due to a surge in
air conditioner use, was obviously temporary. And another big
factor, a substantial increase in automobile production,
probably won't continue either, several analysts predicted.
Car companies have been fattening inventories in anticipation
of contract talks with the United Auto Workers union, which
get under way today.
   "This is actually confirmation, if we needed any at this
juncture, that the economy is running low and slow and
probably will continue to do so because the increases in
industrial production and capacity utilization are related to
factors that are temporary, not fundamental," said David
Littmann, senior economist at Manufacturers National Bank of
Detroit.
   But while auto and utility production accounted for
three-fourths of the total increase in output, according to
the Fed, a number of other categories also posted small
gains. Production of paper, chemicals, appliances, television
sets, fuels, furniture and business equipment all rose.
   "I'm encouraged," said Stephen Roach, senior economist at
Morgan Stanley in New York. "I think these data do reflect a
gathering of momentum in the manufacturing sector. I think
that could be an important swing factor to an improved tone
in the U.S. economy."
   U.S. manufacturing, hurt by the Fed's efforts to fight
inflation by keeping interest rates high, has been ailing for
more than a year. Just a few weeks ago, the Labor Department
reported that factory employment continued to decline in
June, the 14th month of the past 15 in which it has dropped.
   But Mr. Roach said the decrease doesn't entirely reflect
weakness. "I think the job cuts are largely restructuring
driven by a manufacturing sector that wants to compete in the
global economy." He cited recent strong productivity gains in
manufacturing as one reason behind continued improvement in
output.
   "We're still looking at a manufacturing sector that
overall is in transition to leaner, meaner stuff," Mr.
Littmann said.
   Recent government reports have suggested to some analysts
that the worst may be past for many manufacturing industries.
Factory orders grew substantially in May. Exports continue to
improve, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
Moreover, the Fed last week eased its grip on credit for the
first time since December, allowing a pivotal interest rate
to fall slightly.
   Still, most analysts expect continued improvement in
manufacturing to be gradual.
   Figures in the industrial production and capacity reports
are seasonally adjusted.
                                                                                                       

   Here is a summary of the Federal Reserve Board's report on
industrial production in June. The figures are seasonally
adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                                        % change from
                                       May         June
                                      1990         1989
                                                                                                       

   Total ...........................   0.4          1.2
     Consumer goods ................   0.7          1.8
     Business equipment ............   0.9          2.6
     Defense and space ............. - 0.1        - 1.0
   Manufacturing only ..............   0.5          1.3
     Durable goods .................   0.5          1.1
     Nondurable goods ..............   0.4          1.6
                                                                                                       

   Mining .......................... - 1.5          0.6
                                                                                                       

   Utilities .......................   2.1          2.7
                                                                                                       

   The industrial production index for June stood at 109.8%
of the 1987 average.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Genscher Bridges the East-West Divide
   ---
   Bonn Foreign Minister
   Basks in Reunification Glow
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   HALLE, East Germany -- The world's longest-serving foreign
minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, grins as his small air
force jet sets down at the airfield nearest the East German
farm village of Reideburg, where he was born.
   He recalls his family's Sunday outings to the same
airfield in 1936, for joy rides in a single-engine Junker 43.
"It cost just five reichsmarks to circle the airfield and
return," he says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By age 15, he was a member of the Hitler youth, like most
Germans his age, and he manned anti-aircraft guns. By 18, he
had entered the army, the Nazis had been defeated and he was
an American prisoner of war. Then he was bedridden for two
years with tuberculosis. His family moved west in 1952 to
escape communism.
   Now 63 years old, Mr. Genscher has been instrumental in
forging an historic opening to the Soviet Union that has
removed the last barriers to German reunification. It took
more than 50 hours of meetings with Soviet Foreign Minister
Eduard Shevardnadze in 10 cities around the world this year
to lay the groundwork, but the result will transform the two
nations' relations.
   Germany will be whole and remain a member of a
less-military Western alliance, and the Soviets have won a
commitment for an unprecedented level of German economic,
political, scientific and technological cooperation.
   Mr. Genscher's foreign ministry officials complain that
Chancellor Helmut Kohl is getting too much of the credit for
merely harvesting the crops planted by Mr. Genscher. In weeks
to come, they plan to highlight the foreign minister's role
in advance of the all-German elections where his Free
Democratic Party, the junior coalition partner in Bonn, will
have to fight to maintain its government position.
   For most of the Reagan administration, "Genscherism" was
considered by many in Washington to be a dangerous, naive
capitulation to the Soviet Union -- a route to West German
neutralism.
   "Now Genscherism has become a broad, mass movement," the
foreign minister says as he drives through the East German
countryside in his armored gray Mercedes 420. He defines the
term as his "successful" effort to change the East by working
more closely with it.
   So why were so many so suspicious of Mr. Genscher?
   "Perhaps it was because no one could imagine it would turn
out this way," he said. "Many thought it would first lead to
a drifting away of the Germans (from the West). I've always
thought there is too little faith in the West in the power of
freedom. Also, I am from this area, and I understood better
what was going on." Even before barriers started falling, Mr.
Genscher would come to Halle each year for a secret
pre-Christmas visit to friends and relatives.
   He points out the window to the village of Reideburg,
toward the farmhouse where he, his mother and his grandfather
were born, and drives by the flat-roofed stone church where
he was baptized.
   In 1943, the 15-year-old Genscher was sent with the rest
of his class to man the anti-aircraft guns near town. "I was
on the radar equipment," he said. "It was fascinating
technically. None of us ever knew such things existed until
we were sent into the field." But he backpedals
diplomatically when asked how many British and U.S. planes he
brought down. "The planes flew higher than we could shoot and
our radar failed when they dropped (aluminum) strips," he
said.
   Mr. Genscher's tour is informal. The planning was
uncharacteristically ad hoc -- the expected escort of East
German police didn't show, and Mr. Genscher's driver
improvised from a stack of maps.
   Mr. Genscher has slowed little since a heart attack a year
ago and several bouts with exhaustion since then. Now, he is
buoyant. Mr. Genscher has come to his home region to help his
Free Democratic party, also known here as the Liberals,
inaugurate a new local affiliate. He has been West Germany's
foreign minister for 16 years, but his party often has
struggled to gain enough votes to join coalitions, first with
Social Democratic Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and now with the
Christian Democrats' Helmut Kohl.
   The party meeting is an hour from his birthplace in
Zerbst, a town of 40,000 which was the birthplace of Russia's
Czarina Catherine the Great. Mr. Genscher recalls mentioning
her to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev as one of Germany's
contributions to Russian history. Mr. Gorbachev replied that
she, after Peter the Great, had been the most important of
the pre-revolutionary leaders.
   "The people of the Soviet Union should know, that a
unified Germany isn't only an opportunity for the Germans,
but it is also a chance for German-Soviet relations, with
prospects for the next century," he tells them. He shouts
encouragement to "liberals," telling them that just because
socialism failed doesn't mean that Germany should throw in
its lot with conservatives. In East Germany, he must take
votes from Mr. Kohl. If the Christian Democrats score too
well, Mr. Kohl might cast aside his troublesome coalition
partner.
   Mr. Kohl and Mr. Genscher have crossed swords often in
past weeks, and one individual in the chancellery complains
that the foreign minister doesn't always fully brief them on
his meetings with the Soviets. "We have almost totally
stopped exchanging papers on Genscher's meetings, and now
virtually the only reports Kohl gets are given to him in
person," says an individual in the foreign ministry.
   Mr. Genscher leaves the party meeting to a standing
ovation. But his driver gets lost again, this time in front
of a rickety wooden ferry that crosses the Elbe.
   The ferry is slow. The foreign minister signs autographs.
He balks at detailing his own role in recent history, but his
aides say that he several times prevented new Cold War
icicles from forming.
   When the Soviets shot down Korean Air Lines flight 007 on
Sept. 1, 1983, the incident threatened to end the 35-nation
Confererence on Security and Cooperation in Europe, which Mr.
Genscher regards as one of the most important contributors to
change in the Soviet bloc. He made dozens of phone calls
around the world to prevent the U.S. from pulling out of a
CSCE meeting in Madrid to protest the Soviet action. One
senior U.S. official credits Mr. Genscher for keeping the
conference on track.
   Even more importantly, Mr. Genscher challenged Mr. Kohl to
stop the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's plan to agree
to the modernization of short-range nuclear weapons at its
summit in Brussels last year. Mr. Genscher was convinced that
such a move would allow the Soviet military to block Mr.
Gorbachev's intentions to make peace.
   He won U.S. backing to scrap the modernization.
   It was at that meeting that Mr. Genscher formed a close
relationship with U.S. Secretary of State James Baker. Mr.
Baker "is a man who talks plainly, without detours," says Mr.
Genscher. "I can accomplish more in one hour with Baker than
I can in three hours with anyone else."
   Mr. Genscher simultaneously enjoys a close relationship
with Mr. Shevardnadze, which often has enabled him to act as
unofficial liaison between the Soviet and the American.
   The time for reflection passes. His driver is facing
another decision at the fork of another unfamiliar road.
Before Mr. Genscher can press on with reunification of
Germany or revival of his birthplace, he has to find his way
back to the airport. The foreign minister takes control of
the map and issues directions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Richard Stockman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average flirted with 3,000 the
past two days, despite predictions of burgeoning deficits and
unspeakable mayhem from White House Budget Director Richard
Darman. Could the markets be ignoring the White House, and
even Mr. Darman?
   The budget director's midyear review had the tone and feel
of a summer revival meeting, preaching hellfire and damnation
if Gramm-Rudman's automatic spending cuts have to kick in
this October. Americans are sinners, Lord, so our children
will go unvaccinated, the common defense will collapse, air
traffic will go uncontrolled, college tuition will go unpaid,
locusts will blot out the sun. . . .
</LP>
<TEXT>
   We were just about to cry, "Amen," and send a check to
Uncle Sam, until we remembered that this all sounded
familiar. It sounded like the looming "catastrophe" and
"deficits as far as the eye can see" that helped give us the
infamous TEFRA tax increase in 1982, with its bogus promise
of $3 in spending cuts for every $1 in tax increases. "The
pressure is put on. It is inescapable," Mr. Darman declared
to a question about "the crisis." House Budget Chairman Leon
Panetta was less restrained: "The crisis, in short, is real.
These numbers should hit the White House, the Congress, and
the summit like a fire alarm in the middle of the night."
   Once they're awake, though, voters may ask where the fire
is. On Monday, even as Mr. Darman was listing his budget
martyrs, the stock market was hitting a record. The economy
is sluggish to be sure, but unemployment remains near its
15-year low. Industrial production climbed four-tenths of a
percent last month. If there's a crisis now, why wasn't there
one four or six months ago when economic growth was even more
uncertain?
   The obvious answer is that this is really a Washington
crisis. Above all else on earth, Mr. Darman wants a budget
agreement with Democrats, so we have to have a crisis. Mr.
Darman isn't telling fibs, but, well, let's just say he's
using the discretion every budget director has with the
numbers.
   In January, Mr. Darman predicted a fiscal 1991 budget
deficit of $100 billion; only six months later, it's $169
billion -- without including the savings-and-loan bailout.
Sure, the economy's grown more slowly than expected, but tax
receipts have fallen by about only $29 billion. Where could
the rest of the deficit have been hiding? One hint: OMB's
deficit estimates are usually $20 billion or so under those
of the Congressional Budget Office. This time CBO and OMB are
about the same. If the budget revisions had somehow made the
deficit look better, everyone would now be screaming about
"blue smoke and mirrors."
   Our habit, and we presume the market's habit, is not to
look at "the deficit" but at the underlying trends in
receipts and expenditures. As the accompanying chart shows,
the new dire predictions are nothing dramatic. (See
accompanying illustration -- WSJ July 18, 1990) As a percent
of GNP, estimated receipts and expenditures for 1990 and
1991, including the cost of the S&amp;L bailout, stay about where
they were in 1989. More broadly, the Reagan tax cuts simply
capped taxes at a normal level, ironing out the 1981-1982
bulge. Spending has fallen from its mid-1980s peak, but not
enough to balance the budget. And what really counts, in
terms of the government's demand on real resources, is
measured not by the deficit but by outlays.
   In the current budget negotiations, though, Democrats want
to raise taxes so they can turn on the spending spigot again.
Mr. Darman knows this, but his crisis-mongering suggests he's
caught up in the excitement of the chase for a deal, whether
or not the quarry is worth it. He knows the political
obstacles are great, so he's creating the circumstances that
leave no room for disagreement by the politicians, starting
with his boss George Bush. But just what is it he now hopes
to get in return for killing Mr. Bush's no-new-tax pledge?
   The question is especially apt since the summiteers are
blinking on serious reform of the budget process. Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady keeps saying any budget deal must be
"enforceable," but how? The White House has abandoned the
line-item veto, as well as its poor cousin, enhanced
rescission. Democrats want no process reforms, while
Republicans are making pre-emptive concessions among
themselves. We hear the private debate is now over "points of
order" in the Senate or a "joint budget resolution" that the
President could veto, among other largely cosmetic changes.
   No wonder many House Republicans want to send the White
House a message. Texas Rep. Dick Armey plans to introduce a
resolution at today's GOP House Conference opposing "all tax
rate increases." It defines tax rate increases as "all rates
on all existing taxes under federal jurisdiction." The
resolution could pass.
   We keep reading that Mr. Darman is the smartest man in
Washington, so no doubt he has some proposal to save us all
from perdition. We'll applaud him if he does. But if his
budget deal ends up as TEFRA in a new suit, someone should be
taken to the woodshed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   OSHA Moves
   To Cut Asbestos
   Exposure Limit
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Labor Department, which slashed the
allowable level of worker exposure to asbestos in 1986,
proposed reducing the limit again.
   Acting under a court order, the department's Occupational
Safety and Health Administration proposed cutting the
permissible exposure limit for asbestos in the workplace in
half. The new limit would be an average of 0.1 fiber per
cubic centimeter of air over an eight-hour period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The short-term limit would remain at an average of one
fiber per cubic centimeter of air over a 30-minute period.
   OSHA believes the proposed new level "will significantly
reduce worker deaths from cancer resulting from exposure to
asbestos," said Assistant Secretary of Labor Gerard Scannell,
who heads the agency. The standard would cover about 706,000
employees in general industry, mostly in auto repair, and as
many as 1.4 million workers in construction, including
building renovation and maintenance, OSHA said.
   In 1986, OSHA reduced the maximum level for asbestos from
two fibers to 0.2 fiber per cubic centimeter of air, but
labor unions sought a lower limit. A federal district court
in February 1988 told the agency to re-examine several
issues, including the maximum permissible exposure level.
   Responding to the court order, OSHA also proposed
requirements for specific controls over asbestos in
activities such as automobile brake and clutch service,
regardless of the exposure level. It also proposed requiring
owners of buildings in which demolition, renovation and
asbestos-removal are conducted to notify employers, workers
and OSHA of activities involving asbestos and how they plan
to trim exposure risks.
   The agency also proposed to expand a requirement that
construction companies employ individuals trained to ensure
compliance with the standard; to require more stringent
cleanup by asbestos-removal companies; to ban high-speed
buffing of asbestos floor tile; to narrow an exemption for
small-scale, short-duration operations; and to add limited
exemptions for roofing, floor-tile removal and operations in
which it isn't feasible to erect a protective enclosure for
workers.
   The proposal would eliminate a requirement that employers
begin monitoring workers' health when exposure to asbestos is
at half the maximum level allowed. OSHA said it doesn't
believe it's technologically feasible to measure exposure at
half the proposed level of 0.1 fiber per cubic centimeter of
air. So, it will continue to require monitoring at the 0.1
fiber level.
   OSHA proposed allowing manufacturers to use respiratory
equipment for workers to meet the reduced levels until those
employers can no longer use asbestos under a planned
phase-out of the material in manufacturing. The Environmental
Protection Agency has ordered the phase-out, which is due to
be in full effect in August 1996. Construction firms would
have to use engineering controls.
   OSHA will accept comments on the proposal postmarked
through Sept. 25, and it plans a hearing on Oct. 23.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Ad Industry Disaster in 1988 Casts Shadow
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX GREY RBK
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   It's company picnic season again. Time, too, to entertain
clients. Golf outings, Outward Bound expeditions, tennis
tournaments, that sort of thing.
   This year, though, a group of lawsuits may prompt some
companies to take a second look at the outings -- and
specifically at their liability if something should go
horribly wrong.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Next month marks the two-year anniversary of one of the
worst tragedies the ad industry has seen. A white river
rafting trip on Canada's Chilko River, hosted by a DDB
Needham executive and attended by 10 other advertising
heavyweights, turned to disaster when the raft overturned,
killing five people.
   Now, three suits have been filed against DDB Needham and
others on behalf of victims' families. The first of the three
-- brought by the family of James Fasules, who was a retired
DDB Needham executive -- is scheduled to come to trial Nov. 5
in federal district court in Chicago.
   In light of the cases, companies "are looking at the work
and play aspect of their business a little closer in terms of
responsiblity," says John Kralovec, an attorney with the
Chicago law firm of William D. Maddux &amp; Associates, which
represents the widow of rafting victim Gene Yovetich, a DDB
Needham executive. "The first {Fasules} verdict will have a
real impact."
   The Chilko case brings up the tricky question of when a
business trip becomes a social outing, and vice versa -- a
distinction that will probably become an issue in the trials.
And the suits will almost certainly cause some chilling
effect on the most dangerous outings, such as rock climbing
and wilderness expeditions, that some companies sponsor for
clients.
   The pending cases already paint a grim picture for
companies sponsoring potentially dangerous outings.
Typically, firms hosting trips that could be risky ask
participants to sign a waiver -- but the Chilko cases suggest
that isn't always enough.
   Chilko participants did in fact sign waivers in a
Vancouver airport shortly before beginning their trip. But so
far, DDB Needham has been unsuccessful in trying to get the
suits dismissed based on the waivers. A federal judge in
Cincinnati -- where a suit on behalf of victim and former
Procter &amp; Gamble executive Robert Goldstein is pending --
said the waiver was too broad and ambiguous. A judge in the
Fasules case came to a similar conclusion.
   The lesson, says Stanley Chesley, the Cincinnati lawyer
representing Mr. Goldstein's family, is "if it's dangerous
enough to require a waiver, {companies} shouldn't be doing
it. They're going to be held accountable."
   Whether firms heed that advice remains to be seen. Bob
Wolf, chief executive officer of ad agency Chiat/Day/Mojo,
recalls a People magazine-sponsored trip he took a year and a
half ago to Yosemite. "It seemed like a tame exercise," he
says, "until we went rock-climbing. I would think all those
companies will take a hard look at all those boondoggles and
say, `What if somebody killed themselves?'" Yet, he adds, he
"probably would" do it again: "No one expects anything like
this to happen."
   At Time Warner, which publishes People, a spokesman says
the company still has outings, but "we have been looking into
the whole phenomenon of outings and coverage even prior to
the rafting incident." He says Time Warner's legal and
insurance departments review suggested outings before they
take place.
   The Chilko case also is prompting companies to think twice
about the most mild-mannered outings, such as company picnics
and softball games. Felix Kent, a New York attorney who
represents ad agencies, says that in light of the disaster,
"questions have come up about what happens on company
picnics, company outings, and to what extent does the company
have liability." While "I'm not sure any agency has changed
its practices, there certainly have been questions. Companies
have examined their insurance policies to see to what extent
they're covered."
   Several ad executives said they are indeed sponsoring
fewer outings. Yet the impetus isn't the sobering events at
Chilko, they said. Instead, it's plain economics.
   Jordan, McGrath, Case &amp; Taylor, for one, stopped hosting
an annual golf tournament about three years ago, partly
because of its high cost and partly because "everybody's
working hard, and clients value their free time more than
they did 10 or 20 years ago when they had more of it," says
Jack Taylor, vice chairman.
   At D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp; Bowles, "the accident, tragic as
it was, hasn't influenced decision-making relative to client
entertainment," adds Roy Bostock, chairman and chief
executive. He, too, says that entertaining "just isn't a part
of the business anymore. People can't take five or six hours
during the day and play golf. There are just more important
things to do in helping clients."
   Mr. Bostock says that a couple of years ago, some DMB&amp;B
executives tried to organize a golf outing at Shinnecock, a
world-class golf course on Long Island. "It was canceled," he
says. "As much as people would have liked to have done it,
they couldn't find the time."
   ---
   Hidden Messages for Kids
                                                                                                       

   American kids receive a barrage of hidden advertising
messages from such powerful marketers as Coca-Cola, Disney
and Procter &amp; Gamble, according to a study released yesterday
by Consumers Union, publisher of Consumer Reports.
   Topping the consumer group's list of gripes with corporate
marketers is the practice of distributing free teaching
materials, which are actually thinly disguised ads, according
to the report. The study also singles out licensing
agreements, celebrity product endorsements, commercially
sponsored kids clubs, "advertorials" and the placement of
such products as cigarettes and alcohol in movies.
   In the report, Grey Advertising Senior Vice President
Carol Herman is quoted as saying: "You've got to reach kids
throughout their day. . . . You've got to become part of the
fabric of their lives." A Grey spokeswoman says that the
agency wasn't asked to participate in the report, and that
Ms. Herman's comments were taken out of context.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   SNEAKER REP: Reebok's much-publicized contract
negotiations with pop singer Madonna, who was to star in a
new ad campaign for the sneaker company, have been called
off, Reebok said yesterday. In a brief statement, Reebok said
it couldn't come to an agreement with the singer on "timing
and schedules," in part because of her concert tour. Reebok
declined to elaborate or to say if other issues, including
financial terms, were part of the problem.
                                                                                                       

   CHIAT SELLS UNIT: Chiat/Day/Mojo agreed to sell its
Jessica Dee Communications public relations unit to a Jessica
Dee management group led by general manager and creative
director Patrice Tanaka. Jessica Dee left the company, which
she had sold to Chiat in 1987, last year. Terms weren't
disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Twin Tire Systems Inc., Dallas, tapped Ayer's
Dallas office for its ad account. Billings weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Merchandise Trade Deficit Rose Slightly
   In May, but Analysts Aren't Concerned
   ----
   By Rodney Ferguson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. merchandise trade deficit grew
slightly in May, the Commerce Department said, but analysts
showed little concern that the trend toward smaller deficits
may be in jeopardy.
   The May deficit of $7.73 billion, which followed a revised
$7.31 billion deficit in April, was fueled by a 2.9% increase
in imports, to $40.52 billion from $39.36 billion in April.
Exports also rose, climbing 2.2% to $32.8 billion from
April's $32.1 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A 15.2% increase in imports of petroleum products
accounted for a large portion of the deficit. These imports
averaged 1.4 million barrels more a day in May than in April.
   Economists expressed little concern with the larger
deficit figures, focusing instead on the increase in exports
to Europe and the narrowing deficit with Japan. "Basically,
we're still on the path to a lower trade deficit than last
year," commented Brian Wesbury, vice president of Stotler
Economics Inc. "Both imports and exports were up, and the low
dollar continues to boost exports. Given the volatility of
these numbers, I don't see this as a reversal of the trend."
   The $811.6 million May trade surplus with Western Europe,
while down from April's $1.36 billion, is still well ahead of
last year's figure, which showed the U.S. running a $40.3
million deficit for the month of May. The U.S. is running a
cumulative surplus of $3.53 billion so far this year with
Western Europe, compared with a cumulative surplus of $281
million at this time last year.
   The deficit with Japan narrowed to $2.97 billion from
$3.95 billion in April.
   "I'm looking at Eastern Europe and East Germany as a
source for increased demand for trade," said Charles Renfro,
chief economist for Alphametrics Corp. The opening up of the
East German economy and the need to rebuild the country's
infrastructure "are obviously going to increase our
capability of exporting to Germany," he added.
   Other economists saw the lower value of the dollar as an
important component of the increasing exports. "We're seeing
the tail-end effect of the low exchange value of the dollar,"
said Joan Schneider, a money-market economist with
Continental Bank, Chicago.
   The monetary union of Germany has other benefits for the
U.S, according to Stotler's Mr. Wesbury: "Against the German
mark, we should see a strengthening of the dollar," he said.
   The cumulative trade deficit for January through May is
$40.7 billion. If projected over the rest of the year, the
deficit would total $97.7 billion for 1990. The deficit for
1989 was $109.4 billion.
   "It strikes me that we've got a basis for a pretty good
situation given where we are in the recovery," Mr. Renfro
said.
   ---
            U.S. Merchandise Trade Deficits
                                                                                                       

   In billions of U.S. dollars, not seasonally adjusted
                                                                                                       

                    MAY '90      APRIL '90      MAY '89
                                                                                                       

 Japan              $2.97          $3.95         $4.32
 Canada              0.56           0.04          0.54
 Western Europe     +0.81          +1.36          0.04
 NICs*               1.49           1.45          2.03
                                                                                                       

   *Newly industrialized countries: Singapore, Hong Kong,
Taiwan, South Korea.
   +=Surplus
                                                                                                       

   Source: Commerce Department
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Insurers Push for Fatter Dividends
   ----
   By Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.DIM J.NLI J.ISH J.LTC
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's major life insurance companies, the
biggest investors in the nation's stock market, are growing
angry about the tight-fisted dividend policies of big
Japanese companies.
   These once stolid and silent investors are calling for
Japanese companies to pay out more of their profits to
shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week, the head of Dai-Ichi Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
Japan's second-largest life insurer and one of the Tokyo
stock market's biggest investors, served notice that the
concern plans to sell long-held stocks of companies offering
dividends that Dai-Ichi Mutual regards as too low.
   "There's been no change in our basic position as stable
investors, but we're going to be more selective about our
longterm stocks," Takahide Sakurai, Dai-Ichi Mutual's
president, said at a news conference in Nagoya. "We're not
going to smile upon every industry. From now on, we'll have a
bumpy relationship" with companies, he said.
   A spokesman for Nippon Life Insurance Co., the largest
insurer in Japan, said the company shares Dai-Ichi Mutual's
frustration and has already begun selling the stocks of
companies it believes are particularly stingy.
   Japan's once-troubled shipbuilders, for example, have had
steady profits for the past five years, but
Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co., one of the industry
leaders, offers investors a dividend yield of only 0.5%.
"What's wrong with that?" a spokesman says. "Other
manufacturers' dividends aren't much higher."
   Industrial Bank of Japan, the world's sixth-largest bank
in terms of assets, pays its shareholders a yield of 0.2%. A
spokesman says the problem isn't that dividends are too low,
but that the market price of the company's stock has climbed
so high. "We can't make payouts on the basis of how the stock
is trading," he says.
   The newfound assertiveness of insurers such as Nippon Life
and Dai-Ichi Mutual, who together own about six of every 100
stocks on the Tokyo market, may result in changes that would
make the Japanese exchange function somewhat more like Wall
Street, by encouraging other investors to pick Japanese
stocks more for the dividend income they produce than for the
promise of capital gains.
   "Finally, we're beginning to see Japan's big shareholders
become a bit more Western in their investing habits," says
Stuart Matthews, an analyst at Barclays de Zoete Wedd
Securities Ltd., a British brokerage firm.
   For Japan's big companies, though, insurers' demands could
mean higher capital costs. If companies have to pay out more
of their earnings to holders, they will end up with less
retained income to pay for new equipment and other
investments. This will force them to borrow more or invest
less. And that could reduce their international
competitiveness, particularly compared with U.S. companies
that already pay out more of their earnings.
   Tokyo's 1,810 listed companies now return less than
one-third of their profits to investors, according to
statistics compiled by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. By contrast,
the average payout ratio for U.S. companies is about 45%,
according to Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
   Even after the Tokyo stock market plunge earlier this
year, Japanese companies' stocks still sell at hefty
multiples of their earnings. The result: The Nikkei average
of 225 big Japanese stocks yields a skimpy 0.5% in dividends,
compared with a more generous 3.31% for the S&amp;P 500 index of
U.S. stocks.
   Tetsuya Horie, president of Long-Term Credit Bank of
Japan, concedes that in the Japanese market, investors are "a
bit neglected."
   "The return to shareholders should be more seriously
considered," he says. "Japanese life insurance companies are
correct on this point." But Long-Term Credit Bank offers
investors a yield of 0.4% on its stock, even after adjustment
for a stock split expected next month, and Mr. Horie says he
hasn't any intention of recommending an increase.
   Dissatisfaction with insurers may reflect a weakening of
Japan's renowned industrial group system. Historically, the
life companies have displayed a notorious lack of concern
about the profitability of their stock portfolios. Rather,
many tended to view stock ownership merely as a means of
increasing sales of insurance policies. They clung to stocks
of companies with which they shared close business ties,
mainly because they counted on selling insurance policies to
the employees of the companies in return.
   But now the life companies seem willing to risk disrupting
these traditional arrangements, as they find themselves
suddenly strapped for revenue and under increasing
competition against banks for the nation's pool of consumer
savings.
   Insurers are acutely aware of the need to store enough
money to afford paying claims to Japan's rapidly aging
population in the decades ahead. Japanese society is graying
at a rate faster than that of any other advanced industrial
nation, and by 2025, one in every four Japanese will be age
65 or older, according to projections by the Ministry of
Health and Welfare.
   "Japan is in a period of high savings now, but that can't
last forever," Kermit L. Schoenholtz, senior economist at
Salomon Brothers Inc.'s Tokyo office, says. "The life
companies are all worried about getting maximum return on
their investments now, so they'll be able to pay out claims
later."
   Adding to the life companies' dilemma is the poor
performance of single-premium endowment policies, a bold
investment product they aggressively marketed in the
mid-1980s.
   The policies, which allowed consumers willing to pay their
premiums in advance the opportunity to earn compound gains of
as much as 60% at the end of five-year or 10-year terms, were
enormously popular with the Japanese when these were
introduced. But the appeal of single-premium policies plunged
in 1988, when the Ministry of Finance declared them subject
to the same tax laws as ordinary savings accounts. The first
wave of single-premium policies now is reaching maturity. As
a result, many investors are shifting funds out of insurance
companies and back into banks.
   The life companies have a keen interest in higher
dividends, because Japanese insurance law bars them from
paying out capital gains to their policyholders. The law may
have cost Japanese policyholders a cumulative 45 trillion yen
($303.3 billion) in unrealized securities gains, according to
W.I. Carr (Overseas) Ltd.
   The major life companies have grumbled publicly about
Japan's low dividends previously, and some observers remain
skeptical that the insurers intend to do anything other than
complain. "There's an element of shadow boxing to all this,"
Roger Gough, a senior analyst at Baring Securities (Japan)
Ltd., says. "In some ways, this is mostly an attempt at
intimidation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Manitowoc Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MANT
</CO>
<IN>
FARM EQUIPMENT (FAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANITOWOC Co. (Manitowoc, Wis.) -- Fred M. Butler, former
senior vice president and chief operating officer, was named
president and chief executive officer. Mr. Butler, 55 years
old, succeeds P. Ralph Helm, who will continue as chairman.
Manitowoc is a crane and ice machine manufacturer and ship
repairer. Mr. Helm, 64, is relinquishing his other positions
to focus on developing a new line of cranes before his
retirement, the company said. Manitowoc said G. Michael
Decker, senior vice president and chief financial officer,
and Jeffrey R. Cooke, senior vice president of
administration, have resigned "because of philosophical
differences as to the long-range strategy of the company."
The company said that Messrs. Decker and Cooke resigned in
response to the company's decision to develop the new line of
cranes. "They felt that there shouldn't be any new line, but
the board agreed with myself and the chairman that there
should," Mr. Butler said. The two executives who resigned
weren't available for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Familiar Hymn Is Still Here,
   But Him Could One Day Be Her
   ----
   By R. Gustav Niebuhr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   The name of God is often invoked in court, but now a court
may have to decide what God's name is.
   Fittingly, the venue will be religious. The Judicial
Council, high court of the United Methodist Church, has
agreed to hear arguments this fall on whether some church
members -- those who prefer not to think in terms of a
masculine deity -- can be excused from addressing or
referring to God as "Father" in church prayers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For America's nearly nine million Methodists, the issue is
a pressing one. That's because their church is now deep into
the revision of its official "Book of Worship," which sets
forth details of Sunday morning prayers and rituals.
   But the committee doing the updating is deadlocked on
whether to amend prayers to include alternative "nongender"
terms that would be placed in parentheses following
references to God as Father. For example, "almighty God"
could be substituted for "almighty Father," while "Father,
Son and Holy Spirit" could be replaced by "Creator, Redeemer
and Sustainer." Each congregation would be allowed to make
its own choice.
   And that would be dangerous, warns the Rev. Ole Borgen, a
retired bishop in Wilmore, Ky., who is a committee member.
"It's not an incidental thing that God is called Father" in
the Bible, he says. If that language is altered, "then we
begin to form God in our own image."
   But Bishop Susan M. Morrison of Philadelphia, who heads
the committee, says "many images of God" are appropriate in a
culturally diverse denomination like the Methodists. She
acknowledges that a recent survey found that most Methodists
want no change in the church's masculine imagery for God.
However, a majority of those polled were over 55 years old.
   "Are we writing a book for people who have been in our
church for years and, of course, should be heard?" asks
Bishop Morrison. "Or are we writing a book for future
generations?"
   The Judicial Council -- composed of five lawyers and four
ministers -- is scheduled to meet Oct. 24 in Denver and is
expected to rule within days.
   The last time the Methodists tinkered with tradition, the
issue never made it to the court. That was in 1986, when a
committee revising the church hymnal voted to drop the old
favorite "Onward, Christian Soldiers." About 11,000 people
wrote to protest, and the hymn soldiered on.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Justice Department
   Seeks to Block Sale
   By News Corp. Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RANKY NWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department said it will
challenge as a violation of federal antitrust law the
proposed sale by Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp. of a
Hollywood film laboratory to the British leisure and
entertainment firm Rank Organisation PLC.
   Twentieth Century is a unit of Fox Inc., which is owned by
Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. of Sydney, Australia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rank's acquisition of Deluxe Laboratories "would tend
substantially to lessen competition" among specialized film
labs that serve the Hollywood movie studios, the department
said in a statement. The statement didn't say when or where
the department intended to file a lawsuit to try to block the
transaction, and officials weren't available to comment
further.
   Rank owns Film House Group Inc., a major Canadian film
lab. By acquiring Deluxe, Rank would control roughly half of
the $140 million U.S. market for producing prints of major
feature films, the Justice Department said.
   Fox Inc. issued a statement saying, "We intend to
vigorously resist the Justice Department challenge." Rank
agreed to acquire Deluxe in March for about $150 million in
cash.
   Rank, the largest processor of film in Europe, completed
its acquisition of Film House last April from Cineplex Odeon
Corp., which is 49%-owned by MCA Inc., paying about $113
million in a two-step transaction over two years. In 1988,
Rank paid about $120 million for a video-duplicating venture
from Bell &amp; Howell Co., Columbia Pictures Entertainment Co.
and Paramount Pictures Corp.
   Rank also owns a 50% stake of MCA Inc.'s new theme park,
Universal Studios Florida, which it also bought from Cineplex
Odeon, for $150 million.
   Rank's interests include Pinewood Studios in England,
movie production, distribution and exhibition, a giant film
library, hotels, restaurants and recreation facilities. Its
film and television businesses reported income of $61.8
million last year, about one-fourth of the companywide total,
on sales of $350.7 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Honeywell Profit
   Increased by 32%
   In Second Quarter
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   HON
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Honeywell Inc., benefiting from a
restructuring effort and a favorable tax ruling, reported
stronger-than-anticipated second-quarter results.
   The maker of control systems had net income of $99.1
million, or $2.58 a share, up 32% from $74.8 million, or
$1.73 a share, the year earlier. Profit from continuing
operations climbed 54% to $92.4 million, or $2.40 a share,
from $60 million, or $1.39 a share. Sales rose 2.1% to $1.55
billion from $1.52 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Honeywell said its "continued solid performance" reflects
the "benefits of our profit-improvement plan and continued
strong market conditions" for its industrial and
commercial-flight systems.
   New tax regulations reduced the tax the company must pay
on the earlier sale of a portion of its stake in a Japanese
joint venture. The company said it had been projecting a 37%
tax rate for 1990; as a result of the ruling, it lowered that
projection to 30%. The adjustment allowed the company to pay
a tax rate of just 22%. Earnings would have been $1.96 a
share without benefit of the tax break.
   Martin Sankey, First Boston Corp. analyst, noted that
Honeywell's earnings were "operationally, modestly stronger
than expectations" on Wall Street but that the tax advantages
were more of a surprise.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Honeywell shares jumped $3.50 to close at $110.50.
   For more than a year, Honeywell has been streamlining
operations as part of a program to boost profitability. It is
pursuing plans to spin off its defense business and has
trimmed its work force. One effect of the restructuring has
been to reduce interest expense, which in the latest period
fell 18% to $28.9 million.
   Honeywell's industrial business showed a sharp increase in
profitability, as continuing strength in industrial
automation systems -- process control systems used in
factories -- more than offset softer markets for the
industrial-parts business. Pretax earnings for the segment
rose to $60.5 million from $46.1 million.
   The company's space and aviation business, which includes
commercial flight systems, military avionics and space
systems, showed an even stronger upturn, with pretax profit
increasing to $52 million from $29 million.
   Honeywell noted that orders for the segment, excluding
results from units disposed of since last year, "were down
moderately," largely on a downturn in orders for space
systems.
   Weakness in U.S. residential building contributed to a
decline in pretax earnings at the homes and buildings
operation to $41.9 million from $42.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Life as an Intelligent Reactionary
   ----
   By David Brooks
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   When Russian troops liberated his native Hungary toward
the end of World War II, the first thing John Lukacs noted
was their sense of inferiority. Soviet officials were stiff
and uncomfortable at receptions, and overreacted to
criticism. This was a case in which the conquered
condescended toward the conquerers.
   Russian soldiers, Mr. Lukacs says, mistook toilets for
wash basins and eau de cologne for scented vodka. "During the
eighteen months that I spent under Russian occupation I did
not meet a single Russian with whom I could talk more or less
intelligently, and not one who spoke an intelligible French
or English or even German," he writes in his autobiography,
"Confessions of an Original Sinner" (Ticknor &amp; Fields, 328
pages, $19.95).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hungary would have been transformed by a long-term German
occupation because German culture would have bled into
Hungarian life, he says. "As matters turned out, after more
than forty years of Russian occupation, the Russian influence
on the culture and civilization of my native country has been
zero."
   Mr. Lukacs managed to emigrate to the U.S. just after the
war. Settling outside of Philadelphia, he has spent a
productive life as a historian, writing among other things,
"Budapest 1900: A Historical Portrait of a City and Its
Culture" and "Philadelphia: Patricians and Philistines,
1900-1950." Being a historian has many advantages, but it
makes for boring memoirs. So Mr. Lukacs has instead written
an intellectual history about himself, rereading his own
diaries with evident pleasure in order to show how he became
a self-confessed reactionary.
   When Mr. Lukacs describes himself with that unpleasant
word, he means that he sees things he loves conquered by
their cultural inferiors. At one point he lists some of the
"inanities" he reacts against: sex education, Star Wars,
opinion research, quantification, abstract art and the GNP.
Elsewhere, he rails against shopping centers, political
movements and of course the media. Every day in every way,
the world is getting dumber and dumber.
   Mr. Lukacs frequently dances on the precipice of
crankiness, and sometimes goes over. He is asinine when he
goes out of his way to declare the movie "Casablanca"
imbecilic, or to announce that reading the New York Post
makes him feel like he is covered by grease.
   But he acknowledges that what a person's ideas are is less
important than how he entertains them. And on the whole, he
wears his reactionary identity skillfully. In the first
place, he displays a virtue of reactionaries -- fierce
independence of mind. Hell for Mr. Lukacs would be finding
himself intellectually fashionable, and then being feted for
it at Disney World.
   He also has the advantage of being learned and frightfully
intelligent. His book, elegant and high-minded, is studded
with pointed observations.
   Here is a lance that should deflate some intellectual
pride: "All my life I have been interested in how people
think. This kind of interest may not be reactionary, but it
is surely different from the psychoanalytic `why?' -- the
latter being but a premier version of the most pestilential
intellectual habit of the twentieth century, which is the
attribution of motives. I know something (not much) about my
motives; about the motives of others I know much less."
   "Henry Adams," he writes elsewhere, "who claimed to
represent the mindset of the eighteenth century, concluded
that history would now accelerate very fast. . . . He mistook
the speed of communications for the movement of ideas; the
first had become very fast, the second very slow."
   Pragmatists who seek a middle ground between extremes
might take note of this Lukacsian observation: "Just as two
wrongs do not make a right, the opposition of two stupidities
does not mean that the truth is somewhere in the middle: what
it means is that the atmosphere of discourse has been clouded
and corrupted beyond reason."
   The problem with Mr. Lukacs is not that he is too
intelligent; it is that he is intelligent about too many
things. It is one thing to be discriminating about Henry
Adams, but the same scrutiny ruins the fun of watching Johnny
Carson. A person who is unable to take a vacation from rigor
is a prisoner of self-consciousness. "Confessions of an
Original Sinner" is a superb guidebook to a rich intellect,
but Mr. Lukacs often misses the spirit of popular culture.
This book does not exactly glide along on a cloud of carefree
whimsy.
   Mr. Lukacs doesn't acknowledge that the things he disdains
make possible the things he savors. A society that does not
have efficient marketing mechanisms (shopping centers) is not
going to be able to afford university presses. A country
without mass culture is not going to have middle-class
colleges, such as Chestnut Hill College, where Mr. Lukacs
teaches.
   It's possible to watch MTV in the morning, build Star Wars
in the afternoon and still savor Lukacs in the evening. Maybe
Mr. Lukacs could set up a regimen for himself -- enforced
stupidity for an hour a day. A few rounds of mini-golf and
one gains a new perspective on things.
   ---
   Mr. Brooks writes editorials for The Wall Street Journal
Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American International Group
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   AIG FIS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American International Group Inc. said it
completed its tender offer for all shares outstanding of
Fischbach Corp. at $11 a share.
   The insurance concern said it acquired 3.6 million shares,
or about 95% of Fischbach's stock, through the offer.
Fischbach is an electrical and mechanical contractor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tosco's Planned Sale
   Of Chemicals Unit
   Has Been Canceled
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TOS FREST
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Tosco Corp. said a tentative agreement
to sell its 50% stake in the Fort Meade Chemical Products
unit of its Seminole Fertilizer Corp. subsidiary had been
abandoned.
   The company, which also reported increased earnings, had
signed a letter of intent last April to sell its stake in the
phosphate acid production venture to a unit of Sinochem
American Holdings Inc., which owned the remaining 50% and
operated the unit. Sinochem is owned by the Chinese
government. Terms weren't disclosed, but the stake was worth
about $50 million, analysts said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The breakdown in the talks was unexpected. "It came as a
surprise to us," said Chief Financial Officer Jefferson F.
Allen. "The fundamentals of the business have improved
substantially."
   Tosco, an oil refiner, acquired Seminole last year for
$133 million, plus about $200 million in assumed debt from a
limited partnership whose partners are substantially the same
as a partnership that holds a 25% stake in Tosco. Tosco
recently abandoned efforts to sell its refining operation,
but hasn't yet completely abandoned efforts to sell Seminole,
Mr. Allen said.
   Tosco, which last May moved its corporate headquarters
from Santa Monica, Calif., to Stamford, Conn., also reported
increased earnings, primarily due to strong margins at its
Avon oil refinery in California, caused by the unusual
circumstance of lower crude oil prices and higher gasoline
prices.
   Second-quarter net income was $48.2 million or $1.52 a
share, up 72% from $28 million or 88 cents a share in the
year-ago quarter. Revenues, which now include Seminole,
climbed 73% from $334.2 million to $577.5 million. The
results include Seminole, which wasn't profitable. They also
include a $10 million expense for moving refinery offices
from Santa Monica and Bakersfield, Calif., to Concord,
Calif., and higher interest expense for the Seminole
acquisition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Leggett &amp; Platt Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LEG
</CO>
<LP>
   LEGGETT &amp; PLATT Inc. (Carthage, Mo.) -- Robert A.
Jefferies Jr., formerly vice president, general counsel and
secretary at this furniture and bed concern, was named senior
vice president, director of mergers and acquisitions and
strategic planning, and Michael A. Glauber, previously vice
president, finance and treasurer, was named senior vice
president, finance and administration; both executives'
positions are new.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Inland Steel Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS IAD
</CO>
<LP>
   INLAND STEEL INDUSTRIES Inc. (Chicago) -- W. Gordon Kay,
53 years old, previously president and chief executive
officer of this steel concern's J.M. Tull Metals Co. unit and
president of the Joseph T. Ryerson &amp; Son Inc. unit, was named
Inland senior vice president, and chief operating officer of
the company's distribution and processing businesses, both
new posts. The Tull and Ryerson steel service center units
will be reorganized into four regional distribution units and
a coil processing unit, reporting to Mr. Kay.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Schools Should Be Totally Free Market
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   John E. Chubb's proposal for reorganizing the delivery of
public education to incorporate the choice and incentives of
free markets ("A Blueprint for Public Education," editorial
page, June 6) is almost identical to Milton Friedman's famous
1962 voucher proposal. Unfortunately, Mr. Chubb does not
fully bite the free-market bullet. In his scheme, parents
would not be allowed to supplement the voucher amount
received from the government agency. Mr. Chubb is worried
that allowing supplementation would produce "too many
inequalities within the system." However, this result is not
at all obvious, and it may even be that inequality would be
less with supplementation.
   The liberal establishment notwithstanding, many low- and
moderate-income families feel so strongly about education
that they would want to supplement the voucher amount if it
would mean a higher-quality education for their children. The
choices of these families would help to reduce inequality in
educational opportunity. Some parents from higher-income
levels would also supplement, mostly to keep their children
in the private schools they are already attending.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of course some of these families might react to the
voucher and supplementation by moving their children to an
even-higher-quality school, tending to cancel out the
reduction in inequality just noted. However, the way to
handle this problem would be to make the amount of the
voucher vary inversely with income. The ability of upwardly
mobile families with low incomes to upgrade their children's
education would become more nearly equal to that of families
with higher incomes.
   But even if allowing supplementation would increase the
amount of educational inequality somewhat, is this any reason
to deny some low-income families the opportunity to improve
their children's life chances by dint of their hard work and
saving? Other than this flaw, Mr. Chubb's plan is a
commendable one. Why seriously diminish its effectiveness
because of a misdirected concern about inequality? I am sure
that a poll of the poor would find them favoring
supplementation.
   Dave M. O'Neill
   Department of Economics
   Pace University
   New York
   ---
   Mr. Chubb uses good logic -- except for one very glaring
omission: Nothing was said about the right all effective
schools should have (and private schools have always had) to
expel students for various academically related or moral
causes and without fear of being charged in such cases with
racial discrimination.
   If students are to be motivated for effective study, they
should not be allowed to view education as a right; they must
see it as a privilege. Each "average" student, thanks to his
school experience, should realize that it is an
accomplishment just to be able to stay in his school; he is
therefore motivated toward this end -- with good study
habits, a cooperative attitude, etc. Without this power for
schools, Mr. Chubb's logic merely rearranges the failed
liberal philosophy and bureaucracy in education -- somewhat
like blowing the dust on a table instead of actually removing
it.
   Joan P. Porter
   North Muskegon, Mich.
   ---
   Mr. Chubb rightly identifies government as the "cause {of
many of} the schools' problems in the first place." It is
interesting that he then suggests a complex, governmentally
administered funding and organizational scheme as the
solution.
   The root problem in government's involvement in education
is the notion that wise public officials can appropriate our
money and decide better than we how to spend it. Socialism
has failed for a lack of just these wise officials.
   As one already overburdened by a senseless educational
bureaucracy, I suggest we leave the resources and
decisionmaking at the local or regional level. It is the
communities' right and duty to define and meet their own
educational needs.
   Marcus McClary
   Business Manager
   Washington Central Supervisory Union
   Barre, Vt.
   ---
   Mr. Chubb and Polly Williams ("Teachers vs. Kids,"
editorial, June 6) are both right: The government is the
problem in our education system. But as radical as their
ideas may seem to some, they don't go far enough. A
school-voucher or "choice" system still leaves the state in
control -- tax money will continue to be taken from citizens
and "scholarship" amounts or vouchers "given" to each child
in a more or less arbitrary way.
   We all grew up with an existing public-education system,
and its justification is deeply ingrained in the American way
of thinking: Everyone agrees that literacy is crucial.
However, we must recognize that education (the transfer of
knowledge) is a service, subject to the same economic
principles that govern the market of any other commodity or
service; there are suppliers (schools, teachers, book
publishers) and customers (children and parents); the service
delivered has a cost (salaries, school maintenance,
materials) and a price (tuition); and suppliers must have an
organization that, if run efficiently, will generate a profit
(meaning the benefit to the customers will be greater than
the costs incurred in providing that service).
   So, why keep this important service under government
control and not open it up to the self-regulating
efficiencies of the free market? Why not let entrepreneurs
invest in a business (schools) and allow them to offer a
specific service (curriculum) at a certain price (tuition)?
Competition and free enterprise will result in the most
efficient allocation of resources, and the customers
(students) will get the best service for the lowest cost to
society.
   However, the issue is not that the current system is
inefficient (which it is); the real issue is the principle
that the government does not have the moral right to dictate
to individuals how or what they should be taught, and it
should not be in the "education business." Only when this
idea takes root in the American spirit and the
public-education system is totally dismantled will we achieve
a sound, self-regulating and efficient education system.
   Domingo Garcia
   Berkeley, Calif.
   ---
   Mr. Chubb's proposal gets this parent and taxpayer's
support. It addresses several of my greatest concerns about
the educational system. As a parent who has lived through two
teachers' strikes, a year with a tenured teacher who was less
than productive, and three failed school bonds in the state
of Ohio, and who was educated in the state of Mississippi
during the 1950s and '60s when nepotism and discrimination
were creating educational disaster for the state, I will
endorse any measure that restores control to the consumers of
education: parents and students.
   With current technology, schools no longer need to be
large and rigid. Mr. Chubb's proposal for reduced control and
restrictions would help generate community alternatives that
haven't existed since the consolidations of the early 1950s.
Loss of community schools had many consequences. They once
served as meeting places for public debate, where parents
could meet with teachers in a non-threatening environment and
establish common goals and agendas.
   Debbie Alexander
   Bloomington, Minn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Lillian Vernon
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   LVC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LILLIAN VERNON Corp. declared a 3-for-2 stock split,
payable Aug. 14 to shareholders of record on July 30. The
Mount Vernon, N.Y., specialty-catalog retailer, which has 6.2
million common shares outstanding, said the split reflects
the company's continuing growth and will improve the
liquidity of its stock. After the split, it will have about
9.3 million common shares. In trading on the American Stock
Exchange, Lillian Vernon closed at $24.25, up 12.5 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   RJR Nabisco's Junk Surges Again, but Activity
   Is Thin Ahead of Today's June Inflation Data
   ----
   By Tom Herman and Robert Sherman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR SLCTC EUROP FLE FRE FNM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Prices surged on RJR Nabisco Inc. junk bonds
for the second day in a row, but most other bond prices and
interest rates were little changed.
   RJR Nabisco's bonds are surging in popularity because of a
huge $6.9 billion refinancing plan announced Sunday by
company officials. The plan is designed to ease the food and
tobacco company's enormous debt burdens and strengthen its
financial backbone.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   RJR's largest issue, which soared more than eight points
Monday, added another 2 3/8 points yesterday to close at 94
1/8. Investor enthusiasm about the RJR news spilled over into
other sectors of the junk bond market, helping to lift prices
of some issues by about half a point, or $5 for each $1,000
face amount.
   But while trading volume in RJR bonds was heavy, volume
elsewhere in the junk-bond market generally was "very light,"
said Joseph Bencivenga, head of high-yield bond research at
Salomon Brothers Inc. Trading generally "was so thin that I
find it hard to describe what happened to the market as a
whole as much of a rally, aside from RJR where we saw a lot
of activity," he said."
   Elsewhere in the credit markets, Treasury bond prices held
steady for the second day in a row. Yields on 30-year
Treasury bonds continued to hover about 8.45%. Rates on
short-term Treasury bills also were flat.
   Treasury-bond trading was sluggish all day as investors
awaited a government report this morning on consumer prices
in June. Also this morning, Federal Reserve Board Chairman
Alan Greenspan will present the central bank's semiannual
economic and monetary report at a Senate Banking Committee
hearing.
   In addition, traders are waiting for signs that the
government will take steps to slash its huge budget deficit.
If the government shrinks the deficit, that would reduce
borrowing pressures in the credit markets. And a large
deficit-cutting package might persuade the Fed to reduce
short-term interest rates further.
   "My impression is that people are expecting at least a $50
billion to $55 billion cut in the budget deficit," said
Morgan Stark, president and chief executive of Chemical
Securities Inc. "The market will be very disappointed if this
isn't done, and if it isn't done in a timely, credible
fashion."
   This morning's inflation report is expected to show a
moderate rise in consumer prices of 0.3% for June, according
to a survey of 21 economists by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report. That would follow increases of 0.2% in both May and
April. Excluding the food and energy components, an increase
of 0.4% is expected, analysts say.
   Inflation fears that haunted the markets early this year
now appear to be fading rapidly, with investors focusing
increasingly on growing signs of economic weakness. "We
definitely prefer bonds over stocks," says Arthur A.
Micheletti, vice president at Bailard Biehl &amp; Kaiser, a San
Mateo, Calif., firm that manages about $1.3 billion for both
individuals and institutions.
   "It's a coin's toss whether the economy already is in a
recession or merely heading for slow growth," Mr. Micheletti
said. Either scenario "would mean strong gains" for holders
of U.S. Treasury bonds, while the stock market is "an
accident waiting to happen."
   Bailard Biehl has about half its individual clients' funds
in bonds, nearly all of which are in U.S. Treasury issues.
"This isn't the time to reach for yield" and buy lower-rated
bonds, he said. "This is a time to go for safety and
liquidity."
                                                                                                       

   Junk, Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   RJR Nabisco's surging junk bonds dominated activity in the
corporate-bond arena again yesterday.
   RJR's pay-in-kind bonds posted especially large gains. The
company's 17% exchangeable pay-in-kind debentures maturing in
2007 climbed 2 3/8 points to 94 1/8 on the New York Stock
Exchange. And its 17 3/8% convertible pay-in-kind debentures
due in 2009 rose 1 1/2 points to 115 7/8. Pay-in-kind bonds
pay interest in the form of additional securities.
   Trading volume was very heavy. Southland Corp.'s junk
bonds also posted solid gains as investors reacted with
relief to the company's announcement Monday that it had
agreed in principle on a restructuring proposal with a
bondholders' steering committee and a group of Japanese
investors.
   That agreement averted a possible bankruptcy-law filing
and drove up prices yesterday of some Southland issues by 1/2
point to one point. The agreement differs significantly from
a previous debt-exchange offer from the company.
   Southland, the troubled parent company of the 7-Eleven
retail convenience stores, previously had said it didn't
intend to make a June 15 interest payment on its senior
subordinated debt. That payment officially went into default
Sunday. Without an agreement from senior debtholders, the
company could have been driven into bankruptcy proceedings.
   Separately, prices of investment-grade corporate bonds
were little changed on the day. Activity in the new-issue
investment-grade market has perked up lately, and several
bond specialists expect that to continue. "I think you're
going to continue to see more {investment-grade} corporate
supply" soon, said Thomas Pura, a partner at Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   British government bond prices tumbled, erasing all of
Monday's gains, after the government reported an unexpectedly
large budget deficit for June.
   Among actively traded issues, Britain's 11.75% bonds due
2003/2007 fell 3/4 point to 102 7/32 to yield 11.41%.
Britain's 12% bonds due 1995 declined 7/32 point to 99 3/4 to
yield 12.08%.
   U.K. bonds, known as gilts, have been star performers in
the international bond markets during the past few months.
Several analysts expect the rally to continue this summer
because of growing signs of weakness in the U.K.'s economy
that could drive down interest rates, which move in the
opposite direction from bond prices. But yesterday's budget
deficit news brought the recent rally to an abrupt halt.
   Britain's budget deficit totaled #2.6 billion ($4.69
billion) in June. That was sharply higher than analysts'
estimates of #1 billion to #1.5 billion. The bulging deficit
raises the possibility that the government will have to
resume selling sizable amounts of new gilts later this fiscal
year to meet its funding needs, economists said.
   Separately, West German government bond prices slumped,
following the lead of futures prices. Several traders said
they had expected a temporary setback following the market's
week-long surge. Bonn's 8.75% bonds, due 2000, fell 0.35
point to 101.60 to yield 8.65%. Japanese bond prices also
fell, hurt by high short-term interest rates.
   A Salomon Brothers Inc. report released in New York
yesterday predicted that inflation-adjusted yields on U.S.
government bonds will remain considerably lower than those of
major European countries through 1991.
   Inflation-adjusted yields on U.S. government bonds now are
about 4%, said Nicholas Sargen, a director of bond market
research at Salomon. That, he said, is more than two
percentage points less than those on bonds of Germany,
France, Netherlands, and Canada. U.K. bonds have a real yield
of about 5% to 5.5%, according to the report by Messrs.
Sargen and John Lipsky of Salomon.
   The report cited "heightened competition for funds in
Europe and increased uncertainty about financing requirements
for Germany and Eastern Europe" as the most important
considerations in keeping real European bond yields high.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   A large volume of new municipal bond issues hit the market
yesterday.
   For example, New York sold $225 million of bonds through
competitive bidding. The winning bid came from a group of
underwriters led by First Boston Corp. The underwriters then
reoffered the bonds to investors at prices to yield from 6%
in 1992 to 7.15% in 2009-2020.
   First Boston officials said the unsold balance among
underwriters was about $72 million. The bonds are rated
single-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Investor demand for New York tax-free bonds typically is
strong among New Yorkers because of the state's very high
income tax rate. Moreover, New York City imposes a steep
income tax, too, and many voters fear Gotham taxes have
nowhere to go but up.
   Connecticut offered $325 million of general obligation
bonds. The issue was tentatively priced by underwriters, led
by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, to yield from 5.80% on
bonds due in 1991 to 6.95% in 20072010. The bonds are rated
double-A by both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard
&amp; Poor's Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury-bond prices were little changed again yesterday
as traders marked time ahead of today's economic news.
   Among active issues, the Treasury's 30-year bonds were
quoted late in the day at 103 1/8, to yield 8.45%, unchanged
from the previous day.
   "It was a very quiet, low volume session with minimal
price change," said William Sullivan, director of money
market research at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage, Asset-backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities prices ended unchanged to slightly
firmer, after spending the session in stifling trading
ranges.
   Only one major offering has been priced so far this week
-- a $122 million Fleetwood Credit Corp. issue backed by
loans for recreational vehicles that was priced yesterday by
First Boston Corp. as 9% securities at 99 18/32 to yield
9.204%.
   Fleetwood Credit is a unit of Fleetwood Enterprises Inc.,
Riverside, Calif., whose products include travel trailers and
motor homes.
   Among active secondary issues for August delivery,
Government National Mortgage Association 9.5% securities were
up 3/ 32 at 99 26/32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9.5%
issues were up 2/32 at 99 1/8 and Federal National Mortgage
Association 9.5% issues were up 2/32 at 99 5/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Neil Bush, Despite Applying `Smith Smell Test,'
   Gets Compared With Billy Carter, Donald Nixon
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Neil Bush calls it the Smith Smell Test.
   "People call up and say, `Hey Neil, I've got this great
deal,'" says the president's embattled but still amiable son.
"The smell test is: If my name were Neil Smith, would they be
asking me to engage in this venture with them?"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bush says he's never violated his smell test by
trading on being George Bush's son. But with the spotlight on
his role in the collapse of Silverado Banking, Savings &amp; Loan
Association, which is expected to cost taxpayers $1 billion,
comparisons inevitably are made with Billy Carter, Donald
Nixon and other presidential relatives whose finances brought
embarrassment to the White House. As a former Silverado
director, Mr. Bush has come under fire for overseeing loans
that involved two investors in his oil company.
   But what has caught public attention is a $100,000 loan
that Mr. Bush received before joining the Silverado board
from Kenneth Good, a Denver real-estate developer and
investor in JNB Exploration, Mr. Bush's oil company. Mr. Good
arranged to invest the money in the commodities market on Mr.
Bush's behalf, with the understanding that any profits would
be Mr. Bush's, while any losses would be absorbed by Mr.
Good.
   Mr. Bush, who not only looks but also acts like the Jimmy
Stewart of "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington," made headlines by
conceding in congressional testimony that the Good loan
sounded "a little fishy."
   Mr. Bush's friends say he lacks a sophisticated
understanding of the darker forces in life. "I think there's
a refreshing naivete about Neil," says Mr. Bush's adviser,
former Democratic Rep. Thomas Ashley, who's known George Bush
since his Skull and Bones days at Yale. "He's not jaded."
   Since Neil Bush's youth, when he was afflicted with
dyslexia -- his brother Marvin recalls that "homework would
take him a little bit longer" than the other Bush children --
he has been known for his good-natured willingness to pitch
into any task. While his siblings would scatter when their
parents ordered that yard work be done, recalls Marvin Bush,
"Neil would step up and say, `Yeah, great.'"
   Friends and business associates agree that Neil Bush's
family name lent him a certain aura within the Denver
business community when he settled there after working on his
father's 1980 presidential bid. Mr. Bush put in two years at
Amoco Corp. to learn the oil business, then left that
$30,000-a-year job to start an oil-exploration company of his
own. Investors were drawn to Mr. Bush "partly, I suppose,
because he was the son of the vice president," concedes Evans
Nash, Neil Bush's former partner. "I'm sure that helped him
meet people."
   Even Mr. Bush's lawyer concedes that being George Bush's
son raised Neil's profile in Denver. "We don't have a lot of
celebrities," explains attorney James Nesland. "We had Marvin
Davis for a while. Now he's gone," he says, registering that
oil man's departure for Hollywood with a shrug.
   Settled in Denver, Neil Bush became a fixture on the local
political scene, giving speeches at Lincoln Day dinners and
stumping for his father and a variety of local Republican
candidates. "He's an enthusiastic speaker," notes Bruce
Benson, chairman of the Colorado Republican Party. "He speaks
of good Republican values."
   Neil Bush can be startlingly blunt in enunciating
conservative themes. According to one local news account, Mr.
Bush told a group of Hispanic voters in 1988 that welfare was
"worse than slavery."
   Mr. Bush also settled into Denver's social elite. With his
wife, Sharon, and three children, he lived in suburban
seclusion amid rolling greens and humming golf carts inside a
walled country-club development. The handsome young couple
became a fixture at dinner parties and charity events.
   It was at one such party in 1985 that Neil Bush met
Michael Wise, chairman of Silverado. Mr. Wise was seeking a
new director for Silverado's board -- preferably someone
young, because the board was top-heavy with older members,
and preferably someone with experience in the oil business,
which was underrepresented. Mr. Bush accepted. "I considered
it a chance to learn," he later told the Denver Post.
   With no experience in banking, Mr. Bush, then 30 years
old, nevertheless seemed a logical choice to those close to
Mr. Wise. "Mike Wise seemed to like to be a first-class
dresser," observes Alexander Walter, a former loan-portfolio
manager at Silverado. "His automobile was always impeccably
clean." Neil Bush, Mr. Walter implies, was another such
ornament.
   Mr. Wise declined to return calls, and through an
intermediary referred all inquiries to his lawyer, Bettina
Lawton. Ms. Lawton says Mr. Bush's last name was "certainly
not a primary consideration" when Mr. Wise chose him for the
board.
   Despite Mr. Bush's youth and inexperience in banking
matters, former Silverado officials say Mr. Bush was no less
able a board member than the others. According to Mr. Walter,
most had "no hands-on experience" with the complex
Silverado's business. Former Silverado board member Diane
Ingels says Mr. Bush was a "very diligent" director who "met
with other directors and with management to enhance his
understanding."
   Still, Mr. Bush remains defensive about his qualifications
to sit on Silverado's board. Sitting in his office
overlooking downtown Denver, a small bust of his father
behind him, he lurches unprompted from discussing his work on
a political campaign into a defense of his work on
Silverado's board. "I was just as well prepared to be on that
board as anyone," he protests.
   Mr. Bush is also emphatic in denying that Mr. Good's
risk-free loan violated the Smith Smell Test. "It's just his
way of having fun," Mr. Bush says. "I wasn't going to deny
him his chance of having fun."
   Mr. Bush says Mr. Good set up similar accounts for Mr.
Good's secretary and bookkeeper. Mr. Good couldn't be reached
for comment, but in testimony last month before the House
Banking Committee, he described the loans as "a means of
attracting and keeping loyal business associates." Still,
neither of Mr. Bush's two partners at JNB Exploration
received such loans. Mr. Bush says they weren't as close to
Mr. Good. The money was eventually lost when the commodities
investments went sour.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Bush is wrestling against
conflict-of-interest charges by the federal Office of Thrift
Supervision concerning his service on the Silverado board.
The thrift office has charged that as a Silverado director
Mr. Bush voted on loans to William Walters, a Denver real
estate agent who was one of two original investors in JNB
Exploration. Mr. Bush answers that there wasn't any legal
requirement that he abstain from the votes.
   The thrift office also contends that Mr. Bush failed to
properly disclose his interest when he helped Mr. Good
receive a $900,000 line of credit from Silverado in order to
assist an Argentine project involving JNB Exploration. But
Mr. Bush produced a memo that appears to demonstrate that his
interest was disclosed to the board before it approved the
line of credit. These and other charges will be publicly
aired at administrative hearings to be held this September in
Denver.
   Amid everything, Mr. Bush maintains a self-deprecating
wit. He has "no airs or graces about him," observes
Republican political consultant Peter Teeley, who recently
phoned Mr. Bush to offer advice and support. Mr. Nesland, the
lawyer, says that after he scolded Mr. Bush for his "fishy"
gaffe, Mr. Bush clipped a newspaper photograph of himself at
the hearing, with Mr. Nesland and Sharon Bush sitting behind
him. "I can't believe he said that," Mr. Bush scribbled in a
bubble drawn above Mr. Nesland's head, according to Mr.
Nesland. "Oh no, not again," Mr. Bush wrote in another bubble
above his wife.
   Indeed, Mr. Bush's spirits are sufficiently buoyant that,
in the midst of seeing himself portrayed as a major S&amp;L
villain, he can still envision pursuing a career in politics.
Ten years from now, he muses, "I may be a U.S. senator. Who
knows?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Is Lower on Increased Volume;
   MCI Falls on United Telecom Earnings
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks bore the brunt of investors' fears
about earnings after exchange-listed United
Telecommunications startled investors with
lower-than-expected earnings.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 5.12 to 464.48, a 1.1%
decline, in heavy trading of 167.8 million shares, up from
138.1 million Monday. The Nasdaq Industrial Index tumbled
from its recent highs in a 5.95 drop to 504.66 as investors
took profits in better-performing OTC stocks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nasdaq Utility Index plunged 2.1%, or 13.21 to 642.10,
as the United Telecommunications news made investors skittish
about other telecommunications issues.
   MCI Communications, which comprises a 22% weighting of the
Utility Index, fell 1 5/8 to 38 3/8 on nearly 8.6 million
shares and traded as low as 37 1/4 and as high as 40 1/8
during the day.
   OTC stocks "see-sawed all day," said William A. Rothe,
head of OTC trading at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, Baltimore. "They'd
take them down and then turn them on a dime and take them
back up just as fast," he said. Mr. Rothe added that he
thinks the failure of the Dow Jones Industrial Average to
sustain a push above the 3000 level prompted investors to
take profits in some of the better-quality OTC names included
in the Nasdaq Industrial Index.
   Intel fell 3/4 to 50 1/2, but swung between a high of 52
and a low of 50 1/4. The Santa Clara, Calif., semiconductor
maker reported second quarter net income of 84 cents a share,
up from 53 cents a year earlier.
   Also under pressure were shares of Apple Computer, which
fell 1 3/8 to 44 1/4 on 1.2 million shares. Cowen &amp; Co.
analyst Michele S. Preston said in an interview that
investors are skittish about comments due late today by the
Cupertino, Calif., computer maker after it reports earnings
for the third quarter ended in June.
   Ms. Preston said she expects Apple to earn about 90 cents
a share, up from 74 cents a year earlier, and doesn't expect
any surprises. Apple officials have been cautious about the
outlook for the remainder of the year as the company plans to
introduce a new, low-priced Macintosh computer, she
explained. However, she noted that previously the company has
surprised investors by reporting earnings in line with
expectations but then warning of an uncertain outlook. A
conference call among analysts and Apple officials is
scheduled for 5 p.m. Eastern time today, she said.
   Investors continued to punish stocks of companies with
poor earnings outlooks.
   Weitek skidded 4 to 15 1/2 on 1.9 million shares, or more
than 15 times average volume, and was one of the day's most
active stocks. Analysts told Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report that officials of the Sunnyvale, Calif., maker of
high-performance integrated circuits indicated Monday they're
pessimistic about winning an important new contract from Sun
Microsystems.
   Robertson Stephens &amp; Co. analyst Michael J. Stark told
DJPIR that statement prompted him to lower his earnings
estimates for Weitek to $1.05 a share in 1990, from $1.10
previously, and $1.25 a share in 1991, from $1.42 before; the
company earned 81 cents a share in 1989. Dillon Read &amp; Co.
analyst Lawrence W. Borgman said his 1990 estimate has been
$1.10 a share and that he expects to lower it to about $1.05
a share. But neither analyst changed his investment opinion
on the stock; Mr. Stark has a near-term "hold" and long-term
"buy" advisory, and Mr. Borgman says he will continue to rate
the stock "attractive."
   Advanced Logic fell 2 1/4 to a bid of 11 3/4 after the
Irvine, Calif., maker of microcomputer systems said it
expects revenue for the third quarter ended June 30 of $2.5
million to $2.8 million, below second quarter net income of
$3.2 million but higher than year-earlier income of $700,000.
   SofTech lost 1/4 to 2 7/8. Late Monday, the Waltham,
Mass., developer of software services and products revised
its earnings estimate for the fiscal year ended May 31 to a
loss of about 16 cents a share from a previously estimated
profit of seven to 11 cents a share, citing increased
software investments and delays in two military projects.
SofTech had 1989 net income of 46 cents a share.
   Graphic Scanning fell 1 1/2 to 8 before the National
Association of Securities Dealers halted trading in the stock
pending an announcement early this morning. Investment firms
controlled by Mario Gabelli said in May they hold nearly a
44% position in the Englewood, N.J., communications-services
company.
   Among the day's gainers, Class B shares of Adolph Coors
climbed 3/8 to 26 1/4 after the Golden, Colo., brewer
reported net income for the second quarter ended June 17 of
68 cents a share, up from 46 cents a year earlier.
   Guy F. Atkinson rose 1 1/4 to 16 1/2 after the South San
Francisco, Calif. construction company said it expects to
receive $100 million in payments after settling five
construction contract disputes.
   ---
   PROPOSED LISTING STANDARDS REVISED: The National
Association of Securities Dealers, which has proposed higher
standards for the continued listing of stocks on Nasdaq, its
automated quotation system, said yesterday its board changed
several of the proposed requirements after reviewing more
than 80 responses to the plan.
   Under the latest proposal, stocks can stay on Nasdaq if
they fall below $1 a share provided that the market value of
shares in public hands -- known as the "float" -- is at least
$1 million and the company has $2 million in equity. Under
the original plan, companies that failed to maintain a public
float of $200,000 or a minimum bid price of $1 for 10
consecutive days would be delisted and have to requalify with
a minimum $1 million public float and minimum bid of $3.
   If approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
latest proposals aren't expected to be effective until July
1, 1991, at the earliest-six months later than the originally
proposed effective date of Jan. 1. The delay is designed to
give companies time to comply with the latest version of the
standards, NASD said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Keithley Instruments' Outlook
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   KEI
</CO>
<LP>
   SOLON, Ohio -- Keithley Instruments Inc., which makes
electronic test and measurement instruments, said that for
its third quarter ended June 30, it expects to post a decline
in per-share earnings from the year-earlier 17 cents, when
net income was $611,000. It didn't specify earnings but said
sales rose 5% to $24.2 million from $23.2 million.
   Keithley cited higher operating expenses and a higher tax
rate for the earnings decline. The company said orders were
lower than expected and slightly below those of a year
earlier, principally because of a weak semiconducter market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   How a Failed Merger Spouted Trouble for a Faucet Firm
   ---
   Harden Charges Suitor Stole Designs
   After Takeover Talks Dried Up
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   NTK
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- The high-end faucet business treated
Barbara Nyden Rodstein nicely.
   Friends dubbed her "faucet queen to the stars," as her
fancy fixtures found their way into the Reagan White House
and the homes of Elizabeth Taylor, Paul Newman and Barbra
Streisand. And she is to be featured in a segment of
television's "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous" that will
show off her Bel Air home, brightly colored designer clothes
and two Rolls-Royces.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But lately, she also has been learning a tough business
lesson: Shopping your small company to a big competitor can
land you in hot water.
   The lesson began when Ms. Nyden Rodstein's negotiations to
sell her bath-fixtures company, Harden Industries Inc., to
Nortek Inc. fell through in 1988. Ms. Nyden Rodstein is now
locked in a legal battle with Nortek in which she claims that
the Providence, R.I., manufacturing conglomerate stole her
company's top-selling faucet designs and tried to drive her
out of business.
   Says Ms. Nyden Rodstein of her experience with Nortek:
"It's like they're going after a butterfly with a hammer."
   Nortek executives declined to comment for this story,
citing company policy about discussing continuing litigation.
But in court filings, the company has denied Harden's
allegations, which include trademark infringement,
misappropriation of trade secrets and unfair competition.
Nortek's chairman and chief executive, Ralph Papitto, has
said in filings in federal court here that Harden's case "is
built on outrageous lies and unfounded speculation."
   Harden's claims aren't uncommon for a small company that
tries to sell itself to a big one. The courts are filled with
lawsuits by entrepreneurs who allege that a potential buyer
stole their secrets or roughed them up in other ways.
   Nortek first approached Harden about a possible sale in
April, 1987, shortly before Ms. Nyden Rodstein's husband and
co-manager of the company, Harvey Rodstein, died of cancer.
Mr. Papitto said that he was looking "to purchase a company
which produced `top-of-the-line bathroom faucets and
fixtures,'" to complement Nortek's lower-priced
Universal-Rundle unit, Harden claims in its lawsuit, filed in
March 1989 in federal court here. Harden agreed to discuss an
acquisition and entered into a confidentiality agreement with
Nortek allowing the big company to pore over Harden's
financial records, marketing and sales plans, and lists of
sales representatives, customers and suppliers.
   Shortly after the acquisition talks began, Mr. Papitto
"insisted upon and secured the opportunity to tour the
manufacturing facilities in Taiwan of Harden's principal
supplier," Ming Chin Enterprise Co., the complaint alleges.
Harden claims that even while acquisition talks were
continuing, Nortek "secretly contracted with Ming Chin . . .
to purchase Harden's top-selling lines of faucets and
bathroom fixtures," and sell them as its own.
   The acquisition talks broke down in January 1988 after
Nortek lowered the price it was willing to pay for Harden.
"When our audit was completed, we discovered that Harden's
profitability was only about half of that which had been
orally represented to us," Mr. Papitto said in the court
filings.
   By July, Nortek had set up its own upscale bath fixtures
company, Raphael Ltd., and began selling faucets made by Ming
Chin, which had stopped doing business with Harden the month
after negotiations with Nortek fell apart. (Harden claims in
court filings that Ming Chin's work became suspiciously
shoddy in the months before the acquisition talks ceased.
Ming Chin has sued Harden claiming Harden hasn't paid it
nearly $1.8 million. Harden denies that it owes Ming Chin the
money.)
   Harden says it was particularly irked that Ming Chin was
making faucets for Raphael with Harden molds. Nortek doesn't
deny that Ming Chin used the molds, but says they are the
property of Ming Chin, not Harden, and that it was therefore
free to use them.
   Raphael did, however, instruct the Taiwanese supplier to
"obliterate all evidence of the Harden name before shipping
the fixtures to Raphael," and even bought a grinding wheel
for the purpose, according to Nortek's statements in the
case. Nortek concedes that "Raphael has inadvertently, and to
its considerable dismay, shipped a handful of fixtures which
did bear the Harden trademark."
   The result has been chaos for Harden, Ms. Nyden Rodstein
says. "Our retailers are confused. They look at a faucet and
they don't know whose it is." She says quality control and
product liability are big concerns. "If there's a problem
with a Raphael faucet, my reputation suffers." Harden now
requires customers to show proof of purchase when they have
complaints about a product. "We never had to do that before,"
she says.
   In addition to using the same molds, Raphael featured
pictures of all of Harden's top-selling faucets in its own
catalog and lured away several of Harden's sales
representatives, Harden's suit alleges. To get Harden's
customers to buy Raphael products, "defendants informed
Harden's customers that Harden was `going out of business,'
or `into bankruptcy' and that Raphael had purchased the
leftover inventory of Harden faucets," the suit adds. Nortek
has denied those allegations.
   Ms. Nyden Rodstein says her company has been especially
battered by the rumors that it is closing shop, resulting in
"a serious decline in our business," though she won't
quantify it. Her attorney, Jerald R. Cochran, says only that
Harden has made a "$10.5 million settlement demand" to
Nortek, excluding attorney's fees. Barring a settlement, the
case will probably go to trial next March, Mr. Cochran says.
   Still, Ms. Nyden Rodstein says that "the biggest and most
horrendous part is behind us." In federal court here, Harden
won a preliminary injunction against Nortek last year to stop
distributing faucets bearing Harden's name. Harden also
introduced a new line of streamlined fixtures called
"Metropolis" that "wouldn't be confused with anyone else's,"
Ms. Nyden Rodstein says. And she was named businesswoman of
the year by the Los Angeles chapter of the National
Association of Women Business Owners in March.
   Ms. Nyden Rodstein, who talks of having been "too poor to
even have a doll" during her childhood in Chicago, was
involved in male-dominated industries including trucking and
pneumatic tools before starting Harden in 1982 with a $5,000
investment. She says that venture began after she went
hunting for faucets for her husband's dressing room and
realized there was profit to be had in high-end bathroom
fixtures. "Brass was selling for just 35 cents a pound, and
yet a six-pound solid-brass faucet was selling for $350," she
says.
   Having to struggle up through some tough industries, she
says, may be to her advantage in the tussle with Nortek.
"Stuff like this can ruin your lunch," she says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Midland Bank
   Exits U.S. Group
   Of Primary Dealers
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MID
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   In another indication of the hard times in the U.S.
government bond market, Midland Bank PLC said it was exiting
the elite group of bond firms in the U.S. that do business
directly with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
   The cutbacks are part of a general retrenchment that could
include layoffs of as many as 4,000 people in London over the
next few weeks, according to current and former Midland
employees. "It isn't our policy to comment on rumors or
speculation," said a bank spokesman in London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Only a few years ago, many foreign banks and securities
firms were eager to become U.S. primary dealers, either by
building operations from scratch or paying top dollar for
existing ones. The logic behind these decisions was that to
be considered a major player in global finance, you had to be
big in the U.S. Treasury market, the world's biggest
securities market. But lately, the business has been a
disaster, suffering from overcapacity, low customer volume,
low volatility and razor-thin spreads between buy and sell
quotes.
   Allan Rosenberg, president of Midland Montagu Securities
Inc., Midland's primary dealer and also the entity that
houses most of Midland's U.S. banking operations, said about
140 people would be laid off in New York. That would shrink
the British bank's U.S. presence to about 190 employees.
   Besides the dealership, Midland is also closing its U.S.
private banking unit and letting go operations and support
staff. Midland inherited the dealership when it bought
Crocker National Bank in 1980.
   Concerning the dealership, Mr. Rosenberg said: "The
biggest problem is that {the market} is oversaturated. There
are too many dealers chasing too little business." He added,
"Profit margins with institutional customer business are at a
bare minimum, and risk appetites are certainly in general
less today than they have been over the last 10 to 15 years."
   Mr. Rosenberg said Midland's dealership was making money,
about $1 million to $2 million for the first six months of
1990 on a market share of 1.5% to 2%. The bank's problem was
insufficient return on capital: Maintaining the dealership
with such low profits didn't justify devoting $100 million of
capital to the business.
   Midland officials said that instead, the bank had chosen
to concentrate on its strength in Britain and continental
Europe. Through subsidiaries and affiliates, the bank is a
major player in the British and German government bond
markets.
   Midland's retreat reduces the number of primary dealers to
42 from a peak of 46 at the end of 1988. Fifteen of the firms
are controlled by foreign institutions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW SOVIET TAXES on business offer enticements to Western
enterprises.
   The withholding tax on joint ventures' payouts to foreign
owners falls to 15% from 20% and may be cut further by
treaty, the Washington law firm Cole Corette &amp; Abrutyn says.
A profits tax of 30% applies to foreign-owned operations and
to joint ventures owned more than 30% by foreigners; the rate
for Soviet concerns is 45%. Expanded expense deductions and
provisions for a five-year loss carryforward greatly improve
chances that the U.S. will grant credits for the tax against
U.S. income taxes, the firm's Edward Lieberman adds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But details of several taxes adopted by the Supreme Soviet
last month haven't been announced. A tax of up to 90% on
"excess profits," which the Council of Ministers is to define
by Aug. 1, may deter investments in some industries. The
Council is to design an export-import tax on middlemen and to
set rates for a value-added tax. A two-year tax exemption for
joint ventures registered after 1990 is restricted to certain
industries.
   In September, the U.S. and the Soviet Union are to resume
negotiations to revise their 1973 tax treaty.
                                                                                                       

   I KNOW I WAS MARRIED, judge, he said. It's the divorce I
can't pin down.
   Larry and Ann married in 1964, but had "marital problems"
after he fathered a son by another woman in 1982, he told Tax
Court Special Judge Goldberg. Still, Ann stayed with him in
St. Louis into 1987; they filed joint returns for 1985 and
1986. Ann must have got a divorce later, for she remarried,
Larry said. But the IRS questioned whether Ann existed; she
listed no Social Security number. The IRS sought to tax Larry
as a single man, so he appealed to the court.
   The judge found Larry's testimony to be "honest and
credible, albeit fascinating." The judge said Larry, who
worked for the Army Engineers on a dredge boat on the
Mississippi, may file jointly for 1985 and 1986. But the
judge added that Larry hadn't established the date of any
divorce; thus, he must file as a single taxpayer for 1987,
not as a head of household.
                                                                                                       

   RULINGS ON EXEMPTIONS can be made more efficiently, the
GAO says.
   The IRS gets over 50,000 requests a year for the
exemptions available to 25 types of charitable, educational,
religious, and other groups; it has approved over 1.2 million
of them. Congress's General Accounting Office now says IRS
reviewers make too little use of their discretion to expedite
exemptions and thus free agents to do more compliance audits.
Some 60% of the groups have too little income to have to file
annual reports; the IRS audits only 1.4% of the Form 990s.
   Lacking clear guidance, the seven IRS offices involved use
the expedited process for only 2% to 17% of the requests they
handle, the GAO found; it advises the IRS to re-evaluate the
process and rewrite its guidelines. The IRS also should
broaden the review it makes of any group, big or small, five
years after exemption is recognized. It now checks only
sources of income.
   Spending data would show whether a charity is fulfilling
its professed exempt purposes, the GAO says.
                                                                                                       

   TOTTING UP THE TAKE: Up to now, businesses have had to
report to the IRS a receipt of cash exceeding $10,000 in one
payment or two related ones. New IRS rules require businesses
to add related amounts received over one year and report each
time the aggregated receipts exceed $10,000.
                                                                                                       

   NEW YORK'S REVISION of tax rules for S corporations, which
are taxed much like partnerships at the federal level, now
requires reconsideration of S elections made at the state
level, says law firm Roberts &amp; Holland, New York City. Owners
have until Aug. 8 to revoke New York elections.
                                                                                                       

   TOO OLD TO PROTECT, the Tax Court says, are confidential
data for 1979-82 about Evening Telegram Co., a family-owned,
Superior, Wis.-based newspaper and broadcasting concern. The
court declined to seal detailed financial documents put into
evidence in the trial of an estate-tax case.
                                                                                                       

   THE IRS APPLIES BRAKES to accelerated deductions of
accrued property taxes.
   Businesses using accrual accounting deduct expenses as
incurred, not as paid, and may benefit nicely. Take state and
local property taxes: Deduction timing varies, depending on a
state's legal-liability and payment-due dates and on state
and business fiscal years. But in Alabama, Arkansas,
Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Oklahoma and South
Carolina, calendar-year concerns have been able to deduct the
taxes on federal returns a year before making payments. In
many other states, deductions have been advanced by half a
year.
   Now proposed IRS rules would require accrual-method
concerns to delay deductions until "economic performance" --
payment -- occurs. This could mean a big jump in federal
income tax for the year of the timing change. Businesses may
be able to ease the blow in some states by making certain
elections, says Michael J. Novogradac, a San Francisco CPA,
but it isn't clear just how the elections apply to property
taxes.
   The rules also could delay deductions of liabilities for
insurance premiums, warranty and service contracts, and other
expenses, says James Connor of Coopers &amp; Lybrand, CPAs.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Now let's check those digits: On Budget Director
Darman's official statement raising the deficit estimate, his
name appeared as "Daramn." . . . Colorado and Maryland bring
to 17 the number of states granting at least partial
sales-tax exemption to precious-metal bullion and coins.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Slates Sale
   Of $18 Billion in Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $2.1 billion in
new cash with the sale Monday of about $18 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $15.9 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing Oct. 25, 1990, and Jan. 24, 1991,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- MAN AG:
   Engineering Firm Reports
   Sales in Fiscal '90 Rose 11%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   G.MAN EUROP E.ENA G.DAI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAN AG said that sales for the year ended June 30 climbed
11% to about 19 billion marks ($11.48 billion) and that it
will raise its dividend.
   The West German engineering concern didn't specify to what
level it would raise the dividend, but said it would be the
third increase in three years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, MAN said it has accepted the West German
Federal Cartel office's decision forbidding the company from
taking over the Spanish truck maker Empresa Nacional de
Autocaminoes S.A. in partnership with Daimler-Benz AG.
   MAN had planned to acquire a 60% stake in Enasa from the
Spanish state holding company Instituto Nacional de
Industria, which would retain 20% and also acquire an 8%
share in MAN. Daimler would buy the remaining 20% stake and
manage Enasa jointly with MAN, but the Cartel Office rejected
the agreement due to the joint management element.
   No details were provided on earnings for 1990, but MAN
said capacity was "fully utilized" last year, which led to a
"renewed improvement" in earnings.
   In the year earlier, MAN's group net profit rose 25% to
about 252 million marks from 201.7 million marks a year
earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- ASDA Group PLC:
   British Supermarket Chain's
   Annual Pretax Profit Falls
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.AGP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ASDA Group PLC of Britain, a major supermarket chain,
reported that pretax profit for the year ended April 28 fell
27% to #180 million ($324.4 million) from #247 million a year
earlier, hurt by soft consumer demand and expenses related to
the purchase of 60 Gateway superstores and the setup of a new
distribution system.
   Still, the result was at the upper end of market
forecasts, which had ranged between #160 million and #185
million. Profit after taxes and minority interests but before
extraordinary items also fell 27% to #122.6 million from
#167.6 million. And per-share earnings dropped 27% to 10.13
pence from 13.82 pence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest results included an extraordinary gain of #86.7
million related to disposals to pay for the Gateway
acquisitions; the year-earlier period hadn't any special
items. Profit attributable to shareholders, after taxes and
extraordinary items, improved 25% to #209.3 million from
#167.6 million.
   Sales rose 31% to #3.55 billion from #2.71 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monkey Business:
   Simians Run Amok
   On Key Lois, Fla.
   ---
   Bausch &amp; Lomb's Beasts Eat
   Red Mangroves and Upset
   Politicians, Doomsayers
   ----
   By Eric Morgenthaler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   BOL
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   KEY LOIS, Fla. -- What distinguishes Florida's latest
business scandal isn't the stripping of assets or the
offshore deposits or the governor's outburst or the size of
the mess, although all those things are involved.
   No, the controversy swirling around this little island has
more to do with monkey business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three thousand rhesus monkeys are being raised on Key Lois
and another island in the lower Florida Keys by a
monkey-breeding unit of Charles River Laboratories Inc., a
Boston subsidiary of Bausch &amp; Lomb Inc., the big vision-care
concern with $1.2 billion in sales last year. The company
sells the animals for medical research.
   The first of the monkeys arrived here from India in the
early 1970s. And most roam free; they aren't confined in
cages. Their islands are well offshore -- two or three miles
from people. The two islands have no human inhabitants.
   That is probably just as well. Over the years, the monkeys
have ravaged the two keys and surrounding waters. They have
stripped bare acres of red mangrove, a protected tree, and
they have turned the waters around this island -- the more
wasted of the two-into something of a simian sewer. Which is
where the politicians come in.
   The monkeys have become the business of the highest
elected officials in the state.
   Florida's governor and the state's cabinet, which is made
up of the six, elected executive-branch department heads, act
as trustee for all state-owned lands. That makes the monkeys
a cabinet-level issue, because the state claims its property
includes some of the land the monkeys have damaged. Charles
River claims to own the islands. But no matter who owns an
island, the state owns everything below the mean high-water
line. The little islands total 309 acres in area; the state
claims to own about half the land, at least at low tide.
   Charles River disputes the state's ownership assertions,
and it sued in 1986 to establish its claim of clear title to
Key Lois and Raccoon Key, the other little island. Florida
countersued, and the two sides have been trying to settle out
of court. Such efforts went largely unnoticed until recently,
when a vote on a proposed settlement appeared on the agenda
for the cabinet meeting of May 22. The settlement called for
Charles River to make lease payments for the submerged
acreage the state says it owns while also phasing out the
monkeys on Key Lois over 20 years and within 30 years on
Raccoon Key.
   "We had had this great silence, and then all of a sudden
this announcement on the agenda that they were renewing the
lease for 30 years," says Dagny Johnson, president of the
Upper Keys Citizens Association, which she runs from her home
in Key Largo, well north of here, and describes as a
"nonprofit, nonpaid, non-anything old-time tried-and-true
citizens movement."
   Soon, phones of community activists, environmentalists and
politicians were ringing all over the Keys and up into
Tallahassee, the state capital. "We just raised Cain," Ms.
Johnson goes on. "`Damn it, get those monkeys out]' This is
how you have to talk to the state."
   The monkey movement here has various motives, but
anti-vivisection and animal rights aren't major ones. People
claim to worry that a hurricane or other big storm could blow
monkeys all over the Keys. Some cite human health and
environmental issues. A few have truly cataclysmic visions.
All the movement types say they don't want to continue to
have primates in these parts for another 20 or 30 years.
   "When I arrived in 1980, I'd stand over here and look at
the monkey island, and it was vegetated and nice and green,"
says James McElroy, a retiree and president of the Monroe
County Condo Owners Association, who lives on Cudjoe Cay, a
couple of miles across a shallow bay from Key Lois. "But in
the last three or four years, the island has become
devastated. It looks blighted. The defecation of the monkeys
is extremely deep, and when the storms and rains come, this
washes into our nearshore waters, and that's something we do
not need."
   That isn't all they don't need.
   "What if some strain got into the monkeys, like rabies or
something?" asks Monroe County Commissioner Douglas M. Jones,
who lives in Key West. "How would you ever know, till someone
got bit? And then they've got it and, my goodness, a
hurricane comes and spreads those rabid monkeys all over the
Keys." So some of the talk is not just cataclysmic, it is
also hypothetical.
   Barbara Kelley, public affairs director at Bausch &amp; Lomb's
Rochester, N.Y., headquarters, says such fears are wildly
overblown. "We have our staff people there continually
monitoring the health of the monkeys," she says. "This is the
cleanest, healthiest monkey population in the world." Indeed,
the company thinks it more likely that humans could infect
the monkeys than vice versa. Big signs loom to discourage
intruders on the islands: "Posted -- U.S. Government Project
-- Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted." Ms. Kelley says the
phrase "Government Project" means that some of the monkeys
are used by government agencies.
   She insists, furthermore, that "there has never been an
instance of a hurricane disturbing a breeding colony. We
think that this is a very unlikely, remote possibility. But
even if it occurred, the monkeys probably wouldn't present a
hazard to any humans."
   Bausch &amp; Lomb doesn't deny that the monkeys are tearing up
the red mangroves, but it says it is working to refoliate the
island under a 1988 consent order with the state's Department
of Environmental Regulation. It is caging trees, so the
uncaged monkeys can't get to them.
   The citizens' outcry was sufficiently loud that the
governor and cabinet, at the May 22 meeting at which the
monkeys came up, voted to delay action on the proposed
settlement with Charles River. They said they first wanted
the Department of Environmental Regulation to rule on whether
the company was complying with the 1988 consent order.
   In June, the department certified that Charles River was
in compliance. But by then, spurred by the local protests,
officials were taking a closer look. State Treasurer Tom
Gallagher and others flew over in a helicopter for a little
fact-finding. The facts found didn't help the monkeys' cause.
   Paul Bradshaw, cabinet aide to Gov. Bob Martinez, was
particularly bothered by the abundance of monkey waste in the
water. "If you apply monkey-see monkey-do, you'd have to
emphasize the monkey-do portion," he says. He worries that
the waste, because it is so nutrient-rich, could affect sea
life or the natural balance of a nearby coral reef. Bausch &amp;
Lomb's Ms. Kelley disagrees. "From an environmental point of
view, that really doesn't present any sort of hazard," she
says.
   By the June 26 cabinet meeting, the tide was turning
against the monkeys. When the proposed settlement with
Charles River came up for consideration, Education
Commissioner Betty Castor moved to defer action. State
Comptroller Gerald Lewis seconded the motion. Then Gov.
Martinez interrupted.
   "I'd like to see if we can prosecute," he said, as he
passed around photos of the monkey damage.
   "I mean, they've just stripped all the state land and left
it bare," the governor went on. "The monkeys are running
wild. I suspect if we ever get a storm there, they're going
to all end up on the mainland somewhere."
   After a very brief debate, the governor and cabinet voted
to unleash their lawyers. The officials hope both to force a
repair of any damage to state lands and to change county
land-use regulations to prohibit the likes of this in the
future.
   Bausch &amp; Lomb didn't have anyone present at the meeting.
It says it had been told monkeys weren't on the agenda. The
company now is trying to find out what happens next.
   The cabinet meets again in August, but it isn't clear that
the monkeys will be an issue. Kenneth Plante, general counsel
for the Department of Natural Resources, says his staff is
proceeding once more with the title-dispute litigation.
   Even with the governor and cabinet on the case, no one
believes the end is near. Ms. Johnson, the Key Largo
activist, says, "We would anticipate that the corporation
will take a little while longer to change their minds."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields Offered
   By Big Institutions
   Move Mostly Lower
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage firms were mostly lower in the week ended
Tuesday.
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs sold directly by
banks were flat to down slightly. The average yield on
six-month consumer CDs slipped to 7.62% from 7.64%, while the
average yield on two-year CDs remained at 7.88%, according to
a nationwide, 18-bank survey by Banxquote Money Markets, a
New York information service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs sold by leading
broker dealers were down slightly. The average yield on
one-year CDs eased to 8.10% from 8.19%, while the average for
two-year CDs fell to 8.13% from 8.32%, according to
Banxquote.
   Meanwhile, average yields for large-denomination CDs,
which typically require deposits of $90,000 or more, were
also down slightly. The average yield on one-year jumbo CDs
went to 7.81% from 7.93%, while the average for five-year
maturities went to 8.19% from 8.23%.
   The decrease in yields on broker-sold and
large-denomination CDs was in response to the lowering of the
federal funds rate (the daily interest rate that banks charge
each other) by the Federal Reserve, says Richard B. Hoey,
chief economist, U.S., of Barclays de Zoete Wedd.
   "The expectation previously was that the Fed would cut the
rate in the third quarter," he said, and that "banks would
have moved their rates in sync." What happened instead, he
says, is that the drop took place sooner than expected.
   The outlook for the next few months? "There probably isn't
an awful lot of action ahead," Mr. Hoey said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Polaroid Corp.:
   Company Posts 23% Drop
   In 2nd-Period Net Income
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   PRD
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Polaroid Corp., suffering from weak sales in the U.S.,
posted a 23% decline in net income on a 2.3% drop in sales in
the second quarter.
   The Cambridge, Mass.-based photography company, whose
sales have been sluggish recently, said domestic sales
declined 10% in the quarter from the year-ago period, while
international sales rose 8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Polaroid's net income dropped to $32.9 million, or 45
cents a share, from $42.7 million, or 62 cents a share, in
the year-ago period, as sales declined to $475.6 million,
from $486.6 million. Earnings dropped even though the
company's effective tax rate dclined to 31%, from 41% in the
1989 second quarter.
   Shipments of instant film dropped, as retailers lowered
inventory, the company said. Camera sales were flat. "Higher
levels of investment in marketing and in new product
development" also cut into profit, the company said.
   For the first six months, Polaroid's net income fell 5.7%,
to $64.7 million, or 89 cents a share, from $68.6 million, or
87 cents a share, on a lower number of shares outstanding.
Sales dropped 1.8%, to $911.8 million, from $928.9 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   W.R. GRACE &amp; Co.'s second-quarter revenue increased 7.8%
from a year earlier. The highlights box in yesterday's Digest
of Earnings incorrectly stated that the revenue decreased.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UNIVERSAL VOLTRONICS Corp., a Mount Kisco, N.Y., maker of
high-voltage power conversion systems, begins trading on the
American Stock Exchange tomorrow under the symbol UVL. It is
54%-owned by Thermedics Inc., Woburn, Mass. Universal's name
was incorrect in Monday's edition.
   (See: "New Stock Listings" -- WSJ July 16, 1990)
   ---
   LIONEL CORP., whose debt was recently downgraded, is a New
York toy retailer. The company's business was misstated in
Monday's edition. Lionel Corp. is unrelated to closely held
Lionel Trains Inc., Mount Clemens, Mich., which manufactures
toy trains under the Lionel name.
   (See: "Credit Ratings" -- WSJ July 16, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Field Corp.:
   Field Publications Operations
   Is Being Put Up for Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Field Corp., Chicago, said it put up for sale its Field
Publications educational unit, which publishes the Weekly
Reader and Funk &amp; Wagnalls encyclopedia.
   The closely held concern said owner Marshall Field 5th has
decided to evaluate the possible sale of the business
"relative to the other things in the family portfolio and
relative to tax and estate planning issues."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it has retained the investment banking
firm Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. to seek bids for the unit.
   Field Corp. purchased the unit from Xerox Corp. in August
1985, and subsequently acquired the Funk &amp; Wagnalls operation
in 1988.
   A Field Corp. spokeswoman said she couldn't confirm
published reports that the Field Publications unit had 1989
revenues of about $300 million.
   Field Publications, based in Middletown, Conn., has about
950 employees, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mobile Homes:
   Transit Systems Face
   Burden of Providing
   Last-Resort Shelter
   ---
   Officials Drive the Homeless
   From Bridges and Trains,
   Citing Safety, Sanitation
   ---
   Where Else Are They to Go?
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   PORTLAND, Ore. -- Home for Danny Julian is a sleeping bag
beside a smoldering campfire under a concrete highway
viaduct. Around him, a half-dozen others have set up
housekeeping in caves burrowed into the dirt embankment. "It
can get pretty loud," says Mr. Julian, as trucks roar by
overhead. "But it's better than getting pneumonia in the
rain."
   Two months ago, city and state workers moved in with
cranes and dump trucks to rout the homeless and level their
campsites after officials decided the camps had become a
public safety problem. Heat from the fires was weakening
bridge supports, and the smoke was leading to accidents on
the highways overhead. Some of the campers also had been
dismantling highway drainage and lighting systems, selling
the parts to scrap yards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Portland's campaign was costly, controversial and far from
a complete success. Mr. Julian was back under the state
highway viaduct within weeks. Other homeless men and women
gradually drifted back to other campsites demolished in the
citywide cleanup. "I'll go back to that bridge until they
throw me in jail," says Douglas Chandler, 46, who says he has
lived for more than two years under a state highway bridge in
a spot called Sullivan Gulch.
   The nooks and crannies of the nation's transportation
system have become the shelter of last resort for the
nation's growing ranks of homeless people. As more and more
seek refuge under highways, along rail lines, in terminals
and on city subway cars, transportation systems are
struggling with service disruptions, traveler complaints,
lawsuits, injuries and even deaths.
   Moreover, the situation is driving the public away from
mass transit. Urban commuters, fearful of possible violence
and tired of running a gauntlet of panhandlers, are curbing
their use of city subways and buses. New York City transit
officials estimate that the homeless in the city's subway
stations and trains cost the city's subway system 37,000
riders a day.
   "We are, in effect, abandoning our mass transit facilities
and allowing them to become unofficial shelters for the
homeless," says Alan Sutherland, executive director of the
National Organization of Travelers Aid Societies in
Washington, a group that helps stranded travelers. Mr.
Sutherland, who also was an official at public and private
homeless agencies, estimates the homeless population at
750,000, triple that of a decade ago.
   Transportation executives say the burden is crippling
transit systems already struggling with budget shortages,
aging equipment and crime. "I thought we were supposed to be
the alternative to dirty air, highway congestion and
dependency on foreign oil," says Robert Kiley, chairman of
New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Clearly
angered, he says it is too much to also ask transit systems
to provide shelter to the homeless.
   But advocates for the homeless say that allowing them to
camp in transportation facilities is only humane. "If it's a
choice between homeless people living in transit facilities
or dying on the street, they should live in transit
facilities," argues George McDonald, president of Doe Fund
Inc., a group taking its name from a homeless "Jane Doe" who
froze to death after eviction from New York's Grand Central
Terminal in 1984.
   Advocates for the homeless also say the problem will
persist as long as the shortage of affordable housing,
crime-free emergency shelters, mental-hospital beds and drug
treatment facilities. "A lot of money has been wasted trying
to chase people from transportation facilities," says Keith
Summa, a consultant to the Coalition for the Homeless.
"People who sleep there have few other choices."
   Nonetheless, many state and municipal authorities say the
problem has become a crisis, and they are taking ever more
aggressive measures to combat it. Philadelphia is considering
closing its subway system at night, partly to stop homeless
people from sleeping in stations. To prevent the homeless
from camping in bathrooms at one downtown train station, it
recently hired a porter and matron there, at a cost of
$70,000 a year. Seattle officials say the city's new bus
stations will have granite benches that make lying down
uncomfortable, and for similar reasons won't have bathrooms.
   California highway officials plan gradually to replace the
dense shrubbery that shelters some 2,000 people along
highways in Los Angeles with lower-growing varieties of
greenery. Officials rejected a suggestion that they install
varieties of noxious plants or spray areas with a sticky
substance, though apparently not because of qualms about the
homeless. "Our people have to work in those areas, too," says
James McCullough, a senior operations engineer at the
California Transportation Department.
   Eviction still remains the most common response. "Most
cities are still in the emergency response mode," says Rita
Schwartz, an advisor on the homeless to the Port Authority of
New York and New Jersey. "They are shuffling the homeless
from one location to another and managing systems defensively
with barricades, locks and cops."
   But transit systems may be restricted in using this
tactic. The American Civil Liberties Union has complained to
city and state transportation agencies in Oregon that they
are destroying personal property when they demolish the
camps. Stevie Remington, executive director of the ACLU of
Oregon, describes the agencies as "preying upon the most
vulnerable people, who have almost nothing."
   In response, Oregon plans to post written notices in the
camps 10 days before the sweeps resume later this month. And
state highway workers will store the sleeping bags, tents and
other personal belongings of the homeless in plastic bags for
a month before disposing of them; the state has decided not
to keep the cardboard sheets the homeless use for bedding.
   Portland officials say a concern for public safety left
the city no choice this spring but to evict the 200 people
who were encamped under its bridges and beside its railroad
tracks. The sites were littered with bottles, food
containers, mattresses and human excrement. City health
officials say the camps had become a breeding ground for
disease, drugs and violence.
   So over a period of several weeks this spring, dump trucks
carted away load after load of debris and furnishings.
Massive steel gates were installed under some city bridges,
and daily police patrols were mobilized to prevent
resettlement.
   Portland officials say the city made every effort to
handle the cleanup humanely. Volunteers dispensed coffee and
doughnuts; social workers offered to help the people find new
shelter. But the experience was, nonetheless, wrenching for
those evicted. "When the highway department takes everything
I own, it's really no different than if I go into someone's
house and take their stereo and furniture," says Mr. Julian.
   Many of the homeless resisted the idea of finding other
shelter. Mr. Chandler, the man who vows to go back under the
bridge until he is arrested, says he avoids the crowded local
shelters because he can't stand "someone sleeping next to me,
breathing on my face. I got to the point," he says, "that
when I'm indoors, I feel like kicking out the windows."
   But the tall, bearded man pays a high price for living
outdoors amid lice, fleas and pigeon droppings. "I know I
look like I've been beaten," he says, lifting a soiled shirt
retrieved from a dumpster to reveal a back covered with
dozens of bug bites.
   Such campaigns are expensive. Portland's cost $150,000.
California highway officials say they spend up to $200,000
each year to clear out homeless campers from foliage along
Los Angeles freeways and repair the damaged fences, sprinkler
systems and bushes. Philadelphia estimates it will spend $1
million to seal off homeless hiding places under platforms in
a downtown railway station.
   New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority figures
the occupation of its transit facilities by homeless people
cost it $20 million last year in extra expenses and lost
passenger fares.
   In no other city is the problem as acute as in New York,
where, authorities say, several thousand homeless people bed
down nightly in stations, tunnels and subway cars.
Confrontations between them and transit users or workers
occasionally turn violent. In February, a subway passenger
killed a homeless man who cursed, spit and punched him at a
New York subway station. Last year, 79 homeless people died
in the subways of New York City. Some were run over by trains
or electrocuted; others committed suicide or died of other
causes, including exposure, malnutrition or disease.
   Commuters reflexively avoid the forms sprawled on benches,
sitting on staircases or walking through cars cup in hand.
"They sleep next to where they vomited," says New Yorker
Kenneth Marshall. "Almost every day there is a trickle of
urine on the wall. At least a couple days a week you will
find the remains of human excrement." Mr. Marshall says he
and his wife try to avoid the subways.
   With one subway line, the "A Train," New York City transit
police last Sunday began ejecting the homeless when trains
reach the end of the line at 207th Street. Transit managers
say the presence of homeless people prevents cleaning crews
from doing their job. Next month the policy will be extended
to the "E train" that terminates at the World Trade Center.
   New Yorkers don't see the vast majority of homeless, who
virtually melt into the subterranean darkness. At one subway
stop in Manhattan, two men sleep on a scaffold 15 feet above
the platform. At another station, a dozen people bed down in
an area between the tracks that is blackened by brake-shoe
dust.
   Situated three feet from passing trains and the
electrified third rail, the camp is furnished with mattresses
-- one with a teddy bear perched on it -- sleeping bags, an
end table, a clothesline, and a three-foot house plant. (One
of the subway dwellers says they water it and take it above
ground for light once a day.) In a bid for privacy, someone
has hung blinds from a beam to block riders' view of his
camp. "Just because we're homeless doesn't mean we're
helpless," says Jamel Parker, a tunnel resident.
   Five nights a week, a team of transit police roust the
homeless from their dens. Once a week, a cleaning crew in
disposable coveralls and face masks loads the contents of the
camps onto flatbed trains and puts infectious wastes into
special containers. Last year, crews collected 85 pounds of
hypodermic needles.
   "We spray their stuff with bleach and water before we
touch it," says P.C. Taylor, a deputy superintendent. "Right
now our sprayers are down because we've been using them so
much." Each cleanup costs the MTA $10,000.
   For transit workers, the work is frustrating. "We clean an
area and bag the refuse," says Mr. Taylor. "These people dump
the refuse on the tracks again to use the bags for bedding."
The debris draws rats, fuels track fires and trips emergency
gear causing trains to brake abruptly.
   Camps sometimes are completely rebuilt by the time
cleaning crews return a week later. After one cleanup last
month, several homeless men and women ran alongside the
flatcars hauling away their possessions and managed to pull
off five or six mattresses.
   New York's stepped-up enforcement program has reduced the
homeless population in some stations to its lowest level in
years. But the real test won't come until next winter, when
the cold drives the homeless to seek the warmth of subway
trains and stations.
   Some transportation providers say the best way to lure the
homeless from facilities is to provide adequate shelters. The
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has spent $1.3
million in the past two years to open two homeless centers
near its transit facilities. Stephen Berger, who recently
resigned as the Port Authority's executive director, says the
centers, which provide places to sit, wash, eat and sleep,
sharply cut the number of people living in its facilities.
   "Ejecting the homeless from these places without providing
alternatives just moves them temporarily," says Peter Smith,
president of the Partnership for the Homeless Inc., an
advocacy group based in New York. "It's not only inhumane but
in the long run isn't effective."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wells Fargo to Buy
   Branches of Great
   American Bank
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WFC GTA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wells Fargo &amp; Co. agreed to acquire the California
branches of Great American Bank for $492 million in a move
that analysts said was a strategic coup for Wells.
   The transaction will also infuse desperately needed
capital into Great American. The thrift said yesterday its
remaining tangible capital will be nearly wiped out by a
large second-quarter loss that it attributed to new
regulatory standards for reserves, and Great American could
still collapse. Under terms of the transaction, it will still
be left with a huge amount of nonperforming loans that could
eat up the money provided by Wells.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale, which is to occur in two stages and may not be
complete until the middle of next year, covers as many as 130
branches -- considered the crown jewels of Great American's
operations -- plus $6.4 billion in deposits and $5.9 billion
in assets. The price amounts to a premium on deposits of
about 6%, which is at the high end of what banks have been
paying for deposits of troubled thrifts lately.
   But the acquisition would give San Francisco-based Wells
the leading market share among banks and S&amp;Ls in retail
deposits in the San Diego area, where Great American is
based, a position that Wells and other major California banks
have long coveted.
   "It is a very opportunistic move," said Dick Fredericks,
bank analyst at Montgomery Securities. "They get an
attractive market share in an attractive market." Great
American said it received three bids for the franchise and
that Wells's was "clearly the best."
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Wells Fargo shares closed at $80.125, up $1.50.
Great American shares, meanwhile, closed at $2.125, down
$1.25.
   For Great American, the sale of the California franchise
was a last resort in response to federal regulatory pressure
to raise capital. "We have shown there is capital-raising
ability in this institution, and very hopefully we will be
able to demonstrate that what is left is a viable
institution," said Robert Kemper, chairman and chief
executive officer of Great American.
   But analysts consider the sale part of a process that will
eventually lead Great American into federal hands.
   Wells is basically taking the best parts of Great American
and leaving its holders with about $2 billion in bad loans
and real estate that would equal roughly 20% of Great
American's total assets. The California sale to Wells, which
is still subject to regulatory approval, would leave Great
American with 81 retail offices in Arizona, Washington and
Colorado and mortgage-loan-origination offices in California.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Capital Management:
   Primerica Agrees to Acquire
   Rest of Shares in Company
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   PA ACA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Primerica Corp., New York, definitively agreed to acquire
the 17.4% of American Capital Management &amp; Research Inc. it
doesn't already own for stock or cash, at shareholders'
option.
   Primerica, a financial-services company, will pay either
0.32 share of its stock or $11.50 cash for each of the more
than 4.2 million American Capital shares it doesn't already
hold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Capital, Houston, provides investment advice to
mutual funds and investment firms. The transaction was
announced in May; the companies expect to close the purchase
in late September or early October.
   Separately, American Capital reported that second-quarter
net income was flat at $5 million, or 21 cents a share, as
revenue eased 4.8% to $24.5 million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Primerica shares fell 50 cents to $36.875 while American
Capital's shares were unchanged at $11.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Intel's Profit Rose
   By 72% to Record
   In Second Quarter
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   INTC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Intel Corp. said net income rose 72% in its second quarter
as computer makers continued to snap up the company's popular
microprocessor chips to build into personal computers.
   Net rose to a record $170.7 million, or 84 cents a share,
from $99.3 million, or 53 cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue rose 30% to a record $968.3 million from $747.3
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest period adds to a series of winning quarters for
the Santa Clara, Calif., chip maker, which saw earnings
increases of 43% and 48% in the previous two quarters.
"They're clearly riding pretty high right now," said Millard
Phelps, an analyst with Hambrecht &amp; Quist. Intel's net was
several cents a share greater than most analysts had
predicted, he said. Analysts expect revenue to surpass $1
billion in the current quarter.
   The source of Intel's booming growth is its 80386 and
80486 microprocessors, the "brain" chips that computer makers
are building into some of today's most powerful, and most
popular, personal computers. Intel is the only company that
makes the chips, so it doesn't compete with Japanese or U.S.
companies in an otherwise fierce chip market.
   What's more, demand for those chips, which carry fat
profit margins, is so strong that Intel has had to allocate
them among customers, and doesn't expect to be able to catch
up with demand until year end. Earlier this year Intel
expected to meet the demand by the summer. Intel has delayed
closing an old chip plant and is increasing production in
other facilities.
   Chip profits overshadowed problems in Intel's computer
business in the quarter. Factories making personal computers
had quality problems early in the period, but the problems
were solved, Intel said. And analysts said they were
surprised by Intel's huge interest income in the quarter,
$44.8 million vs. last year's $15.7 million.
   Fat profits are almost run-of-the mill for Intel now.
"Expectations were generally very high," said analyst William
Tai at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. "Had they not shown very
strong growth it would have been extremely disappointing."
Despite the better-than-expected earnings, which included a
$17 million pretax gain on sold assets, Intel's stock fell 75
cents a share in national over-the-counter trading yesterday
to $50.50 a share.
   Mr. Tai said he expects Intel to see several more healthy
quarters. Still, he said, shortages can quickly turn to
ruinous oversupplies. In times of shortage, users tend to
hoard chips, but sometimes quickly unload their inventory and
cause a glut.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spending Plan
   For '91 Cleared
   By Senate Panel
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Appropriations Committee approved
a fiscal 1991 budget plan that would wipe out new funds for
foreign aid sought by the Bush administration and cut more
than $2 billion from House-passed domestic-spending bills.
   The measure, adopted 24-4, bears the strong stamp of
Chairman Robert Byrd (D., W.Va.). In the absence of a formal
budget resolution, it will set the limits for spending bills
covering almost half of the federal budget for the fiscal
year beginning Oct. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Total defense appropriations would be cut to an estimated
$283.6 billion, or more than 6.3% below current levels.
Though foreign aid would grow with inflation, the new limits
are significantly more severe than in the House. Direct
outlays for foreign aid in fiscal 1991 would be held to $12.6
billion, or $574 million below a House-passed
foreign-operations bill, and the tighter budget gives the
administration little or no leeway to restore funds it wants
for its military-aid program.
   Among domestic programs, Mr. Byrd had less freedom than
his House counterparts in allocating increases among the
major subcommittees that will begin drafting bills as early
as today. Almost $800 million in new discretionary spending
would be provided for labor, health, and education programs,
for example. But senators still face difficult choices when
matched against comparable House figures, which are $800
million higher in fiscal 1991 outlays.
   Subcommittees responsible for environmental, housing, and
law-enforcement programs will face the same political
difficulty when compared with the House, and the tighter
limits again hurt the Bush administration as it seeks to
restore funds for its troubled space program and its new
initiative to explore Mars.
   The House cut practically all the money for the Mars
project from its bill covering the space program. Senators
will begin drafting their own version from a starting point
$630 million below the House for not only space but
environmental, housing and veterans' programs in fiscal 1991.
   Republicans were most conspicuous in complaining about the
cuts, while the Democratic majority, out of respect for or
fear of their chairman, said little. Sen. Byrd, in turn,
quietly helped allies on both sides -- and himself. The three
subcommittees that fare best in comparison to the House
include Sen. Byrd's own Interior panel, as well as those
covering energy and water programs and the Treasury. On the
latter two subcommittees, the senior Republicans are Oregon
Sen. Mark Hatfield, the ranking GOP member on Appropriations,
and New Mexico Sen. Pete Domenici, an important ally on the
Senate Budget Committee in shaping the plan.
   While the cuts from defense are comparable to those in the
House, the resolution builds in some modest leeway by making
$500 million more available for weapons and personnel
accounts while cutting more deeply from military construction
for foreign bases.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Shares Dart Higher in Final Minutes
   Of Trading on Arbitrage Buying, Traders Say
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks darted higher on arbitrage buying during the
last two minutes of trade, traders said.
   After wavering near 33000 points for most of the day, the
Nikkei Index shot up on buying linked to stock-index
arbitrage, performed by one of the Big Four Japanese
brokerage firms and by a U.S. brokerage firm giant, traders
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In London, meanwhile, share prices closed higher but off
the day's best levels, as a midmorning romp higher ran out of
steam on mild profit-taking.
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues advanced 150.55 points
to 33172.28 Tuesday. However, in early trading in Tokyo
Wednesday, the Nikkei retreated 75.08 points to 33097.20.
   Tuesday's volume on the first section was estimated at 600
million shares, in line with 609.9 million shares Monday.
   Winners outnumbered losers 505 to 409, while 217 issues
were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed on the
first section added 7.15 points, or 0.30%, to 2407.31.
   The second section index retreated 45.66 points, or 1.02%,
to 4431.50. Volume was estimated at 24 million shares, down
from 33.7 million shares Monday.
   Traders said that trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange has
neared a turning point, as volume has shifted away from
over-the-counter and second section shares, and as the value
of trading on the first section has improved moderately.
   Paul Muller, manager of international equity sales at
Schroder Securities, noted that the developing trend shows a
move out of smaller, short-term stocks and cautiously into
value-driven, medium-sized stocks.
   Kevin Haag, a trader in overseas operations at Nomura
Securities, added that interest is beginning to focus on
domestic, medium-capital construction and housing and other
issues.
   But, Mr. Haag noted, "it's still a little early for
large-caps," in which heavier volume is needed before a
strong recovery is seen on the Nikkei Index.
   With short-term interest rates remaining at high levels,
institutional investors are still reluctant to move funds
aggressively back into stocks, observers said.
   Meanwhile, rumors continue to surface on whether the Bank
of Japan will maintain its monetary policy and not raise the
official discount rate in the near future as central bank
Gov. Yasushi Mieno indicated would be the case on Monday.
   On the other hand, the stock market has grown a bit more
bullish, as eased U.S. rates from the Federal Reserve Board's
move Friday have taken some of the pressure off the yen.
Traders also noted that U.S. economic indicators and budget
data continue to show trouble ahead for the U.S.
   The traders pointed out that a sudden, large recovery
wouldn't be healthy for the market. But a steady transfer of
funds from short-term, small shares and money market
instruments into medium-scale holdings is viewed favorably.
   Before last-minute arbitrage buying, the Nikkei Index was
caught in a narrow range near 33000 points. The index wasn't
reflecting active buying on the larger shares, as investors
were selling their smaller holdings at the same time, traders
said.
   Benefiting from the buying were shares such as Kuraray, up
40 yen to 1600 yen (27 cents to $10.79), and Toray, up 17 yen
to 800 yen. Fuji Photo Film added 30 yen to 4950 yen.
   Medium-capital construction and housing shares were
popular. Nippon Hodo rose 110 yen to 3780 yen, Maeda
Construction added 100 yen to 2220 yen, Misawa Homes rose 70
yen to 2900 yen, and Sekisui House added 50 yen to 2150 yen.
   Pulp and paper issues were also higher. Jujo Paper gained
100 yen to 870 yen, while Oji Paper rose 50 yen to 1170 yen.
   But Sony slipped 100 yen to 8980 yen, TDK fell 160 yen to
7430 yen, and Fanuc dropped 100 yen to 7550 yen. Most other
high-technology blue chips were similarly lower.
   In London, shares shot higher in the early going, as an
overnight advance in New York inspired some fresh
position-taking in London. But the gains were short-lived, as
a mediocre opening on Wall Street and some second thoughts
about the U.K. economy gave way to selected profit-taking in
some of the blue-chip leaders.
   However, analysts were quick to add that they saw no heavy
selling pressure. "There's no real disinvestment going on,"
one director said. "People are hesitant to part with any
large lines of stock because they feel they'll have to buy it
back later at a higher price."
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index gained
8.5 points to 2415, off the intraday peak of 2430.6. The
Financial Times 30 Share Index rose 12 points to 1912.9.
Volume was 493.6 million shares, compared with 346.9 million
issues a day earlier.
   Yesterday's biggest loser was Reuters, as dealers said one
large U.S. brokerage firm took the stock off its recommended
buy list. A total of 1.2 million shares changed hands as the
shares dropped 32 pence to #12.82 (58 cents to $23.10).
   Shell Transport &amp; Trading slipped 6 pence to 479 pence.
Brokerage firm Hoare Govett Ltd. in London cut second-quarter
profit estimates for the oil giant, with expectations for net
profit now at #890 million on a current cost basis compared
with a previous #940 million.
   The rest of the oil sector presented a mixed picture.
British Petroleum shed 5 pence to 331 pence, Enterprise was
unchanged at 658 pence, Lasmo slipped a penny to 415 pence,
Ultramar gained 6 pence to 340 pence, while Burmah shed 2
pence to 661 pence.
   In corporate news, food retailer Asda increased 4 pence to
119 pence after announcing pretax profit fell 27% last year.
Investors were relieved the result wasn't worse, said
analysts, in a year when the company spent #704 million on 60
Gateway stores and reorganized the group's distribution
system.
   Storehouse fell 3 pence to 123 pence. Sir Terence Conran,
former chairman, sold his 4.9% stake in the company.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Paris and
Amsterdam. Zurich and Madrid ended lower. Prices were mixed
in Milan, Frankfurt, Brussels and Stockholm. South African
gold stocks closed lower.
   Also, stocks closed higher in Sydney, Taipei, Wellington
and Manila, and lower in Hong Kong and Singapore. Seoul was
closed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                                Jul 16    Jul 13    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .......................  341.4     339.7  +  5.0
   Britain ....................  714.0     706.8  -  1.0
   Canada .....................  401.3     396.2  -  7.2
   Japan ...................... 1333.3    1312.9  - 19.4
   France .....................  562.1     559.1  -  0.8
   Germany ....................  311.3     311.0  +  9.1
   Hong Kong .................. 2590.4    2608.5  + 23.5
   Switzerland ................  232.5     233.0  +  5.3
   Australia ..................  332.1     330.6  +  0.3
   World index ................  539.8     536.0  -  4.9
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   McGraw-Hill Posts
   27% Decline in Net
   For Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   MHP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- McGraw-Hill Inc. reported a 27% drop in
second-quarter net income, but the publishing and business
information company said it expects a big jump in earnings
for the second half of the year.
   Quarter net fell to $37.2 million, or 76 cents a share,
from $50.8 million, or $1.04 a share. Acquisitions made in
1989 boosted the company's interest expense about $6.3
million in the 1990 second quarter. Also, non-recurring gains
and related tax benefits of the year-earlier were only
partially offset by savings from a restructuring of the
company's businesses. Revenue for the latest quarter rose
6.8%, to $457.8 million, from $428.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joseph L. Dionne, chairman and chief executive officer of
McGraw-Hill, said all four of the company's operating
segments had revenue increases in the quarter, but only the
Financial Services segment improved operating profit.
Financial Services includes Standard &amp; Poor's Rating Group,
which was helped by "growing international activity and a
strong performance in municipals," said Mr. Dionne.
   Softness in advertising hurt McGraw-Hill's Business Week
and Aviation Week magazines, pulling operating profit for the
Information and Publication Services segment down about 20%
from the year-earlier period, the company said.
   The 27% drop in quarterly earnings follows an even bigger
drop in the first quarter, but Mr. Dionne said he is still
predicting that earnings for the year will fall between $3.50
a share and $4 a share. That would put operating earnings
above the level of 1988. In 1989, after special charges,
McGraw-Hill's net fell to $47.8 million, or 98 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cordatum Inc. Files
   For Reorganization
   Under Chapter 11
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CDAT WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   McLEAN, Va. -- Cordatum Inc. said it has filed for
financial reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Federal
Bankruptcy Code, citing pending tax liens and inability to
arrange refinancing.
   At the same time, Cordatum's two principal stockholders
sued the company in U.S. District Court in Eastern Virginia,
claiming fraud and securities and exchange violations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cordatum, a high-technology and professional services
company, said it is unable to negotiate repayment of a
$150,000 loan from Signet Bank in Baltimore, Md., and that it
owes the Internal Revenue Service approximately $45,000 in
unpaid taxes, penalties and interest for fiscal years 1985
through 1989.
   The company said that three directors resigned this
morning, along with the acting chief financial officer, Bill
A. Short. The directors were Richard S. Hickok, James S.
Gracey and George G. King. Messrs. Hickok and King were named
to the board last February.
   The two principal stockholders, Commonwealth Acquisitions
Inc. and Trautman &amp; Co., claimed in a federal lawsuit that
the company and its former chief executive officer, Merle C.
Garvis, concealed "material information concerning taxes and
other obligations" in connection with the company's initial
securities offering in August 1989. Commonwealth and Trautman
control 88% of Cordatum.
   The suit seeks $10 million in compensatory and punitive
damages. Mr. Garvis could not be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Xerox Officials Indicate the Company
   Could Leave Financial-Services Sector
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- As Xerox Corp. re-examines its foray
into financial services, all options remain open, including
complete withdrawal from the business, Xerox's top two
executives indicated in interviews.
   Although they stressed that no final decisions have been
made, the executives said Xerox will leave any
financial-services segment that doesn't promise an average
annual return on equity of at least 15%. They don't yet know
how many segments -- if any -- will make the cut.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There aren't any sacred cows," said Xerox President Paul
Allaire, who will become chief executive officer Aug. 1.
"Everything we do is to make money. If a business doesn't
make money now, and doesn't have a game plan to make money,
then we won't invest in it."
   In 1989, Xerox's insurance and financial operations --
excluding Xerox Credit Corp., which finances the company's
office-equipment sales -- returned 12.4% on equity. That
matches the 12.4% return on assets reported by Xerox's $12.4
billion-a-year office-equipment arm, but the two sectors have
been moving in opposite directions.
   "That probably means financial services will be smaller,"
said Mr. Allaire. "But anything we have left will be
profitable."
   Mr. Allaire's comments, coupled with similar remarks from
David Kearns, Xerox's chairman and current chief executive,
underline the speed with which Xerox is backing away from its
$5.2 billion-a-year financial-services business, once seen as
the antidote to a faltering office-equipment operation.
   Battered by efficient Japanese competitors, Xerox's share
of its bread-and-butter U.S. plain-paper copier market -- a
market it invented -- dropped to an all-time low of 8.5% in
1985. But the company has climbed steadily back since then,
reaching a 15.2% share in 1989, according to Dataquest Inc.
   Now Xerox is poised to bet its future on a multifunction
machine that would combine copying, printing, scanning and
facsimile by treating documents as electronic data rather
than transitory images. That device will lead to a rebirth of
Xerox as "the document company," said Messrs. Allaire and
Kearns.
   Still, both men said they won't be pressured into haste by
Wall Street analysts, who have been pushing for an exit from
financial services for some time. They said that given the
current depressed market for financial-service businesses,
cost-cutting and shrinkage may be better shortterm options.
"We aren't going to do anything dumb or precipitous," said
Mr. Kearns.
   Analysts were pleased but cautious. "The mere fact that
they're extremely interested in de-emphasizing financial
services will be viewed very positively," said Eugene Glazer
of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "But that's just the first part
of the equation."
   Xerox has already started disengaging from several
finance-related businesses. In April it walked away from its
investments in troubled VMS Realty Partners, a Chicago real
estate concern, taking a $375 million charge. The company's
Crum &amp; Forster Inc. unit stopped writing personal lines of
insurance, and in May Xerox put much of its third-party
financing and leasing operation on the block.
   Messrs. Allaire and Kearns said such paring of
financial-services activity will continue. And they promised
there won't be any money from Xerox's revitalized
office-equipment area used to prop up financial services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Panel Backs
   Bush Plan on Soviet
   Technology Access
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP MDEST JAPAN FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Finance Committee voted to
endorse the Bush administration's recent initiatives to give
the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe greater access to Western
technology.
   But at the same time, the panel acted to restrict China's
access to technology that the country could use to construct
missiles and stockpile chemical weapons. And the committee
voted to deny Iraq, an alleged human-rights violator, the
right to buy U.S. weapons and munitions or to seek credits
from the U.S. Export-Import Bank and Commodity Credit Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These proposed measures are part of a bill to renew the
Export Administration Act for two more years. The bill was
sent to the Senate floor by a voice vote. The House already
has approved its own agenda for revising export controls.
   The Senate version supports trade liberalization for the
East generally at the pace urged by the administration and
endorsed by the U.S. and its allies at a high-level meeting
in Paris in the spring. Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher
said in a letter to the committee that the administration
supports the bill's basic provisions on Eastern Europe.
   The bill, however, departs from stated administration
policy in taking a tougher stance on China and in expanding
controls on exports of missile technology to countries
suspected of having warlike intentions.
   The committee also voted 15-6 to adopt an amendment that
would authorize the Ex-Im Bank to help finance the sale of
U.S. weapons and defense services to members of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization and Japan.
   John Macomber, the bank's chairman, warned the committee
against hastily authorizing such a "fundamental
reorientation" of the bank's programs, which have focused
exclusively on financing sales of non-defense products.
However, the panel was swayed by pleas by the amendment's
sponsors, Sens. Christopher Dodd (D., Conn.) and Christopher
Bond (R., Mo.), that the U.S. defense industry needs such
help to avert further layoffs.
   The Export Administration Act, which expires Sept. 30, is
the legal basis for the administration to establish or modify
its policies for controlling the export of so-called dual-use
technology, or products with both civilian and military
applications. While the administration has already taken most
of the steps in the Senate bill, the export act needs to be
revised to sanction the changes.
   The bill urges the administration to give "most favorable
treatment" to proposed sales of telecommunications equipment
to Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary. This provision is
intended to avert unreasonable delays in the granting of
licenses for such transactions. The bill also urges speedier
action on those countries' requests to purchase software for
computer networks.
   The bill would require the U.S. to recognize by Dec. 31,
1991, a "license-free zone" encompassing the U.S., its allies
and some neutral but cooperating nations. The proposal would
effectively free U.S. exporters from the need to apply for a
license to ship any dual-use product to any of those other
countries. The Commerce Department already has lifted most
licensing requirements for trade with NATO countries, Japan
and Australia.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE approved a bill that would
renew the Export Administration Act for two years.
Yesterday's edition incorrectly identified the committee.
   (WSJ July 19, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sun Microsystems Inc. Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW XRX
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- Sun Microsystems Inc., gaining
another ally in its battle to win the hearts of
desktop-computer users in businesses, said a Xerox Corp. unit
agreed to provide its popular desktop-publishing software for
Sun's machines.
   The unit, Ventura Software Inc., agreed to produce its
Ventura Publisher for Sun's Sparcstation computers, Sun said.
Sun also announced a new software-distribution program called
Catalyst CDware in which Sun will provide users with a
compact disk filled with application software.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Ventura agreement is a boon for Sun, which is trying
to broaden the use of its machines to business offices from
the more traditional engineering uses where Sun's machines
are extremely popular. To do that, Sun machines need a
critical mass of the kind of software businesses use: word
processor, spreadsheet, data base and desktop publishing
programs, for example.
   Sun has already won some big-time allies in Lotus
Development Corp., Wordperfect Corp. and Ashton-Tate Co.,
which have agreed to tailor their programs to Sun machines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrial Stocks Finish Unchanged
   After a Late Rally Erases Decline
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In a wild final hour of trading, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average surged from a 21-point loss to close
unchanged at 2999.75 -- a fraction shy of the 3000 mark.
   It was the second consecutive day the industrial average
failed to cross 3000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At around 3 p.m. EST profit-taking in several leading
growth stocks combined with futures-related selling to drive
the industrial average lower, and what seemed decisively away
from the 3000 mark for the day. By 3:30 p.m., the average was
off about 20 points. Then one of the most powerful influences
on the average -- the Chicago Board of Trade's Major Market
stock-index futures -- came into play.
   Donald Selkin, futures analyst at Prudential-Bache
Securities, said stock-index arbitrage programs in the MMI
shot the Dow industrials back up to the 3000 level in the
final half-hour of trading. That view was confirmed by
traders in Chicago who make markets in MMI futures.
   Said one: "There was a lot of activity out here, and a lot
of liquidity." The MMI, when active, has a powerful impact
over the Dow industrial average because it contains 17 of the
30 Dow industrial stocks.
   Mr. Selkin said MMI buy programs were set off by a number
of large futures traders who are trying to buy back contracts
they had sold "short" earlier. This buying pushed the futures
to a large premium over the underlying stocks. Arbitrage
traders, then, started selling the more expensive futures and
buying the stocks underlying the MMI, vaulting the Dow
average 20 points higher in minutes.
   Mr. Selkin also noted that the number of outstanding
futures positions in the July contract, which expires this
Friday, has steadily increased over the past few weeks, to
9,544 after Monday's close. Normally, the number of
outstanding positions decreases before expiration. The rise
in open MMI positions shows that investors are starting to
use the futures as a hedging vehicle again. That's not
surprising because many money managers are holding a small
group of growth stocks, some of which are components of the
MMI, such as Johnson &amp; Johnson, Procter &amp; Gamble and Merck.
   Mr. Selkin also noted that the large amount of open
positions points to the possibility of a volatile expiration
in the July futures this Friday.
   Before the final-hour fireworks, investors focused on
earnings. There was good news for some stocks in the Dow
industrial average. Coca-Cola Co. reported that
second-quarter profit was up 19% from a year earlier; the
stock jumped 1 7/8 to 47 1/4.
   Among other Dow industrial issues, Chevron advanced 1 to
75 7/8 in response to Pennzoil's disclosure that it will
purchase 3.9 million additional common shares, boosting its
8.8% stake in the company to just below 10%. United
Technologies continued to attract buyers, rising 1 5/8 to 62;
American Express gained 1/2 to 31 3/8; Sears Roebuck added
3/4 to 34 1/2 and Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber rose 1/2 to 30 1/8.
   But outside of the Dow industrials, the scene was grim.
Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered
advancers, 877 to 643. Broader market indexes spent most of
the day lower, and closed that way: Standard &amp; Poor's
500-stock index fell 1.43 to 367.52 and the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Index dropped 0.64 to 200.49.
   Sellers pounced on United Telecommunications after it
disappointed investors with second-quarter earnings. The
stock fell 8 3/4 to 29 1/2 on nearly 12 million shares,
making it the most active Big Board issue.
   GTE, whose second-quarter earnings were a milder
disappointment, dropped 3/4 to 28 1/4 on 3.6 million shares.
While the company reported an 11% increase in net income, its
earnings of 54 cents a share were slightly below the range of
analysts' estimates.
   Another issue hit with forceful selling was Lowe's, which
retreated 6 to 41 3/8 on 1.9 million shares. Oppenheimer &amp;
Co. removed the stock from its list of recommended issues;
also, Dean Witter Reynolds lowered its earnings estimate for
the fiscal second quarter, citing pressure on the company's
gross margins.
   The plunge in Lowe's -- a home improvement retailer --
broke investors' confidence in several key retail-related
growth stocks.
   Home Depot tumbled 1 3/8 to 41 5/8; Wal-Mart Stores eased
3/4 to 35 1/2, and Woolworth slipped 3/8 to 35 3/4.
   International Business Machines fell back 1 5/8 to 120 3/4
as 1.7 million shares changed hands. It had risen 1 3/8
Monday following a well-received earnings report for the
second quarter.
   Other technology issues also lost ground, including
Unisys, which dropped 3/4 to 12 1/4 on 1.5 million shares.
Prudential-Bache Securities analyst Rick J. Martin attributed
the sell-off to "false rumors" that Unisys was having trouble
placing a debt offering and that an analyst was predicting
the company might cut its dividend. Company officials
couldn't be reached for comment on the speculation.
   But Honeywell, whose second-quarter earnings from
continuing operations climbed 54% from a year ago and were
better than expected, rallied 3 5/8 to 110 3/4.
   Manufacturers Hanover gained 3/4 to 31 5/8 despite
reporting that second-quarter operating earnings dropped 12%.
Separately, the Federal Reserve Board permitted the bank
holding company to handle futures and options brokerage.
   Other bank stocks to move higher in the wake of quarterly
reports included NCNB, which gained 1 3/8 to 37 7/8; Wells
Fargo, which went up 1 1/2 to 80 1/8, and Dime Savings Bank
of New York, which added 3/8 to 6 3/8. Bank of New York,
whose second-quarter earnings were off 39% from a year ago,
fell 1 1/8 to 27 1/2.
   Chase Manhattan rose 3/8 to 21 1/8 on 5.4 million shares,
with dividend-related trades by institutions apparently
responsible for the bulk of the activity. While the stock now
carries a dividend yield of 11.6%, the company hasn't yet
declared its next quarterly dividend, and there is
speculation that Chase may reduce the payout because its
operating earnings for the first and second quarters have
fallen short of its dividend expense.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 1.19
to 364.39. Volume totaled 13,339,000 shares.
   Divi Hotels advanced 5/8 to 2 3/4. The company is in
discussions for the possible sale of its Caribbean
resort-hotel business to Accor of France.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, July 17, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/16% high, 8% low, 8% near closing bid,
8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.925% 5 to 59 days; 7.875% 60 to 89 days;
7.825% 90 to 119 days; 7.80% 120 to 149 days; 7.75% 150 to
179 days; 7.65% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.03%
30 days; 7.99% 60 days; 7.95% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.71% one month; 7.73% two
months; 7.75% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.12% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8% one month; 8.05% three months;
8.08% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.91% 30 days; 7.87% 60 days; 7.83%
90 days; 7.78% 120 days; 7.75% 150 days; 7.70% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/8% - 8% one month; 8 3/16% -
8 1/16% two months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% three months; 8 3/16% -
8 1/16% four months; 8 3/16% 8 1/16% five months; 8 1/4% - 8
1/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/8% one month;
8 3/16% three months; 8 1/4% six months; 8 5/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 11.38%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 16, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.62% 13 weeks; 7.52% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.91%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.860%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.60%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.77%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Massachusetts High Court
   Confirms 5% Services Tax
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Massachusetts's highest court gave the go-ahead
for a new 5% sales tax on business services, including fees
of lawyers, accountants, engineers and architects.
   The Supreme Judicial Court, by a narrow 4-to-3 margin,
issued an advisory opinion saying that the legislature has
authority to levy the services tax. Gov. Michael S. Dukakis
had sought the opinion before signing the bill, approved
recently by the state House and Senate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the advisory opinion, critics of the new tax are
expected to file suit challenging it.
   Opponents contend, among other things, that the state
constitution doesn't specifically permit a tax on services.
Aside from its constitutionality, opponents have said that
the tax would be bad for the state's economy.
   But the court said that services can be considered
commodities, which are taxable under state law, because the
word commodities "is not limited to tangible personal
property." Dissenting justices argued, "Nothing but the most
strained interpretation of `commodities' can include the host
of services."
   In a sign that it will consider challenges to the tax on
other grounds, the court acknowledged that "there are other
constitutional questions that have been or might be raised"
concerning the tax on particular services.
   The legislature passed the services tax, along with
increased income taxes, to help offset a looming $1 billion
budget deficit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Shuttle Flights to Resume
   This Summer, NASA Says
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Aeronautics and Space
Administration said it would resume flying the space shuttle
in mid-August or early September.
   NASA grounded the shuttle fleet last month after finding
fuel leaks in two shuttles. About the same time, it
discovered that its Hubble Space Telescope was crippled. The
two events have led to a re-examination of NASA's future by
Congress and the White House.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NASA said it discovered the fuel leaks weren't as
difficult to fix as it had feared. Although the leaks looked
similar on the launch pad, the space agency said, they had
different origins and were relatively easy to repair.
   The space agency said it would try to fix the leak on the
shuttle Atlantis on the launch pad, by tightening or
replacing dozens of bolts, and fly the craft around Aug. 10.
Atlantis is carrying a reconnaissance satellite for the
Pentagon.
   If Atlantis is launched on time, the agency said it would
launch Columbia around Sept. 10. Columbia will carry a set of
space telescopes. But if NASA can't fix the leak on Atlantis
on the launch pad, the agency said it would bring it back to
the assemby building for further work and move Columbia's
launch to about Sept. 1.
   Launching both by mid-September "requires us to be lucky
twice," said William Lenoir, NASA's associate administrator
for space flight.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Restrictive Quotas
   On Textile Imports
   Cleared by Senate
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate, seeking a tougher U.S. stance in
multilateral trade negotiations, voted overwhelmingly to
subject imported textiles, apparel and footwear to a highly
restrictive system of global quotas.
   The measure would effectively scrap the 38 bilateral
textile and apparel accords that the U.S. has negotiated
recently with its trading partners and sharply reduce the
growth of such imports, except those from Canada and Israel,
to 1% a year. The volume of these imports has been growing at
an average of 3.5% annually in recent years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill was approved on a 68-32 vote, the largest
majority the Senate has given a textile-quota bill in recent
history. Similar legislation passed by 60-39 in 1985 and by
59-36 in 1988, and was vetoed by former President Reagan.
President Bush said he opposes the Senate bill, and U.S.
Trade Representative Carla Hills said she would recommend a
veto of the bill. If the president did veto the legislation,
Senate aides said that some of the senators who voted for it
would switch sides in an override attempt.
   However, the bill's sponsors acknowledged in more than two
days of debate that their real purpose was to keep pressure
on Mrs. Hills in the current round of negotiations under the
auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The
sponsors fear that Mrs. Hills will allow greater access to
the U.S. textile market in exchange for other trade benefits
the U.S. is seeking in the multilateral talks.
   "Don't leave us hanging out to dry," pleaded Sen. Jesse
Helms (R., N.C.), one of the bill's champions.
   Oregon Sen. Bob Packwood, the ranking Republican of the
Senate Finance Committee, called the bill a "turkey," and
Sen. Slade Gorton (R., Wash.) twice tried to gut it through
amendments. But the still-powerful Senate textile caucus
headed by Sens. Ernest Hollings (D., S.C.) and Strom Thurmond
(R., S.C.) fought off all attempts to thwart the bill's
purpose by sizable margins.
   In the House, the bill's fate is uncertain. Rep. Marilyn
Lloyd (D., Tenn.), who heads the House textile caucus, has
mustered nearly 250 co-sponsors for the measure. But the
caucus admits to some difficulty in getting the bill cleared
by the Ways and Means Committee's International Trade
subcommittee before the August recess. They acknowledge that
neither subcommittee Chairman Sam Gibbons (D., Fla.) nor Ways
and Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) supports the
bill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   World Oil Prices Hold Steady Despite Expectations
   That They May Plunge in Wake of Recent Gains
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   World oil prices generally held firm despite expectations
that they might decline substantially in the wake of recent
run-ups.
   Crude oil prices did fall sharply in U.S. futures trading
yesterday morning. But they rebounded in the afternoon to end
the day mixed with near-month crude contracts only slightly
lower.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The August crude contract was down two cents a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange to settle at $18.65 after
dropping to a low of $18.11 during the day. Crude futures for
September delivery settled eight cents lower at $19.77 a
barrel.
   On the assumption a correction was overdue, many traders
had expected major price drops in the August and September
crudes after the gains of $2 a barrel in the prior six
trading sessions. But prices were kept relatively firm by a
widespread belief that burdensome U.S. crude oil inventories
are shrinking and by the continuing euphoria over
developments in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.
   After futures trading had closed for the day, the American
Petroleum Institute released its latest weekly report on U.S.
oil statistics. The report showed that inventories of crude
oil and gasoline rose last week, by 4.7 million barrels and
two million barrels, respectively, rather than declining as
expected.
   Oil analysts agreed these were bearish figures. But
several said they are likely to have only a moderate effect
on the bullishness emerging over the expected outcome of next
week's OPEC meetings.
   As the result of last week's pledges by Kuwait and the
United Arab Emirates to reduce production to quota levels,
OPEC is widely expected to freeze its production ceiling near
the current 22.1 million barrels a day and reduce total
output to 23 million barrels a day or less for the remainder
of the third quarter. Many analysts expect this to restore
balance to supply and demand for OPEC oil.
   Iraq President Saddam Hussein, who has been aggressively
pressuring Kuwait and the Emirates to cut their
overproduction, helped bolster world oil prices again
yesterday with new threats to deal with force with OPEC
members violating their production quotas.
   "With Iraq flexing its muscles in OPEC, there is a return
to the policies of the early 1980s with the emphasis on
prices rather than on market shares," said Peter Beutel, an
oil specialist with Merrill Lynch Futures.
   In other markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Prices of corn futures contracts
continued to slide amid good growing weather. So far this
month, the value of some corn futures contracts have dropped
about 15%. Some crop analysts are beginning to edge up their
harvest estimates. Katharina Zimmer, an analyst at Merrill
Lynch, New York, has been forecasting a 7.7 billion bushel
corn crop. However, she said the weather in the Midwest is
increasing the possibility of a 7.85 billion bushel harvest.
The good growing weather is also at least partly responsible
for an anemic export market. Foreign buyers aren't in any
rush to acquire U.S. corn because there is little indication
so far that any shortages might develop at harvest. What's
more, there are widespread reports that the Soviet Union, one
of the biggest buyers of U.S. crops, is continuing to have
difficulty paying its bills for imports. Analysts aren't sure
whether U.S. corn prices might drop further. Despite this
month's weather in the Midwest, the corn crop is unusually
vulnerable. Because wet weather this spring delayed the
growing season, much of the corn crop is only beginning to go
through its critical pollination stage. In many of the
biggest corn-producing states, pollination normally has
peaked by now. The late growing season makes the crop more
susceptible to summer heat waves and fall frosts. Outside the
major corn-producing states in the Midwest, the crop is
facing other problems. The south Texas crop, which is one of
the first to be harvested in the U.S., could face its second
outbreak of aflatoxin in two years. Aflatoxin is a poison
that is excreted by a fungus under drought conditions. Last
year, much of the corn crop in the region had to be destroyed
or diverted to livestock use because it contained levels too
dangerous for human consumption. Because of dry weather
earlier this season, state and federal officials are
preparing to sample the crop for aflatoxin in the next few
weeks. In the Southeast, dry conditions earlier this season
have already forced some farmers to abandon their fields.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures prices declined. The July contract,
which will cease trading today, ended with a loss of 2.60
cents a pound at $1.8695. September, the most active month,
was off 1.90 cents to $1.7840. Analysts said traders will be
closely watching the last day of activity in the July
contract. "It could be a very volatile session," one analyst
said. Only 97 notices have been issued for the delivery of
the concentrate against the July contract. As of the
beginning of trading yesterday, the July open interest, or
the number of contracts that remain to be nullified by an
opposite trade or fulfilled by delivery of concentrate, was
1,670 contracts. Despite active liquidation yesterday, which
depressed prices, the number of contracts outstanding is
expected to remain the largest on the last trading day that
traders and analysts can recall. For the most part, analysts
said, processors are holders of contracts calling for them to
take delivery of the commodity because the price of the
future is well below the cash-market quotation. On the other
hand, most "shorts," or traders who sold in anticipation that
prices would go lower, are speculators. However, prices never
fell as much as speculators anticipated, an analyst said.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices eased. August delivery
gold ended at $363, down $1.50 an ounce. September silver
declined 3.5 cents an ounce to $4.8680. October platinum was
off $2.50 an ounce at $479.30. August gold was under some
pressure early in the morning, in part because the Dow Jones
Industrial Average at that time was trading over 3000 and
also because there was a spate of selling in silver by
speculators and local traders that produced a sympathetic
reaction in gold, according to analysts. August gold traded
as low as $361.60. In the afternoon, however, the industrial
average slipped below 3000, which appeared to give some lift
to precious metals, analysts said. Mostly, analysts said,
traders were waiting for Federal Reserve Chairman Alan
Greenspan's semiannual testimony before the Senate Banking
Committee today, in which he will outline the central bank's
monetary policy. "It's more like waiting for the second shoe
to drop," said one analyst, noting Mr. Greenspan's testimony
last week, that the Fed was poised to ease its monetary
policy, caused precious metals prices to surge. "Traders want
to know if last Friday's cut in a key rate was a one-time
thing or whether there will be a further reduction," the
analyst said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   Prozac Said
   To Spur Idea
   Of Suicide
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LLY
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The popular drug Prozac, widely hailed as
safer than other antidepressants, is being accused of causing
suicidal thoughts in some users.
   Yesterday, a New York woman sued the drug's marketer, Eli
Lilly &amp; Co. of Indianapolis, charging that the drug caused
her to commit acts of self-destruction and to make attempts
at suicide. The suit, filed in state court in Suffolk County,
New York, seeks $150 million in damages.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This `wonder drug' has produced some nightmarish
results," says Leonard L. Finz, a New York attorney
representing the woman. "We claim the drug wasn't properly
tested {and that} warnings of its horrendous effects haven't
been made to the public."
   The lawsuit is the first of its type against the drug, but
it follows observations by several researchers that the drug
may inspire suicidal thoughts.
   Eli Lilly says it doesn't comment on matters in
litigation. But a spokesman acknowledges that in May the
company alerted doctors to several newly observed problems
associated with the drug's use, including "suicidal
ideation." The spokesman says the alert was part of the
company's periodic updating of the drug's side-effect
profile. He also says "Prozac has received a lot of
publicity," including being on the cover of Newsweek and New
York magazine, but that Eli Lilly believes "information about
the drug should be communicated to people by their doctors,
not the media."
   Officials at Lilly and the Food and Drug Administration
say that the charge that the drug may induce obsessive
thoughts of suicide is troublesome because it may be
impossible to determine whether Prozac or the patient's
underlying mental status is at fault.
   The drug's association with suicide was first formally
reported in February in the American Journal of Psychiatry by
Martin Teicher, a Harvard University research psychiatrist.
Dr. Teicher's article identified six people who developed
"intense, violent suicidal thoughts" while taking Prozac.
None of the patients had previously experienced such
thoughts, the article said.
   In an interview, Dr. Teicher said the drug produced
"intolerable" anxiety in which thoughts of self-destruction
were a natural consequence. "I think for some patients the
drug is going to cause a real problem," Dr. Teicher says. He
adds that since the report's release he has been told of 15
additional cases.
   Prozac's problems may be due, at least in part, to its
success, and to overzealous prescribing by some doctors.
Sales of the drug are growing at a rate unprecedented for a
relatively new medicine. First released in late 1987, Prozac
is expected to zoom to $700 million in sales this year and
more than $1 billion next year, making it by far the best
selling drug for depression. Marketing officials suggest more
than a half million prescriptions are being written for it
each month.
   Yesterday, Eli Lilly cited the rapid growth of Prozac when
it reported that its earnings increased 26% in the second
quarter from a year earlier.
   But the drug's unusually swift rise to prominence and its
use by tens of thousands of patients has triggered a flood of
complaints about side effects to doctors, the FDA and Eli
Lilly. Several former users who say the drug caused severe
reactions have formed a nationwide self-help group. And a Los
Angeles-based consumer organization associated with the
Church of Scientology says it has received more than 800
calls from patients this year claiming the drug caused such
problems as severe edginess, mania and suicidal obsessions.
   Officials at the FDA and Eli Lilly say they are monitoring
the reports but don't believe the number or types of
complaints are especially unusual for a drug used to treat
people afflicted with mental health problems. Lilly also says
it believes some of the complaints are being drummed up by
the Scientology group, which has a history of criticizing the
use of psychiatric drugs. Prozac's descriptive label for
doctors provides a lengthy list of side effects, from nausea,
nervousness and insomnia to mania and extreme agitation. Most
of those problems are also associated with other commonly
used antidepressants.
   "At present, our reporting system hasn't picked up
{suicidal thoughts} as a problem more common than might be
expected in this population of users, especially given the
drug's high rate of use," says Paul Leber, the head of the
FDA's division of neuropharmocological products.
   It was Dr. Teicher's article in February that suggested to
Mitchell Banks, a Long Island psychiatrist, that Prozac might
be causing problems for his patient, Rhoda Hala.
   Mrs. Hala, the woman now suing Eli Lilly, says she was
given the drug in late 1988 to treat depression following
back surgery and side effects caused by painkiller drugs.
Soon after first taking Prozac, she became overwhelmed with
self-destructive impulses, she says, slashing her wrists and
other parts of her body "hundreds of times."
   Mrs. Hala, 40 years old and married with two children, was
hospitalized several times for her behavior. Her doctor also
increased her dosage of Prozac. After she stopped taking the
drug, she says, her suicidal impulses disappeared. Mrs. Hala
says she was never depressed before the back surgery and
hadn't had suicidal thoughts before. She was taking a
tranquilizer called Xanax while on Prozac, but Prozac's label
doesn't specifically warn against this combination of
medicines.
   Some prominent research psychiatrists say the drug can't
be judged by such anecdotal reports. "The drug is a good
antidepressant," says Jerrold Rosenbaum, a psychiatrist
associated with Harvard and Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston. "But it may be found that some people are especially
sensitive to the drug's mode of action, which differs from
other antidepressants."
   Prozac works by increasing the availability of a chemical,
serotonin, that carries signals between nerve cells. The drug
quickly gained favor among psychiatrists, not because it
relieves depression better but because it doesn't produce
constipation or the other annoying problems caused by the
other medicines. It also doesn't cause the heart problems
linked to other drugs.
   "Patients can't hurt themselves easily by taking an
overdose," Dr. Rosenbaum says, "and that's a real concern
when treating" depressed patients.
   Some researchers suggest that increasing serotonin may
drive some people to severe and intolerable edginess and that
such problems must be closely watched by doctors. But some
critics of the drug's widespread use say doctors aren't being
so careful.
   Michael O'Brien, an activist with the Citizens Commission
on Human Rights in Los Angeles, says some people are being
given the drug for experimental uses that have been described
in research reports but haven't been approved by the FDA.
   The organization, associated with the Church of
Scientology, has been very active in collecting reports of
adverse reactions related to Prozac. Mr. O'Brien was recently
contacted by Susan Carey of Jensen Beach, Fla., who says she
was given Prozac by a doctor to help her quit smoking. She
says she soon became manic, going on spending sprees and
ignoring her work and family. The problems ended when she
quit taking the drug, she says.
   Eli Lilly is also testing Prozac as a weight-loss drug for
people with severe weight problems, and doctors believe the
drug is already being prescribed to some people for this use.
Other drug makers have noted Prozac's success, and several
are testing similar-acting medicines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Congress Report Warns
   About Market Innovations
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A congressional report warned that
technological innovation in the world's securities markets
"could outpace the capability of market participants to
comprehend and control its effects."
   The report by the congressional Office of Technology
Assessment, entitled "Trading Around the Clock," also said,
however, that technological innovation "could contribute to
sustained liquidity and expansion." While the study
acknowledges that government involvement in U.S. markets is
controversial, it recommends that "at a minimum,
encouragement, facilitation and leadership from government
will be needed," particularly in the area of setting
standards for information technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report, by Congress's technological arm, attempts to
outline questions facing the securities markets as they grow
increasingly international.
   The study contends that Congress may have to "articulate a
clear statement of the national interest for the guidance of
regulators." It cautions that market players often use the
market with the most lenient structure for trading and
contends that "one need is to prevent the erosion of the
framework of prudential regulation that Congress has erected
since 1934."
   It adds that U.S. regulators may need to "actively
encourage market officials to take a long-term view of market
development, and U.S. regulators themselves may have to be
encouraged to do so by the U.S. Congress."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Newmont Gold
   Cuts Output Costs,
   Pays Bank Debts
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   NGC NEM
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Newmont Gold Co. said it reduced its production
costs at some of its operations and mines in Nevada,
countering an industry trend of rising costs. It also said it
will increase production of gold to 1.7 million ounces in
1990, up from a projected 1.54 million ounces.
   The company also said it repaid all its debt to its banks
and its 90% owner, Newmont Mining Co., in the second quarter.
Newmont Gold had about $83.7 million in short-term debt on
March 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company declined to estimate second-quarter earnings,
but a spokesman said results will "probably be better than
most estimates." Net income was $27.8 million, or 27 cents a
share, on sales of about $139 million, a year earlier.
   The nation's largest gold producer said it has increased
productivity, lowered supply costs and improved recovery
rates in its northern area mines and mills of the Carlin
Trend, a rich gold-bearing formation in north-central Nevada.
The company said its cash costs of producing an ounce of gold
fell below the $224 reported for the first quarter.
   For the second half, the company projects its cash costs
per ounce of gold will average about $200, and the average
cost for the year will be about $210. The company had
projected its cash costs would be about $240 an ounce for the
year.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Newmont Gold
shares rose 75 cents to $45.25. Newmont Mining shares rose
62.5 cents to $46.75.
   The reduction in mining cost "is very unique," said John
Tumazos, analyst at Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. He figures
the average pretax cost of mining an ounce of gold (including
cash costs and non-cash expenses) has increased steadily over
the past three years to about $330 an ounce from about $250
an ounce. Gold mining costs have increased because of higher
prices for cyanide and other reagents, higher taxes in
Nevada, stricter environmental controls and higher
exploration costs, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   S&amp;L Bailout Could Cost
   $500 Billion, Says GAO
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A recession and higher interest rates could
push the costs of the savings-and-loan cleanup to $500
billion over 40 years, including interest, the General
Accounting Office said.
   The GAO, the investigative arm of Congress, previously
estimated that $325 billion would cover the costs of the
cleanup. But in a new report it referred to $325 billion as
the "least-cost estimate." The remarks came in its final
audit of the now-defunct Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corp., whose activities have been absorbed by the Resolution
Trust Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The $325 billion estimate, the GAO said, is "based on the
Office of Management and Budget's optimistic interest-rate
assumptions." But the costs could approach $500 billion if
more than 560 thrifts fail and if the economy has a downturn.
   The GAO said the cost of the FSLIC's transactions --
liabilities that were created before the thrift-cleanup law
was passed last year -- is expected to rise significantly
from the $38 billion originally estimated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Mitsubishi Electric Corp.:
   U.S. Revamping to Begin
   For Electronics, Sales Units
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MBE
</CO>
<LP>
   Japan's Mitsubishi Electric Corp. said it plans to begin
reorganizing its business footholds in the U.S. next month in
response to expansion as well as diversification of its local
business activity.
   As the primary change, officials said, Mitsubishi Electric
Sales America Inc. and Mitsubishi Electronics America Inc.
will merge, keeping the name of the latter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until now, Mitsubishi Electric sales handled electric home
appliances, and Mitsubishi Electronics dealt with electronics
parts. However, Mitsubishi Electric noted a need to merge the
companies, as products like high-definition television blur
the boundaries between the two. The new company will be in
Cypress, Calif.
   In an attempt to better generate funds while hedging
exchange risks, Mitsubishi Electric will also establish a
finance company called Mitsubishi Electric Finance America
Inc. in Cypress. It will be capitalized at $3.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Metropolitan Circuits Inc.:
   Stake Is Set for Consultants
   If They Raise New Capital
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MPB
</CO>
<LP>
   Metropolitan Circuits Inc. said it would sell options to
buy as much as a 37.5% interest in the circuit-board maker to
two consultants if they are successful in raising new capital
for the cash-starved concern.
   Kenneth C. Cleveland and Paul G. McNamara also would
become the Santa Ana, Calif., company's top executives if
they raise "in the range of $2 million to $3.5 million"
within 30 days, said Richard J. Sandberg, chairman, president
and chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Sandberg said the funds would be used for working
capital and to pay about $1.5 million in overdue debts to
suppliers. The company has no bank debt, he said.
   Mr. Cleveland, a crisis-management consultant, would
become chairman and chief executive officer, and Mr.
McNamara, former president of Aeroscientific, an Anaheim,
Calif., circuit-board maker, would be named president and
chief operating officer, if they obtain the financing. Mr.
Sandberg would relinquish those titles and become vice
chairman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bond Auction by Computer
   Satisfied Major Traders
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The first computerized auction of high-yield
junk bonds produced a trickle of trades yesterday, enough to
satisfy some of the giant institutions that participated in
the sale.
   The auction was organized by Joel Greenblatt, a
32-year-old money manager who founded New York Securities
Auction Corp. this year. Mr. Greenblatt had recruited
institutions such as Fidelity Investments, Mutual Shares
Corp. and Trust Co. of the West to list bonds for sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   People familiar with the auction said about $80 million
face value of bonds were offered for sale yesterday. Many
were distressed-company bonds that traded at big discounts to
their face value. Estimates were that about 40% of the bonds
attracted purchase bids, with about one-quarter of the bids
leading to actual sales.
   "I think we did pretty well," Mr. Greenblatt said. "We
traded enough to cover our costs." He added that some Wall
Street firms showed a willingness to use his system, even
though it competes with their bond-trading desks.
   "This is another tool for us" to use in bond trading, said
Howard Marks, a managing director at Trust Co. of the West.
Future weekly auctions may produce brisker volume, Mr. Marks
predicted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Japan Firms Face
   Charge of Dumping
   High-Tech Screens
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   NIPNY J.TOS HIT MC J.SRP J.FUT J.HOS KYO J.HAT
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. manufacturers of flat-panel electronic
display screens, in what they described as a last-gasp bid
for the U.S. industry's survival, filed an anti-dumping
complaint against a number of Japanese competitors.
   The petition charges that Toshiba Corp., Hitachi Ltd.,
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Seiko Epson Corp., Sharp
Corp. and other Japanese companies are selling the advanced,
electronic display screens in the U.S. at far less than their
production costs or home-market prices in violation of the
U.S. anti-dumping trade law. If the complaint is upheld, the
Japanese products could be subject to penalty duties ranging
from 71% to 318% of their current U.S. prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The industry is at a critical juncture," said James Hurd,
president of Planar Systems Inc., a Beaverton, Ore.,
manufacturer. "Unless the dumping issue is addressed now, its
future will be threatened." Mr. Hurd is one of the organizers
of the Advanced Display Manufacturers of America, a trade
group that filed the petition with the Commerce Department
and the International Trade Commission.
   Flat-panel displays gradually are replacing the bulkier
cathode ray tubes, or CRTs, in televisions, laptop computers
and other devices. The technology involved also is basic to
establishing a high-definition television industry. The U.S.
demand for non-CRT displays is estimated to be close to $700
million a year and growing rapidly.
   The technology, which has been commercially available for
about a decade, is of U.S. origin. However, Japanese
producers have captured 90% of the U.S. commercial flat-panel
market and are challenging U.S. producers for defense
industry sales, the complaint states.
   "The Japanese are investing hundreds of millions of
dollars a year in order to create market dominance," Mr. Hurd
claims. "They've publicly acknowledged that they are prepared
to lose money for five to six years to get there."
   The petition identifies the other respondents as Fujitsu
Ltd., Hosiden Electronics Co., Kyocera Corp., NEC Corp.,
Optrex Corp., Seiko Instruments &amp; Electronics Ltd. and
Matsushita Electronics Corp., a unit of Matsushita Electric
Industrial. Both Seiko Epson and Seiko Instruments &amp;
Electronics are units of Hattori Seiko Co. The petition
claims that Sharp, Matsushita Electric Industrial and Hitachi
are the dominant suppliers, with market shares in recent
years of 13.5%, 13% and 12%, respectively.
   The Japanese respondents are likely to base their defense
on the principle of forward-pricing, which justifies some
initial below-cost sales if producers intend to recover all
their costs over the product's life. The Commerce Department
insists that producers recover all their costs within a year.
   It's unlikely that the claim will garner wide support from
U.S. buyers of flat panels. Computer makers have been relying
for years on Japanese suppliers. Some major computer makers
such as Apple Computer Inc. and Tandy Corp. are even
encouraging the Japanese to invest heavily in a new
generation of color displays.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First Bank System Inc.:
   Fed Clears Proposal to Sell
   $175 Million of Common
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FBS
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   First Bank System Inc., Minneapolis, said Corporate
Partners and the State Board of Administration of Florida
received Federal Reserve Board approval to purchase $175
million of its common equity.
   The banking company said the transaction is expected to
close within three business days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company has said it would raise $175 million through a
private placement of about 12.6 million shares of newly
issued common at $13.875 a share to Corporate Partners, an
investment partnership, and the State Board of Administration
of Florida. Their investments, which are $145 million and $30
million, respectively, will result in net proceeds of about
$172 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Southern Co.:
   Unit Loses Legal Round
   In Effort to Recover Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GPE+ SO
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   A Southern Co. unit lost a round in its elated to Georgia
Power Co.'s Vogtle plant. Georgia Power filed the appeal
following a lower court's decision to uphold the
disallowance, which the commission said was justified in
light of certain "imprudent and excessive" costs.
   A Georgia Power spokesman said his company was reviewing
the latest court decision and hadn't decided whether it would
appeal. He said the company can ask the appeals court to
reconsider its decision, and if Georgia Power loses there, it
can still appeal to the state supreme court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If Georgia Power ultimately loses, Atlanta-based Southern
has said it would have to take an after tax write-off of
about $200 million. That would be in addition to a $229
million write-off taken in 1987, after the total budget for
the plant exceeded a self-imposed cap.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GTE Earnings Rise 11%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   GTE
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- GTE Corp. reported second-quarter net
income rose 11% on 6% higher revenue.
   The provider of telecommunications products and services
and electrical products said earnings rose to $363.7 million,
or 54 cents a share, from $328.8 million, or 49 cents a
share, a year earlier. Per-share earnings reflect a 2-for-1
stock split effective May 23. Sales grew to $4.58 billion
from $4.32 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GTE shares fell 75 cents apiece to $28.25 in composite New
York Stock Exchange trading on volume of nearly 3.6 million
shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Perkins Foods PLC:
   Company Agrees to Acquire
   Two Dutch Food Concerns
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   U.PKN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Perkins Foods PLC, London, said it has agreed to buy two
Dutch food manufacturers, Bakker Lekkerkerk Holland B.V. and
K.B. de Souffle Specialist B.V., for an initial 71.6 million
guilders ($38.4 million).
   Perkins, which is attempting to build an integrated food
manufacturing and supply network across northern Europe, said
it will pay for the purchases through the issue of 30 million
convertible preference shares, expected to raise #28.9
million ($52.1 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said Bakker will allow it to move into the
Dutch market for daily delivery of chilled, fresh food
products to supermarkets. De Souffle is a maker of frozen
filled pancakes with distribution in the Netherlands and West
Germany.
   A further 3.9 million guilders may be paid to the Dutch
companies depending on future profitability, Perkins said.
   Perkins added that it intends to seek a listing on the
Amsterdam stock market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   IBM MAY SELL low-tech businesses such as electric
typewriters and keyboards in a buy-out that could total $3
billion, Wall Street and industry executives said. The
possible sale is the latest sign of a new urgency among IBM
executives to make each business stand on its own.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices flirted with the 3000 level again, but the
Dow Jones industrials finished the day unchanged at 2999.75.
Broader market measures closed lower. Bond prices were little
changed and the dollar declined.
   ---
   United Telecommunications stock skidded $8.75 to $29.50
after the company reported a 55% tumble in second-quarter
earnings and a $42 million operating loss at its US Sprint
long-distance communications unit.
   ---
   Industrial production rose 0.4% in June, bolstered by
higher utility output due to a late-June heat wave.
   ---
   The trade deficit widened to $7.73 billion in May from
$7.31 billion in April, but analysts showed little concern
that the trend toward narrower deficits may be in jeopardy.
   ---
   Bush invited top congressional leaders from both parties
to the White House in what appeared to be another attempt to
push the bipartisan budget talks toward a compromise.
   ---
   Two regional banks, Banc One and Norwest, posted record
quarterly earnings. But three of the nation's biggest banks,
Citicorp, Manufacturers Hanover and Chemical Banking, said
their profits declined.
   ---
   Merrill Lynch posted a 5.6% rise in second-quarter profit.
Among other securities firms, PaineWebber reported a 2.9%
drop and Charles Schwab said its quarterly net rose 14%.
   ---
   Iraq's Hussein threatened to use force against other
Persian Gulf nations if they keep driving down oil prices by
exceeding output quotas. Oil prices held firm despite
expectations they might fall after recent run-ups.
   ---
   The Big Three auto makers will post a combined earnings
decline of as much as 54% for the second quarter, analysts
said. Separately, GM, Ford and Chrysler begin talks with the
UAW today on a new contract.
   ---
   Wells Fargo agreed to acquire the California branches of
Great American Bank for $492 million in a move that analysts
called a coup for Wells.
   ---
   Eli Lilly was sued for $150 million by a woman who said
the drug Prozac caused her to commit acts of
self-destruction. The suit follows observations by
researchers that the drug may inspire suicidal thoughts.
   ---
   Xerox will shed any financial-services business that
doesn't promise an average annual return on equity of at
least 15%, its two top executives said.
   ---
   NBC named Brandon Tartikoff to the newly created position
of chairman of its entertainment group. Mr. Tartikoff will
focus on expanding the unit that produces prime time series,
miniseries and made-for-TV movies.
   ---
   Nynex moved quickly in 1988 to investigate improper
activities by purchasing employees and disclosed its findings
to state regulators, the company's chairman told reporters.
   ---
   Coca-Cola's earnings jumped 19% in the second period as
strong overseas growth offset weak U.S. sales.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 176,790,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2999.75, unchanged; transportation 1187.59, off 2.01;
utilities 205.11, off 0.75.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3452.33, up
1.30.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 131.28, off 0.64;
spot index 132.32, up 0.26.
   Dollar: 147.80 yen, off 0.35; 1.6440 marks, off 0.0107.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Drug Makers
   Say Profits Rose
   In 2nd Quarter
   ---
   Eli Lilly's Net Climbed 26%
   On Record-High Sales;
   Upjohn and Pfizer Gain
   ----
   Brett Pulley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   LLY UPJ PFE
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Major U.S. drug makers reported higher earnings for the
second quarter as a result of increased sales, cost-cutting
measures and new products.
   Eli Lilly &amp; Co. led the field, posting a 26% increase in
earnings, followed by Upjohn Co. with a 21% upturn, and
Pfizer Co., whose earnings rose 11% from the year-earlier
quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Higher earnings had been expected from the pharmaceuticals
concerns, and analysts were pleased with results at Lilly,
which exceeded most analysts' estimates. Because one-time
items boosted Upjohn's earnings, however, that company's
results generated some investor disappointment.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Upjohn
shares fell 50 cents each, to $41.50. Pfizer closed up $1.125
at $69.25. Despite its strong earnings, Lilly closed down
87.5 cents at $88.875.
                                                                                                       

   Eli Lilly &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Record-high world-wide sales contributed to the surge in
second-quarter earnings for Lilly. The Indianapolis
pharmaceuticals giant said the rapid growth of its
anti-depressant Prozac paced sales, which grew 24% to $1.225
billion from $986.6 million a year ago.
   Lilly said that among other contributors to its growth
were the anti-ulcer drug Axid, the antibiotic Ceclor, and
Humatrope, the growth hormone that earlier this month was
reported to decrease the debilitating effects of aging.
   The company's medical-instrument systems segment had
another strong quarter, led by the Cardiovascular Systems
unit, which is benefiting from regulatory difficulties
encountered by a competitor.
   The company said cancer diagnostics led to increased sales
in its Hybritech unit for the quarter. Lilly's acquisition of
Pacific Biotech Inc., a developer of immunodiagnostic-testing
products, also was completed during the second quarter.
   "This is a very high quality {earnings} quarter," said
Jerome Brimeyer, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds. He
attributed the drop in Lilly's stock yesterday to either
large profit-taking or reaction to rumors of a suit involving
the drug Prozac.
                                                                                                       

   Upjohn Co.
                                                                                                       

   Upjohn, helped by one-time items, reported a jump in
earnings from the previous year. The Kalamazoo, Mich.,
company posted revenue of $805 million, up 11% from $728
million a year ago.
   Strong sales in the U.S. and Europe, and cost-cutting
measures implemented in 1989 helped boost quarterly earnings,
the company said. U.S. sales rose 9% to $487 million from the
previous year; foreign sales climbed 13% to $318 million.
   In addition, a $43 million pension credit and other
nonrecurring charges raised pretax earnings by $28 million,
or 10 cents a share, the company said. The pension credit
involved lump-sum payments to employees who took advantage of
an early-retirement program announced last year.
                                                                                                       

   Pfizer Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Pfizer said second-quarter sales rose 15% to $1.5 billion
from $1.3 billion in the period a year ago.
   In the quarter, Pfizer said health-care product sales
surged 26% on the strength of some new products. The company
said it received more than $165 million from sales of its new
cardiovascular drugs, Procardia XL, Cardura, Minipress XL and
Norvasc; the anti-fungal drug Diflucan; and the Monorail
Piccolino coronary angioplasty catheter, which is used to
clear arteries.
   Pfizer said it expects the benefits from new products to
continue, saying it anticipates having six new drugs approved
by the Food and Drug Administration during the next two
years.
   The company said its specialty-chemicals sales grew 4% in
the quarter, but animal-health sales were flat and
consumer-product sales dropped 2%. Specialty minerals sales
fell 20% but would have increased 13% if not for the sale of
a pigments business.
   ---
                           1990             1989
                       in       per     in       per     %
                     millions  share  millions  share   chg.
                                                                                                       

                 Second Quarter Net Income
                                                                                                       

   Lilly ..........   274.4    .93     217.1     .75    +26
   Upjohn .........   114.0    .62      94.6     .51    +21

                                                                                                       

                    Six Months Net Income
                                                                                                       

   Lilly ..........   615.2   2.07     501.8    1.74    +23
   Upjohn .........   228.3   1.23     197.6    1.07    +15
   Pfizer .........   403.1   2.40     376.6    2.23    + 7
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Bias Charge Involving Blacks Is Rejected
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach and Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TIC MS WNEWS LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
INSURANCE (INS)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge in Atlanta ruled that a black woman who
had been fired by the Internal Revenue Service hadn't been
discriminated against by her supervisor, who is also black.
   In a case that has been closely watched by attorneys and
civil-rights groups, the employee had charged that the
supervisor, who is dark-skinned, was biased against
light-skinned blacks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case began in March 1986, when Tracy L. Morrow, now 27
years old, lost her job as a clerk-typist at the local tax
office. The IRS said Ms. Morrow performed poorly; Ms. Morrow
countered that her supervisor had harassed and ultimately
fired her out of prejudice against blacks with light skin.
   At the trial last January, Ms. Morrow testified that her
supervisor had made derogatory remarks about her skin color,
allegedly saying: "You need some sun" and "You've had it too
easy."
   In his decision on Monday, however, U.S. District Judge
Charles A. Moye Jr. rejected Ms. Morrow's arguments, saying
the IRS had provided "ample evidence" that Ms. Morrow "may
have been insubordinate, immature, impatient, disrespectful
and unmanageable."
   Regarding the alleged remarks about skin color, Judge Moye
said that Ms. Morrow didn't "prove that {such comments} were
uttered for any reason other than the personal animosity {the
women} might have had for each other." A personality conflict
alone, the judge said, "doesn't establish invidious
discrimination."
   Stephen Katz, an attorney representing Ms. Morrow, faulted
the ruling for not providing "direction on how you're
supposed to prove" an intraracial discrimination case. "What
kind of comments indicate color bias?" Mr. Katz asked. "What
kind of actions?"
   The case was beneficial, Mr. Katz added, in that it
highlighted the problem of intraracial bias. "It's something
companies are going to have to be aware of," he said.
   Ms. Morrow, who hasn't decided whether to appeal, was
"very disappointed" with the ruling, but is "resolved to get
on with her life," Mr. Katz said. "Obviously, she's not going
to return to government service -- ever."
   ---
   INSURANCE COMPANY accuses chemical firm's lawyers of
ethics violations.
   Travelers Indemnity Co. of Hartford alleged in court
papers yesterday that the lawyers for Stauffer Chemical Co.
tried to prevent potential witnesses from testifying in a
lawsuit concerning who should pay for the cleanup of toxic
waste.
   Lawyers for Stauffer said they couldn't comment because
they hadn't seen the court papers. They said the company
named in the suit is now a unit of ICI Americas Inc. of
Wilmington, Del., and is now called Stauffer Management Co.
They said that a company currently called Stauffer Chemical
Co. isn't involved in the suit.
   The Travelers Corp. unit, a plaintiff in the case, said
that the lawyers for Stauffer sent letters to at least 58
former employees. In the letters, former employees were urged
to call Stauffer lawyers at the Wilmington law firm of
Morris, Nichols, Arsht &amp; Tunnell, the Washington law firm of
Kirkpatrick &amp; Lockhart, or the Philadelphia law firm of
Morgan, Lewis &amp; Bockius if they were contacted by any of the
insurance companies.
   Travelers says the letters created the mistaken impression
that the former employees might be targets of the litigation
and contained an offer to provide them with free counsel in
the hopes of preventing harmful evidence from surfacing
during private interviews with the insurer's investigators.
   Legal ethics experts Stephen Gillers of New York
University School of Law and Geoffrey C. Hazard, Jr., of Yale
Law School submitted affidavits stating that they believe the
letters violate the ethics rule that prohibits lawyers from
suggesting that someone other than a client refrain from
voluntarily giving relevant information in a case. The rule
is designed to ensure that lawyers have access to information
necessary to prepare a case for trial.
   Travelers, along with National Union Fire Insurance Co. of
Pittsburgh and American Motorists Insurance Co. of Long
Grove, Ill., sued Stauffer in state court in Delaware in
1987. The insurers are seeking a declaration that they have
no obligation to pay Stauffer's bill for cleaning up toxic
waste at the Tybouts Corner landfill in New Castle County,
Del., because the company knowingly polluted the site.
   Former employees can be key potential witnesses in such
disputes because they often provide important information
about toxic waste disposal practices at the company over time
and are less constrained from talking candidly than current
employees.
   If the court finds that Stauffer's lawyers violated
professional ethics rules, "it will affect how these cases
are conducted in the future," says Barry Ostrager of Simpson,
Thacher &amp; Bartlett, a lawyer for Travelers.
   Travelers has asked the court to require Stauffer to
contact all former employees who received letters and to
advise them that they are free to speak to the insurers and
that Stauffer's offer of counsel is withdrawn.
   On May 29, Judge Vincent J. Poppiti, who is hearing the
case, found that Travelers investigators had violated
Delaware's professional rules of conduct. Mr. Ostrager said
that Travelers has also asked the judge to reconsider his
ruling based on affidavits submitted by Messrs. Gillers and
Hazard.
   ---
   MORGAN STANLEY names Lacovara to senior posts.
   Philip A. Lacovara, 47 years old, was named general
counsel and secretary of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. Mr.
Lacovara also was named a managing director and member of the
management committee of the New York securities firm's
broker-dealer subsidiary, Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Since 1988, Mr. Lacovara has been vice president, senior
counsel for litigation and legal policy at General Electric
Co. He was one of a group of lawyers recruited by Benjamin W.
Heineman Jr., senior vice president, general counsel of GE,
in an effort to build a strong in-house legal staff. Mr.
Lacovara's departure from GE is scheduled for Sept. 15. "This
is just an indication of the quality of people who have come
to GE," Mr. Heineman said.
   Mr. Lacovara was partner in charge of the Washington
office of Hughes Hubbard &amp; Reed before joining GE, and was
counsel to the Watergate special prosecutor.
   Mr. Lacovara called the position at Morgan Stanley "a
wonderful opportunity to join the premier investment banking
firm." He envisions his responsibilities to include global
strategic planning, legislative and regulatory duties and
"trying to assess the environment that financial services
firms will be facing in the U.S. and abroad," including the
legal, regulatory and structural environments.
   As general counsel and secretary at Morgan Stanley, Mr.
Lacovara will be assuming responsibilities that had been
covered by Ned Sachs, who was named head of Morgan Stanley's
finance, administration and operations division in Europe
nearly a year ago. Mr. Sachs has been handling those
responsibilities in addition to his new position.
   ---
   HEAVYWEIGHT BOXING case pitting King and champ is settled.
   Don King, the flamboyant boxing promoter, and James
"Buster" Douglas, the heavyweight champion, agreed to settle
a suit claiming that Mr. King had breached his promotion
contract with Mr. Douglas.
   The settlement of the case in federal court in New York
appears to be a boon to Mr. King, who had much to lose in his
contract disputes with Mr. Douglas, and to Las Vegas
hotel-casino owner Steve Wynn.
   Had the jury decided against Mr. King, the agreement that
gives him exclusive right to promote three more of Mr.
Douglas's fights would have been set aside. Mr. King, who
customarily gets about a 20% cut of fight profits, could have
lost millions of dollars as a result.
   Under the terms of the settlement, Mr. King said he will
step aside as promoter for one fight to allow Mr. Douglas to
fight at Mr. Wynn's Mirage casino-hotel in Las Vegas in
September. Mr. King will be paid an unspecified amount as
part of the arrangement, under which Mr. Douglas is
guaranteed $25 million for his first title defense.
   Mr. King said after that bout he resumes his role as
promoter for Mr. Douglas for two more fights, the first a
rematch against Mike Tyson, who lost the title last February
in Tokyo. Also, Messrs. Douglas and Wynn agreed to drop their
separate Nevada lawsuit to get Mr. King's promotional
contract with Mr. Douglas declared invalid, Mr. Wynn said.
   Mr. Douglas claimed that Mr. King breached the contract
when he protested that Mr. Douglas was wrongly saved from a
knockout by a count that went beyond 10 seconds in the Tokyo
bout. Soon after, Mr. Douglas, saying he would not fight for
Mr. King, agreed to fight at Mr. Wynn's casino.
   Lawyers for Messrs. Douglas and Wynn had hammered away at
Mr. King's credibility during the trial, claiming he was
lying about his motives for protesting the long count. But
four jurors interviewed after the settlement said they were
leaning in Mr. King's favor.
   "Absolutely, it is a vindication and a victory," Mr. King
proclaimed outside the federal courtroom in New York, where
his trial was about to enter its third week.
   ---
   Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal and Arthur S. Hayes contributed
to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Market Takes No Prisoners
   ---
   Primary Dealers
   Are Hardest Hit
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Constance Mitchell, Tom Herman
   And Michael R. Sesit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MID MER SB MS Z.CSU SLH AXP G.DBK J.NJS T.BNS Z.SBK BCS
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors who bought U.S. Treasury bonds this
year have booked modest returns. But the folks who trade the
government's debt are losing their shirts.
   Although $100 billion of Treasury securities are bought
and sold daily on Wall Street, making the Treasury bond
market by far the single biggest securities market in the
world, most bond traders can't make any money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The problem: Too many bond dealers chasing too few
customers have squeezed profit margins to the bare bones. Ten
years ago, a dealer typically could expect to make a $1,250
profit on a $1 million trade of Treasury notes, said Richard
M. Kelly, president of bond dealer Aubrey G. Lanston &amp; Co.
Now, that profit has shrunk to just $312.50, he said.
   Nowhere is the suffering worse than at the nation's
primary dealers, an elite group of big commercial banks and
brokerage firms that buy and sell government bonds directly
with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as it executes
monetary policy. They also are required to step up and buy
bonds at every Treasury auction of government securities; the
dealers try to quickly resell the securities.
   "It's a very tough business," said Thomas Pura, a partner
at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and chairman of the government
securities division at the Public Securities Association, a
trade group. "Spreads really are razor-thin."
   In reaction to the tough times, many dealers have slashed
staffs, and some have left the business. The latest victim is
Midland Montagu Securities Inc., a unit of Britain's Midland
Bank PLC that said yesterday it will close its primary
dealership and its U.S. private banking operation and lay off
about 140 employees.
   In a speech before a group of dealers this year, New York
Fed executive vice president Peter D. Sternlight said more
than half of the U.S.'s 46 primary dealers lost money last
year, and many others barely broke even. As a group, he said,
the primary dealers posted a net loss last year for the first
time in more than a decade.
   With Midland's departure, the number of primary dealers
has dropped to 42. Four weeks ago, Australia's Westpac
Banking Corp. left the business, and last year, two British
banks, National Westminster Bank PLC and Lloyds Bank PLC,
pulled out along with L.F. Rothschild &amp; Co. Two more U.S.
firms were removed when Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
acquired the brokerage business of Thomson McKinnon
Securities Inc. and when Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc.
filed for bankruptcy-law protection. Meanwhile, a few new
dealers have stepped up to the plate.
   Despite the falling count of primary dealers, traders say
there are still too many. "People are getting out because
they can't make any money," said one dealer. "This industry
probably needs only 25 primary dealers. The others just get
in the way."
   Belonging to the primary dealers group once was considered
a great privilege and honor. Membership was sought by big
foreign banks and securities firms, who viewed it as
necessary to being recognized as a global player.
   Perhaps even more importantly, membership represented a
valuable way for dealers to attract new business. That's
because some institutional investors won't do business with
firms that aren't primary dealers.
   But the government bond business has changed radically in
recent years, especially as more Japanese banks and
securities firms became primary dealers. Some U.S. dealers
complain that the Japanese firms, to gain market share,
sharply cut "spreads," or trading markups. In some cases,
they say, the Japanese firms didn't charge fees at all. That
practice may have partly been a reaction to Federal Reserve
regulations, which require primary dealers to maintain at
least a 1% share of the Treasury market.
   "There was a tremendous incentive for foreign dealers to
do business they should not have been doing" just to keep
market share, said Robert A. Brusca, a senior vice president
at the U.S. unit of Nikko Securities Co. of Japan. "When you
are the new guys on the block, how else do you get people to
come to your store unless you cut prices?"
   However, Mr. Brusca said that is changing now, and the
Japanese firms are no longer undercutting the market.
   Oddly, the dealers are suffering when the U.S. Treasury is
flooding the bond market with a big supply of new government
debt. Some economists estimate that the Treasury will raise
about $70 billion of new cash in the current quarter,
excluding refinancing of maturing debt, an increase of $30
billion from last year's third quarter.
   But what's missing is strong customer demand. With the
U.S. economic outlook uncertain, many institutional investors
have backed away from the Treasury market, dealers say. At
the same time, the savings-and-loan debacle has taken out of
the market many thrifts that once were active government bond
traders.
   Meanwhile, U.S. interest rates haven't moved in any
direction long enough to stimulate excitement or produce big
trading opportunities. Dealers say they need volatile markets
to book decent trading profits.
   So, getting spreads up again is proving difficult. The
foreign firms, including some of Japan's big institutions,
have found it particularly tough to eke out a living trading
U.S. government bonds.
   Several Japanese banks, among the biggest financial
institutions in the world, have backed away from intentions
of building U.S. primary dealerships. But because of their
financial strength, reputation for being long-term investors
and high sense of self-esteem, Japanese firms with
dealerships aren't expected to give them up.
   Nonetheless, an executive at one big Japanese securities
firm conceded that if his firm had been tossed out of the
dealer group as a result of trade and financial-market
friction between Washington and Tokyo, now an unlikely
prospect, it would have offered a welcome face-saving exit
from the business.
   Traders said the only way to make money these days is to
do risky speculative trading, where dealers bet on the
direction of the bond market. In this area, commercial banks
are at a big disadvantage because they can't commit enough
capital to allow them to take big bond positions.
   Michael Moore, a managing director and head of government
trading at Continental Bank, agreed that the key to making
money now is proprietary trading, where firms trade for their
own accounts, instead of for customers.
   "The only dealers who make money are those who have a risk
profile and understand arbitrage and derivative products such
as bond options and futures," he said.
   All this means that many smaller Treasury dealers may have
difficulty staying afloat. Six big U.S. firms -- Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co., Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., Salomon Inc.'s Salomon
Brothers Inc., Morgan Stanley Group Inc.'s Morgan Stanley &amp;
Co., Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and CS First Boston Inc.'s
First Boston Corp. -- together have 30% to 35% of the
Treasury market, according to Peter Bass, a managing director
at S.G. Warburg &amp; Co. in New York. That leaves 36 other
primary dealers chasing the remaining 65% to 70%.
   "There are virtually a whole slug of players in that 1% to
2% market-share" range, he said. "If you couple the
market-share problems with the fact that customer volume is
down, volatility down, the spreads almost nonexistent, it's
been a pretty tough time the last two years."
   Even so, Mr. Bass said: "It's still important to be a part
of the U.S. Treasury business. We still very much believe
that to be a fully integrated global investment banking
concern, it is very important to have an eye on the dollar
and U.S. interest rates. The best way to do that is to be a
primary dealer."
   Several foreign firms -- bankers name Deutsche Bank AG,
New Japan Securities Ltd. and a unit of Bank of Nova Scotia
are seeking to be designated as primary dealers. A unit of
Swiss Bank Corp. joined the club in March. In December,
subsidiaries of Union Bank of Switzerland and Britain's
Barclays Bank PLC were designated dealers.
   Still, Robin S. Koskinen, vice chairman of First Chicago
Corp.'s securities unit, said, "Over the past two years,
there are a lot of people who would love to have lost only $5
million in this business."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   GE's Kidder Unit
   Names New Head
   Of `Junk' Research
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   GE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. named a new head of its
junk-bond research group a day after announcing that it will
advise regulators on the sale of a sick thrift's $3 billion
junk portfolio.
   The General Electric Co. unit named Joseph V. Amato to
succeed Stephen J. Albert as head of junk, or high-yield,
research. Mr. Albert will be director of corporate credit at
Financial Guaranty Insurance Co., another GE subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an interview, Mr. Amato, a senior analyst in Kidder's
junk group for five years, says his biggest challenge is
"stepping through the mine fields" of the battered junk
market and avoiding "other deals that are going to fail."
   Although the junk market has rebounded recently, triggered
by gains in some RJR Nabisco Inc. issues, Mr. Amato says he
isn't "convinced the market is all back to normal."
   Monday, Kidder announced that it will advise savings and
loan regulators on the sale of the huge $3 billion junk-bond
portfolio of Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association, Beverly
Hills, Calif.
   Kidder, for its part, isn't any stranger to regulatory
pressure. In April, the firm sold its junk bonds, bridge
loans and other merchant bank holdings to GE Capital Corp.,
GE's big corporate finance unit, for $750 million, under
pressure from credit rating companies and the New York Stock
Exchange to shed some of its risky investments.
   Just weeks before the sale, Kidder hired two junk-bond
traders from Salomon Inc., including Thomas Bernard. Mr.
Amato will report to Mr. Bernard, a managing director and
Kidder's head of high-yield sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Dime Savings Bank:
   New York Bank Says Net
   Doubled in Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   DME
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dime Savings Bank of New York reported second-quarter net
income doubled despite a higher loan-loss provision and more
assets that aren't earning interest.
   Net reached $10.1 million, or 44 cents a share, from $5
million, or 22 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. The
earnings include four cents and 12 cents a share,
respectively, from use of tax-loss carry-forwards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank said it had added to its reserves for possible
losses on loans made in commercial real estate and
multifamily housing, but stressed that it is in compliance
with federal capital standards. Dime expects nonperforming
assets will continue to rise at least through 1990.
   The bank provided $9 million for possible losses on loans
in the quarter, compared with $4.2 million a year earlier. At
June 30, the allowance for loan losses equaled 1.01% of total
loans vs. 0.27% a year ago. Nonperforming assets, those not
earning interest, equaled $754.8 million, or 6.5% of total
assets, compared with $550.6 million, or 4.7%, at Dec. 31,
1989, and $407.4 million, or 3.3%, at June 30, 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CCE KO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. reported a 43% jump
in second-quarter net income, after a big gain from a
property sale, on a 3.3% revenue increase.
   Net rose to $55.3 million, or 42 cents a share, from $38.8
million, or 26 cents a share, a year earlier. Second-quarter
revenue was $1.12 billion, compared with $1.09 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Coca-Cola Enterprises, of which Coca-Cola Co. owns 49%, is
the largest bottler of the soft drink.
   Stripping away a mishmash of unusual items, the bottler's
second-quarter earnings from operations rose about 3.9%,
execeeding analysts' estimates. The company's earnings have
been disappointing for several quarters because soft-drink
price increases haven't covered rising costs for raw
materials and marketing.
   But compared with price increases of 2% to 3.5% in recent
quarters, Coca-Cola Enterprises said it raised its soft-drink
prices to retailers by 4% in the quarter.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Coca-Cola Enterprises common rose 25 cents a share
to close at $16.25.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saudi Arabia Firm
   Makes Discovery
   Of Light Crude
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Saudi Arabia's oil company made another discovery of light
crude oil south of the kingdom's capital city of Riyadh.
   On tests, the discovery well, the Al-Hazmiah No. 1, flowed
at a rate of 4,300 barrels a day, according to Hisham Nazer,
Saudi oil minister and chairman of Saudi Aramco, the oil
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This is the sixth oil find by Saudi Aramco -- most of it a
high-quality type that is much in demand world-wide -- in the
kingdom's central province in the past 13 months.
   But earlier hopes of high government officials that these
finds would prove to be linked into one vast giant field --
bigger even than the kingdom's Ghawar, the world's largest --
are fading.
   Recent interviews with geologists and other oil
exploration experts familiar with the drilling effort in
Saudi Arabia's central province confirm that the finds appear
to be separate fields. Also, they are relatively small by
Saudi standards. They are expected to hold reserves of around
500 million barrels each, minor additions to Saudi Arabia's
proven oil reserves of more than 250 billion barrels, or
one-fourth the world's total.
   Still, the finds are significant. They are turning up new
oil reserves well away from the original concessions held by
the old Saudi-American consortium of Aramco in the main oil
province of eastern Saudi Arabia. Exploration experts noted
that the source rock of this new oil is a Silurian shale
believed to be 300 million to 350 million years old, compared
with some 250 million years for the source rock in the
original producing area to the east.
   More important, much of the oil in the vicinity of the
discoveries isn't only light in density but also low in
sulfur content. That makes it a "sweet" crude, a high-quality
grade that is similar to Louisiana's sweet crude. Several
attractions permit these crudes to draw premium prices. They
pollute less than the heavier high-sulfur grades that are
generally produced in the Middle East. They also yield more
preferred fuels such as gasoline.
   Mr. Nazer confirmed that the Al-Hazmiah well's oil tested
free from sulfur and that its gravity measured 48 degrees API
(American Petroleum Institute). The higher the gravity, the
lighter the oil. The lightest crude Saudi Arabia currently
produces in commercial quantities is Berri, which is 39
degrees API. But the chief Saudi crude, Arabian Light,
measures only 34 degrees. The kingdom's other crudes are even
more dense.
   A mix of sweet crudes would improve the kingdom's revenue
base. Although it is the world's largest oil exporter, Saudi
Arabia restricts its output to 5.4 million barrels a day
under the quota system of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. The drop of some $4 a barrel in OPEC's
oil prices in recent months has reduced Saudi Arabia's
revenue by more than $20 million a day.
   Individuals close to developments said Saudi Aramco has
two drilling rigs operating in the area south of Riyadh. The
kingdom is understood to have plans to spend at least $500
million over the next five years in developing fields there.
   Mr. Nazer said the Al-Hazmiah well is about 130 miles
south of Riyadh. It is only about six miles south of the
Al-Howtah field, the first discovery in the central province.
Depths of the discoveries range between 6,000 and 9,000 feet,
Mr. Nazer said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Civil-Rights Measure Is Facing a Veto,
   Sununu Says After Senate Votes Cloture
   ----
   By Joe Davidson and Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush would veto civil rights
legislation pending in the Senate, Chief of Staff John Sununu
said soon after senators voted to limit debate on the
measure.
   The 62-38 vote, which sets up a vote on the bill as early
as tonight, was followed by accusations by Republican
senators that the Democratic majority used a strong-arm
procedural move when the White House and GOP senators were
negotiating in good faith.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Sununu accused Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), a
leader of the proponents of the bill, of reneging on an
agreement to use substitute language that would have made it
clear that the measure wasn't intended to result in hiring
quotas. The issue of quotas has been the main problem
Republicans have had with the legislation.
   "The bill as crafted right now is a quota bill, and the
president has said he will veto that quota bill," Mr. Sununu
told reporters.
   But Mr. Sununu, mindful of the political damage the
president would suffer if he is perceived as a foe of civil
rights protections, emphasized the White House's willingness
to accept a bill if the Senate returns to the compromise
language. "The president is eager to sign" an acceptable
bill, Mr. Sununu said.
   At about 9:00 EDT last night, Senate Majority Leader
George Mitchell (D., Maine) said negotiations on the bill
would continue and that both parties agreed to 12 hours of
debate beginning at 10:15 this morning.
   Sen. Robert Dole (R., Kan.), who earlier suggested with
some sarcasm that perhaps he should be replaced as the Senate
GOP leader because of the eight Republicans who voted with
the Democrats in cutting off debate, said last night: "It's
worth one last shot, one last effort."
   The cloture vote, in which the eight Republicans and one
Democrat strayed from party lines, indicated that the civil
rights bill would pass easily. But the vote also fell five
short of the two-thirds vote needed to override a
presidential veto.
   Mr. Kennedy denied that he reneged on an agreement with
the administration, saying neither he nor the president had
ever said a deal had been "locked up." Paul Donovan, the
senator's press secretary, said, "There was never a meeting
of the minds on this, and there was never a final agreement."
   The Civil Rights Act of 1990 is designed to nullify five
Supreme Court decisions last year that the bill's advocates
say severely hurt efforts to achieve equality in the
workplace. It is the top agenda item for the civil rights
community and the target of strong opposition by business
groups.
   Immediately after the cloture vote, Mr. Dole said that the
Democrats' decision to "shove it down {GOP} throats"
threatened bipartisan cooperation. He warned that there
wouldn't be any action in the Senate "until we have some
agreement," adding, "we're going to run this place in a civil
manner."
   Mr. Mitchell, trying to show that the bill wasn't being
railroaded, outlined efforts by Democrats to work with
Republicans on the measure.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Adolph Coors Co.:
   Company's 2nd-Quarter Net
   Rose 49%; Shipments, 14%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   ACCOB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Adolph Coors Co. said its net income rose 49% while beer
shipments rose 14% in the second quarter.
   The beer, ceramics and aluminum company reported net of
$25.1 million, or 68 cents a share, compared with $16.9
million, or 46 cents a share. Net sales rose 12% to $475.4
million from $425.5 million. Shipments of beer rose to
4,831,000 barrels from 4,252,000 barrels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the six months, the Denver-based company reported that
net more than doubled to $32.8 million, or 89 cents a share,
from $12.1 million, or 33 cents a share. Net sales rose about
16% to $869.7 million from $749.6 million, while beer
shipments rose to 8,811,000 barrels from 7,315,000 barrels.
   The company said the largest increases in earnings came
from its Golden Aluminum Co., Graphic Packaging Corp. and
brewing units. Analysts attributed the growth in beer
shipments to Keystone, which was introduced last August, and
to double-digit growth in Coors Light sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Dow Still
   At 2999.75,
   Unchanged
   ---
   Dollar Falls as Bonds
   Are Little Changed
   After Light Trading
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Not yet.
   For the third consecutive trading session, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average poked above 3000 but failed to hold its
ground at the close. Yesterday, the industrials spent most of
the morning above 3000, then fell below as investors
collected profits in stocks that had led the now-ended
four-day run-up.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the last half-hour of trading, program buying sent the
industrials on a frenzied 20-point dash back to just above
the 3000 level, but they slipped at the final bell. The
average finished unchanged at 2999.75, echoing the record set
Monday. Broader market measures closed lower.
   Bonds were little changed, and the dollar ended lower,
both in light activity, with investors finding little
motivation in yesterday's economic news to trade. Most of the
action in currency markets was centered on non-dollar trades.
   Several stocks with big gains during the four-day rally,
which in retrospect ended Monday, were attracting a lot of
sell orders yesterday. Among them: Nike, Wal-Mart Stores and
Compaq Computer.
   A.C. Moore, research director at Argus Research, cited
profit-taking and a directionless bond market for the failure
of stock prices to continue pushing higher. Program trading
was a wash, pushing prices lower in the afternoon and then
abruptly higher at the close. Much of the late program buying
was related to Chicago futures trading in the Major Market
Index, which mimics the Dow industrials.
   "It's been a very heady couple of days," said Andrew
Riley, head of U.S. equity research at Yamaichi
International, "so it shouldn't be any surprise that the
market" didn't continue advancing to new records. In the four
sessions ended Monday, the Dow industrials climbed 108
points, or 3.8%.
   In effect, "We've made the 3000 mark," Mr. Riley added.
"It doesn't matter any more. It will waffle back and forth,
stand back, then go higher. The interesting thing is that the
volume came back as this move up started" late yesterday.
Volume totaled 176.8 million shares, up from 149.4 million
Monday.
   Peter Canelo, chief strategist at Bear Stearns, said one
key to a higher market is the dollar. "It has shown a bit of
weakness, and that keeps the international investor from
coming in," he said.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stocks were mostly lower. Decliners outnumbered advancers,
877 to 643.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were flat. The yield on the Treasury's 30-year
bond held at 8.45%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar fell. In late New York trading, it was quoted
at 1.6440 marks and 147.80 yen, compared with 1.6547 marks
and 148.15 yen Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush Summons Congressional Leaders
   In Apparent Bid for Budget Compromise
   ----
   By David Wessel and Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush invited top congressional
leaders from both parties to come to the White House this
afternoon in what appeared to be another attempt to prod the
bipartisan budget talks toward a compromise.
   The invitation, which White House Chief of Staff John
Sununu confirmed late yesterday, comes as congressional
Democrats attempted to fashion a tax package that staffers
said is likely to include proposals to increase taxes on
upper-income Americans in addition to increasing the marginal
tax rate. Democratic leaders met yesterday to pare their list
of tax options, but they said they hadn't finished the task.
"The purpose is to see where our bottom line is," said House
Budget Chairman Leon Panetta (D., Calif.)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, the House failed to approve a constitutional
amendment, backed by Mr. Bush, that would have required a
balanced federal budget. The House vote was 279-150, seven
votes short of the two-thirds vote needed to approve an
amendment. The action appears to kill, at least for this
year, any effort to alter the Constitution to force balanced
budgets.
   The amendment, authored by Rep. Charles Stenholm (D.,
Texas), would have allowed federal outlays to exceed receipts
only during wartime or if three-fifths of the House and
Senate approved a specific deficit.
   Mr. Bush last met with the bipartisan congressional
leadership June 26. That meeting produced a brief White House
statement in which the president acknowledged that tax
increases are needed to reduce the deficit, and it gave the
talks momentum.
   Mr. Bush yesterday warned of unrest in the financial
markets unless budget negotiations get moving soon. "The time
for game-playing is over, and we have to get something done
that is not only a sound budget agreement but is seen by the
American people to be a sound budget agreement," he told a
group of magazine publishers. "And I worry, if we don't get
one, about the confidence in the marketplace."
   The president acknowledged that he may have to do more to
explain the urgency of the budget problem to the American
people -- something Democrats have been asking him to do for
weeks. "I still feel that there isn't quite the acute
awareness on the part of the average American as deserves to
be there," he said.
   Today's planned meeting at the White House comes at a time
of heightened tensions, both between parties and within them.
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine) and
Minority Leader Bob Dole (R., Kan.), both of whom were
invited to the White House meeting, spent much of yesterday
in a bitter dispute on the Senate floor over the Democrats'
tactics in handling a pending civil rights bill.
   Meanwhile, Republican congressional budget negotiators
continue to fret privately about contacts between Budget
Director Richard Darman and the chairmen of the tax-writing
panels, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas) and Rep. Dan
Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), and their staffs -- despite Mr.
Darman's assurances that he isn't cutting a deal behind the
backs of congressional Republicans.
   "I don't know of anything concrete going on in the
so-called behind-the-scenes meetings," said Sen. Pete
Domenici (R., N.M.), senior Republican on the Senate Budget
Committee. "We're aren't going to agree in little groups.
We're going to agree in a big group."
   Mr. Bush discussed the budget talks with Republican
congressional leaders yesterday. One leading Republican
hard-liner emerged sounding slightly more open to tax
increases than he has in the past. `We're looking at a wide
range of possible taxes," said Rep. Newt Gingrich (R., Ga.),
the Republican House whip. "The position I've taken publicly
is that we're not going to change the top {income tax} rate.
We're not going to go for an increased income tax. But within
that framework, I'm very open to looking at a wide range of
how do you deal with it."
   Republican leaders in the House are trying to head off a
confrontation with their own rank and file over the wisdom of
raising taxes. Rep. Richard Armey (R., Texas) today will ask
other House Republicans to endorse his call for the budget
summit to reject "new taxes and all tax-rate increases."
Democrats have said repeatedly that they will back a
compromise with the White House only if half the Republicans
in the Senate and House support it.
   Invited to the White House this afternoon, besides Sen.
Mitchell and Sen. Dole, are House Speaker Thomas Foley (D.,
Wash.), House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.) and
House Minority Leader Bob Michel (R., Ill.).
   ---
   Jeffrey H. Birnbaum contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   SEVEN NATIONS REACHED an accord paving the way for German
unification.
   Resolution of the Polish border issue almost ensures that
a single new German state will be formed by year's end. The
accord -- which came during a meeting in Paris of the four
World War II allies, the two Germanys and Poland -- came one
day after the Kremlin withdrew objections to a united
Germany's membership in NATO. The border deadlock was broken
when the two German states pledged to sign a treaty
recognizing the current Polish border quickly after
unification. They also vowed to conclude a second treaty
later that would cover other aspects of relations with
Poland, including economic guarantees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bush telephoned Soviet leader Gorbachev and said Moscow's
concession on a united Germany's membership in NATO was
"very, very significant."
   ---
   The Senate voted to limit debate on a major civil rights
bill, brushing aside warnings from critics that the measure
would lead to minority hiring quotas. After the vote, White
House Chief of Staff Sununu said President Bush would veto
the measure. Republicans accused Democrats of using a
strong-arm procedural move.
   ---
   A Senate panel approved a fiscal 1991 budget plan that
would wipe out new funds for foreign aid sought by the Bush
administration and cut over $2 billion from House-passed
domestic spending bills. The Senate Appropriations Committee
adopted the plan by a 24-4 vote.
   ---
   Philippine rescuers searched for hundreds of people
trapped by an earthquake that killed at least 279, but they
lacked equipment. People who visited the hardest-hit areas
said there was little sign of a coordinated rescue operation.
Monday's quake, registering 7.7 on the Richter scale, was
centered 60 miles north of Manila.
   ---
   NASA said it would resume space shuttle flights by
mid-August or early September.The agency grounded the fleet
last month after finding fuel leaks in two shuttles.
President Bush, commenting on his order for a review of NASA
goals, said he has "great confidence" in administrator
Richard Truly.
   ---
   OSHA proposed halving the permissible exposure limit for
asbestos in the workplace, saying it believes the new level
would reduce cancer deaths. The limit would cover 706,000
employees in general industry, mostly in car repair, and up
to 1.4 million in construction, said OSHA, which is acting
under a court order.
   ---
   A federal judge in Atlanta ruled that a black woman who
had been fired by the IRS hadn't been discriminated against
by her supervisor, who is also black. The employee had
charged that the supervisor, who is dark-skinned, was biased
against light-skinned blacks.
   ---
   The Justice Department freed anti-Castro activist Orlando
Bosch from a prison outside Miami. Bosch was jailed in Miami
in 1988 when he entered the U.S. illegally from Venezuela,
where he had been acquitted of charges he masterminded the
1976 bombing of a Cuban jet that killed 73. He had spent 11
years in a Venezuelan jail for the bombing.
   ---
   The Israeli Supreme Court overturned Housing Minister
Sharon's use of emergency regulations to speed construction
of housing units near nine towns for thousands of Soviet
immigrants. It marked the first time that the court had
challenged government use of the emergency powers, which date
from Israel's 1948 war for independence.
   ---
   At least 40 mountain climbers died in an avalanche
triggered by an earthquake in the Pamir mountains of Soviet
Central Asia, the Tass news agency said. Thirteen of the dead
were foreigners. Three in the group survived when the
avalanche Friday swept over a base camp at the 15,900-foot
level of Lenin Peak, a climbing coach said.
   ---
   The Senate Finance Committee voted to endorse the Bush
administration's recent initiatives to give the Soviet Union
and Eastern Europe greater access to Western technology. But
the panel acted to restrict China's access to technology that
it could use to construct missiles and stockpile chemical
weapons.
   ---
   A California district attorney won't file charges against
two members of the Earth First environmental group, who
police suspected of having made a bomb that injured the pair
in May. The district attorney's office said the decision was
based on evidence presented so far. The activists said they
were the target of an assassination plot.
   ---
   A draft treaty was circulated at talks in Geneva to
establish an agency similar to GATT to supervise trade in
services. The treaty would set out new rules to liberalize
global trade in services, valued at more than $600 billion a
year. GATT has governed trade in goods for more than 40
years.
   ---
   Liberians streamed out of their capital on the last open
road in search of food and safety, witnesses said. Fighting
between President Doe's government and rebels has cut off
food supply routes and public utilities in Monrovia. Food
shortages reportedly have worsened in the past several days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Usinor-Sacilor S.A.:
   French Steel Group Plans
   Another Purchase in U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.USS EDGC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   French state-owned steel group Usinor Sacilor S.A. said it
provisionally agreed to buy one of the largest U.S.
steel-trading companies, extending its recent aggressive U.S.
acquisition drive.
   A Usinor-Sacilor offical said the Paris-based company had
signed an agreement with U.S. investment group Blackstone
Group to buy Edgcomb Corp., provided Edgcomb cleaned up its
balance sheet by buying back about $150 million in debt
outstanding before Aug. 10. The purchase price wasn't
disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the sale goes ahead, it will be the French group's
fourth move in the U.S. this year and follows a wave of
takeovers by Usinor-Sacilor in Europe and the U.S. last year.
   The official said that Usinor-Sacilor has now developed a
strong position in the U.S. stainless steel market and that
Edgcomb, which as a trading house has strong links with major
U.S. steel clients, would give the French group a vantage
point from which to study the flat steel market.
   Edgcomb had 1989 sales of about $600 million and and a
work force of about 1,600, he added. Blackstone acquired
Edgcomb last year in a leveraged buy-out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Britain's Investors Are Facing a Rocky Road
   But Insist They'll Reach Easy Street in 1991
   ----
   By Richard E. Rustin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP BAB U.THK U.PO COU U.CVY U.DWS U.BA U.GEL U.MAR
U.KGF U.SMW U.RDL U.TWO GLX SBE RTRSY BURMY CWP U.RIN U.GME
U.HYW U.JHT RTZ
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Wait till next year] That's the rallying cry in
the British stock market, where many investors are talking of
a Utopia they hope will follow a sluggish next few months.
   The question for investors now is how fast the government
of Margaret Thatcher can reverse the British inflationary
spiral. The first sign of progress -- an interest rate cut --
is expected sometime between autumn and early 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the intervening months, some think stocks could fall
about 5%, as the strong pound undermines export earnings and
high interest rates keep squeezing profits in construction,
real estate and retailing. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange
100 Index, at 2415 yesterday, is expected to drift down
toward the mid-2200s in coming weeks.
   Nevertheless, "the market will hit 2700 before it hits
2200," predicts James C. Fisher, a fund manager with Scottish
Amicable Investment Managers Ltd. of Glasgow, which now has
about half its #9 billion ($16.22 billion) of managed assets
in U.K. stocks. The index could hit 2700 "on the first move
downward in interest rates" around year end, he says.
Currently, Britain's base rate is 15%.
   Britain's stock market has long tracked America's,
shuddering in October 1987 and 1989 and rallying this year in
January and late spring. Restraining the market now are
Britain's slow economy (1% growth is forecast for this year)
and inflation (currently 9.8%).
   The tough times mark the first real setback in a decade
for Mrs. Thatcher's free-market economics. In response, the
Tory government, facing a general election by mid-1992, has
scripted a plan to restore the economy by first restoring
confidence. "It's election economics," says Alexander
Hammond-Chambers, vice chairman of Ivory &amp; Sime PLC, an
Edinburgh fund manager.
   Britain is expected soon to join the European Monetary
System's exchange-rate mechanism, or ERM, where the pound
would be aligned in a narrow band of assigned values with
West European currencies. Although the move would stabilize
sterling, talk of Britain's joining has sent the pound up
sharply, giving the government a politically safe
anti-inflation tool. (A strong pound lowers the cost of
British imports and boosts export prices. Higher prices cut
sales, crimp profit and make it easier for British companies
to resist high wage demands.) Once the high pound cools
inflation, money managers believe Britain will join the ERM
and couple entry with a rate cut.
   "Inflation should peak in August, be down to 8.5% by the
end of the year and to 6% by mid-'91," predicts John K.
Thomson, senior investment manager of Edinburgh-based
Standard Life Assurance Co. Britain's largest mutual insurer
with #21 billion under management, Standard Life is pumping
an average #14 million of new money into the U.K. stock
market weekly. "Once we go into the ERM, I see the market
moving ahead," he says, adding: "We're favorably disposed
toward equity investments."
   Mr. Thomson thinks takeovers of British companies will
increase once Britain enters the ERM. Leading candidates will
be companies with good distribution in the U.K. and on the
Continent, such as financial services and food-manufacturing
concerns. Transport companies such as British Airways,
Tiphook and Peninsular &amp; Oriental also should benefit from
Europe's economic integration, he says. But the strong pound
makes him "quite cautious" about textile companies with heavy
overseas sales such as Courtaulds, Coats Viyella and Dawson
International.
   Reduced international tension has cast a pall over
defense-oriented stocks such as British Aerospace and
Britain's General Electric, which isn't related to General
Electric of the U.S.
   Richard Kersley, equity strategist at Barclays de Zoete
Wedd Securities, says that with rates likely to fall to 11%
in a year's time, he's "more positive {on} interest-rate
sensitive companies" such as retailers Marks &amp; Spencer,
Kingfisher and W.H. Smith Group; building-materials supplier
Redland; and Taylor Woodrow, a major builder. The strong
pound has made "a short-term sell" of drug maker Glaxo, with
47% of its sales in the U.S., he says. Barclays has switched
RTZ from "buy to hold." He thinks other internationally
oriented British companies such as SmithKline Beecham,
Reuters, Burmah, Cable &amp; Wireless and Rothmans International
will be hard-pressed to sustain recent strength.
   Mick Brewis, an investment manager at Edinburgh-based
Baillie Gifford, bought Grand Metropolitan shares recently.
"It's in a stable area -- food, and I think they'll get
benefits out of the Pillsbury acquisition," he says. He's
cool toward small companies, saying it pays to be "cautious
in a recession environment. We've reduced our exposure to
small building companies and retailers."
   But Scottish Amicable's Mr. Fisher reckons that lower
interest rates should revive the British building and
real-estate industries. About #1 billion of the firm's #4.5
billion in the U.K. stock market is in companies with market
values below #150 million. "The ones that will survive are
the guys who've been in the business for years," he says.
Such companies include Polypipe and Heywood Williams Group
(building materials); Vibroplant, a construction-equipment
leaser; Johnston Group, an engineering concern, and home
builders Persimmon and Bellway.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Steel Imports Climbed
   By 10.9% During May
   From a Month Before
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   U.S. imports of steel-mill products in May rose 10.9% from
April, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute
compiliation of Commerce Department figures. Steel imports
for the first five months fell 10.1% from the year before,
the trade group said.
   Imports in May totaled 1,455,803 tons, compared with
1,313,040 tons in April and 1,472,225 tons in May 1989,
according to the trade group. Steel imports for the first
eight months of the federal government's Voluntary Restraint
Program were 17% of consumption, below the 19.1% target,
according to the American Institute for International Steel
Inc., a trade group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Steel exports in May were 351,964 tons, up 5% from April
but down 10% from May 1989, the trade group said. For the
first five months, exports of 1,739,493 tons were down 2.9%
from a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financial Concerns
   Report Higher Profit
   For Second Quarter
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GWF GDW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Great Western Financial Corp. and Golden West Financial
Corp. reported higher second-quarter earnings, citing growth
in home loans despite predictions of a decline in the
California real estate market.
   Great Western said net income was $78.2 million, or 60
cents a share, up 51% from $51.9 million, or 40 cents a
share, a year earlier. The Beverly Hills, Calif., bank
holding company said return on assets equaled 0.82% of
assets, up from 0.58% a year earlier. Total new loans in the
quarter were $3.6 billion, compared with $3.4 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Oakland, Calif.-based Golden West said net in
the same period was up 22% to a record $49 million, or 78
cents a share, from $40 million, or 64 cents a share. Its
return equaled 0.95% of assets, up from 0.86%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Telecommunications Shares Fall
   24% on a 55% Drop in 2nd-Period Net
   ----
   By Robert Daniels and John J. Keller
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   UT GTE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- United Telecommunications Inc.'s stock plunged
24% after the company reported a 55% drop in second-quarter
net income and a $42 million operating loss at its
long-distance communications unit, US Sprint Communications
Co.
   The poor showing by Sprint, the nation's third-largest
long-distance service provider, stunned Wall Street analysts,
who had been expecting a much smaller decline and had cut
their estimates for the company last month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   United took a charge of $72 million, or 18 cents a share,
to cover a 5% cut in Sprint's work force, a write-off of
outdated software used in the company's computers and
accruals for certain contract disputes.
   "Obviously the Street got blindsided," said PaineWebber
Inc. analyst Jack B. Grubman, who along with numerous other
analysts had cut his estimates in June. "This is a material
change in the company's earnings situation."
   "More important than the operating loss," said analyst
Robert B. Morris of Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., is that without the
charge, Sprint's operating profit would have been $30
million, which is "at a minimum $60 million away from what
the market was expecting."
   Profit at United Telecom, based in Kansas City, Mo., fell
to $40.6 million, or 18 cents a share, from $90.5 million, or
43 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 12% to $2.07
billion from $1.85 billion.
   The company's stock dropped $8.75 to $29.50 on heavy New
York Stock Exchange composite volume of more than 11.8
million shares.
   United Telecom had planned to buy the rest of Sprint from
GTE Corp. by September. Now, a spokesman for United Telecom
said that while the company would like to buy GTE's 19.9%
stake this year, the purchase could be put off until next
year or until Sprint's profit improves.
   William T. Esrey, United Telecom's chairman and chief
executive officer, pegged Sprint's showing to severe
competition in the lower end of the long-distance market:
residential and small-business customers. Results from
service provided to large corporate users are meeting
expectations, he said.
   Sprint will be "shifting considerable additional people
into sales and marketing," Mr. Esrey said, and will pare
about 1,000 support and other staffers from its 20,000-member
work force.
   Analysts said Sprint is losing market share -- revenue
grew just 2% in the second quarter from the first period --
to American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. and the nation's No. 2
carrier, MCI Communications Corp. "Starting in the fourth
quarter, MCI literally attacked the market," hiring some 500
sales and marketing people, said Mr. Morris, adding that AT&amp;T
"was right there, toe to toe" with MCI.
   Even more worrisome was Sprint's lack of control over its
costs, noted Mr. Grubman of PaineWebber. "Sprint spent $80
million more in the quarter to get about $25 million more in
revenue," he said. That's not going to change. "With the loss
in revenue momentum, they're going to have to spend even more
on sales and marketing to win customers back."
   Mr. Esrey said "we haven't reacted as fast as we should
have to competitive pressures." He added, "I look at this as
a serious setback" but one that the company is addressing
aggressively. All areas will be targeted for cost cuts, he
said, declining to elaborate.
   The company's local phone operations were comparatively
robust, posting 10% higher operating profit on a 4% revenue
rise; the business is "performing quite well," Mr. Esrey
said. The parent's complementary businesses, including a
directory publisher and an equipment unit, saw 8.3% higher
profit on 2% more revenue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Industry Focus:
   Chrysler Brings Back
   No-Interest Financing
   On 1989, 1990 Models
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. is once again
rolling out its 0% financing gambit in an effort to spur
sales of certain 1989 and 1990 model cars and trucks.
   Chrysler began offering the 0% rate on 24-month loans
yesterday, replacing a 2.9% rate for two-year contracts it
had offered since June 1. Chrysler first offered 0% financing
on short term contracts in April 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the offer, which runs indefinitely, probably won't
help most shoppers. Even without finance charges, many
consumers can't afford to pay off a car within 24 months, and
Chrysler isn't offering similar discounts on longer-term
loans. Finance charges stay at 7.9% for 25-month to 48-month
loans and 10.9% for 49-month to 60-month loans.
   Among the vehicles covered by the 0% financing offer are
1989 and 1990 Jeep Cherokee and Wagoneer sport-utility
vehicles and Comanche pickup trucks. Also affected are the
1989 and 1990 Plymouth Sundance, Dodge Shadow, Plymouth
Acclaim and Dodge Spirit compact cars.
   Meanwhile, Chrysler said that beginning Monday it will
increase daily production by 17% at its Sterling Heights,
Mich., plant that builds the Shadow and Sundance.
   So far this year, Shadow sales have dropped 13% and
Sundance 25%. Inventory levels are relatively high for both
cars.
   But Chrysler said it has received an increase of dealer
orders for the 1991 models due out this fall because the cars
are gradually replacing the Dodge Omni and Plymouth Horizon
models -- which were discontinued in February -- as
Chrysler's low-priced, entry-level compact vehicles. Dealers
are anticipating higher sales of Shadow and Sundance models
once they get rid of the leftover Omnis and Horizons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   German Unification Cleared
   As Polish Border Pact Is Set
   ---
   Dispute on Territory
   Was Last Obstacle
   On Road to Unity
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The last major obstacle to German unification --
a dispute over the German-Polish border -- was removed,
virtually assuring that a single new German state will be
formed by year-end.
   The resolution of the Polish border issue came during a
seven-nation meeting just a day after the Soviet Union
withdrew its objections to a united Germany's membership in
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The Soviet shift came
as a surprise to both U.S. and West German officials, who
said they hadn't expected Soviet acquiescence until
September.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There is no obstacle for a united Germany to be
re-established, with its sovereignty, by the end of the
year," said French Foreign Minister Roland Dumas. U.S.
Secretary of State James Baker said "the advent of a united,
democratic and sovereign Germany" would occur by the first
anniversary of last February's agreement to launch the
so-called two-plus-four unification talks.
   The border deadlock was broken when the two German states
pledged to sign a treaty recognizing the current Polish
border very quickly after unification is achieved. In
addition, they promised to conclude later a second treaty
covering other aspects of relations with Poland, including
economic guarantees. Poland's foreign minister, Krysztof
Skubiszewski, said the treaty pledge, and related promises,
were "entirely satisfactory."
   This week's events have eliminated the need for further
high-level bargaining on German unification. All that remains
for the creation of a "final settlement" on Germany -- in
effect, a treaty ending World War II -- is for second-level
officials to draft the document for review by the foreign
ministers in Moscow in September and its adoption at a
35-nation summit set to be held here on Nov. 19.
   Approval of the treaty, coupled with an internal German
agreement to merge, would set the stage for all-German
elections Dec. 2, which would give birth to the new nation.
   The Polish border agreement was overshadowed at
yesterday's talks by Western pleasure -- and wonder -- at the
suddenness of the decision Monday by Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev to clear the way for the West to claim all of
Germany in its military alliance. His move culminated a
nine-month series of Soviet retreats in central and eastern
Europe that largely have undone the territorial and political
moves of Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin in the years after
World War II.
   Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze explained that
changes in the nature of NATO had allowed the Soviets to
"take a new look" at German membership in the alliance. He
and West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher both
heatedly denied that Bonn had purchased Soviet approval with
promises of large amounts of economic aid.
   "One cannot buy approval," Mr. Genscher asserted. Said Mr.
Shevardnadze, "There is no trade." German officials told
reporters that no specific new aid totals were pledged in the
German-Soviet talks, but would be laid out later in two
treaties.
   Both U.S. and German officials scrambled to counter the
impression that the historic events of the past few days took
place largely without the involvement of Washington.
Officials of both nations stressed repeatedly that all the
German positions were discussed in advance with the Bush
administration, though they hadn't expected them to be
accepted for months.
   Nevertheless, in contrast to previous "two-plus-four"
meetings, Mr. Baker was a lonely figure at the crowded final
press conference. He was asked no questions until late in the
session, when an American reporter asked him whether the U.S.
was losing its clout. He stressed that the U.S. had long
supported the terms of the agreement now emerging.
   As a result of the German promise to honor Poland's
borders and the Polish government's reaction, a State
Department official said, Mr. Baker felt it unnecessary to
carry out a threat he made Monday to propose that the four
victorious World War II powers -- the U.S., Britain, France
and the Soviet Union -- retain some rights over German
borders until a treaty is signed.
   That means that all of the World War II victors now have
agreed to relinquish their powers and rights in Germany at
the time of unification. U.S. officials said a treaty on the
Polish border could be signed within days of unification and
ratified immediately after the new German parliament is
organized following the Dec. 2 vote.
   The State Department official told reporters that Mr.
Baker, after conferring with Messrs. Genscher and
Shevardnadze, is satisfied with the German-Soviet agreement
that led to Mr. Gorbachev's acceptance of German membership
in NATO.
   Under the pact, according to German, Soviet and U.S.
officials, NATO's mutual security umbrella would be extended
to protect East German territory even during the three to
four years that it will take for Soviet troops to withdraw.
After they leave, NATO would be barred from stationing
non-German units there, though it could post German army
units that are integrated into NATO's war plans.
   Nuclear weapons would be barred on former East German
territory, though the question of nuclear weapons in former
West Germany territory would be settled at previously
announced talks due to start this fall.
   Despite fear in Europe of a powerful German state, the
underlying theme of yesterday's meeting was that the new
Germany will live in peace with its neighbors. "We can trust
the German people," Mr. Shevardnadze said. Mr. Genscher cited
the Soviet foreign minister's praise and said, "This is a
trust which is shared by all."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900718-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900718-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   NBC Entertainment Appoints Tartikoff
   As Chairman, Littlefield as President
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   GE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Brandon Tartikoff, the programming wizard who led National
Broadcasting Co. to ratings supremacy through the 1980s, was
named to the new position of chairman of NBC Entertainment
Group.
   As part of a general restructuring at the network's
Burbank, Calif.-based entertainment operations, Mr.
Tartikoff's longtime No. 2 executive, Warren Littlefield, was
named president of NBC Entertainment, succeeding Mr.
Tartikoff. Mr. Littlefield will have day-to-day
responsibility for major programming decisions in the
network's daytime, prime-time, late-night and children's
television operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NBC said Mr. Tartikoff, 41 years old, will focus on the
expansion of NBC Productions, the in-house unit that produces
prime-time series, miniseries and made-for-television movies.
NBC Productions has yet to produce a successful prime-time
series. Mr. Tartikoff will also concentrate on "the
development of other alliances and outlets for the creation
and distribution of NBC programming," according to a network
statement. NBC aims ultimately to produce and sell shows to
other networks including overseas TV networks.
   In a telephone interview, Mr. Tartikoff said that after 10
years at the helm of NBC Entertainment he had "diminished
interest" in the job. "We're all human and we all need new
things," he said, adding he began discussions for a new
position in January with Robert C. Wright, NBC's president
and chief executive officer.
   "I also thought there was a parade of other opportunities
going by while I was stuck in meetings with producers," he
said. "Being head of a network entertainment division is not
a gold watch job. I kept hearing the same show ideas over and
over, and I kept feeling deja vu."
   The executive changes come as NBC continues its prime-time
leadership for the fifth consecutive year, although its
winning margin has narrowed. NBC's audience for the 1989-90
season fell 9% from a year ago, and it hasn't produced a
breakthrough hit for several years. More disturbing to NBC is
that the network's audience slipped by 13% in demographic
groups that advertisers want to attract. The network has a
projected $200 million shortfall in advertising revenue
because of the declining ratings.
   "I'm aware we were slipping," Mr. Littlefield, 38, said in
an interview. Referring to the network's trademark, Mr.
Littlefield said: "The peacock has ruffled feathers. But
there's a great challenge and that excites me."
   Mr. Tartikoff's withdrawal from day-to-day operations at
NBC Entertainment is a radical departure for the
boyish-looking, tough-talking executive. He is known to carry
around the prime-time schedule at all times, constantly
fiddling with it. But Mr. Littlefield said he, not Mr.
Tartikoff, will make the decisions. "I wouldn't have taken
the job unless I had the authority to run the division," he
said. "I made that clear in all my discussions."
   Mr. Littlefield's contract expires in August, and Mr.
Tartikoff and Mr. Wright, the NBC president, assured Mr.
Littlefield that he shouldn't look outside the General
Electric Co. unit for a job. "They said they would make it
work," Mr. Littlefield said.
   Mr. Littlefield said he will consult with Mr. Tartikoff on
programming matters, much in the same way Mr. Tartikoff
solicited opinions from Grant A. Tinker when Mr. Tinker was
chairman and president of NBC.
   As part of the NBC Entertainment restructuring, Perry
Simon, who headed NBC's comedy series development, succeeds
Mr. Littlefield as executive vice president of prime-time
programs. And John Agoglia was named president of NBC
Enterprises while continuing as executive vice president of
NBC Productions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
