<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NTT's Foreign Purchases Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTT
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Corp. said its
procurement from foreign suppliers rose 22% in fiscal 1990 to
50.4 billion yen ($334 million), exceeding the company's
construction investment.
   In the year ended March 31, the telecommunications company
substantially raised overseas purchases of such items as
digital equipment, optical fiber cables, digital transmission
and information processing equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foreign procurement of pocket pagers and mobile telephone
equipment rose.
   The U.S. accounted for 90% of the total increased
procurement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   For Once, a War Where Nobody
   Is Shouting, `Yankee Go Home]'
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Rep. Bob Smith thinks one way to win votes in New
Hampshire is to annex part of Maine.
   The New Hampshire Republican, running in a heated primary
for a U.S. Senate seat, is expected to disclose soon evidence
showing that the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard -- currently found
in Kittery, Maine -- belongs to the Granite State. It's the
latest blow in a border war simmering since 1976, when the
states landed in court over where to draw the line on the
broad Piscataqua River that flows between them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The congressman can probably count on the support of most
of the 4,000 shipyard workers who commute daily across the
river from New Hampshire: They'd rather not pay Maine income
taxes. Victor Bourre, a shipyard worker who says he uncovered
the new evidence after searching through old, yellowed
documents, has been staging such tea party-like protests as
dumping Maine potatoes and a giant tea bag into the disputed
river.
   A spokeswoman for the 190-year-old shipyard -- on an
island connected by a short bridge to Kittery -- says the
Navy is "staying out of this one."
   But New Hampshire Attorney General John Arnold says that
the governor has asked him to look into the issue and that
the state might support a lawsuit. "I'm sure there will be
amicable discussions with Maine, which will prove fruitless,
after which I expect we'll move to file before the Supreme
Court."
   Under law, most state border disputes go straight to the
high court. The last such spat -- over lobstering rights --
was decided, in Maine's favor, when the justices agreed in
1976 that the border was drawn by a 1740 King's Court decree.
   Maine officials say their neighbors are just sore because
Maine bases its income-tax rate on the joint income of
married New Hampshire workers, even if only one spouse works
in Maine.
   Maine Attorney General James Tierney says he's ready to
cut a deal. "But we want {New Hampshire's} Mount Washington
and the turnpike tollbooths on the table," he says. Mount
Washington isn't near the border, but, he says, "We can
easily see it from here."
   It's a case of a congressman who's willing to go the extra
mile to fight taxes, "even if it's in somebody else's state,"
says Joseph Brennan, a Democrat and former Maine governor.
"Nice try, New Hampshire, but it won't work," he says. "Pay
your taxes."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   The Big Budget Job
   ----
   By Paul W. McCracken
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   History suggests that a liberal dose of skepticism is in
order about whether Washington's current budget negotiation
efforts will finally get us on a better fiscal path, but
there are some important points to keep in mind. The outcome
will have an important effect on the course of the economy
for years ahead.
   To be successful, the fiscal package must include actions
on both sides of the budget. It must be perceived by the
citizenry as fair. Finally, to make the trauma and travail of
this year's efforts worthwhile, some therapy needs to be
applied to the basic processes of budgetry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is important now for the federal budget to get some
real therapy. The reason is not that if we do not mend our
ways some sort of fiscal explosion or financial collapse will
occur. No such detonation has obviously occurred or is likely
to occur. Seeing a crisis as the problem is itself part of
the budget problem.
   Policies do, however, have consequences. And the fiscal
policy we have been pursuing is producing some consequences
that suggest that we need changes. (It has also produced some
desirable consequences -- e.g., a little more reluctance to
vote large new spending programs.) Clearly the budget has
contributed to the deterioration in the dynamism of the U.S.
economy that has made its performance in recent years compare
unfavorably with that of our own history or of other
industrial nations. Turning this around and reviving the
economy's capability to deliver sustained gains in real
income is the major challenge facing managers of economic
policy -- and this includes both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue.
   In our pride about the increased number of jobs available
we tend to overlook the fact that most of our increased
output has come from more people working, and too little has
come from doing things better, from things that enlarge
output per person employed.
   The result is that average weekly earnings in real terms
have been declining in recent years, and in the early months
of 1990 they had receded to about the level of 30 years ago.
If we had sustained rates of increase more in line with our
history, or with what has been happening in Europe and Asia,
today's average earnings from a week of work would be about
50% higher in real terms, and the president and the
congressional leaders would have the joy of negotiating a tax
reduction.
   For years our investment has been low relative to that in
the rest of the industrial world. The rate of growth in the
amount of productive capital backing up each American worker
has itself declined, and on average it therefore represents
older technology. The inevitable result has been the
deterioration in the purchasing power of earnings from a
week's work.
   The federal budget has made its contribution here. The
Treasury's large borrowing requirements plus private credit
needs outpaced domestic credit resources for most of the past
decade, with the imbalance becoming particularly severe by
the mid-1980s, and this has forced drawing on foreign
savings. This was no crisis and probably could continue, but
it produces consequences -- to repeat, adversely affecting
the economy's ability to deliver gains in real income. The
higher costs of capital had a deterrent effect on U.S.
capital formation. And the net flow of investment income from
abroad (equal to somewhat over 1% of gross national product a
decade ago) this year may be negative.
   While there are differences between a sovereign
government's finances and those of a family or business or
city, there are parallels, and the consequences of living by
borrowing are on that list.
   To get the nation on a better fiscal path, actions on both
sides of the budget will probably be required. In principle,
a tax system that already generates well over a trillion
dollars of revenue ought to be adequate to cover what could
be spent prudently. And there is a strong case for hanging
tough on new taxes, and forcing the nation to take a harder
line on spending.
   The real cost of throwing more money at any interest group
that is loud enough is some combination of reduced
consumption for average Americans, reduced capability for the
economy to grow, and in many cases perverse and even adverse
effects on the very problems the programs were supposed to
solve. Developments in Eastern Europe as well as our own
experience here would suggest that we re-think our
inclination to deal with problems through programs based on
"the primacy of politically directed social planning." (The
phrase is from Zbigniew Brzezinski's excellent "The Grand
Failure.")
   Probably, however, it is unrealistic to expect a solution
by spending cuts alone. Visions of Russian peace, good will,
and an orderly transfer to a liberal political and economic
order that would enable us prudently to wield a big machete
on our defense spending are fading a bit before new
uncertainties. And behind every spending program, not
excluding defense, is a special-interest group ready to
threaten political oblivion for those casting negative votes
-- and piously equating their program with the general
interest.
   A part of the needed budget package must, therefore, be
increased revenues. This will be tough for the members of
Congress who vote for more taxes, and whose folks back home
will not love them more in November for it. And it will be
tough for the president. This is, of course, the price the
political system is paying for our having jettisoned the
fiscal discipline of the always-balanced-budget philosophy.
   The revenue part of the package must be seen by the public
as fair, it ought to point in the right direction for
national policy, and it must be something that embodied in
legislation can be passed. There will be a good deal of the
least-squawk principle in any package. A European-style
value-added tax probably would not yet be seen by the public
as fair, and in any case it is outside the present structure
for tax administration. Somewhat higher rates for people with
large incomes might have to be part of a "fair" package.
   Higher gasoline taxes are also a candidate for more
revenue. The combination of federal and state taxes in many
states produces lower taxes in real terms on a gallon of
gasoline than before the energy crisis. The level of these
taxes is quite low relative to those in most European
countries, and they are a revenue producer -- roughly a
billion dollars per penny. A higher gasoline tax would at
least help to resolve national policies currently pointing in
precisely opposite directions. Through the legislated
average-mileage requirements that new cars are supposed to
meet (the corporate average fuel efficiency standards),
national policy tells consumers to buy smaller cars. Through
low gasoline taxes, it tells us to buy large cars. Not
surprisingly, the latter signal tends to win.
   At one time higher U.S. gasoline taxes could reasonably be
criticized because they would penalize the American auto
industry, whose comparative advantage was in producing large
cars, and favor foreign companies, who specialized in small
cars. That difference is being blurred now as foreign
producers have moved effectively into the market for larger
and more expensive cars.
   This year's budget agony will largely have been futile and
wasted unless it includes measures to strengthen basic budget
processes. A great many political brownie points will be
expended in any case, so some permanent improvement in
budgetry should be the result. Two sets of things are needed.
   The set of financial statements constituting "the budget"
should present a better picture of the fiscal operations and
position of the federal government. What with off-budget
financing, credit programs, and the failure to estimate the
value of public capital expiring during the year
(depreciation), the present budget does not even begin to
give a true picture of the economic resources pre-empted by
the federal government. If a corporation sent a comparable
annual statement to its stockholders, the Securities and
Exchange Commission would have management in court. It would
seem not unreasonable to require of the federal government,
which pre-empts more than a quarter of the national income
through taxes or borrowing, as high a standard of disclosure
as government imposes on a business.
   The budget process must also further fortify the defenses
of fiscal discipline. When the benefits of programs are
specific to a group and the costs are socialized, the demand
for spending is, naturally, unlimited. The pressures are
further intensified by a half-century of "the primacy of
politically directed social planning." Clearly the president
should have the authority to impound authorizations and to
veto specific items. Even stronger sanctions may be required
to achieve the fiscal discipline needed for limiting total
spending.
   Four years ago on this page I made a proposal that, if
implemented, would do the job: "To give teeth to the new
process, a further provision might be added. For 12 months
following any year that the budget is in the red, no salaries
could be paid to members of Congress, the president, or
members of his cabinet."
   That proposal, however, may not make it this time around
the budget track.
   ---
   Mr. McCracken, a former chairman of the president's
Council of Economic Advisers, is a University of Michigan
professor emeritus.
   ---
                  Average Weekly Earnings
                                                                                                       

         Total private nonagricultural work force
                                                                                                       

                     (In 1977 dollars)
                                                                                                       

    YEAR                                    AMOUNT
                                                                                                       

    1949                                   $127.84
    1959                                    163.78
    1969                                    189.44
    1979                                    183.41
    1989                                    166.52
                                                                                                       

    Sources: Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gordon Capital Corp.
   Faces Ban of 10 Days
   On Principal Trading
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- The Ontario Securities Commission banned Gordon
Capital Corp. from principal trading in shares on the Toronto
Stock Exchange for 10 days because the securities dealer
didn't meet disclosure requirements when it inadvertently
ended up with a 42% fully diluted stake in an Ontario
company.
   The ban is the first of its kind in Ontario. Gordon
Capital, an aggressive brokerage firm that accounts for 12%
to 15% of the exchange's annual trading volume, said it
intends to appeal the ruling because its breaches of the
province's securities laws were unintentional.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Principal trading involves trading on behalf of a
securities dealer's own account as opposed to trading as an
agent for a client. The 10-day ban was scheduled to begin
June 18.
   The commission also banned David Bond, Gordon Capital's
senior floor trader, from principal trading for five days
starting June 18.
   Evidence at the March hearing in the case showed that in
1988, Mr. Bond, trading for Gordon Capital's account,
inadvertently technically made a takeover bid for ITL
Industries Ltd., a Windsor, Ontario-based maker of steel
moulds for plastics manufacturers.
   Gordon Capital often takes stock positions for its own
account and commits its own capital to help client orders.
Gordon typically provided Mr. Bond with two million Canadian
dollars (US$1.7 million) for his trading activities, which
when margined at 25%, provided C$8 million of capital. After
deducting interest and other expenses, Gordon Capital split
profits from Mr. Bond's trades equally with him.
   In October 1987, Mr. Bond acquired on behalf of Gordon
Capital 10% or more of ITL's convertible preference shares.
Under Ontario law, Gordon Capital should have disclosed its
ITL stake as soon as it hit 10%, but it didn't.
   Mr. Bond continued to acquire ITL stock, pushing Gordon
Capital's stake to more than 20%, at which point its holding
technically had become a takeover bid for ITL. Still, Gordon
Capital made no disclosure of Mr. Bond's purchases, and by
November 1988, it held 40.3% of ITL's preferred stock and
3.5% of its common shares, giving it a 42% fully diluted
stake in the company.
   The hearing heard that Mr. Bond, a registered trader for
16 years, didn't know that under 1987 amendments to the
Ontario Securities Act, a takeover bid is triggered when
someone holds 20% or more of any class of a concern's
securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sun's Success Doubly Sweet for Designer
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- It will be a long time before Sun
Microsystems Inc. again ignores the advice of Andreas
Bechtolsheim, its chief computer designer.
   Mr. Bechtolsheim, 34 years old, is a hero at Sun today
because he inspired its Sparcstation family of computers, on
the market for just a little more than a year and already
responsible for most of the company's business. Yet when Mr.
Bechtolsheim, a co-founder of Sun and the designer of its
earliest computers, first proposed to build the Sparcstation
in January 1987, Sun's senior executives looked askance at
the project. Miffed, Mr. Bechtolsheim came within a whisker
of quitting to launch his own company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sun is fortunate Mr. Bechtolsheim never left its fold.
"Andy saved Sun from a product standpoint," said David
Marquardt, a former member of Sun's board of directors.
   Mr. Bechtolsheim's rebirth as a visionary at Sun after a
period in eclipse illustrates how the process of bringing new
computers to market is rife with conflict, pitting designers
against marketers. No other senior Sun executive shared Mr.
Bechtolsheim's sense of urgency that Sun must push ahead of
competitiors in desktop computing.
   The West German native designed his first computer in 1980
while a graduate student at Stanford University. When he
couldn't sell the machine, a so-called workstation for
engineers and scientists, to a large computer maker, Mr.
Bechtolsheim founded Sun with software whiz Bill Joy and two
entrepreneurs, Vinod Khosla and Scott McNealy. Mr.
Bechtolsheim's machine was the company's first product.
   Within a few years, Sun and Apollo Computer Inc. were
leaders of the computer industry's fastest growing segment,
and Digital Equipment Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co., two
behemoths, were hot on the upstarts' heels. By 1987, Sun had
outraced Apollo and blunted the attacks of its larger
competitors.
   But Mr. Bechtolsheim saw a new threat to Sun's prosperity:
Steven Jobs, co-founder of Apple Computer Inc. After Mr. Jobs
left Apple in 1985, he formed Next Inc., vowing to build an
advanced desktop computer. At the time, Sun built computers
for individuals, but they were too large to rest on top of a
desk. Mr. Bechtolsheim urged Sun to build a powerful desktop
computer.
   The clarion call was a classic move for Mr. Bechtolsheim,
who relishes his role as a gadfly within Sun. He is "always
in here telling me how I'm running the business wrong," says
Scott McNealy, Sun's chief executive officer.
   Officially Sun's vice president of technology, Mr.
Bechtolsheim doesn't formally oversee any engineers, budgets
or projects. "I can just tell people what I think," he says.
"I don't have to worry about protecting my budget. I don't
have a budget."
   Mr. Bechtolsheim, who held $26 million of Sun's stock when
the company first went public several years ago, sometimes
personally bankrolls his unofficial work at Sun. "One way
Andy gets action at Sun when the company won't back him is to
pay for it himself," says James J. Ludemann, a former Sun
engineer who worked on Sparcstation 1.
   This was one of those times. He began work on the machine
without official company support, spending $200,000 of his
own money on an office and design help. "I felt if Sun wasn't
going to let me do it, I was going to do it on my own," he
says.
   Soon afterward, Mr. Bechtolsheim distanced himself from
Sun, forming a new company called UniSun to bring his
computer to market. Mr. Khosla, then a member of Sun's board,
agreed to be its president. Finally, he offered Sun the right
to invest in the company and purchase it in the future.
   Sun seriously considered both possibilities. But Mr.
McNealy, fearing that Mr. Bechtolsheim's new venture might be
viewed as a new competitor, agreed to build Sparcstation 1.
   "Ultimately, we decided that if Sun couldn't do this
internally, we weren't worth our salt," says Curt Wozniak,
who was chosen to head a new division formed to house the
enterprise. In return, Mr. Bechtolsheim sold his fledgling
company to Sun for no gain.
   But the battle over Mr. Bechtolsheim's computer wasn't
over. To start with, Sun placed restrictions on which of its
engineers could join Mr. Bechtolsheim; he was allowed to hire
only those who said they would otherwise resign. And in the
months that followed, Mr. Bechtolsheim saw many of his ideas
criticized. A perfectionist -- for months he asked
houseguests to sit on his living room floor because he
couldn't find a couch he liked -- Mr. Bechtolsheim
ferociously defended his positions.
   For instance, when engineers on the project told him the
package containing the guts of Sparcstation 1 needed three
more millimeters in order to be manufactured, he refused to
widen it. "The company's culture was to build big boxes," he
says. "Mine wasn't going to be big." Finally Mr. Wozniak, the
division head, overruled Mr. Bechtolsheim. The three
millimeters were added.
   In April 1989, Sun introduced Sparcstation 1, a blazingly
fast machine, for a barebones price of $9,000. It quickly
became Sun's biggest seller. Since then, two more models have
been introduced, with the latest, unveiled this month, priced
at below $5,000.
   The Sparcstation family is now Sun's biggest seller. Sun
doesn't break out sales of the machines, but Vicki Brown, an
analyst at International Data Corp. said the company will
sell about 87,000 Sparcstations this year, comprising nearly
75% of its total unit sales of computers. Last year, Sun sold
35,000 Sparcstations, she said.
   Now Mr. Bechtolsheim is working on future Sparcstations:
smaller, more powerful machines utilizing advances in
semiconductors and miniaturization of other parts. He won't
be specific about his work, but says: "Our future computers
will be credit cards that you plug into your keyboard."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Saving Graces
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In our throwaway society,
   Replete with disposable planners,
   Perhaps we should try to preserve a few things --
   Like ethics and morals and manners.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Barren Soil
                                                                                                       

   The growth stock I bought
   May someday bear fruit,
   But so far, for years,
   It has yet to take root.
   -- Mimi Kay.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Many Chic Pets Face a Tragic Fate
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   I guess it would have detracted from the otherwise wryly
humorous tone of Pamela Sebastian's interesting article "OK,
What Rhymes With Vogue and Eats Raw Chicken Necks?" (page
one, April 23), but there was little discussion of what
becomes of dogs no longer seen as trendy (or that become too
big or aggressive), or that come out of puppy mills with many
handicaps and wind up being given up to animal shelters as
excess baggage and, if not adopted soon, killed. There is
already a severe overpopulation of dogs and cats, with
thousands put to death by euthanasia daily, yet some people
encourage more breeding in order to seem chic. I guess it
wouldn't be trendy to adopt a pet from a shelter (and so save
its life) or, perish the thought, actually watch what happens
to the no-longer-trendy-or-convenient animals put in pounds
or shelters.
   Steven Koenig
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Silver Spring, Md.
   ---
   I write on behalf of a benevolent despot named Squire (a
thoroughbred Dalmation) who has taken umbrage with Ms.
Sebastian's treatise on the "dogue de Bordeaux" and other
inferior, indolent breeds of dogs.
   Squire is bright, intelligent, loyal and as good a
watchdog as you can find. He doesn't like "raw chicken
necks." He doesn't just eat and sleep as does Mr. Dogue de
Bordeaux. He is a loving friend.
   When I awoke this day, he was in a foul mood. When I
questioned him, he told me about Ms. Sebastian's reference to
the "in pets," a la Akita pups or a fox-faced "shiba inu",
the "bichon frise" plus the AKC's so-called top 10 breeds.
   Squire, who is 10 years old, is sitting beside me as I
write this. His mood has changed. He licked my hand. I fed
him a biscuit, and now there is peace in this domicile.
   David B. Charnay
   Tarzana, Calif.
   ---
   In mentioning the "gripping dog" of the Canary Islands,
your article on "power dogs" provided an unexpected
etymological treat. After all, the Canary Islands were named
for the canines roaming wild there. (The bird was named for
its island home, not vice versa.) Having read the article, I
pondered the fact that the Greek word for dog is the root of
"cynosure" and "cynicism."
   Henry J. Ricardo
   Tappan, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   CRAY RESEARCH Inc. supercomputer-time is being rented by
First Boston Corp., Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and Bankers
Trust Co., according to a Cray employee. In a report on
high-technology trading on Wall Street in Friday's edition,
the computer maker was misidentified.
   (See: "Brokerage Firms Spend Lavishly to Beef Up High-Tech
Trading" -- WSJ May 25, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   VIACOM Inc. will distribute new nonvoting Class B common
shares to stock of record June 5. The record date was
misstated in Friday's edition.
   (See: "Viacom Class B Stock Cleared" -- WSJ May 5, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   UAL's Performance
   Anything but Stagnant
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your April 9 page-one story on the unions' bid for UAL
claims that "United has stagnated." This ignores what has
been happening at our company over the past two years.
   Last year, UAL produced the second-best earnings in its
history, and it placed two aircraft orders worth $19 billion.
One order was the single-largest aircraft order in
commercial-aviation history.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Early this year, United announced that, based on
Department of Transportation figures, it has surpassed both
Japan Airlines and Northwest as the No. 1 trans-Pacific
carrier.
   This hardly sounds like "stagnation." And there is more:
United is entering the trans-Atlantic market for the first
time, and beginning service to Mexico City from three U.S.
gateways.
   In short, the facts and record of our performance during
the past two years speak for themselves.
   Lawrence M. Nagin
   Senior Vice President
   Corporate and External Affairs
   United Airlines
   Chicago
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   VIOLENCE FLARED in Armenia, and Moscow took steps to curb
panic buying.
   Soviet troops sent to the republic to quell ethnic unrest
clashed with Armenian nationalists in and around Yerevan. At
least 21 people were killed. Leaders of the republic declared
today a day of mourning. In Moscow, non-Muscovites were
barred from shops in an attempt to curb panic buying sparked
by last week's announcement that the Kremlin was raising
prices as part of a transition to a market economy. Populist
Yeltsin, meanwhile, renewed his bid for the presidency of the
Russian republic, offering to form a coalition with his
conservative opponents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bush said Gorbachev appears "pretty darn strong" despite
growing domestic problems, and U.S. and Soviet negotiators
completed a pre-summit accord to expand commercial air
travel.
   ---
   Burma's main pro-democracy party said it was assured of an
absolute majority in Rangoon's legislature following
nationwide elections. The military regime pledged to
relinquish power once a new constitution was approved, a
process that some officials said could take years. Sunday's
balloting was the country's first free vote in 30 years.
   ---
   Colombia elected the ruling party's Cesar Gaviria as
president, ratifying the government's crackdown on drugs and
violence. In his acceptance speech in Bogota, Gaviria urged
industrialized nations to do more to battle cocaine. Sunday's
balloting capped a campaign that was marked by drug-related
killings.
   ---
   Iraqi President Hussein opened a two-day Arab League
summit in Baghdad and defied U.S. calls to restrain his
rhetoric by threatening to use "weapons of mass destruction"
in response to any Israeli attack against Arabs. The main
item on the summit agenda is the immigration of Soviet Jews
to Israel.
                                                                                                       

   A pipe bomb exploded in Jerusalem's crowded central
market, killing an Israeli and injuring nine other people. A
top aide to Prime Minister Shamir blamed the PLO for the
blast, and Israelis tried to assault Palestinians held by
police for questioning.
   ---
   Solidarity founder Walesa persuaded rail workers to
suspend a strike that had disrupted train service in northern
Poland. The workers' demands include wage increases.
Officials in Warsaw, meanwhile, began tallying votes from
Sunday's free elections for local councils, a vote that
aroused the interest of less than half the electorate.
   ---
   NASA technicians worked to repair an electronics problem
with a computerized display unit aboard the space shuttle
Columbia, but officials said the faulty gear isn't expected
to delay tomorrow's scheduled launch. The spacecraft is to
carry seven astronauts and a $150 million observatory on a
10-day mission to study ultraviolet light.
   ---
   Bush signed a $4 billion fiscal 1990 spending bill that
includes $720 million in economic assistance for Panama and
Nicaragua. But the president had to accept the measure's more
than $2 billion in Pentagon cuts to help pay for the
increased foreign aid and accompanying domestic spending.
   ---
   Rival ethnic groups in Pakistan battled in Karachi and
nearby Hyderabad. More than 150 people were killed in the
weekend violence. As Prime Minister Bhutto traveled to Sind
province for an emergency meeting on the unrest, President
Kahn denounced the police for "indiscriminate firing."
   ---
   Irish Republican Army gunmen killed two Australian
tourists in the Netherlands. The IRA said it "mistook" the
two 24-year-old victims for British soldiers. The pair were
in a British-registered car when they were ambushed in the
town of Roermond.
   ---
   North Korea returned the remains of five U.S. servicemen
killed in the Korean War. It was considered an important
gesture toward better ties between Washington and Pyongyang.
The Memorial Day ceremony in Panmunjom was the first return
of U.S. war dead from the Communist side since 1954.
   ---
   South Africa's government said it would move to scrap a
law allowing segregation of public facilities such as
swimming pools and libraries, the latest in a series of steps
by President de Klerk to ease apartheid. But the ruling
National Party criticized Mandela and the African National
Congress, saying the organization retains outdated policies.
   ---
   Died: Frank Adams, 64, president of Morrison Knudsen
Corp., Sunday, near Naylor, Mo., in a plane crash.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Commodity Adviser Faces an Ugly Task
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   John W. Henry, who manages more than $260 million in
commodity futures markets, has no illusions about his line of
work. "It's an ugly way to make money," he says.
   By that, he means putting your money in the hands of a
successful commodity trading adviser, such as himself, isn't
a no-sweat limousine ride to the bank. It just looks that
way: One of the pools he runs out of his Westport, Conn.,
firm has compound annual returns of 77% in the past six
years; his five other pools have averaged 32% a year in their
lifetimes. Only a few other commodity trading advisers with
as much money to manage as Mr. Henry have returns in the same
league.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such performance figures are tempting to investors who are
looking for big-return opportunities now that the high-yield
junk bond market has tanked and the jackpots from takeover
plays have all but disappeared from the stock market. Most
investors quickly learn that futures-market profits of any
size are hard to come by without their full-time attention,
which is why many are turning their fast-action money over to
trading advisers.
   Only then do they realize they're not in the hands of a
kindly bank trust officer but often in those of a
damn-the-torpedoes commando hellbent for glory. To endure the
wild ride in volatile futures markets, they need stoic
patience, a strong stomach and the ability to sleep when
their accounts are substantially under water.
   Skeptical? Consider Mr. Henry's International Foreign
Exchange pool, which invests in currency futures and options.
Since it was launched in March 1986, it has generated a
compounded annual return of 30%, a number considered more
than respectable in the world of managed futures. But suppose
you didn't buy in until the end of May 1989, when it had
risen 14% from three months earlier. Four months later the
pool was down 52% from its May value. Today, that pool
remains 35% below the May 1989 level.
   Most, but not all, investors who have let Mr. Henry trade
for them for at least a couple of years have done well. He
acknowledges that he frequently receives phone calls from
shellshocked new investors after sharp declines in their
accounts, called "drawdowns" by trading advisers.
   "I always tell them the truth, with no sugarcoating, by
explaining to them that we are always dealing with the
unknown," Mr. Henry says. He used to have a lot of clients
who pulled out of the pools after bad drawdowns, he says, but
"most of them now just close their eyes and wait for the good
times."
   Barclay Trading Group Ltd. of Fairfield, Iowa, which
tracks 121 commodity trading advisers with at least $5
million under management, places Mr. Henry's six pools among
the top third in terms of returns. But he's also in the third
with the sharpest drawdowns.
   Mr. Henry was introduced to the futures market in 1976
when he was operating a couple of family-owned farms near
Quincy, Ill. He was advised to sell a soybean futures
contract to hedge the value of his crop against a price
decline. He bought a contract instead, because he "just knew"
that soybean prices were going to rise, which made him a
speculator. As luck had it, soybean prices rose and he bought
more contracts on the way up.
   "By pure luck I sold out my futures contracts at the exact
top of the market and the next day sold my cash crop out at
the top," he recalls. His first experience in the futures
market netted a profit of $75,000.
   Though the day would come, only four years later, that he
lost $75,000 in a single day in soybean futures, Mr. Henry
was hooked. After researching 100 years of commodity prices
at the library, he fashioned what he calls a "mechanistic"
trading strategy. It is essentially a long-range, trend --
following trading system that he has been using since 1981,
when he started managing other people's money.
   Mr. Henry's system is always in the market, which means
he's either buying futures, expecting the price to rise, or
selling them short in anticipation of a price decline. His
various pools trade over 50 markets, some of which he has
combined into unusual if not unique hybrids. For example, Mr.
Henry trades gold not only in dollars but also in yen and
marks.
   Trading systems that follow long-haul price moves either
up or down typically join and leave the trends late. This
type of trading is particularly frustrating to new investors,
who see their accounts miss substantial profits at the
beginning of trends and give back a portion of profits before
the trends are abandoned. And when markets meander without
any long-term direction, such trading systems can generate a
string of losses. For example, Mr. Henry says, "In 1989 in
one of our pools we had 33 losses out of 34 trades, and the
one winner was a small one."
   Mr. Henry has learned to suppress his own feelings about
markets and let his trading system make the calls. He recalls
that in 1985 the system called for buying coffee futures. "I
thought it crazy," he says. "The international coffee
agreement that attempts to control the supply of coffee had
collapsed. The freeze season was over in Brazil. There was
just too much coffee around. I just knew we were in for one
of our standard losses of 2% of account equity."
   But he took the plunge anyway, and the system worked for a
while; an account with $1 million in equity at one point had
$1.2 million in paper profits. But it was a white-knuckle
experience. "When an account's equity fluctuates $100,000 a
day as that one did, nobody is happy," Mr. Henry says. "The
client wants you to get out at the top, but I don't know
where the top is." He says he finally sold out at a $700,000
profit for his client.
   Last year wasn't good for most of his pools, but he says
the first quarter of 1990 was one of the best he ever had.
"We were short the Japanese yen, and the German, French and
Japanese bond markets. They all collapsed in
once-in-a-lifetime moves."
   Commodity markets aren't Mr. Henry's only interest. He
owns part of two baseball teams, the Tucson Toros and the
West Palm Beach Tropics. The Tropics are one of the senior
league teams for players age 35 and older. "They're great
investments and I love baseball," says Mr. Henry.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Grains &amp; Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Though President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev will dominate headlines with their summit meeting
this week, analysts don't expect announcements with major
impact for grain futures. It's widely acknowledged among
traders that the Soviet Union won't be granted
most-favored-nation status this week, partly because of
lingering emigration restrictions for Soviet Jews. Favored
status probably won't come until the Soviets remove the
restrictions, said Daniel W. Basse, director of market
research for AgResource Co., Chicago. Mr. Gorbachev's U.S.
visit begins tomorrow.
   Weather, on the the other hand, will continue to dominate
traders' attention. Heavier-than-normal rain in many parts of
the Midwest continues to delay planting of corn. Because corn
takes longer to grow than soybeans, the rain delay could
force corn farmers to switch to soybeans. In Illinois, one
rule of thumb is to make the switch after June 5. If weather
continues to be soggy this week, traders expect continuing
strength in corn futures prices, which rose firmly late last
week on speculation that fewer-than-expected acres would be
planted with corn.
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   This is the time of the year that thoughts of oil traders
turn to gasoline. Memorial Day traditionally launches the
so-called driving season, and the direction of petroleum
prices often depends on the level of gasoline demand. But
some oil analysts aren't very excited about this year's
prospects.
   Last year gasoline was "the dynamo that drove up oil
prices," but 1990 demand for motor fuel has been "basically
flat," said Nauman Barakat, a first vice president of
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. Because of gasoline's indicated
sluggishness in the U.S. as well as the world crude oil glut
resulting from high output by the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, Mr. Barakat expects petroleum prices to
remain under pressure into the third quarter.
   Still, gasoline futures prices have shown surprising
strength even after crude oil prices began eroding earlier
this year. Among the reasons have been relatively low
operations of refineries. There have been shutdowns of
several refineries from accidents or for prolonged
maintenance. This has meant some hints of tight supplies for
some grades. Unlike burdensome crude oil inventories,
gasoline in storage in the U.S. still is below last year's
level. According to the industry's latest weekly count, U.S.
inventories of gasoline totaled 213.2 million barrels, down
from 215 million barrels a week earlier and 221.3 million a
year earlier.
   ---
                   A Ride on the Wild Side
                                                                                                       

   The performance of the six pools managed by John Henry
                                                                                                       

 POOL NAME     COMP. ANUL. RETURN  BEST RETURN  MAX DRADWN
 (Date started)    RETURN*  1990**    AND YEAR  AND YEAR***
                                                                                                       

 Original portfolio    22%    39%       130%           51%
 (May 1981)                             1987     1987-1989
                                                                                                       

 KT Diversified        37%    54%        99%           39%
 (September 1983)                       1985          1987
                                                                                                       

 Financial and Metals  77%    78%       252%           35%
 (July 1984)                            1987          1985
                                                                                                       

 Int. Foreign Exchange 30%     9%       141%           53%
 (March 1986)                           1986       1988-89
                                                                                                       

 World Financial       24%     6%        43%           32%
 Perspective                            1987          1987
 (July 1986)
                                                                                                       

 KT Global             48%    75%        75%           32%
 (May 1988)                             1990          1989
                                                                                                       

 S&amp;P 500 Index#        15%    -5%        32%           30%
                                        1989          1987
                                                                                                       

   *The compound annual return for each pool since its
inception through April 1990
   **For the first four months of 1990
   ***The largest drop in account value from peak-to-rough
and the year or years in which it occured
   #Returns for the S&amp;P 500 from May 1981 through April 1990
with dividends reinvested
                                                                                                       

   Source: Barclay Trading Group Ltd., Fairfield, Iowa
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RTC Sells Horizon Financial Branches
   As Bailout of S&amp;L Industry Accelerates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   MSL X.APS ZION
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Resolution Trust Corp. sold the 37
branches of Horizon Financial, Southampton, Pa., to First
Valley Bank, Bethlehem, Pa., and Union National Bank of
Pittsburgh.
   The transaction was part of another block of thrift sales
and takeovers, as the agency accelerates the S&amp;L industry
bailout.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Horizon Financial had $1.76 billion in assets and
liabilities of $2.1 billion. The RTC will receive premiums of
$26.5 million from the two acquiring institutions. The RTC
will advance about $1.25 billion to the acquirers and will
retain about $1.75 billion of the Horizon's assets. The
agency expects to recover some of the advances by selling the
assets, and it estimated the ultimate cost of the transaction
at $357.8 million.
   Separately, the RTC placed Pima Savings &amp; Loan
Association, Tucson, Ariz., and Mercury Savings &amp; Loan
Association, Huntington Beach, Calif., into receivership. The
assets of Pima Savings totaled $2.7 billion, and the assets
of Mercury Savings totaled $2.2 billion.
   The RTC also placed Caguas-Central Savings Bank of Puerto
Rico, with $1.7 billion in assets, and American Pioneer
Savings Bank, Orlando, Fla., with $1.8 billion in assets, in
conservatorship. Caguas-Central Savings Bank is the first
thrift in Puerto Rico to be taken over by the RTC.
   Under conservatorships, the institutions are managed by
the government but the owners maintain their interests in the
thrifts. Under receivership, ownership interests are wiped
out and the RTC prepares to sell off the thrift's assets.
   In other actions by the RTC last week:
   -- Mountainwest Savings &amp; Loan Association, Ogden, Utah,
was sold to Mountainwest Financial, Sandy, Utah, a newly
chartered subsidiary of Sears Consumer Financial Corp.
Mountainwest Savings had assets of $155.3 million and
liabilities of $211.4 million. The RTC will advance about
$180 million to the acquirer and retain $128.4 million in
assets. The agency expects the transaction ultimately to cost
$65.1 million.
   -- Deseret Savings &amp; Loan Association, Salt Lake City, was
sold to Zions First National Bank, Salt Lake City, a unit of
Zions Bancorporation. Deseret had assets of $131.8 million
and liabilities of $221.8 million. The RTC advanced $125.3
million and retained $104.3 million in assets, and expects
this transaction to cost $99.2 million.
   -- The insured deposits of First Federal Savings &amp; Loan
Association of Brenham, Texas, were transferred to Kilgore
Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association, Kilgore, Texas. First
Federal had $116.4 million in assets, and liabilities of
$125.4 million. The RTC advanced $76.8 million, and expects
the transaction to cost $36.8 million.
   -- Remington Savings Association, Elgin, Texas, was placed
in receivership. The thrift had $174.2 million in assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, May 25, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.075% 30 to 149 days; 8.05% 150 to 179
days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.18%
30 days; 8.16% 60 days; 8.16% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.81% two
months; 7.84% three months; 7.98% six months; 8.30% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.40% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.05% 30 days; 8.05% 60 days; 8.03%
90 days; 8.02% 120 days; 8.01% 150 days; 7.98% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% four months; 8 1/2% - 8 3/8% five months; 8
1/2% - 8 3/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/4% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 1/2% six months; 8 3/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.75; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, May 21, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.74% 13 weeks; 7.79% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.27%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.22%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.85%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.85%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, May 25, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                              Stock   N.A.   Stock      %
   Fund Name                  Exch.  Value   Price     Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express              NYSE   18.50   15 7/8  - 14.19
   Baker Fentress             NYSE   24.73   19 7/8  - 19.63
   Blue Chip Value            NYSE    7.62    6 1/2    14.70
   Clemente Global Gro        NYSE  b12.16    9 3/4  - 19.82
   France Growth Fund         NYSE   10.85   12      + 10.60
   Gemini II Capital          NYSE   16.01   13 3/8  - 16.46
   Gemini II Income           NYSE    9.55   12 5/8  + 32.20
   General Amer Invest        NYSE   23.97   20 1/2  - 14.48
   Growth Stock Outlook       NYSE   10.30    9 1/2  -  7.77
   Liberty All-Star Eqty      NYSE    9.74    8 1/8  - 16.58
   Niagara Share Corp.        NYSE   17.71   14 5/8    17.42
   Nicholas-Applegate         NYSE   12.04   10 3/8  - 13.83
   Quest For Value Cap        NYSE   17.65   13 5/8  - 22.80
   Quest For Value Inco       NYSE   11.64   13 1/2  + 15.98
   Royce Value Trust          NYSE   10.47    9 3/8    10.46
   Salomon Bros.              NYSE   15.46   12 7/8  - 16.72
   Schafer Value Trust        NYSE   10.56   10 1/4  -  2.94
   Source Capital             NYSE   40.34   40 7/8  +  1.33
   Tri-Continental Corp.      NYSE   28.42   24 1/4  - 14.67
   Worldwide Value            NYSE   18.81   15 3/4  - 16.27
   Zweig Fund                 NYSE   10.99   11 5/8  +  5.78
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs        AMEX   a6.74    6      - 10.98
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr       NYSE   b7.97    8 3/4  +  9.79
   Franklin Universal Tr      NYSE   b7.76    7      -  9.79
   Municipal High Inco        NYSE    9.40    9 3/8     0.27
   Zenix Income Fund          NYSE    6.20    6      -  3.23

   Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       

   America's All Seasn        OTC     5.95    4 1/4  - 28.57
   Franklin M-M Inco          NYSE   b8.66    8 1/8  -  6.18
   Zweig Total Return Fd      NYSE    9.22    9 1/4  +  0.33
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance New Europe Fd     NYSE   11.27    9 7/8  - 12.38
   ASA Ltd                    NYSE bc61.11   50 1/8  - 17.98
   Asia Pacific               NYSE   15.78   14 3/4  -  6.53
   Austria Fund               NYSE   14.25   13 7/8  -  2.63
   Bancroft Convertible       AMEX   20.83   17 3/4  - 14.79
   Bergstrom Capital          AMEX   62.70   59 3/8  -  5.30
   BGR Precious Metals        TOR  be11.02    9 3/8  - 14.93
   Brazil                     NYSE    9.77    9 7/8  +  1.07
   CNV Holdings Capital       NYSE    9.83    5 1/8  - 47.86
   CNV Holdings Income        NYSE    9.54   11      + 15.30
   Castle Convertible         AMEX   21.77   18 1/4  - 16.17
   Chile Fund                 NYSE   16.00   16 1/4  +  1.56
   Couns Tandem Secs          NYSE   12.28   10 1/2  - 14.50
   Cypress Fund               AMEX    9.80    9 1/8  -  6.89
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils    NYSE    8.16    8      -  1.96
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc        AMEX    8.34    7 1/4  - 13.07
   Emerging Ger Fd            NYSE   10.96    9 3/8  - 14.46
   Engex                      AMEX   12.45    9 1/8  - 26.71
   Europe Fund                NYSE   13.99   15      +  7.22
   1st Australia              AMEX    9.54    8 3/8  - 12.21
   First Financial Fund       NYSE    7.01    6 1/2  -  7.28
   First Iberian              AMEX   10.84   11 1/4  +  3.78
   First Philippine Fund      NYSE   11.03    9      - 18.40
   Future Germany Fund        NYSE   16.56   14 1/2  - 12.44
   Gabelli Equity Trust       NYSE   12.31   12 3/8  +  0.53
   Germany Fund               NYSE   12.80   14 3/4  + 15.23
   Global Utilities Fund      NYSE   10.93   10      -  8.51
   Growth Fund Spain          NYSE   12.00   10 5/8  - 11.46
   GT Greater Europe Fd       NYSE   14.00   14 1/2  +  3.57
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv         NYSE   11.95   10 1/4  - 14.23
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap       AMEX  b11.50    9 3/4  - 15.22
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref      AMEX  b49.33   48 3/4  -  1.18
   Helvetia Fd (Swiss)        NYSE   13.96   13 7/8  -  0.61
   India Growth Fund          NYSE  f12.85   14 7/8  + 15.76
   Indonesia Fund             NYSE   14.99   15 1/4  +  1.73
   Inefficient Market Fund    AMEX   11.09   10 1/8  -  8.70
   Irish Investment Fd        NYSE   10.90    9      - 17.43
   Italy Fund                 NYSE  b14.96   15 1/8  +  1.10
   Jakarta Growth Fd          NYSE   11.09   13 5/8  + 22.86
   Japan OTC Equity Fund      NYSE  b11.85   15 1/8  + 27.64
   Korea Fund                 NYSE   15.44   20 5/8  + 33.58
   Malaysia Fund              NYSE   14.54   17 1/2  + 20.36
   Mexico Fund                NYSE  b15.48   14 5/8  -  5.52
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap        NYSE   11.68   11      -  5.82
   New Germany Fund           NYSE   14.20   13 5/8  -  4.05
   Pacific Eur Growth Fd      NYSE   11.16   12 3/4  + 14.25
   Patriot Prem Div Fd        NYSE    8.86   10 1/4  + 15.69
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II     NYSE   10.37   11      +  6.08

   Pilgrim Regional           NYSE    9.28    8 3/4  -  5.71
   Putnam Dividend Inco       NYSE   10.27   11      +  7.11
   Portugal Fund              NYSE   13.55   14 1/8  +  4.24
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd      AMEX    6.44    5 7/8  -  8.77
   Scudder New Asia           NYSE   17.42   14 3/8  - 17.48
   Scudder New Europe         NYSE   11.80   10      - 15.25
   SE Savings Inst Fd         OTC    b8.03    7 1/4  -  9.71
   Spain Fund                 NYSE   14.22   18 3/8  + 29.22
   Taiwan Fund                NYSE  b19.93   23 1/2  + 17.91
   TCW Convertible Secs       NYSE   b8.19    8 1/4  +  0.73
   Templeton Em Mkts          AMEX  b15.85   14 1/8  - 10.88
   Templeton Value Fund       NYSE   b9.94    8 7/8  - 10.71
   Thai Fund                  NYSE   20.80   23 1/4  + 11.78
   Turkish Inv Fund           NYSE   15.76   13      - 17.51
   United Kingdom Fund        NYSE   10.80    9 7/8  -  8.56
   Z-Seven                    OTC    13.51   13 5/8  +  0.85
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Walter Who? The Gossip Monger Revisited
   ----
   By Helen Dudar
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<LP>
   Michael Herr was six or seven years old when he enlisted
in the great American army of Walter Winchell recruits. He
read him faithfully, even obsessively, in his hometown
morning paper, the Syracuse (N.Y.) Post Standard, one of
1,000 dailies that carried Winchell's gossip column in the
years after World War II. "God knows what an influence on my
life those columns were," Mr. Herr muses. "They were so
alive, so seductive. I'm not a prude about that. I like
gossip. Most people do, but they won't admit it."
   Winchell died in 1972, no longer famous or feared. Once,
in the old days when radio held America in thrall, half the
country dedicated 15 minutes every Sunday evening to
Winchell's staccato reports. ("Good evening, Mr. and Mrs.
America and all the ships at sea. . . .") It surely is a
commentary on our chronically brief attention span that today
few Americans have reason to recall him and almost no one
under the age of 40 would recognize the name.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Well, here's Mr. Herr with an arresting corrective --
"Walter Winchell" (Knopf, 156 pages, $18.95), which is sort
of a novel and sort of a biography, narrated in a form that
is sort of a screenplay. Movie-swift and often Broadway
funny, it is a compelling and somewhat terrifying account of
the rise and fall of the brassy, minimally talented former
hoofer who became, as Mr. Herr puts it, "the architect of our
heartbreaking addiction to knowing everyone else's business."
   In Winchell's prime, his power extended far beyond show
business. Politicians courted him, gangsters surrendered to
him, and the literati pandered to him. Authorities on the
order of H.L. Mencken decreed, wrongly as it turned out, that
his trashy gift for linguistic invention -- infanticipating,
cinemagic, to name two Winchellisms -- surely had earned him
a permanent place in the literary pantheon. All in all, he
was journalism's sacred monster. "You're a terrible price to
pay for freedom of the press," an editor in the novel tells
him.
   At first sight, "Walter Winchell" is not the sort of piece
you might expect from the author of "Dispatches," probably
the best book written about the Vietnam misadventure. In
contrast to the novel, that work was narrated with a
compelling density of language and an almost unbearable
emotional intensity. But Winchell and Vietnam are, in some
respects, metaphoric twins. Mr. Herr is drawn to occasions
and figures that embody "great American lies."
   "Dispatches," published in 1977, brought its author fame
and success that he fully savored but finally felt compelled
to flee from. For the past 10 years, he and his British-born
wife, and a family now including two daughters, have lived in
London. Mr. Herr, who quite cheerfully turned 50 recently,
was back here briefly to promote the novel. He is bearded,
bulky, soft-spoken and sweet-tempered, dresses with the
casualness of a man who has never brooded about being a
fashion plate and is almost unnervingly polite; for what must
have seemed hours, days even, he sat through most of an
interview in his publisher's office with an unlit Gauloise in
his right hand.
   Mr. Herr said his interest in Winchell was rekindled a few
years ago when he collaborated on "The Big Room," a rather
odd work that appeared in 1987 and didn't sell enough copies
to qualify as a cult book. It was an anti-nostalgic album:
brooding Hopperesque paintings by Guy Pellaert of 48
celebrated figures who had been corrupted or otherwise done
in by fame, money and power. Mr. Herr wrote the text blocks;
among all the heavyweights -- Howard Hughes, Richard Nixon,
Orson Welles, Meyer Lansky, Marilyn Monroe -- he found
himself most attracted to a half-forgotten gossip monger.
   When a Hollywood producer solicited his talents -- he had
worked on the scenarios for "Apocalypse Now" and "Full Metal
Jacket" -- he proposed Winchell as a film subject. Bob Fosse
was lured, reluctantly, into the project. "I can't see myself
spending three years of my life doing a film about a guy I
disliked as much as Walter Winchell," the director told him.
Neither could the writer. Fosse changed his mind after he saw
half of the Herr script. But then he died, and the script ran
into trouble at Warner Bros., which still owns the film
rights.
   "I got fired," Mr. Herr says amiably. The ax appears to
have been welcome. "I meant it to be a real screenplay, but
from the first third on I think I was writing something else.
I was too attached to the material to be a real professional
doing a film. In fact, I was not really willing to turn it
over to other people's interpretations. I felt I would rather
let the reader do the movie. Which is what readers do
anyway."
   For "The Big Room" project, Mr. Herr had read some
Winchell biographies. For the script, however, his main
source was Winchell. A New York researcher sent him microfilm
copies of 3,000 columns chosen more or less at random, and he
read every one. "The guy really came alive for me in a way
that none of his biographers could do. From those columns, a
real person emerges. I know he was a terrible human being,
but there is something attractive about him. He had a certain
horrible charm, I think. And he had such chutzpah, such
chutzpah."
   It was Mr. Herr's stubborn ambivalence about Winchell that
caused problems in Hollywood and, he suspects, may be
troubling early readers. "I'm getting some funny signals," he
reports. "A lot of what went into the book really happened,
but essentially it's imagined and invented. And romanticized
to a degree. But sort of hard-edged, I hope. Some people seem
offended by my sympathy for him. There's also a strange
feeling that even though they've enjoyed the book, somehow
they shouldn't have."
   One salutary effect of "Walter Winchell" is that, as an
exercise in story-telling, it seems to have freed him up at
last to tackle what he calls a non-ambivalent novel, his
first. No one has ever accused Mr. Herr of publishing too
much, too fast. The Vietnam book was delayed for five years
by a ferocious writer's block and by his experimentation with
a variety of controlled substances. Domesticity has tamed his
appetite for drugs but hasn't done much for productivity. Not
long ago, he abandoned a "genre-defying" nonfiction book
built around rock and roll. He decided he just couldn't get
it right, and eight or 10 years of labor went down the drain.
He is amazingly serene about the lost time. It's okay, he
says. For a writer, nothing is ever really lost or wasted.
   ---
   Ms. Dudar writes frequently about writers and publishing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amex Seat Sold for $142,500
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The American Stock Exchange said a seat was
sold for $142,500, down $500 from the previous sale on May
14. Seats are currently quoted at $132,000, bid, and
$250,000, asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   I Never Denigrated
   Laventhol's Standards
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<LP>
   In your article "Laventhol &amp; Horwath, Beset by Litigation,
Runs Into Hard Times" (page one, May 17), you report that I
was upset with Laventhol &amp; Horwath's professional standards,
and quote me as saying, "The urge to take such risks there
was too ferocious. The dog-eat-dog atmosphere and knowledge
that if you weren't willing to cut a corner, someone else
would be found there who will, was too much for me."
   My words were a description of the pressures facing the
entire public-accounting profession, and not just Laventhol
alone. What I said was, "The urge to take such risks was
ferocious. The dog-eat-dog atmosphere and knowledge that if
you weren't willing to cut a corner, someone else would be
found there who will." You changed the meaning and applied it
to something other than what was intended. I never told you
that I was upset at Laventhol's standards, nor that the
pressure to take on questionable clients "was too much for
me." I made it very clear that I did not consider Laventhol's
standards any lower than any other growing accounting firm
during the time I worked there and that, in fact, during my
years with the firm there was a concerted effort by Laventhol
to upgrade the quality of the work done by personnel who came
to the firm through mergers. I would also add that
Laventhol's professional standards had nothing to do with my
decision to leave the firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lawrence M. Reisman
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Correction
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   The signature on a letter to the editor concerning "black
English" in the May 24 edition was misprinted. It should have
been Seth C. Carter.
   (See: "Letters to the Editor: Morsels of Truth in the
Melting Pot" -- WSJ May 24, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   And Their Mothers
   Still Love Them
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lee Berton's April 17 article on bad names for auditors
has caused quite a stir among the 35,000 members of the
Institute of Internal Auditors. We appreciate the fact that
Mr. Berton was intrigued enough by one of our publications to
write an article on it.
   In fairness to your readers and my profession, I feel I
must tell the rest of the story.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is true that two pages of the 137-page report "Roles
and Relationships in Internal Auditing" by Donna Wood and
James A. Wilson discuss negative names for auditors in the
context of the interpersonal dynamics of internal auditing.
Just prior to those pages, however, is a section on positive
names for auditors, such as good guys, helpers, team players,
guardians and so forth. The negative ones are a lot easier to
poke fun at, but the positive ones are far more accurate.
   As with any profession, there are many jokes about
auditors. Sometimes, less-than-kind names are used, but
seldom other than in jest. Fortunately, today, internal
auditors are respected members of the organizational team.
   We appreciate your interest in our profession. We look
forward to seeing more on internal auditors -- the good guys.
   O. Jack McGill
   President
   IIA Research Foundation
   Institute of Internal Auditors
   Altamonte Springs, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mexican Controls Extended
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEXICO CITY -- Mexico extended through January its
anti-inflationary wage, price and exchange-rate controls.
   In renewing the plan, which had been set to expire at the
end of July, the government reduced the daily devaluation of
the peso against the dollar to four-fifths of a peso. The
devaluation had been one peso a day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government didn't announce new increases in wages and
private-sector prices. But it increased the price of gasoline
12%, and said other public-sector prices might increase.
   Inflation has fallen to 19.7% in 1989 from 157% in 1987
since the plan was put in place. Inflation for this year's
first four months was 10.8%, a pace above the government's
target for the year of 15.3%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LAB NOTES
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CIG RGEN
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Monoclonal Antibody
   For Sneezes and Itches
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   THE TEXAS biotechnology company Tanox Biosystems Inc. and
Ciba-Geigy Ltd. are joining hands to try to take the sting
out of insect bites and other allergic reactions.
   Such miseries as asthma, hay fever and swelling from bites
occur when an irritating substance called an allergen enters
the body. There, it links up with the antibody Immunoglobulin
E (IgE), triggering the release of a cascade of substances
such as histamine, which cause the familiar symptoms of
sneezing, itching and red skin. Conventional treatments such
as antihistamines mainly block symptoms.
   Now, Tanox and the Swiss giant are developing a monoclonal
antibody that would target and bind to free-floating IgE in
the body, rendering it harmless and preventing allergy
symptoms from surfacing. Researchers claim such IgE could be
removed without harm because healthy people have very little
anyway. Allergy-prone people have more IgE, suggesting an
excess amount lies at the root of their miseries.
   But not any antibody to IgE would do the trick. The
antibody can only target free-floating IgE. If it homes in on
IgE already bound to certain cells, it could trigger the
allergic reactions it sought to eliminate.
   Some experts take a "show-me" attitude. Daniel Adelman,
director of clinical allergy and immunology at the University
of California at San Francisco, notes that previous attempts
to nip allergies in the bud have failed. He says that the IgE
bound to cells still will be present to provoke an allergic
reaction, but adds that the Tanox model "sounds as rational
as anything else."
   Nancy Chang, Tanox president, says Ciba-Geigy produced a
monoclonal antibody that binds to IgE and that "worked" in
mice. She hopes to schedule human trials in 18 to 24 months.
Her deep-pocketed partners at Ciba-Geigy have purchased a 7%
stake in Tanox, betting tens of millions of dollars the
theory proves true.

   Injecting New Genes
   Without Using a Virus
                                                                                                       

   SCIENTISTS are trying to ease a big concern about gene
therapy.
   Most current technology involves using a virus to inject
new genes into patients, causing an irreversible change in
their genetic code. Skeptics have worried that even the
weakened viruses that are used could turn virulent again. A
new technique involves no virus, just the direct injection
into muscle tissue of the new genes, allowing them to
function on a temporary basis.
   Wick Goodspeed, president of Vical Inc., San Diego, says
this approach might give doctors an intermediate vehicle for
the delivery of gene-therapy treatment. It would offer a slow
administration of drugs, lasting longer than conventional
drug doses, but limited to a few days or months, unlike
permanent gene therapy.
   Bolstering the immune system of patients with AIDS might
be the ideal first target for testing the system, says Mr.
Goodspeed. A second use might involve injecting genes to
induce the killing of cancer cells. Thirdly, Vical may focus
on muscular dystrophy, a target of choice for a number of
different therapeutic strategies.
   "Our approach has conceptual appeal," says Mr. Goodspeed.
"Only time will tell if it has the inside track," he adds.
                                                                                                       

   Pinching Blood Supply
   To AIDS-Linked Cancer
                                                                                                       

   PROMISING LEADS have been reported in the attempt to quell
Kaposi's Sarcoma, or KS, a malignant growth of blood vessels
that occurs in deadly form in AIDS patients.
   Scientists at Repligen Corp., Cambridge, Mass., said
they're working with human platelet factor 4, or PF4, a
"potent inhibitor of angiogenesis," the formation of vessels
that channel nutrients to tumors. Interrupting this supply
line, they reason, may choke a cancer's growth.
   In experiments with researchers from Harvard Medical
School, Repligen scientists demonstrated that PF4 can prevent
growth of skin cancer and colon tumors in mice. Although KS
will be the first focus of human clinical trials of PF4, the
mouse studies suggest the potential for more general
anti-tumor uses.
   "The capability to inhibit angiogenesis could have
therapeutic applications for a broad range of diseases,"
including KS, says Judah Folkman, director of Surgical
Research Laboratories at Boston's Children's Hospital. "The
results of Repligen's research to date are most encouraging."
   KS won't be an easy target. Researchers still are puzzled
about where KS's cells originate and how they grow. Still,
Repligen's research director, Walter Herlihy Jr., believes
the natural protein might be easier on patients than other
therapies, though it could retard wound healing. He adds that
Repligen has international rivals, including Farmitalia Carlo
Erba of Italy and Takeda Chemical Industries Ltd. of Japan.

   Alzheimer's Families
   May Call This Number
                                                                                                       

   FAMILIES with at least two living members with Alzheimer's
disease who are interested in helping hunt for genes that may
cause the illness should call the Indiana University Medical
Center at 800-526-2839.
   Researchers at the university's Alzheimer's Disease
Research Center National Cell Bank have a federal grant to
gather data on Alzheimer's families as part of a world-wide
effort to locate the genes involved in the disease. A Lab
Notes column in last week's Wall Street Journal discussed
research at Indiana and elsewhere that has found the
approximate location of two genes that appear to cause two
distinct forms of Alzheimer's. But more families are needed
to complete the search.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PrimeEnergy Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   PNRG
</CO>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- K.R.M. Petroleum Corp. stockholders
approved a name change for the company. The new name,
effective immediately, is PrimeEnergy Corp. The company's
stock is traded over the counter; its trading symbol changes
to PNRG, from KRMC.
   The company is the managing general partner for 54 public
and privately held drilling and income fund limited
partnerships.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alitalia Signs Agreement With USAir,
   Joining Trend of European-U.S. Links
   ----
   By Susan Carey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   I.ALI U EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Alitalia joined the growing ranks of European
carriers teaming up with U.S. airlines by signing a
commercial agreement with USAir.
   Signed in Rome, the accord will give the two carriers'
passengers easier access to each airline's network.
Passengers of 81% state-owned Alitalia will be able to link
up with USAir planes in Boston, Los Angeles and Miami and
travel on to some 40 U.S. destinations. Alitalia carried 16.2
million passengers last year and served 102 cities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   USAir, which has its hubs in Pittsburgh and Charlotte,
N.C., will funnel its international passengers through
Alitalia's Milan and Rome hubs for onward travel to the
Italian airline's 23 destinations in Eastern Europe, the
Middle East and Africa. USAir, which last year absorbed
Piedmont Airlines, carried a total of 61.2 million passengers
last year and served 135 cities.
   USAir's only European routes are to Frankfurt and London's
Gatwick Airport. Giovanni Bisignani, Alitalia's managing
director, said in a telephone interview that flying to Europe
isn't USAir's "major strategy." Thus, he said, he
"absolutely" doesn't expect the U.S. carrier to announce
plans to fly to Rome or Milan.
   The agreement will begin June 16 in Boston and Los
Angeles. The Miami link will begin Oct. 29. In a new
bilateral air-services agreement between the U.S. and Italy,
Alitalia will be able to expand its services to five new U.S.
gateways over the next four years. Miami was Alitalia's first
choice. Mr. Bisignani said future choices will depend in part
of how the alliance with USAir works.
   Randall Malin, vice chairman of USAir, told a news
conference in Rome that although the accord doesn't include
an equity swap, he wouldn't rule one out. "It's a possibility
in the future," he said. "I wouldn't say it's a probability."
   USAir officials weren't available for comment.
   Alitalia hopes the easy access to U.S. destinations will
help it raise its market share of air traffic between the
U.S. and Italy. In 1989, Alitalia transported 700,000
passengers on the trans-Atlantic routes, equal to 46% of the
total. Pan American World Airlines and Trans World Airlines
are the other airlines linking the U.S. and Italy. Mr.
Bisignani said he expects traffic to increase by at least 20%
as a result of the USAir link.
   The accord will put Alitalia into USAir's frequent-flier
program and will allow first-class, business-class and
full-price economy passengers on Alitalia to fly first-class
on USAir. It also will extend to cargo activities.
   In recent years, several U.S.-European airline alliances
have been formed. British Airways cooperates with United
Airlines; KLM Royal Dutch Airlines works with Northwest
Airlines; Swissair has an agreement with Delta Air Lines.
Alitalia has its own marketing agreement with United at the
U.S. carrier's Chicago hub.
   But Mr. Bisignani said that agreement "is quite limited"
whereas the USAir accord has "strategic relevance." He said
he doesn't expect Alitalia to link up with any other U.S.
carriers.
   Another strategic link came last week, when Alitalia
signed an accord with Iberia, the Spanish flag carrier. As
previously reported, Alitalia will use Madrid as its gateway
to Latin America and Iberia will use Rome as its transfer
point to Asian destinations. Mr. Bisignani said the next step
will come when Alitalia finds an Asian airline partner.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Barneys' Style
   Gets Translated
   Into Japanese
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   J.ISE
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- From its white-gloved doormen to its tasteful
mix of high fashion and artsy housewares, specialty retailer
Barneys New York has a distinctive image.
   It's so distinctive, in fact, that in preparation for the
opening of the first Barneys store in Japan in November, five
Japanese retailing employees are spending two years in New
York learning Barneys' merchandising ideas and style.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new store is part of a recently formed joint venture
between Barneys and Tokyo's Isetan department store chain.
The two have agreed to expand Barneys throughout the U.S. and
Asia. Though Isetan, with $30 billion in annual sales, has
plenty of experience merchandising apparel, household goods
and food, with Barneys it is carving out a new niche for
itself: selling clothes to the affluent and urbane customer.
   "We have to educate ourselves and the Japanese customer on
a new life style," says Toriaki Tashiro, who will run the
first Barneys store in Tokyo. He notes that about 80% of the
merchandise will be identical to that sold in Barneys stores
in America, and the rest will be chosen by the Tokyo staff.
   Buyers from Tokyo have traveled with their New York
counterparts to European fashion houses, while Japanese store
managers have studied Barneys New York's background music
(contemporary and jazz) and noted the china and cutlery used
in Barneys' basement cafe.
   For further cross-pollination, five "exchange" employees
-- a select group of young Isetan sales clerks -- are
learning how to turn a store into a Barneys. It's still
unclear which techniques they'll incorporate into the Tokyo
store, though saleswomen will join their male colleagues in
being able to wear their street clothes, rather than the
uniforms that women at Isetan must wear.
   Each day, after watching Barneys' employees in action and
taking notes on what they refer to as "the Barneys air," the
exchange employees fax their impressions to Japan. Mallory
Andrews, a vice president at Barneys New York, says: "You
can't imagine it. All day long there's a flurry of faxes
constantly being sent between New York and Japan. It's all
part of the background information that's required before any
decisions are made."
   Natsu Ohtani, a 24-year-old exchange employee, spends her
days trailing Connie Darrow, a vice president in Barneys'
women's area. Ms. Ohtani has been surprised at the daring Ms.
Darrow uses in arranging the colors of clothes on the sales
floor. She does "dangerous things like putting red next to
black," Ms. Ohtani says. At Isetan, Ms. Ohtani learned to
arrange displays only according to the color spectrum -- as
dictated by a little rainbow chart that each employee carries
at all times.
   And compared with Isetan's static floor displays, which
typically change only at seasonal intervals, Barneys' sales
floors are a moving theater. "Every week we shift everything
around so that the floor looks completely different," Ms.
Ohtani says.
   One aspect of Barneys that isn't likely to be copied in
Japan is the separation between buyers for the store and
their subordinates, such as assistant buyers and salesclerks.
In Japan, says Ms. Ohtani, "the buyers were friendlier to the
assistants. . . . Here, the buyers are on a higher level, and
they don't explain all they do, and as a result the assistant
buyers are frustrated."
   Hiroshi Higuchi, a 25-year-old exchange employee with a
wet-look crew cut and natty double-breasted suit, clearly
fits the Barneys attitude. Working with Barneys'
public-relations and display staff, he's amused to hear such
catch phrases as "That's fabulous" used repeatedly around
him.
   Mr. Higuchi, who sold toys at Isetan, has become
fascinated with Barneys' quirky windows and print ads --
Barneys' current ads use vintage photographs that don't even
show clothes. He's convinced that such creative flourishes
come from Barneys' policy of doing all its advertising and
sales promotion in-house. But Barneys Tokyo is unlikely to
copy that approach. Instead, it probably will hire outside ad
agencies to create ads and promotions, just as most Japanese
retailers do.
   "But outsiders don't always understand Isetan because they
never worked there," says Mr. Higuchi. "So sometimes they
misunderstand, which requires a lot of meetings and
compromises, and sometimes results in boring displays."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor --
   Summer and Smoke:
   Assault on Cigarettes
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Congratulations to the State of California and its
campaign "to attack the image of refreshment and status" that
the tobacco industry touts for smokers, especially young
women ("California Ads Attack Cigarettes," April 11).
   Media outlets for the current California campaign include
only newspapers, television, radio and billboards. But, as
you state, "since 60% of tobacco users start smoking before
they reach high school," why not reach these "users,"
specifically impressionable young women, via women's
magazines? Unfortunately, this is the very place young women
are most likely to be influenced by smoking ads.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unwillingness of most women's magazines to omit
cigarette ads is purely financial -- they depend on the
support of the tobacco companies to stay afloat. But it is
ironic that, in doing so, these magazines are killing off
their own readership.
   Naomi M. Stearns
   Director of Social Work
   Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
   Boston
   ---
   Your article reports a welcome development to the extent
that many First Amendment experts have stressed that the
correct response to the objectionable "commercial speech" is
more speech -- not advertising bans.
   However, the financing of such counteradvertising by
higher taxes on cigarettes may be constitutionally
questionable because it amounts to forcing companies to pay
for the speech of their opponents.
   Besides, such social-issue advertising suffers from a lack
of clear-cut goals, apart from expressing opposition to a
particular behavior. Will it reduce smoking by 10%, or 5%, or
1%? Without specific bench marks, California officials and
anti-smoking groups will keep asking for more money, which
may be wasted, considering all we know about similar
campaigns against drugs or for belt-buckling.
   J.J. Boddewyn
   Professor
   Baruch College (CUNY)
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Albertson's Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   ABS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   ALBERTSON'S Inc., Boise, Idaho, said its board approved a
2-for-1 stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend,
payable June 29 to stock of record June 8. The food and drug
chain also declared a regular quarterly dividend on the
post-split shares equal to 12 cents a share, payable Aug. 25
to stock of record Aug. 10.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Burlington Resources Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BR UTH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Burlington Resources Inc. said its Meridian Oil
Inc. subsidiary agreed to buy the producing properties of
Unicon Producing Co. for $399 million.
   The acquisition covers about 500 billion cubic feet of
proved natural gas or equivalent reserves, nearly all of
which are in the San Juan Basin of northwest New Mexico,
where Meridian has a significant interest. Burlington, an
energy company, said the transaction is its largest energy
acquisition since 1985 and would boost Meridian's total
reserves about 11%. The transaction is subject to several
conditions, including Federal Trade Commission approval.
Burlington said it plans to complete the deal next month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unicon is a partnership of Union Texas Petroleum Holdings
Inc., Houston, and Kiewit Continental Inc., Norwalk, Conn.
Union Texas recently put itself up for sale.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   California Seen Wasting Away and Needing a Tax Gulp
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Let's say your state's budget, now $54 billion, had risen
by about half in real per-capita terms under the current
governor.
   Let's say, further, that your state had gone on the
greatest lock-up binge since Prohibition, more than tripling
its prison population in the past decade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And say that it was spending a third more per
public-school child, in real terms, than it was in 1975.
   And that its welfare program, already among the nation's
most generous, was locked into "cost-of-living allowances" of
11% a year.
   And that its spending on natural resources grew at thrice
the inflation rate in the 1980s, while the debt service on
bonds has shot up 62% in just two years.
   Would you feel guilty about shortchanging government and
admit it was time to double the gasoline tax and loosen what
limits exist on spending? If you were part of the business
establishment in California, you apparently would. Titans of
industry generally back Proposition 111, the great hope of
the state's (and the nation's) public sector on next
Tuesday's ballot.
   Somehow an impression exists that parsimony has prevailed
for too long. Notwithstanding what instead were the ample
'80s, Californians with a hand or a heart in government's act
believe they've ridden in the back of the prosperity bus
since the tax revolt hit in 1978. And Gov. George Deukmejian,
the steward of the state's greatest growth years, is
finishing eight years of attempted prudence, during which he
blue-penciled nearly $6 billion in additional legislated
spending, by fronting for his longtime foes.
   The reason? Prop. 111 has two faces. One is the side Mr.
Deukmejian drew up to deal with what are arguably real fiscal
emergencies. The other is the sop he threw to the mainline
spenders. Voters get double or nothing. To get putative
relief from traffic congestion -- the basic pitch for 111 --
they surrender a basic tenet of what Paul Gann got the
electorate to mandate in 1979: that government may grow in
step with inflation or population, but is not entitled to
keep pace with the income of the people if that rises faster.
As society grows richer, the state must get by on the (hefty)
trust fund that had amassed up to the tax revolt.
   Although the leash has proved a loose one -- a third of
the budget isn't covered by Gann -- it rubs some necks rawer
each year. The pain can be real when some programs are
favored while remaining parts of the budget are choked
tighter than even Mr. Gann intended.
   Mr. Deukmejian is tied to -- and proud of -- a policy of
imprisoning multitudes of felons. The presence of loads of
young, crime-prone residents may have as much to do with this
as policy, but the tab's the same either way: $20,000 a year
for each of the 92,000 inmates. (The governor is pushing a
plan to make them work more of it off.) California thus pays
dearly for the criminalization of substances -- more than $1
billion a year in court and confinement costs to the state
for drugs-only cases. Add to that the local jails. No
official is rethinking this policy.
   The schools have been a particular thorn in this
governor's side. It didn't attract nearly as much notice as
Prop. 111, but the education lobby got a revision of the Gann
spending limit passed two years ago. That measure put a floor
(40% of state spending) under the funding of kindergarten
through junior college, and built in various boosters. The
voters bought it.
   The Deukmejian administration still stews over that ploy,
some of whose excesses would be curbed under Prop. 111. But
in order to get teacher-union backing for the latest measure,
new money-bones were tossed. All the while, the schools have
gotten more to chew on than poor-mouthing would suggest.
Teacher compensation in the state nearly leads the nation and
an unusually fat layer of administrators oversee
special-grant programs, so it isn't surprising that per-pupil
expenditures are higher than ever in California.
Desegregation expenses, meantime, are $500 million a year --
"anything a judge will sign for," an analyst for the
Legislature says.
   A state lottery is pumping a billion dollars a year into
the classrooms, but it can't be used to build them, and
that's where the pinch is now. Enrollment is expected to
swell by about 200,000 next fall. Lots of the new kids don't
speak English and are otherwise no bundles of joy for the
schools. That's why more money doesn't go as far these days,
it's said.
   The Democrats holding the Legislature are battling Mr.
Deukmejian over the welfare COLAs, first written into law as
part of Gov. Ronald Reagan's relief "reform" act in 1971.
They automatically increase benefit checks, entitle new
recipients and expand programs, regardless of available
revenues and not subject to executive counteraction. The
governor points out that they were included to win opposition
agreement to corresponding changes by Mr. Reagan that were
then struck down by the courts. Welfare costs are the focal
point of a $3.6 billion budget-deficit fight in Sacramento, a
backdrop to Prop. 111.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Deukmejian actually has managed to scrimp
on public health, mental health and care for the disabled,
but the Medicaid pool is nearly dry. Federal policy makers
and judges are requiring hundreds of millions of dollars in
services for refugees and illegal aliens. Immigration is an
economic boon to California, but extension of social benefits
to all comers is a blank check that Gann-tied revenues may
not be able to cover.
   Finally, there is transportation, the supposed aim of
Prop. 111. Real state outlays in this area actually are
higher than in the early '80s. State Finance Director Jesse
Huff says this is because road money banked during Jerry
Brown's reign has been spent. The gas tax, earmarked for this
use, brings in half the effective revenue that it did in
1967, Mr. Huff says.
   A projected $18.5 billion is to be raised over a decade
from the higher gas and related taxes under Prop. 111, the
proceeds going to pavement, traffic engineering and mass
transit. That package itself raises important questions for
closer examination. But the relevance for this discussion is
that those funds won't be counted under the Gann limit. Add
the other changes in Gann and, according to economist Arthur
Laffer, more than $53 billion in incremental spending can
result over 10 years if politicians raise sufficient taxes.
Recall that's now the size of the entire budget.
   Mr. Laffer is a lonely opponent of Prop. 111. Some of his
warnings of dire economic effects seem overdrawn in light of
how California, geographically blessed, has prospered with a
high income tax and other burdens. But it must be remembered
that he was right about the results of Prop. 13, the
property-tax cut that initiated the state's boom. The
establishment that wants Prop. 111 and fought Prop. 13 was
wrong then. Why follow its lead today?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Retail Stores' Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's major retail stores reported sales of
1.651 trillion yen ($10.94 billion) in April, a 16% rise from
a year earlier when the introduction of a 3% consumption tax
curbed sales, the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry said.
   Japanese consumer demand has been supported by growing
income as the nation's economy continues to expand. In March,
however, retail sales fell 2%, the first annual decline in
more than five years. The ministry attributed the drop to
high year-earlier sales as consumers rushed to buy before
retail stores began raising prices to include the 3% tax.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Higher Borrowing Costs Cut Earnings
   At Japan Banks in Year Ended March 31
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.STB J.DKB J.SWB J.FUJ MBK J.HBL
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Profits tumbled at Japan's commercial banks in
the year ended March 31 as soaring interest rates and
financial instability boosted borrowing costs.
   Four official rate increases in the year, and the
accompanying increases in market interest rates that
followed, narrowed the margin between lending rates to
customers and the rates at which banks borrow funds for their
operations. By the end of the year, the Bank of Japan's
discount rate was 5.25%, more than double its level of 2.5% a
year earlier. The discount rate is the central bank's base
rate on loans to commercial banks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Competition for deposits, meanwhile, intensified in the
year as a result of the liberalization of interest rates. To
keep retail customers, banks have been forced to increase
rates on time deposits and other market-based instruments.
   The drop in earnings had been expected in the wake of the
recent sharp fall in Japanese financial markets and approval
of higher loan-loss reserves by the Ministry of Finance.
Analysts were still cautious about the banks' future.
   "I don't really see any indication that the worst is
over," said Simon Smithson, an analyst at Kleinwort Benson
International.
   While most institutions posted gains in operating profit
of more than 25%, their net interest income plunged. Pretax
profit at most banks dropped at least 25%. Only two
commercial banks, Tokyo Bank Ltd. and Hokkaido Takushoko Bank
Ltd., posted growth in pretax profits.
   The drop in the yen's value in the fiscal year compounded
the bank problems by increasing the value in yen of loans and
other assets denominated in foreign currencies. The banks
must meet new standards for capital-to-asset ratios set by
the Bank for International Settlements by March 1993. Because
the Tokyo stock market remains weak, banks will have
difficulty raising new equity capital to offset the higher
value of their overseas assets.
   The banks are expected to emphasize growth in
high-yielding domestic operations in the current year to
increase their capital ratios. But to keep overall growth in
assets low, they will have to choose their new business
carefully.
   "What you're going to see is a substantially reduced rate
of growth in assets. There'll be an intensified concentration
on quality rather than quantity," said Brian Waterhouse, an
analyst at James Capel Pacific. "It'll mean slower growth,
but not negative growth."
   Sumitomo Bank Ltd., traditionally Japan's highest-earning
bank, said consolidated pretax profit fell 14% in the year
ended March 31 to 374.35 billion yen ($2.48 billion) from
436.14 billion yen a year earlier. Net income was 11% lower
at 184.26 billion yen compared to 207.760 billion yen.
   Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. had a 23.1% drop in pretax
profit to 301.823 billion yen from 392.711 billion yen a year
earlier. Net dropped 27% to 144.966 billion yen from 199.004
billion yen.
   Consolidated pretax profit at Sanwa Bank Ltd. slipped 3.5%
to 324.064 billion yen in the year from 335.749 billion yen.
Net was 162.365 billion yen, up a slight 0.1% from 162.194
billion yen.
   Fuji Bank Ltd. posted 313.007 billion yen in consolidated
pretax profit in fiscal 1989, 22% below 400.643 billion yen
the previous year. Net was 153.986 billion yen, down 16% from
182.152 billion yen.
   Mitsubishi Bank reported pretax profit of 270.982 billion
yen in the year, 24% below 355.799 billion yen a year
earlier. Net was off 11% at 149.853 billion yen compared to
167.350 billion yen despite a sharp drop in extraordinary
charges.
   Revenue growth at Mitsui Bank Ltd. was slow in the year
ended March 31 compared to other major banks, adding to the
problems of high interest rates and market skittishness over
its merger with Taiyo Kobe Bank Ltd. Consolidated pretax
profit at Mitsui fell 24% to 130.521 billion yen from 172.029
billion yen. Net was down 7.7% at 72.008 billion yen compared
to 77.980 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   AEF TC CZP CHC TGU GNV HASI HINF MAWS PENV ASTA MCAWA MOBI
EFX OEC SMLS LGNT CLU
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange announced three
new stock listings, all initial public offerings, while the
American Stock Exchange announced three new stocks, two of
them initial public offerings.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Pacific Stock Exchange announced one and the National
Market System of the over-the-counter market announced four
new stock listings.
                                                                                                       

   On the Big Board, Alliance Global Environment Fund Inc., a
New York management investment firm, began trading Wednesday
under the symbol AEF.
                                                                                                       

   Thai Capital Fund Inc., a New York management investment
firm, began trading Wednesday under TC.
                                                                                                       

   Curragh Resources Inc., a Toronto producer of zinc and
lead concentrates, began trading Thursday under CZP.
                                                                                                       

   Joining the Amex, Celutel Inc., a Philadelphia phone
service company previously traded over the counter, began
trading Friday on a "when issued" basis under CLU.WI.
                                                                                                       

   Chiles Offshore Corporation, a Houston drilling rig owner
and operator, began trading Thursday under CHC.
                                                                                                       

   Templeton Global Utilities Inc., a St. Petersburg, Fla.,
management investment firm, began trading Thursday under TGU.
   On the Pacific Exchange, Geneva Steel, a Vineyard, Utah,
steel mill owner and operator, began trading on Wednesday
under GNV.
                                                                                                       

   On the OTC market, Health Advancement Services Inc., a
Tempe, Arizona, provider of worksite health evaluations,
began trading under HASI.
                                                                                                       

   Healthinfusion Inc., a Miami owner and operator of home
care and infusion therapy facilities, began trading under
HINF.
                                                                                                       

   Mid-American Waste, a Canal Winchester, Ohio, solid waste
management business, began trading under MAWS.
                                                                                                       

   Pinnacle Environmental, a Salt Lake City industrial
asbestos abatement company, began trading under PENV.
                                                                                                       

   The American Stock Exchange began trading options on the
over-the-counter stock of AST Research Inc., Irvine, Calif.,
a desktop computer systems maker, under ASQ and on McCaw
Cellular Communications Inc., Kirkland, Washington-based,
owner and operator of phone systems, under MWQ. It also began
trading options on Molecular Biosystems Inc., San Diego, a
maker of diagnostic and research products, under MBQ.
                                                                                                       

   The Pacific Stock Exchange began trading options on
Equifax Inc., an Atlanta risk management and financial
control services company, under EFX, and Ohio Edison Co., an
Akron utility, under OEC.
                                                                                                       

   The Chicago Board Options Exchange began trading options
on SciMed Life Systems Inc., a Maplegrove, Minn., maker of
disposable medical products, under SMLS, and options on
Legent Corp., a Vienna, Va., supplier of productivity
enhancement system software, under LGNT.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Designers Cater to Japan's Love of Logos
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN X-LVI
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- When designer Bill Robinson started selling his
classy men's sportswear in Japan last year, he had to do two
things he'd never done before: offer a line of cotton sweat
shirts, and abandon his commitment to the understated by
stitching a tiny logo on the chest.
   "This will be an eye-catcher," says Toru Hatori, a
spokesman for Kindwear Corp., a Tokyo apparel maker producing
the clothes under license. "It's certainly necessary for the
Japanese market," he adds, where showing the name is what
counts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japanese consumers have tastes and needs in fashion that
often puzzle American retailers. Teen-agers snap up
Philadelphia Phillies jerseys, though many have never heard
of the team. Outmoded U.S. brands such as Pinky &amp; Dianne
become a fad among secretaries. Many Japanese dress up even
on weekends, shopping at department stores in suits and
dresses. But in the summer, Japanese bankers and brokers
think nothing of working in short-sleeved dress shirts.
   Figuring out local preferences may well be worthwhile.
Young Japanese in particular are increasingly seeking foreign
brands, influenced by detailed articles on them in such
fashion magazines as "Fineboys." As Japan's huge apparel
market -- in which designer brands alone account for annual
sales of two trillion yen ($13 billion) -- welcomes more U.S.
names, American companies face a growing opportunity.
   One key to successful marketing in Japan is to emblazon
products with a name. Logos, slapped onto anything from
umbrellas to socks to toilet seat covers, can never be too
obvious. Michiko Koshino, a London-based Japanese casual wear
designer, says one of the best-selling items in her business,
which has annual sales of three billion yen, is a winter
jacket whose entire back is covered with her logo, Michiko
London Koshino, in thick capital letters. The names don't
even have to make sense: Other popular Japanese logos include
Posh Boy, Papas and Pink House.
   Many Japanese have a tremendous fondness for Americana,
which offers companies easy promotional strategies. Levi
Strauss &amp; Co.'s Japanese subsidiary saw its sales soar after
launching an advertising campaign 12 years ago that claimed
James Dean, Marilyn Monroe and John Wayne all wore Levi's
jeans. In 1978, only 6% of Japanese identified Levi's as a
preferred brand in surveys, but the figure shot up to 51%
last year, the company says.
   Of course, appealing to the Japanese also requires some
subtle tactics. Consumers crowd the streets dressed in
surprisingly similar clothes, and yet many like to feel
they're picking out something exclusive. Japanese retailers
say they address this problem by displaying only a few items
at a time in the same size and color, though more are in
stock.
   Quality is one area in which, in the eyes of Japanese
consumers, many U.S. companies still could stand to improve.
An official at a Japanese apparel maker says he recently
rejected a high-priced American T-shirt because he found that
the seams had little stitching holes when he stretched the
shirt. Japanese consumers "expect high-quality items to
include hidden effort, even in areas that don't show," says
the official, who asked not to be identified. "Whether that's
really necessary is a different matter."
   But sometimes, American retailers can attract consumers by
being just plain American, according to retail conglomerate
Aeon Group. The company, which a few years ago bought Talbots
Inc., a Hingham, Mass., women's clothing retailer, made its
Tokyo store look exactly like its U.S. stores. It imports
conservative linen dresses in colors so bright that most
Tokyo retailers would immediately tone them down. But the
store's sales are strong enough that the 200 million yen
sales projection for this year may have to be upgraded, says
Motoya Okada, president of Talbots's Japanese operation.
"We're selling more than we thought," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Shearson Payout Is Omitted
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. directors
omitted the quarterly dividend of 18.75 cents a share last
paid April 2. American Express Co., which owns about 60% of
Shearson, is acquiring the common shares it doesn't already
own of the brokerage and investment banking company, and the
dividend omission is among terms of the pending merger
agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equity Market Index Changed
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Johnson &amp; Johnson is being moved to the
pharmaceuticals industry group of the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index, effective today. The change reflects an enlargement of
the pharmaceuticals group to include medicines sold over the
counter, as well as prescription drugs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Victoria's Secret?
   Keep Earnings Up
   With Garter Belts
   ---
   Racy Catalog Is Controversial,
   Popular, and Showing Up
   In Very Unlikely Places
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LTD
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Victoria's Secret catalog, the one with the attractive
models wearing tiny little underthings that cost a fortune
per square inch, is surfacing in the most unlikely places.
   Like at Popkin &amp; Stern, a large St. Louis law firm.
Attorney Jeff Michelman once asked his secretary to send a
local publisher a copy of Insight, a sober magazine of
politics and opinion, along with a note about an article on
free speech. Then he left the magazine on his desk. Big
mistake. Also on his desk lay a Victoria's Secret catalog,
which -- you guessed it -- the secretary mailed instead.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The puzzled publisher called Mr. Michelman to ask what,
exactly, was the relationship between lingerie and free
speech. "I went through the color spectrum from pale to red
and back to pale again," Mr. Michelman says.
   Which doesn't explain, of course, what a Victoria's Secret
catalog was doing on Mr. Michelman's mahogany desk to begin
with. But that's the point: The glossy catalog of see-through
lace camisoles, floral garter belts and sheer teddies now can
be found in boardrooms as well as bedrooms, on desk tops as
well as coffee tables -- and in Richard Emory's briefcase.
Says Mr. Emory, a St. Louis real-estate investor: "It takes
the edge off an otherwise difficult day. It's sort of like a
martini on paper."
   As a result, the controversial catalog that pioneered sexy
underwear as fashion has become one of the fastest growing
mail-order businesses. It now offers a lot more than garter
belts, G-strings and sexy poses, but it's clear what makes a
lot of people pick it up. "I usually browse through it right
when I open the mailbox, and leave the bills," says Thomas
Buell of Dallas. And he's an actuary.
   You can find Mr. Buell's catalog on the coffee table along
with his sports magazines. But to him, it's more than just a
display piece. Last year, Mr. Buell ordered a pair of silk
boxer shorts with geese and ducks for $40. With his willpower
weakened, he then visited a Victoria's Secret store and
bought $300 more worth of briefs. After all, the paisley went
with his sheets and comforter. "It's going to take me a year
to pay off my underwear," he says glumly.
   The company, which is a division of Limited Inc., won't
disclose numbers, but it says sales and earnings doubled last
year. Analysts estimate sales have increased to $120 million
from under $30 million four years ago. As anyone who's on the
mailing list can attest, there seems to be a new catalog
every week -- actually there are about 15 a year -- but the
company won't say how many millions are delivered.
   Among the catalogs for popcorn, hunting gear, chocolate
and thimbles, it's easy to see why Victoria's Secret stands
out. "When you get Lands' End, what are you going to do,
fantasize that you're fishing?" asks Victoria Brown, a Wall
Street analyst and portfolio manager.
   To hear the company talk about it, the catalog has
liberated generations of repressed pajama wearers. "It's been
a process of educating the entire population that lingerie
can be fun, sensuous, fashionable, and that it doesn't have
to be purely functional," says Cynthia Fedus, president of
Victoria's Secret Catalogue. "We're selling hope."
   The company also has 500 stores, all in the U.S. Two
hundred have opened in the past two years, and another 75 are
scheduled for this year. But the catalog, which operates
independent of the stores, is still critical, and Gregg Young
can tell you one reason why. Mr. Young once went into a
Victoria's Secret store to buy some underwear for his
girlfriend. He nervously selected a pair of black satin
panties. Then, unfortunately, he was forced to follow the
saleswoman around the store while she looked for the matching
garter belt and bra.
   "I was the only guy in the store," says Mr. Young, who
swears the search for the garter belt took more than 30
minutes. "I almost fainted."
   Now, Mr. Young shops in the catalog -- so far, spending
about $800 on frilly garments.
   Women still account for most sales, but the company is
plying more and more men, including those on Wall Street.
Limited makes sure analysts are kept up to date on the latest
frills. When company executives brief analysts, "the first
thing they do is ask if we want to see the new catalog," says
Barry Bryant, an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities. He
in turn stocks up on back issues in a file discreetly labeled
"Limited Miscellaneous." Mr. Bryant explains: "I use them as
an inducement for traders and salesmen to come into my
office."
   It took a while for the catalog to gain such a mainstream
following. Founded in 1977 in San Francisco, the business was
initially several low-brow lingerie stores and a tacky
mail-order catalog. The name poked fun at the Victorians'
outward prudishness.
   Leslie Wexner, Limited's chairman, bought the business in
1982 in a stock transaction valued at $1 million. The stores
were remodeled into potpourri-scented boutiques, with
spaghetti straps perfectly aligned and panties always
plumped.
   Meanwhile, the catalog limped along. It had more flesh
than fabric, picturing near-naked men and women groping for
each other in tawdry bedroom scenes. The publication
generated a storm of angry letters and calls.
   So the book was overhauled two years ago. To damp its
prurient reputation and appeal to a wider audience, the
catalog has been given a mannered, aristocratic look and is
filled with British affectations. The catalog price is listed
in pounds (two) as well as dollars (three), although it's
usually mailed for free. The word "pajamas" is spelled
"pyjamas," and men in boxer shorts read the Financial Times.
If you call the 800 number to place an order, the voice on
the answering machine speaks with a British accent.
   The catalog also tries to entice with some breathless
text. "Victoria's Secret satin and lace lingerie sets evening
alight. . . . Beginning the day with beautiful, unusual
lingerie can change her entire outlook."
   The catalog's sexy sleepwear and underwear ("a rich design
of peacock satin with black lace overlay creates the beauty
of the demi-bra and bikini") constitutes about half the
publication. There's a growing line of sportswear and evening
wear, and last year the company added toiletries, fragrances
and the boxer shorts. Men and women are no longer
photographed together. Complaints have slowed down.
   But they haven't stopped. Critics assert that dressing up
models in skimpy lingerie, amid the accouterments of a
luxurious boudoir, is simply exploitation with the veneer of
Victorian respectability.
   "Women are posed in postures of submission, and they're on
display," says Norma Ramos, general counsel for Women Against
Pornography, a New York-based advocacy group. Ms. Ramos says
the catalog is similar to ads for blue jeans, cars and other
products that use women's bodies to sell products. "Women get
the message that they should be sexually available," she
says.
   The company disputes that, but acknowledges that it does
strive to shock. "We've always had a certain segment of the
population that find both the store and the catalog
offensive," says Howard Gross, chief executive officer and
president of Victoria's Secret Stores. "But to be honest, if
we don't get some complaints we feel we aren't doing our
job."
   Despite the controversy, the catalog and the stores have
influenced how lingerie is marketed. Department stores used
to primarily sell low-margin "foundations" (bras and
girdles), and Frederick's of Hollywood offered naughty
nightwear.
   Today, big stores like Bloomingdale's run full-page
underwear ads of women in seductive poses and offer a richer
variety of frilly sleepwear. Frederick's, meanwhile, has
become more conservative, and its catalog is now a
less-upscale version of Victoria's Secret.
   Says Richard Grunsten, president of GSP Marketing Service
in Chicago, which produces catalogs: "Victoria's Secret
legitimized lingerie as something that's not kinky, but
something that's legitimate apparel."
   Well, maybe. A high-school theology teacher in Houston and
her husband, a prominent lawyer, hide their catalog when
guests arrive, and leave the National Geographic and Parent
magazines on the coffee table. The teacher asks -- insists,
actually -- that she not be identified. "If you're doing a
story on the Smithsonian magazine, you can use my name," she
says, "but not about this."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   New Look at a Man of Letters
   ----
   By Richard Locke
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<LP>
   In Centennial Park in Nashville, Tenn., "The Athens of the
South," there's a full-sized, concrete replica of the
Parthenon, and up there on the pediment with all the other
deities sits a statue of Ganymede, the cupbearer of the gods.
The model for this Ganymede of 1922 was eight-year-old
Randall Jarrell, who so charmingly lectured the sculptors
about Greek myths that they asked to adopt him ("I would have
gone like that") and who eventually became one of the great
American men of letters of this century. Poet, critic,
novelist, editor, translator, teacher, children's book
writer, the creator of 27 books in a 25-year career, Jarrell
is the often ebullient subject of this new life and works by
William H. Pritchard (Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux, 338 pages,
$25), himself a distinguished critic and biographer of Robert
Frost and other modern poets.
   Jarrell "always seemed more alive than other people, as if
constantly tuned up to the concert pitch that most people,
including poets, can maintain only for short and fortunate
stretches," wrote the poet Elizabeth Bishop, one of the fond
and sometimes exasperated circle of his friends that included
Robert Lowell, John Berryman, Hannah Arendt, Peter Taylor,
Adrienne Rich and a dozen other cultural gods and goddesses.
Enfant terrible and wit, Jarrell was bedazzling, merry,
intimidating, difficult, cruel, inspiring, incomparably
generous. And if we can't speak of an Age of Jarrell, as we
might speak of an Age of Lowell (meaning the dark, tormented,
rich midcentury decades), we can't forget that it was Randall
Jarrell who discovered the American genius of Whitman and
Frost and wrote inimitably of Lowell and Bishop and Marianne
Moore and William Carlos Williams. He was famous for his
wisecracks and terrifying one-liners, but (as Lowell said)
praise "was the glory of Randall's criticism."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With all great men and women of letters, right or wrong
judgments matter less than how they get to them: We read
Jarrell for the writing, not the final verdicts, for his
articulation of a way of being in the world. His
unsystematic, unacademic, colloquial style epitomizes the
energy and delight of America discovering itself and European
culture right after World War II. Although today Jarrell's
reviews and articles may seem too journalistic and
philosophically naive to some, it's Mr. Pritchard's argument
that Jarrell is seriously misprized and misread as both a
critic and poet.
   His student years at Vanderbilt were spent with mentors
such as John Crowe Ransom, Allen Tate and Robert Penn Warren
(the conservative Southern Agrarians and Fugitives of the
30s, the New Critics of the 40s), but Jarrell (a "radical
liberal") ducked politics and ideological and scholastic
controversy. His criticism was undogmatically aesthetic and
unmoralistically moral. He was a literary writer in love with
adjectives and metaphors: His prose transcends its occasions
and takes on a gleeful creative life of its own that embodies
his belief that precise, enthusiastic reading and responding
could create a true American civilization. With what he
called "a sad heart at the supermarket," he was no populist
but a cultural democrat. The following lines from his 1950
essay "The Obscurity of the Poet" in his greatest book
"Poetry and the Age" (available from the Ecco Press) have a
new vitality in the era of Vaclav Havel:
   "Art matters not merely because it is the most magnificent
ornament and the most nearly unfailing occupation of our
lives, but because it is life itself. From Christ to Freud we
have believed that, if we know the truth, the truth will set
us free: art is indispensable because so much of this truth
can be learned through works of art and through works of art
alone . . . And all these things, by their very nature,
demand to be shared; if we are satisfied to know these things
ourselves, and to look with superiority or indifference at
those who do not have that knowledge, we have made a refusal
that corrupts us as surely as anything can. . . . One of the
oldest, deepest, and most nearly conclusive attractions of
democracy is manifested in our feeling that through it not
only material but also spiritual goods can be shared: that in
a democracy bread and justice, education and art, will be
accessible to everybody."
   Mr. Pritchard guides us through Jarrell's youth in
Nashville and Southern California; his years at Kenyon
College in Ohio where he lived with Lowell and Peter Taylor
and was "instructor in English and Director of Tennis"; his 3
1/2 years in the Army Air Corps training navigators and
working toward some of his strong war poems; his nearly 20
happy years teaching at a Southern women's college in
Greensboro, N.C.; his two marriages; his extraordinary
friendships; and his appetite for sports cars, cats, Chekhov,
John Kennedy, Donatello, Mahler, pro football (especially
Johnny Unitas), Balanchine and the Brothers Grimm.
   Jarrell suffered a nervous breakdown in his last years,
made a suicide attempt at 51, then recovered his health but
died in a still-controversial car accident (which Mr.
Pritchard believes was not a suicide) in October 1965.
   Mr. Pritchard's fine biography and its companion volume,
his "Randall Jarrell: Selected Poems" (Farrar, Straus &amp;
Giroux, 115 pages, $17.95) -- presenting 50 of Jarrell's 290
poems from 1941 through 1964, including several from his
great last collection, "The Lost World," published a few
months before he died -- afford us an opportunity to approach
this remarkable literary figure and his world anew.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Trade Deficit Shrank
   During the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. merchandise trade deficit shrank to
$26.37 billion in the first quarter, on a balance-of-payments
basis, the smallest gap since the fourth quarter of 1983, the
Commerce Department reported.
   Both exports and imports set records. The department said
exports grew 4.7%, to $96.04 billion, while imports, boosted
by the highest volume of oil in more than 12 years, rose 1.6%
to $122.42 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the fourth quarter, the deficit was $28.75 billion, a
slight revision from the department's initial calculation of
$28.81 billion for the period.
   The quarterly balance-of-payments report differs from the
government's monthly merchandise trade numbers by excluding
military trade and making certain adjustments for timing,
insurance coverage and valuation. The monthly trade reports
are followed more closely than the quarterly numbers, but
generally both show the same trends.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Major Japanese Steel Concerns Report
   Record Pretax Profit for Fiscal 1989
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.NIP J.KOB J.SMM J.KWS J.NSS J.NKK
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Most of Japan's six major steel companies Friday
reported record pretax earnings in fiscal 1989 ended on March
31, 1990, owing to strong domestic demand.
   Only NKK Corp., the second largest manufacturer, showed a
pretax earnings decline. NKK's pretax earnings declined 19%,
mostly as a result of a change in the way the company
measures depreciation costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The others -- Nippon Steel Corp., Kobe Steel Ltd.,
Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd., Kawasaki Steel Corp., and
Nisshin Steel Co., reported healthy pretax profit growth,
though Sumitomo's net income declined, as did NKK's.
   Nippon Steel, Sumitomo Metal Industries and Kawasaki Steel
decided to increase their dividends for the year.
   Company officials said vigorous demand from such major
domestic steel users as construction companies, auto makers
and machinery manufacturers helped buoy sales and profit,
though recovering export prices also made contributions.
   "This was the best year we have ever had," an official at
Nippon Steel said. "Domestic demand was very strong because
of economic growth and that accounted for most of the gains."
   "Things were very good, overall," an official at Kobe
Steel agreed. "Exports to some countries like China were
sluggish, but domestic demand more than made up for the
drop."
   The brisk earnings gains in the latest reporting year for
most companies presented a stark contrast with their
performance only a few years back when, battered by the yen's
sharp upturn and by the growing inroads into the world market
by other Asian countries like South Korea and Taiwan, they
suffered serious setbacks. In an attempt to tide over the
trouble, the steel companies laid off workers and branched
into new areas of business.
   Nippon Steel's pretax earnings climbed 26% to 202.34
billion yen ($1.34 billion) from 160.361 billion yen. Net
income showed a 55% upsurge, going up to 97.054 billion yen,
or 14.09 yen a share, from 62.728 billion yen, or 9.45 yen a
share.
   Sales were 2.573 trillion yen, up 7.9% from 2.385 trillion
yen.
   Nippon Steel, encouraged by its performance, decided to
raise the dividend for the year to six yen from five yen in
the previous fiscal year.
   Nippon Steel's strong performance came despite an 83% jump
in extraordinary losses, a result of investment under its
medium-range program to improve production efficiency and
streamline operations.
   The company, however, posted extraordinary gains of 6.128
billion yen, though it had no such profit in fiscal 1988.
   Steel sales increased 4.8% to 2.242 trillion yen, while
the engineering division showed a 35% jump with sales at
259.400 billion yen.
   Exports dipped 3.7% to 600.001 billion yen. Officials at
Nippon Steel, as did those at other companies, said shipments
to China registered a conspicuous drop as that country pushed
an economic adjustment program.
   NKK's pretax earnings were 82.081 billion yen, in contrast
with 101.058 billion yen in the previous fiscal year. Net
income fell 27% to 30.847 billion yen, or 8.75 yen a share,
from 42.013 billion yen, or 13.17 yen a share.
   Sales showed a modest 1.3% gain, inching to 1.277 trillion
yen from 1.261 trillion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Summer Electric Capacity Seen Meeting
   Demand, but Some Brownouts Predicted
   ----
   By Bill Paul
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9C
</SO>
<CO>
   MHP
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Residents of the nation's capital should hope that the
only hot air they get next month is the political kind.
   The North American Electric Reliability Council predicted
that, because of the temporary outage of a big power plant,
hotter-than-normal weather in June may necessitate voltage
reductions, also known as brownouts, in the
Washington-Baltimore area.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While generally imperceptible, voltage reductions force
machines to work harder, making them more trouble-prone.
Moreover, a utility doesn't trim its output until after it
has publicly appealed to its customers to voluntarily turn
off air conditioners and other electrical appliances.
   Otherwise, said the utility industry's Princeton,
N.J.-based forecasting unit, there should generally be enough
electrical capacity to meet this summer's peak demands. It
added, however, that under certain circumstances -- very hot
weather and unexpected plant outages -- the Southeast and
Mid-Atlantic regions could have problems. It further said
that Midwest utilities may be forced to trim sales to other
regions if an unexpectedly high number of power plants go
down.
   Two private power-supply forecasters offered somewhat
different assessments. In Lexington, Mass., Larry Mackovich,
director of electricity services for McGraw-Hill Co.'s DRI
Energy unit, said the only area where problems might occur
this summer is the Mid-Atlantic region, specifically,
Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland.
   Noting that utilities in that region are operating with
only about a 13% reserve margin -- 17% to 20% is preferred --
Mr. Mackovich said there is a 50% chance of voltage
reductions, and a 10% to 15% chance of rolling blackouts,
during the first half of August, but only if the weather is
hot and if there are unexpected plant outages.
   Rolling blackouts occur when one section after another of
a utility's service territory is blacked out by the utility,
generally for a few hours at a time. Utilities employ the
tactic only after brownouts have failed.
   In New York, Marie Corio, president of Applied Economic
Research Co., said the greater problem is in Virginia and
North and South Carolina. Ms. Corio explained that a number
of plants in that region aren't expected to be available this
summer. Thus, she said, if the weather's hot, there's a 50%
chance of brownouts and a 10% or so chance of rolling
blackouts in Virginia and the Carolinas in July and August.
   Ms. Corio agreed with Mr. Mackovich's assessment of
Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland. She further agreed
with the Council that Midwest utilities might have to trim
their "off-system" sales; Mr. Mackovich doubted that would
happen. Both said they didn't know enough about the
Baltimore-Washington situation to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Machine Tool
   Orders in April
   Were Up 19%
   ---
   Small Manufacturers Aren't
   Feeling a Credit Crunch,
   Industry Executives Say
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   The nation's manufacturers are buying machinery somewhat
more willingly than they did three months ago, machine tool
producers say. And there's no indication so far that even
small manufacturers are feeling a credit crunch, industry
executives add.
   U.S. machine tool plants in April received $289.5 million
of orders, a 19% rise from $242.6 million a year earlier,
according to the NMTBA -- The Association for Manufacturing
Technology , a McLean, Va., trade group. Last month's orders
were up 8.9% from March, and were 49% higher than February's
$194.6 million, this year's low.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unlike March, when a big Soviet order bolstered the total,
the April rise resulted from increased ordering by U.S.
factories.
   However, machine tool distributors, who handle
foreign-made machines as well as those produced in the U.S.,
reported a sharp drop in orders during April. An order index
published by the American Machine Tool Distributors'
Association, Rockville Pike, Md., dropped 27% from the
year-earlier month. The index is quite volatile, and the
March report was unusually strong, which suggests that the
April drop may result from an accidental bunching of orders
rather than the start of a downtrend.
   Machine tools are complex part-making machines ranging
from computer-controlled lathes and machining centers to
metal-forming presses. Orders are a good indicator of
spending by durable-goods manufacturers because machine tools
shape most metal parts.
   "Business is very good," said Stephen M. Peterson, vice
president, sales, for Giddings &amp; Lewis Inc., Fond du Lac,
Wis. "We see some real confidence out there among our
customers."
   Jet engine manufacturers, construction equipment concerns
and pump manufacturers have been ordering actively, Mr.
Peterson said. "We're getting some military business, though
not as much as last year, and there's quite a bit of activity
in the oil country" after a prolonged period when the oil
field equipment industry was dormant.
   Also, Giddings &amp; Lewis recently sold two
computer-controlled manufacturing cells in the Far East, one
in Singapore and the other in Taiwan, he said. Cells consist
of several machine tools served by automated
materials-handling equipment and controlled by a computer
that can make a variety of parts without a human operator.
   "Our second quarter is better than the first," said Donald
D. Bowers, president of Leblond Makino Machine Tool Co.,
Mason, Ohio. "Companies committed to long-term objectives" in
improving productivity and product quality "are ordering
equipment to carry out those programs," he added. But other
companies that base their equipment buying on the immediate
business outlook are holding back.
   Auto companies and auto suppliers remain a weak spot, said
Harold J. Winch, president of Minster Machine Co., a major
producer of stamping presses in Minster, Ohio. "They're
weighing a lot of decisions right now, including plastic
versus metal parts, government fuel economy standards, clean
air legislation and next year's auto sales outlook." Until
they hash out those decisions, auto concerns are deferring
some capital spending decisions.
   Machine tool producers frequently sell to small machine
shops, which would be among the marginal borrowers denied
loans in a credit crunch. So far, at least, that doesn't
appear to be happening, machine tool executives say.
   "I haven't seen any evidence of a credit crunch," said
Minster Machine's Mr. Winch. "A company with a decent balance
sheet doesn't have any more trouble getting a loan" than it
did last year.
   There has been concern that banks would tighten lending
standards following the high loan losses sustained by banks
and thrifts, and the resulting closer scrutiny of bank loan
portfolios by government regulators. There's been some
tightening on real estate development lending, but
manufacturing has been affected relatively little so far.
   "There is no evidence of a credit crisis . . . nor is
there much reason to expect one," said Gail D. Fosler, chief
economist for the Conference Board, a New York business and
economic research group. The slower growth in bank loans
results from lower loan demand in a slow-growing economy
rather than more stringent lending standards, she said.
   April orders for lathes, grinders, milling machines,
machining centers, boring mills and other machines that shape
metal parts by cutting rose 35% to $206.9 million from $152.8
million a year earlier. However, April 1989 was the first
month of an order slowdown by the auto industry, after 18
months of active buying, making for an easier comparison.
Nonetheless, the latest month's orders were up 8.9% from
March's $198.2 million, despite the inclusion in March of a
$38 million Soviet order received by Cross &amp; Trecker Corp.,
Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
   Orders last month for metal-forming presses and other
machines to shape metal with pressure were $82.6 million, the
NMTBA said, down 8% from the year-earlier month's $89.8
million, but up 22% from $67.7 million in March.
   Shipments of all types of machine tools by domestic plants
totaled $258.2 million, a 3.5% rise from $249.6 million in
April 1989.
   ---
                   April 1990    March 1990    April 1989
                                                                                                       

 Comparative new orders for metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ......  $187,650,000  $132,600,000  $138,500,000
 Foreign .......    19,200,000    65,600,000    14,300,000
   Total .......   206,850,000   198,200,000   152,800,000
   Four-month total for 1990: $662,500,000; for 1989:
$755,350,000.
                                                                                                       

 Metal-forming machine orders:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ......   $77,250,000   $56,950,000   $76,400,000
 Foreign .......     5,350,000    10,700,000    13,350,000
   Total .......    82,600,000    67,650,000    89,750,000
   Four-month total for 1990: $288,650,000; for 1989:
$290,500,000.
                                                                                                       

 Comparative shipment of metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic .....   $141,750,000  $179,800,000  $168,350,000
 Foreign ......     27,300,000    34,350,000    15,700,000
   Total ......    169,050,000   214,150,000   184,050,000
   Four-month total for 1990: $714,900,000; for 1989:
$665,600,000.
                                                                                                       

 Metal-forming machine shipments:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic .....    $76,700,000   $66,450,000   $58,800,000
 Foreign ......     12,450,000     8,300,000     6,700,000
   Total ......     89,150,000    74,750,000    65,500,000
   Four-month total for 1990: $326,550,000; for 1989:
$271,600,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Models
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   There has been quite a bit of talk recently about how
individuals need role models, mostly, it seems, in law
school. Country singer Reba McEntire had an interesting
insight into all this while addressing, not a college, but a
Tennessee grade-school's commencement. She told the kids to
be careful not to mislead their younger school colleagues,
noting that her own idols were actually kids a few years
older than herself. Her advice: "Kids in the first grade will
be looking up to you, so watch what you say or do."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM's Plan to Boost Pensions Criticized;
   Executives Regret Making Issue Public
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Stung by criticism of a plan that will sharply
boost their pensions, General Motors Corp. Chairman Roger B.
Smith and his successor, Robert C. Stempel, said they
probably wouldn't put such an issue to a shareholder vote
again.
   GM shareholders approved the plan by an 83% to 17% margin
Friday. While the vote was lopsided, the proposal to boost
executive pensions attracted the most anti-management ballots
of any issue on the GM proxy this year. Now that it has
passed, one result will be that Mr. Smith, who retires August
1, will see his annual pension benefit nearly double to $1.2
million a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, GM also disclosed:
   -- It plans to increase its European vehicle-making
capacity by 25% to 2 million vehicles by the mid-1990s, in
part by building cars in a joint venture with East German
auto maker Automobilewerke Eisenach. The Eisenach venture
will begin production this year at a rate of 10,000 cars
annually, but GM officials say they hope eventually to
increase output to 150,000 cars annually.
   -- It will push in contract talks this summer to get the
United Auto Workers union to accept three-shift production
plans at U.S. factories. GM currently runs three European
factories on three shift production schedules, and that is a
major factor in the record profits GM is reaping from its
European car operations. UAW officials have balked at
accepting three-shift production in the U.S., in part because
they suspect it will allow GM to shut more U.S. plants.
   But the hottest issue at the annual meeting was clearly
pensions. The plan to give 3,350 top executives fatter
retirement benefits drew fire from a broad spectrum of GM
constituents ranging from big shareholders to members of the
United Auto Workers union. Shareholders gathered in the
cavernous Fisher Theatre in downtown Detroit cheered
opponents of the plan and booed Mr. Smith when he spoke to
defend it as a reasonable effort to make GM's executive
benefits more competitive.
   Afterward, Mr. Smith and Mr. Stempel declared that the
outcry had convinced them to think twice about again going
public with an issue that could be settled privately by GM's
board.
   "It's an experiment in corporate governance that's gone
astray," Mr. Smith told shareholders. Later, he added: "If
this is something that gets blown out of proportion by the
press and damages our reputation, it doesn't help us."
   Mr. Smith argued that GM was losing "good people" because
its pension benefits were in the bottom 21% of a sample of
big U.S. companies. Pressed to elaborate, Mr. Smith declared
that GM had lost "about 60 {managers} here in the last couple
of months to competitors . . . we lost them all the way up
and down, {from} plant managers {to} paint superintendents.
They were experienced people we need to run our programs."
   With the new pension program, GM's white-collar pensions
will still be in the bottom 39% of large U.S. companies, Mr.
Smith said.
   Mr. Stempel, seated at Mr. Smith's right hand during a
press conference, seconded the chairman's feelings about
sharing such issues with the public.
   "We're certainly going to use judgment in what we bring
forward" to shareholders in the future, he said. However, Mr.
Stempel added GM should get credit for airing the executive
pension issue before the start of contract talks with the
United Auto Workers union this summer.
   "I would certainly much rather go into bargaining with the
UAW knowing where we are, as opposed to going through
bargaining and all of a sudden have a surprise," Mr. Stempel
said.
   Indeed, GM badly hurt its labor relations in 1982 when it
won concessions from the UAW and then announced fat executive
bonuses shortly after the union contract was signed.
   But UAW leaders showed little appreciation Friday for the
advance notice.
   "It's unfortunate that GM stockholders have affirmed the
corporation's plans to award unjustifiable pension increases
to already overpaid GM executives," said UAW vice president
Stephen P. Yokich, head of the UAW's GM department.
   And some big GM shareholders who opposed the pension plan
didn't quit after the votes were tallied.
   "GM would make much better use of this money by investing
in product research and development, plant modernization or
directing the funds" to beef up the company's pension assets,
said Michigan State Treasurer Robert A. Bowman, who manages
retirement funds holding some 8.8 million GM shares. New York
City's pension fund also criticized the plan, saying it
"unduly benefits those who are currently retiring."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Plans to Raise Fees
   For Franchisees in Parks
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Department of the Interior said it plans to raise the
franchise fees it charges private companies to operate in
certain national parks.
   Concessionaires operating in parks that post more than $1
million in sales would pay 22% of gross revenues to the
government; the average now is 2.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Monopolistic concession contracts have been criticized by
those who believe the agreements are too favorable to private
concerns. MCA Inc. pays 0.75% of gross revenues to provide
services in Yosemite National Park. In 1989, the
entertainment company had revenue from Yosemite of about $85
million, and paid the U.S. a $635,772 fee.
   Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan ordered a review of
concessions policy nationwide last December. Under his plan
to raise fees, 5% of revenues would go to the U.S. Treasury's
general fund, and 17% would be returned to the park for
maintenance and upgrades.
   Mr. Lujan also said he wants to reduce concessionaires'
ownership interest in park facilities. For example, the
Interior Department said it would cost the government as much
as $300 million to buy out MCA's interest in Yosemite. Under
the plan, the department could order the concessionaire to
use the 17% of its fee toward reducing its ownership
interest, until eventually the government would own the
facilities. The agency also plans administratively to shorten
concession contracts' duration and to review franchise fees
more frequently.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC, Southwestern Bell
   Form Consortium for Bid
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST SBC TEL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   WELLINGTON -- OTC Ltd. of Australia said it has formed a
consortium with Southwestern Bell Corp. of the U.S. to bid
for Telecom Corp.
   The government is selling New Zealand's state-owned
telephone company as part of a program to repay debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the Commerce Commission, New Zealand's antitrust
regulator, said that it has declined to give initial
clearance to OTC to make a bid. A fuller investigation of
OTC's application will be made immediately, the regulator
said.
   OTC, owned by the Australian government, has a monopoly on
Australia's international telecommunications.
   Peter Shaw, general manager of OTC's international
division, said OTC and Southwestern Bell have had talks with
a number of New Zealand companies about expanding the
consortium.
   "Nothing has been resolved there yet," said Mr. Shaw, who
wouldn't identify the local companies. OTC already has
business connections with Telecom through work on
communications links between Australia and New Zealand, he
said.
   Mr. Shaw declined to give details of the consortium's
financial arrangements, but said Southwestern Bell is the
major partner in the venture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Personal Income
   And Spending Rose
   In Latest Month
   ----
   By Katherine Walsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Consumers continued to reflect optimism last
month despite an increasingly cloudy economic picture.
   Slowed by a decline in subsidy payments to farmers,
personal income grew a moderate 0.3% in April, the Commerce
Department reported, the smallest increase since a 0.2% rise
in September 1989. But personal spending rose 0.6% last
month, after rising 0.5% in March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Excluding farm subsidies, personal income increased 0.5%
in both April and March.
   Adjusted for inflation, spending rose 0.3% in April,
following a revised decline of 0.1% in March.
   Many analysts predicted consumer spending will continue to
grow, particularly in the service sector, while the
durable-goods sector will be constrained by declining sales
of automobiles and household appliances.
   "There will continue to be growth in the consumption
sector, which is going to be crucial to holding this economy
together in 1990," said Kenneth Mayland, chief economist at
Society National Bank in Cleveland.
   Many economists agreed the department's report presents an
optimistic picture compared with the statistics released
during the first three weeks of the month, which suggested
the economy was quickly weakening. "It's the first report in
two weeks on any economic data that was not considerably
weaker than expected," said Joel Prakken, vice president of
Laurence H. Meyer &amp; Associates Ltd. in St. Louis.
   However, other analysts believe the economy isn't growing
stronger. The government's economic indicators suggest slow
economic growth, but the government keeps revising them
downward, suggesting the country is headed for a mild
recession, said David Bostian Jr., chief economist at Jesup &amp;
Lamont Inc. in New York.
   "The economy has had a false dawn of recovery and is in
the process of slowing down again," said John Mueller, chief
economist at Bell Mueller Cannon Inc., an economic
forecasting firm in Arlington, Va. "We think the weakness in
the economy is real and will continue for the rest of this
year."
   Consumers saved 5.5% of their after-tax income in April,
down from 5.8% in March. The savings rate in February was
5.5%.
   The figures are adjusted for seasonal variations.
                                                                                                       

   Here is the Commerce Department's latest report on
personal income. The figures are at seasonally adjusted
annual rates in trillions of dollars.
                                                                                                       

                                       April      March
                                        1990       1990
                                                                                                       

 Personal income ....................  4.688      4.674
   Wages and salaries ...............  2.782      2.763
   Factory payrolls .................   .564       .566
   Transfer payments ................   .673       .674
                                                                                                       

 Disposable personal income .........  4.007      3.997
                                                                                                       

 Personal outlays ...................  3.786      3.764
   Consumption expenditures .........  3.680      3.658
   Other outlays ....................   .106       .105
                                                                                                       

 Personal saving ....................   .221       .234
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PS New Mexico Considers Selling Itself
   But Faces Problem of Finding Buyers
   ----
   By David D. Medina
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9C
</SO>
<CO>
   PNM PPW SCE SPS PSR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   With regulators and shareholders increasingly
unsympathetic to its excess power problems, Public Service
Co. of New Mexico has said it might sell all or part of its
operations to keep the lights on.
   Analysts and utility executives see a major flaw in that
strategy, however: Likely buyers -- other electric utilities
in the Southwest -- are already fighting the same battle of
too much power and too little demand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PNM, like other utilities in the region, paid dearly to
expand ahead of the widely expected Sunbelt boom that never
materialized. Saddled with unneeded electricity from its $1.2
billion investment in the Palo Verde nuclear project, the
utility in the past two years has had to suspend its common
dividend payment, slash its staff by a fifth and sell off its
non-utility assets to stay afloat. The utility took $138
million in charges to rid itself of its ill-fated real estate
operations.
   Now, "We're a plain vanilla utility," said Jerry D. Geist,
chairman and president of PNM. But it's still got rocky road
ahead.
   PNM had asked regulators for a $13.7 million rate increase
and permission to start a 10-year phase-in of $800 million of
its Palo Verde costs into its rate base. The requests would
have meant $20 million, or 50 cents a share, in earnings this
year. Last month, the New Mexico Public Service Commission,
however, ordered the utility to cut rates by $2.9 million and
ruled against the phase-in altogether, instructing the
utility to absorb the Palo Verde costs. "The order simply
carves a hole in our revenues," said Mr. Geist.
   It was a second blow to PNM's revenue outlook. In
December, Southwestern Public Service Co. in Amarillo, Texas,
said it found other sources and wouldn't renew its six-year
purchased power contract with PNM. The $110 million-a-year
contract accounted for 17% of PNM's $620 million in total
electric revenue last year.
   Jim Martin, attorney for the public service commission,
said the commission didn't feel PNM proved its case that it
needed more money to cover costs. The commission has been
loath to let utilities raise rates to cover the cost of
producing unneeded power. PNM has a reserve of 66% above its
peak demand; a cushion of about 15% to 20% is generally
considered adequate. Because of the surplus, the commission
ruled to cut the utility's return on equity to 12.5% from
15%.
   The commission's decision sent the company's already
anemic stock price even lower. PNM shares have fallen $2
since last month to close unchanged at $11 Friday in trading
on the New York Stock Exchange. Three years ago the stock was
selling at a record high of $39.25.
   "They're in a rut," said Daniel Scotto, an analyst with
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. Mr. Scotto and
other analysts are scaling back earnings projections for PNM
to around 90 cents a share for the year, down from last
year's $1.73. Moody's Investors Service Inc. last month
downgraded PNM's credit rating to Ba-1.
   Shareholders have sued the company for mismanagement.
Already smarting from the dividend suspension, they recently
heard from PNM that they'll get "little or no return on their
investments over the next several years" because the phase-in
was disallowed. At PNM's annual meeting last week in its home
town of Albuquerque, irate shareholders hanged Mr. Geist in
effigy.
   Now the ailing utility is considering putting itself on
the block. "We're going to be interested in reviewing any
options that make sense," Mr. Geist said. "Obviously that
{selling the company} would be one of the options that would
come up," he said.
   Analysts, and even the PUC, say PNM's future isn't really
so gloomy that it needs to sell itself off. The area is
growing, though by no means booming, and by the mid-1990s, or
certainly by the year 2000, much of its excess power will be
needed. "With the addition of customers and tightening of
available power, PNM should be in good shape," Mr. Martin
said.
   Nonetheless, PNM has contracted Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. to
assist in evaluating the choices available, Mr. Geist said.
He wouldn't put a price on the energy concern, saying it
could jeopardize future negotiations. But the company's
current stock price gives an estimated market value of $450
million, said Mr. Scotto of Donaldson Lufkin. The utility has
$2.3 billion in assets, a company spokesman said. PNM
wouldn't say if prospective buyers have inquired about the
properties.
   Those properties include the 10.2% stake in the 3.8
million-kilowatt Palo Verde nuclear project outside Phoenix,
Ariz., as well as interests in the San Juan and Four Corners
coal-fired plants in northwestern New Mexico. PNM owns
outright a gas processing company and a gas-gathering
operation, the water company that serves Santa Fe, and the
gas company that serves most of New Mexico.
   Finding a buyer might prove extremely difficult because
utilities in need of extra power simply don't exist in the
Southwest. Arizona Public Service Co., a unit of Pinnacle
West Capital Corp., El Paso Electric Co. and Tucson Electric
Power Co. all also have excess power, Mr. Scotto said.
Potential West Coast buyers often mentioned by analysts,
PacifiCorp and Southern California Edison, a unit of SCE
Corp., both said they are working on other mergers and aren't
interested in PNM.
   Two other companies have prompted more intense speculation
among analysts. The first, Southwestern Public Service, which
had purchased power from PNM and is connected through power
lines with the utility, is looking to grow and needs more
generating capacity, said Al Mazzorana, an analyst at UBS
Securities Inc. A Southwestern spokesman said the utility
doesn't comment on its acquisition plans.
   The second is Public Service Co. of Colorado, which buys
about 40% of its power from outside sources, said Ed Tirello,
an analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. He said PNM and PS
Colorado are already connected and would only need power
lines with more capacity to transport the electricity. A
spokesman for PS Colorado said it is company policy not to
comment on mergers or acquisitions.
   "If they do find some buyers, it's not going to be an
attractive price," Mr. Scotto said. "The chances of them
coming out with any money is slim to none."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Some Soviet Names to Get to Know
   ----
   By S. Frederick Starr
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Mikhail Gorbachev and George Bush may not meet in many
more summits like the one taking place this week. As Mr.
Gorbachev's approval rate in the Soviet Union drops below
40%, demands that his administration resign have been voiced,
most recently in the powerful Literary Gazette. His
presidential term does not expire until 1995. But mounting
pressures, especially after the Communist Party Congress in
July, could force new elections before then. Should this
happen, who are Mr. Gorbachev's likely successors?
   Some claim there are no alternatives to Mr. Gorbachev. But
the times create leaders as much as leaders shape the times.
The scene in Moscow resembles a cross-country race in which a
pack of contenders has formed inconspicuously behind the
pace-setter. All of them are waiting for the right moment to
make their move.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Communists remain the only legal party, but many
others are being founded. Scanning the horizon today, one can
speak of at least three groups, in addition to pro-Gorbachev
reformers: party traditionalists who think Mr. Gorbachev has
gone too fast; radical democrats who think he has gone too
slow; and moderate conservatives who support basic change but
want it rooted in tradition. All but the last have produced
viable champions.
   The current standard-bearer for party traditionalists is
Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov. Backed by the law-and-order
group "Soiuz" (Union), Mr. Ryzhkov recently defended a
program of economic stabilization that has failed -- notably.
He has also been hurt by allegations that he led the cover-up
of the disaster at Chernobyl.
   The other party traditionalist with wide support is
Leningrad secretary Boris Gidaspov. An alumnus of the
military-industrial complex, Mr. Gidaspov, as a colleague put
it, "missed the thaw." He gained fame by successfully
organizing an anti-reform demonstration by workers. But
colleagues in his own institute have recently rebuffed him
for an elective post in Moscow, a serious setback.
   A lesser-known opponent of reform is metal-worker Veniamin
Yarin, whom Mr. Gorbachev named to his Presidential Council.
Anti-democratic, anti-market and pro-military, Mr. Yarin has
the backing of the "Rossiia" faction of Party troglodytes.
But Mr. Yarin is still a marginal figure. Mr. Gorbachev sees
him as co-optable.
   Sometimes mentioned among traditionalist standardbearers
is novelist Valentin Rasputin. A fierce polemicist, Mr.
Rasputin has garnered visibility by his service on Mr.
Gorbachev's Presidential Council. He lacks practical
experience, though, is narrowly ideological in outlook, and
has little appeal beyond the circles of nationalist true
believers.
   For all the talk of party reactionaries moving against Mr.
Gorbachev, they are disorganized and lack popular support. No
wonder that some whisper darkly of a military coup. Such
rumors center around the popular Gen. Boris Gromov, former
commandant of Soviet forces in Afghanistan. But military
coups are not in the Russian tradition and would find little
support even from party stalwarts.
   Opposing these traditionalists are radical democrats, many
still party members but others already committed to a
separate path. Most are organized under the Inter-Regional
Group of delegates to the Congress and the voters alliance
"Democratic Russia." They already control the Moscow and
Leningrad city councils, as well as a quarter of all national
deputies. These radicals may constitute a European-type
Social Democratic Party in embryo.
   The current darling of this group is Gavriil Popov, the
bushy-haired economist who presides over the Moscow City
Council. An editor, Mr. Popov has little administrative
experience but a canny sense of the public's mood, witness
his uncharacteristic defense of rationing. No milquetoast, he
authorized the recent May Day march that drove Mr. Gorbachev
from the reviewing stand in Red Square.
   Mr. Popov's friend Yuri Afanasyev is an archivist by
profession and another hero of the radical democrats. Party
regulars challenged him to lead the radicals out of the
Communist Party in July. Instead, he quit immediately. For
all his boldness, Mr. Afanasyev has yet to gain the national
recognition necessary to capture the top job in an elective
system. Still another radical, Leningrad lawyer and Congress
deputy Anatolii Sobchak, has impressed millions of television
viewers with his eloquent defense of civil rights. However,
when Mr. Sobchak wavered and then decided to support Mr.
Gorbachev's plea for new presidential powers, he slipped from
the pack, at least temporarily.
   Besides party stalwarts and radical reformers a third
group exists -- moderate non-party reformers who affirm
traditional values. They may prove strongest of all. A
Christian Democratic Party recently formed in Moscow, and
several similar groups exist to promote democracy, a mixed
economy and "family values." Such proto-parties are strong
both in Russia and the non-Russian republics, but they have
yet to produce real national leaders.
   The non-Russian republics are a seed bed for future
leaders. Marju Lauristin and Edgar Savisaar in Estonia,
Anatolijs Gorbunovs in Latvia, and Ivan Drach in the Ukraine
are among many talented new leaders who have come to the
fore. None can be considered candidates for high office in
Moscow, however, for the simple reason that all have staked
careers on resisting the Kremlin's control. Odds are any new
president will be an ethnic Russian.
   Most of the emerging leaders in Russia were until recently
outsiders who came up not through party or governmental posts
but through the rapidly expanding "third sector" of
nongovernmental organizations. Untainted but inexperienced,
these "new people" are probably not one but two steps from
power. This cannot be said of the charismatic radical
democrat Boris Yeltsin, who honed his managerial skills in
the Urals and his political skills as mayor of Moscow. He
pulls 85% of the votes in his hometown of Sverdlovsk.
   A founder of the Inter-Regional Group, Mr. Yeltsin
embraces a broad program. He speaks glowingly of Western
democracy and mixed economies but at the same time feels
Russia (as opposed to the Soviet Union) has lost its
"spiritual, national and economic independence." He defends
the right of non-Russian republics to secede, yet champions
the cause of Russian colonists who have returned to Russia
from homes in Soviet Central Asia and the Caucasus.
   Mr. Yeltsin's backers are promoting him for the presidency
of the Russian Republic -- this week he pulled more votes
than any other candidate but not enough to secure him that
seat. If the empire falls apart this post will soar in
importance, which is why Mr. Yeltsin has already proposed
that the Russian Republic have its own foreign policy. Mr.
Gorbachev recognizes that Mr. Yeltsin leads the pack
breathing down his neck and frequently singles him out for
abuse. Meanwhile, Mr. Yeltsin calmly tours the world, issuing
policy statements from Tokyo and Madrid, Moscow and
Sverdlovsk.
   Boris Yeltsin remains sui generis, an ardent democrat who
has appropriated many causes associated with other groups and
factions. For now, he is best positioned to fill a power
vacuum at the top. But the entire Soviet Union has become a
laboratory for leadership, and other equally powerful
contenders will doubtless move up in the pack soon.
   ---
   Mr. Starr is president of Oberlin College and a specialist
in Soviet affairs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iran to Direct $5 Billion
   In Currency Credits
   Into Its Oil Industry
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   NICOSIA, Cyprus -- Iran will direct $5 billion in currency
credits to its oil industry this year, an amount
unprecedented in the country's history, Oil Minister
Gholamreza Aqazadeh said Friday, according to Tehran Radio
monitored here.
   The credits comprise about 6% of the country's $80 billion
budget for the current Iranian year, which began March 21.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The massive investments underline Iran's commitment to
rebuild and update its oil industry, which was badly battered
in the eight-year war with Iraq.
   Oil and gas-related industries, which earn more than 90%
of Iran's foreign exchange, were deprived of funds for
maintenance and development as funds were channeled to the
war effort.
   But Tehran began rebuilding immediately after the United
Nations-sponsored cease-fire halted the conflict on Aug. 20,
1988.
   Inaugurating a methanol plant in the southern Iranian
province of Shiraz Friday, Mr. Aqazadeh said Iran's current
sustainable production capacity is 3.3 million barrels a day.
Mr. Aqazadeh said it will be boosted to 3.7 million barrels a
day in four months time and four million barrels a day next
year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campbell Soup
   Seeking to Sell
   Some Businesses
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CPB U.UBI
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Campbell Soup Co. hung a "for sale" sign on some of the
company's least profitable foreign operations, conceding that
the businesses can't deliver adequate returns to
shareholders.
   In connection with the divestitures, the Camden, N.J.,
food company said it expects to record a one-time charge of
$55 million, or 43 cents a share, against earnings for the
fourth quarter ending July 29. For the year-earlier quarter,
Campbell reported a net loss of $194.7 million, or $1.51 a
share, including one-time restructuring charges of $261
million, or $2.02 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed sales of Campbell's United Kingdom frozen
vegetable and seafood lines and its Italian cookie company
are the latest cost-cutting maneuvers by David W. Johnson,
who became president and chief executive officer in January.
   Mr. Johnson's zealous campaign to improve productivity and
profits is resulting in a repudiation of several initiatives
by his predecessor, R. Gordon McGovern, who resigned abruptly
in November 1989. The foreign businesses on the block, which
were pet projects of Mr. McGovern, have annual sales of about
$200 million. In his brief tenure, Mr. Johnson also has
eliminated 364 staff jobs, closed several plants, offered for
sale the company's Juice Bowl unit and scotched plans for a
new corporate headquarters.
   Industry analysts praised the latest move, which was
anticipated after Mr. Johnson's tour of Campbell's European
operations a few weeks ago. The Italian cookie business, D.
Lazzaroni &amp; Co., has been plagued with production and
distribution problems. And investors have been calling for
the disposal of the frozen-food businesses ever since
Campbell acquired them in 1988 through its $201 million
purchase of Freshbake Foods Group PLC.
   "Lazzaroni and Freshbake have been a running sore at
Campbell for a couple of years," said William Leach, an
analyst at Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. "The only surprise
was that they didn't sell all of Freshbake."
   Indeed, Campbell is putting only the commodity vegetable
divisions of Freshbake on the block. The company maintains
that the half of Freshbake operations devoted to frozen
convenience foods can be made profitable by moving the
low-end lines into a more premium position under the Campbell
name.
   In the frozen quiche category, for example, the company
recently renamed its line as Campbell and has boosted its
market share to about 40% in the U.K. "We are working to
build that {frozen convenience foods} business because it is
a strategic one for us," a spokesman said.
   Given the commodity nature of the vegetable businesses,
Campbell may have difficulty finding a buyer for the units.
Although United Biscuits PLC recently approached Campbell
about buying certain undisclosed Freshbake operations, "I
don't think even it would be interested," said David
Atkinson, a securities analyst with London-based County
NatWest Wood MacKenzie, which occasionally represents United
Biscuits.
   "Freshbake has got such a poor reputation," Mr. Atkinson
said. "I can't really see why anyone would like to come in."
   But even a sale at a low price would improve Campbell's
long-term earnings picture, said Ronald Morrow of Smith
Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. "Campbell has been underperforming
for so long," he said, "that even getting it up to the
industry average will look good."
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange on
Friday, Campbell shares fell 25 cents to close at $53.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potlatch Corp. Debentures
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   PCH
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Potlatch Corp. said it decided to redeem
for cash its $75 million face amount outstanding of 5.75%
convertible subordinated debentures.
   The forest-products concern said the redemption price will
be $1,040.25 a debenture plus accrued interest to June 26,
the redemption date. Prior to the close of business on June
26, holders can convert their debentures into Potlatch common
based on a conversion price of $45.3125 a share, the company
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CMS Energy Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CMS
</CO>
<LP>
   CMS ENERGY Corp. -- The Consumers Power Co. unit elected
Carl L. English to the new post of vice president, gas
distribution and customer services. The move takes effect
Friday. Mr. English, 43 years old, was previously executive
manager of customer services. Since joining Consumers Power
in 1969, he has held several customer and general service
positions, including staff assistant to the chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Big Investors Trimming
   Their Supplies of Cash
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM IR GE DE CAT ITX
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Institutional investors' mountain of cash is
melting. Does that bode well or ill for stock prices?
   As the Dow Jones Industrial Average thrust upward to a
series of new records earlier this month, the levels of cash
available in portfolios to buy more stocks was dropping fast.
By the week ended May 18, according to Indata's survey of
1,200 fund managers who together oversee about $180 billion,
cash levels were the lowest since Jan. 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of course, the wave of profit-taking that hit the market
Friday, sinking the industrial average 34.63 points to
2820.92, probably restored some cash to institutions'
coffers. But unless Friday's pattern continues, cash levels
at the end of May could be the smallest this year.
   A money manager who squirrels away assets in Treasury
bills or other money market securities obviously thinks stock
prices are headed lower. If stocks keep going up, however,
that money manager's returns can lag behind the overall
market, and clients may leave.
   But what overall cash levels mean these days is open to
debate. Money managers who have spent theirs view high cash
levels elsewhere as the surest sign that stocks will climb
further. They figure bearish money managers will plow
uninvested funds back into stocks in a hurry as the market
rises away from them.
   Managers sticking with big cash positions, on the other
hand, are confident that because stocks are already too
expensive, the market soon will correct this situation by
falling. Friday was only the beginning, they say.
   Both sides agree that if stocks do tumble, there is still
enough cash on the sidelines to cushion the fall. At most,
stocks may fall 15% to roughly 2400 in the industrial
average, they say. And the top? A few billion dollars of
share purchases could easily vault the Dow industrials to
3000.
   John M. McCarthy, manager of the $3.7 billion Affiliated
Fund Inc. and managing partner at Lord, Abbett &amp; Co., isn't
terribly sanguine about either corporate profits or the
economy. Nonetheless, he's almost fully invested, with only
3% of his fund in cash, because he thinks bearish money
managers will storm into the market as the Dow and
particularly other market indexes rise.
   "I think there is too much cash on the sidelines," he
says. "In 40 years we have never dropped the market to
accommodate people with big cash positions."
   Mr. McCarthy predicts that stocks will move much higher,
before correcting to lower levels. Confusion plagued economic
soothsayers in the first quarter, he reasons. "We had a
winter freeze coupled with higher oil prices, a strike at
Boeing, Hurricane Hugo and an earthquake, a big liquidation
of inventories," he asserts, and "on top of all that we had
summer in February." Those events clouded the economy's true
colors, which are only now showing that growth is weaker than
presumed. And he thinks rigorous lending practices by banks
may slow economic growth still further.
   Slow growth is bad for stocks, but Mr. McCarthy thinks
investors will switch out of cash instruments and bonds as
interest rates fall. Small investors have piled up some $11
trillion in savings, checking accounts, stocks and bonds,
with a relatively small percentage of that in stocks.
   There's little choice except for bonds and stocks, he
argues. "Real estate, gold, limited partnerships -- none of
that is going to be attractive," he says. After the thrift
and junk bond disasters, Mr. McCarthy thinks individual
investors will demand basic financial instruments --
high-quality bonds or stocks. And as bond yields fall,
investors will plunge into stocks, Mr. McCarthy predicts.
   But then will come another round of disappointing
corporate earnings reports, which Mr. McCarthy sees
precipitating a correction of about 10% to 15%. Such a
decline probably wouldn't affect Mr. McCarthy's investment
strategy, which is a bet on more capital spending and less
consumption in the U.S. economy. He owns stocks such as
International Business Machines (his largest position),
Ingersoll-Rand, General Electric, Deere and Caterpillar.
   "With all that cash on the sidelines," Mr. McCarthy says,
the coming market drop "will be fairly limited."
   If he is right, the correction will be curbed by that
obstinate group of investors who were sweating out the rally
last week. One of them is Henry Van der Eb, president of
Mathers Fund. Mr. Van der Eb, who manages close to $850
million, is 90% in cash currently, one of the highest cash
positions among the 689 stock funds tracked by Morningstar
Inc., a mutual fund ratings service.
   During the stock market's tumble in the first quarter,
that position helped him stay far ahead of the market
averages. But lately the industrial average is catching up to
Mr. Van der Eb, who says he is still ahead of broader
indexes.
   "The point is that we've taken negligible risk relative to
a fully invested portfolio, and we have an above-average
return," he says.
   Mr. Van der Eb describes himself as a "value" investor who
sells stocks when they have become overpriced and won't buy
any unless they're underpriced. Nowadays, when he tries to
find something to buy, he can't find a stock that's
undervalued in terms of potential earnings growth.
   Shares of many companies are trading at twice the value of
underlying assets, he says, while the historical range is
about 1.75 times the value. "Even 1.75 times is a gross
overvaluation," he contends; "stocks should be trading at
closer to 1 to 1.25 times" the value of underlying assets.
   There are some cheap stocks, he acknowledges. However,
"what we find is that a number of companies qualify on some
or most of the valuation models, but the earnings growth
isn't there."
   The 10% of his portfolio in stocks amounts to "only a
handful" of issues -- "a few gold stocks, and International
Technology Corp.," says Mr. Van der Eb. He bought about four
million shares of the waste management company, which fits
his parameters for an undervalued growth company.
   Only an upturn in corporate profits would make Mr. Van der
Eb cut his cash position. "We're not convinced that we are
going to have a soft landing," he says, which describes a
period of moderating inflation and stable economic growth.
"The odds are in favor of a recession." He cites the most
recent revision of first-quarter gross national product,
which showed weak growth but inflation rising to a 6.7%
annual rate.
   Regarding the Dow industrials' recent string of records,
Mr. Van der Eb says 23 of 30 companies whose stocks make up
the average are buying back their own shares. "They're
sucking up the marginal seller," he says. "I would make an
even-odds bet that if all these companies stopped buying, the
Dow would fall 10%."
   ---
   Friday Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   A disappointing quarterly earnings forecast from Adobe
Systems sparked broad selling of technology issues, which had
set the pace for the market's rise since the end of April.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 34.63 points to
2820.92, its steepest drop since Feb. 20.
   For the week, the average gained 1.01 points, or less than
0.1%. So far this month, the 30-stock average is still up
164.16 points, or 6.2%.
   Traders said light pre-holiday trading magnified the
market impact of program selling linked to stock-index
arbitrage, which swept over stocks twice in the last hour of
trading. Sell programs involve the sale of baskets of stocks
and the purchase of futures contracts.
   Adobe plummeted 15 1/4 to 35 1/4 in heavy over-the-counter
trading following its forecast that earnings for the fiscal
quarter ending Friday would be in a range of 29 cents and 37
cents a share, well below analysts' estimates.
   Motorola, which set 52-week highs Wednesday and Thursday,
tumbled 3 to 80 3/4 in trading of 1.2 million shares. Among
other key technology issues: International Business Machines
fell 2 1/2 to 116 1/4; Compaq Computer lost 3 3/8 to 118 5/8;
Hewlett Packard dropped 5/8 to 47 1/4; Cray Research fell 1
1/8 to 46 7/8, and Texas Instruments slipped 3/4 to 42 1/2.
   However, Digital Equipment rose 3/8 to 92 1/2. At meetings
with analysts, company officials said the board remains
"comfortable" with considering an initial dividend despite
lower profitability. Demand for its new VAX-9000 mainframe
computers is "meeting expectations," according to Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report.
   Merck climbed 1 1/2 to 84 on 1.9 million shares following
news that an advisory committee of the Food and Drug
Administration recommended approval of its drug Losec for the
treatment of acute duodenal ulcers. Ronald Nordmann, a drug
analyst at PaineWebber, told the investor report the panel's
decision will permit the company to go "toe to toe" with
ulcer drugs produced by Glaxo Holdings and SmithKline
Beecham. Glaxo fell 1 1/8 to 26 5/8 while SmithKline lost 1
1/8 to 41.
   General Motors gained 3/8 to 48 3/4 on 1.2 million shares.
This newspaper reported Friday in the "Heard on the Street"
column that analysts are upbeat on GM as it is quietly
closing plants, which should boost domestic profit. Also,
President Robert C. Stempel said at the annual meeting that
despite recent sluggishness in U.S. auto sales, GM hasn't
changed its estimate that 14.5 million to 15 million cars and
light trucks will be sold this year.
   Philip Morris fell 1 5/8 to 42 1/2 on 2.7 million shares,
marking the second consecutive day of heavy selling. The
retreat comes in the wake of Health and Human Services
Secretary Louis Sullivan's proposal for states to place new
restrictions on cigarette sales.
   Dividend-related trading by institutions swelled volume in
Texas Utilities, the Big Board's most active issue, which
rose 1/8 to 37 on 3.8 million shares.
   Global Marine, which rose 1/4 to 4 5/8, was second most
active at 3.6 million shares. Traders linked the activity to
heavy demand among institutional investors for a secondary
offering of 13.4 million shares, or a 13.3% stake, at $4.375
each, according to PIR. Another block of 16 million shares,
equaling a 17% stake, changed hands among institutions in a
private placement, the company said.
   Dennison Manufacturing soared 8 3/8 to 27 3/8 on 1.3
million shares after signing a definitive agreement to be
acquired by Avery International for stock valued at about
$500 million. Avery, which will swap 1.12 of its common
shares for each Dennison share, fell 2 1/4 to 26 1/4.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Political Action Committees
   Gave Record Sum in Period
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Although they may be an endangered species,
political action committees contributed a record $63 million
to House and Senate candidates during the first 15 months of
the 1989-90 election cycle.
   The heavy giving -- up 13% from the comparable period in
1987-88, and 51% above the 1985-86 period -- came as Senate
Democrats and Republicans were both crafting separate
proposals to ban PAC contributions to federal candidates as
part of campaign finance overhaul legislation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to a study by the Federal Election Commission,
House candidates received 18% more PAC money than in 1988,
with Senate candidates seeing a more modest 3% increase. PAC
contributions to House candidates totaled $43.6 million,
while Senate candidates received $20 million. House
Democratic incumbents, who traditionally receive most of PAC
funds, are much less enthusiastic about restricting PAC money
than their Senate counterparts.
   Twenty-three PACs disbursed more than $1 million. The
largest PAC, the Democratic Republican Independent Voter
Education Committee (DRIVE), affiliated with the Teamsters
Union, raised $6.7 million during the 15 months covered in
the FEC study and spent $4.6 million. The next largest PAC,
operated by the American Medical Association, raised $4.1
million and spent $2.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Harmony Through Litigation?
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   A generation ago we built a national consensus for a new
direction on race relations. But today that consensus is
under unprecedented pressure. There have been too many
reported racial "incidents" on U.S. campuses, neighborhood
agitators now boycott Asian grocery stores, and racially
motivated taunts, beatings and even shootings are on the
rise.
   Amid this, President Bush is told by the most familiar
civil-rights organizations that if he vetoes the proposed
Civil Rights Act of 1990 it "would unleash a firestorm of
protest." The NAACP's Ben Hooks says the bill is a "litmus
test" of President Bush's support for blacks. Perhaps this
issue no longer holds the simple clarity that Mr. Hooks sees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In practice, it is very likely that this bill would
exacerbate race relations. That is because the bill is rooted
in the paradoxical notion that the way to lessen racial
tensions is to encourage many lawsuits. How could anyone
truly believe such a thing?
   Litigation by its nature is bitter and divisive. Lawsuits
exaggerate differences, forcing people to take extreme sides
in the hothouse atmosphere of courtrooms. President Bush said
recently that it would be a mistake to sign a bill that is
"some lawyers' bonanza, encouraging litigation at the expense
of conciliation, mediation or settlement." He is right.
   The litigation this bill has in mind is different from the
important and necessary court opinions of the 1960s that
ensured desegregation, voting rights and equal opportunity.
Instead, the current bill will use litigation to effectively
mandate quotas.
   Its sponsors are too politically sensitive to use the word
"quota," but the bill's mechanics would drive the system
toward that end. Setting aside due process, it creates a
presumption of an employer's guilt. An employer who is sued
will be guilty of "discrimination" unless he can explain the
existence of any "disparate impact" in hiring by race and
sex. The explanation must prove that employment practices
such as requirements and tests must have what the current
compromise language calls a "substantial and demonstrable
relationship to effective job performance." No one knows what
this means.
   Civil Rights Commission Chairman Arthur Fletcher assures
that the result will be "goals" and not "quotas." We have 20
years of Supreme Court cases describing how goals became
unconstitutional quotas. This was true even without the
innovations of this bill -- such as that there should be jury
trials with punitive damages. It hardly seems prudent to set
off an explosion of litigation by contingency-fee lawyers now
to test the bill's vague wording.
   Without meaning to be at all frivolous about the bill's
least desirable effects, it would not be too much to call it
the Alton Maddox Bill. Mr. Maddox is the black New York City
lawyer who, with the Rev. Al Sharpton, was at the center of
the racially inflammatory Tawana Brawley case. This past
week, attorney Maddox and his associate C. Vernon Mason, also
a lawyer, were making further contributions to New York's
current anguish over race relations.
   Speaking of Mayor David Dinkins's attempts to heal the
city, Mr. Maddox said, "Any black man who advocates racial
harmony is out of his mind." Mr. Mason likened Mr. Dinkins to
former South African President P.W. Botha. (It is one of
history's ironies that this Maddox shares the same surname
with the famous racial inflamer of the 1960s, Georgia
Governor Lester Maddox.)
   Is there any reason to believe that Messrs. Maddox and
Mason would not use the bill's irreparably flawed provisions
to drive the flames higher? It is not enough for proponents
to simply wave away this concern, because attorneys Maddox
and Mason, and others like them, are obviously manipulating
the current system to unwind much of the racial tolerance
that is one of the civil-rights movement's greatest
achievements.
   (And why, we wish someone would ask them, does Congress
plan to exempt itself from the bill's coverage?)
   Perhaps it's time to consider that civil rights today has
more pressing needs than endless litigation and debate over
goals vs. quotas. Civil rights now ought to be about ridding
poor neighborhoods of crime and crack, keeping families
intact, and improving schools. Any serious civil-rights bill
would abolish -- as this one does not -- the employer
sanctions in the immigration bill, which force employers to
discriminate against Hispanics who are here legally just to
avoid possible criminal liability.
   We suspect that one reason President Bush's popularity
among blacks is so high is that everyone can sense that he
has genuine good will and concern for minorities. Indeed, we
think most Americans feel this way. The bill's supporters
ought to bear some burden for explaining why its obvious
incentives to litigate will not cause further bitterness and
divisiveness, while the real problems that beset the poorest
black Americans fester on.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   TXT CGP CMZ TTC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alias Research Inc., initial offering of two million
common shares, one million will be sold by the company, one
million by holders, via Robertson, Stephens &amp; Co. and
Wessels, Arnold &amp; Henderson.
                                                                                                       

   Avco Financial Services Inc., a unit of Textron Inc.,
shelf offering of $500 million amount of debt securities and
warrants.
                                                                                                       

   Colorado Interstate Gas Co., a unit of Coastal Corp of
Houston, offering $180 million of senior debentures, due June
2005, via Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Cincinnati Milacron Inc., offering of three million common
shares, 2.4 million of which will be sold in the U.S. and
600,000 to be offered internationally, via First Boston Corp.
and Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd.
                                                                                                       

   Environmental Elements Corp., initial offering of 2.3
million common shares, 1.6 million of which will be sold by
the company and 700,000 by holders, via Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
and Legg Mason Wood Walker Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Swift Transportation Co. Inc., of Delaware, a unit of
Swift Transportation Co. Inc., of Phoenix, Ariz., initial
offering of 1,650,000 common shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons
Inc and Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Toro Co., offering of 1.5 million common shares, via
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and Dain Bosworth Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   From an editorial on drugs in First Things, a monthly
published by the Institute on Religion and Public Life:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among the chic it is now much less chic to do drugs. Those
at the bottom of society, however, the structure of whose
lives were most fragile to begin with, made the mistake of
believing their social betters. For them, "alternative
lifestyle" turned out to mean the alternative to sustainable
life. It is nice today to hear celebrities on talk shows
affirm the importance of sobriety, family, and even marital
fidelity. One hopes they remember the line they were
chattering a few years ago. If one wants today to see the
continuing social consequences of that liberationist line,
one has only to visit Bedford-Stuyvesant, South Chicago, or
the crack babies in the preemie wards of our city hospitals.
   ---
   From an interview on March 20 with Richard Solomon, U.S.
assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific
Affairs:
                                                                                                       

   In Northeast Asia there has been no diminution of the
Soviet threat. While the numbers may have been reduced
somewhat, the deployment of more advanced equipment,
aircraft, ships in particular, has kept the firepower, the
mobility, the effectiveness of the Soviet challenge in
Northeast Asia pretty much where it is. In Southeast Asia
there has been a reduction in the Soviet military presence in
Vietnam.
   But the stability of these changes in the Soviet Union
that have made these dramatic developments possible is not at
all assured. And, more to the point in terms of our security
relationship with the Philippines, those facilities have
never been exclusively oriented toward the Soviet Union.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Freezing the Voters Out
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Something is very wrong with the governors' races in New
York and Massachusetts. In New York, the last-minute choice
of Republican bosses is an economist who isn't even
registered in the party. In Massachusetts, the leading
candidate for the Democratic nomination may not even be
allowed on the primary ballot.
   New York's Governor Mario Cuomo is following the path of
Michael Dukakis as he raises every tax in sight in a futile
attempt to close a yawning deficit. You'd think Republicans
would seize the opportunity to force a real debate on the
state's future. Wrong. A total of 16 people have declined to
run.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week party bosses refused to accept New York
University Dean Herbert London, a Republican who is already
the choice of the Conservative Party, as their own nominee.
Instead, in a flurry of late-night meetings they anointed
economist Pierre Rinfret as their man. Mr. Rinfret will
likely be ratified at the GOP state convention that opens
today.
   Like Mr. Rinfret, Mr. London has little campaign
experience. But he is aggressively challenging the
spendthrift Cuomo record. Mr. London wants the New York
Republican Party to finally cut free of its Rockefeller roots
and embrace privatization, tax cuts and a real effort at
crime control.
   But GOP leaders have as their main focus protecting their
only patronage rice bowl -- control of the State Senate.
Instead of Mr. London, they prefer the more subdued and
liberal Mr. Rinfret, whom many GOP leaders admitted they had
never met. Since he is a registered independent, the GOP
executive committee will have to grant him a special waiver
to run. Unless Mr. London wins votes from 20% of the bosses'
hand-picked delegates at the state convention, Mr. Rinfret
will be unopposed on the GOP primary ballot.
   In Massachusetts, Democratic bosses are also trying to use
an archaic exclusionary rule to keep a viable candidate off
the ballot.
   John Silber, the neoconservative president of Boston
University, is now the leading candidate for the Democratic
nomination for governor. A Boston Herald poll gives him 28%,
Lt. Gov. Evelyn Murphy 23% and Attorney General Frank Belotti
19%. However, no candidate can appear on the September
primary ballot unless he or she first wins 15% or more of the
votes cast at a state convention next month. Many party
delegates are teachers' union members who despise the fiery
Mr. Silber. He gets only 8% support in a delegate poll, while
Mr. Belotti is first with 33%. Mr. Silber could still win
enough sympathy votes to push him over 15%, but delegates
strongly oppose lifting the rule. The Boston Herald claims
"they would rather deny 700,000 primary voters a real
choice."
   The days when party bosses could pick a candidate behind
the scenes and force party members to accept the choice have
ended in most states. New York and Massachusetts still retain
anti-democratic methods for selecting candidates. In theory,
state conventions are held to exclude fringe candidates. In
practice, they are often an anti-democratic device to allow
an entrenched party faction to retain power.
   As the entire world seems to embrace open political
processes, it's time to clear away some of the obstacles to
effective democracy in this country. Exclusionary rules such
as those in New York and Massachusetts only perpetuate the
control of party bosses, block new ideas and faces from
entering the public debate and increase the level of voter
cynicism and nonparticipation in elections.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Douglas Says It
   Fired 150 Workers in Scam
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MD
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- McDonnell Douglas Corp. said it fired about
150 employees that it alleges were involved in a scam
stemming from a company program that allowed employees to
borrow as much as $4,000 interest-free to buy personal
computers.
   The workers were ushered out of the aerospace concern's
transport aircraft division here after a two-month internal
investigation disclosed they were misusing the loans,
McDonnell Douglas said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "People were submitting phony bills of sale," said a
company spokesman. Some employees got the invoices from
co-workers who then received a cash kickback from borrowers,
the company said. The loans were supposed to be used to
purchase computers compatible with the company's, so
employees could work at home or become more adept at using
the computers.
   The scheme was uncovered by corporate accountants in
April, the spokesman said, and the investigation is
continuing. Eventually, as many as 200 employees may be fired
for participating in the scheme, McDonnell Douglas said.
   The company doesn't know how much money it may have lost
as a result of the alleged fraud, said the spokesman, but it
will seek restitution. The company hasn't filed a complaint
with the District Attorney's office, he said.
   McDonnell Douglas has canceled the program, in which more
than 5,000 employees have taken out the interest-free loans
since the program began in 1984.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Finish the Session Firmly Higher
   As Yen Maintains Recent Gains Against Dollar
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks ended the afternoon firmly higher yesterday,
inspired as the yen managed to maintain steady levels after
its strong move against the dollar, traders said.
   Although a burst of morning buying had calmed to a simmer
by midday, stocks on the Nikkei Index still were able to
close the day notably higher.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The London market was closed yesterday for a holiday.
Friday, London shares finished mostly lower, the end of a
two-week trading account, in mainly sluggish trading.
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues, which rallied 482.13
points Friday, was up 397.73 points yesterday to 33191.61.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the Nikkei index fell
54.30 to 33137.31.
   Monday's volume on the first section was estimated at 750
million shares, down from 1.04 billion shares Friday.
Advancers outnumbered decliners 541 to 430, while 163 issues
were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section, which swelled 24.04 points Friday, added 14.11
points, or 0.58%, at 2434.05.
   But the second section index fell 8.47 points, or 0.22%,
to close at 3884.38. The index slipped 0.75 point Friday,
ending an 18-session winning streak. Volume was estimated at
13.9 million shares, down from 16.3 million shares Friday.
   Participants returned from the weekend to find that the
yen had strengthened substantially against the dollar in New
York trading Friday, breaking through the 150-yen barrier.
   Convinced that the Japanese currency could hold the higher
levels against the dollar, many investors bought domestic
demand-related stocks heavily in the morning, traders said.
Construction stocks, both of large and small companies,
rallied, as did shares of some environmental-energy
companies.
   In addition, one trader said some institutional and
index-linked buying in the Tokyo morning gave the impression
that the market was shooting forward with little resistance
ahead.
   But selling pressure broke the rally's momentum before the
early session closed, as some institutional investors, who
suffered heavy losses this year on special money accounts,
moved to take profits on a broad range of issues.
   Although volume was moderately active in the afternoon,
trading consisted of a matched amount of selling against
buying, allowing for only sideways movement on the indexes,
observers said.
   Yusuke Fujiwara, head of trading at Baring Securities
Ltd., noted that volume of 750 million shares wasn't bad,
particularly for a Monday, which happened to be the last day
of trading on accounts for May settlement.
   But further gains for the Nikkei Index will depend partly
on whether trading volume picks up, Mr. Fujiwara said. And he
pointed out that "it's going to be hard to buy from here,"
with prices having recovered substantially from the Nikkei's
most recent post-crash low of 28002 on April 2.
   A test for the market will be developments in the
dollar-yen rate over the next few days. If the dollar doesn't
recover in the short term, and slips to 145 yen, Mr. Fujiwara
said, the market should advance further.
   On the other hand, the yen's strength put a damper on
buying high-technology electrical shares, noted Kevin Haag, a
dealer in overseas operations at Nomura Securities Co.
   Many investors were still disappointed with Sony's
earnings forecasts of a 12% rise in pretax profit for the
current year and the absence of a gratis issue for the
previous fiscal year, Mr. Haag said.
   Mr. Fujiwara noted, however, that high-technology stocks
haven't been completely ignored during the yen's recent
recovery, with interest in these high-priced issues, though
somewhat more selective, still remaining at normal levels.
   Traders noted special caution for investors seeking to buy
at current levels. "More than resistance, the story to watch
for is the selling pressure" from institutions, who needed
the Nikkei Index reach around 34000 points to break even on
their special money accounts, Mr. Haag said.
   Although that level wasn't achieved by the March 31 end of
the fiscal year, these institutions have recovered much of
their losses since the Nikkei was seen bottoming out April 2,
and so will likely start taking profits soon, he said.
   Several pharmaceutical shares were hit by profit-taking,
including Ono, down 110 yen to 5650 yen (73 cents to $37.43),
Dai ichi, down 50 yen to 2470 yen, and Fuso, down 30 yen to
1530 yen.
   But construction shares held their gains against such
selling pressure, with Shimizu Corp. up 180 yen to 2040 yen,
Ohbayashi up 50 yen to 1740 yen, and Taisei up 40 yen to 1410
yen.
   Among other advancers were securities firms such as
Nomura, which gained 100 yen to 2580 yen, Daiwa, up 50 yen to
1710 yen, and Yamaichi, up 60 yen to 1460 yen. In addition,
some cement, real estate and a wide range of speculative
issues were higher.
   On Friday, London's Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100
Share Index finished down 11.5 points at 2265.6, slightly
below the intraday best of 2276.3 and above the low of
2258.4.
   The Financial Times 30 Share Index was down 5.2 points at
1800. Volume was a scant 385.6 million shares.
   Profit-talking and an obvious absence of buyers for much
of the session dragged prices lower, traders said. A lack of
stimulating corporate or economic news further burdened the
market, causing prices to drift down, the traders added.
   Equities staged a modest rally during the last hours of
trading, stemming largely from fresh buying that will carry
over into the new account, dealers said.
   One trader with a major London brokerage firm said the
last-minute influx of investors reflected a general sentiment
among participants that the market has good upside potential
this week.
   Meanwhile, stocks closed higher yesterday in Frankfurt,
Zurich, Brussels and Stockholm, lower in Milan, mixed in
Paris, Amsterdam. South African gold stocks closed narrowly
mixed. Friday, prices closed higher in Stockholm and Milan;
lower in Amsterdam, Paris and Frankfurt; and mixed in Zurich.
South African gold stocks closed mixed. Brussels was closed.
   In Asian and Pacific markets yesterday, prices closed
higher in Sydney and Wellington; lower in Singapore, Manila
and Seoul. The Hong Kong and Taipei markets were closed for
holidays. Friday, stocks closed higher in Tokyo, Sydney, Hong
Kong, Manila, Wellington and Seoul; and lower in Singapore
and Taipei.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                              % This
                           May 25    May 24    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ................   327.2     330.9    + 0.7
   Britain .............   673.8     677.8    - 6.5
   Canada ..............   385.1     387.0    -10.9
   Japan ...............  1363.8    1348.2    -17.6
   France ..............   590.5     592.9    + 4.2
   Germany .............   294.0     294.9    + 3.1
   Hong Kong ...........  2284.4    2276.7    + 8.9
   Switzerland .........   217.8     217.9    - 1.3
   Australia ...........   299.8     298.4    - 9.5
   World index .........   521.2     519.7    - 8.1
   ---
                  Weekly Percentage Leaders
                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

 ISSUE (COUNTRY)               CLOSE     %CHG

                   WINNING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 M/A-Com (U.S.) .................      4.5      +20.0
 Bonifiche Siele Ord (Italy) ....  34200.0      +18.8
 Uni Charm (Japan) ..............   2290.0      +18.7
 Aga A (Sweden) .................    320.0      +17.6
 Stefanel (Italy) ...............   5845.0      +15.2
 Ras Risp (Italy) ...............  15500.0      +14.8
 Cultor II Free (Finland) .......     71.0      +14.5
 Hudson's Bay Co (Canada) .......     32.75     +14.4
 Teikoku Sen (Japan) ............   1960.0      +14.0
 Tai Cheung Holdings (Hong Kong).      4.525    +13.1
                                                                                                       

                     LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Emperor Mines (Australia) ......      0.67     -25.6
 Northern Star Holdings (Australia)    0.15     -21.1
 Interchase Corp (Australia) ....      0.3      -16.7
 Federal Express (U.S.) .........     45.75     -13.7
 Forsayth (Australia) ...........      0.19     -13.6
 European Leisure Ir (Britain) ..      0.53     -11.7
 Agnico-Eagle Mines (Canada) ....      7.75     -11.4
 Western Union (U.S.) ...........      0.5      -11.2
 Renouf (N. Zealand) ............      0.08     -11.1
 Ocean Drilling &amp; Expl (U.S.) ...     21.5      -10.9
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Anheuser-Busch Pulls Plug
   On LA, a Low-Alcohol Beer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   BUD
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- LA, an Anheuser-Busch Cos. beer whose name
was an abbreviation for "low alcohol," now also stands for
"little acceptance."
   The brewer said it was turning off the brand's spigot
after a disappointing six-year marketing effort. The first of
several beers with about half the alcohol content of regular
beers, LA was an attempt to slake the thirst of those who
liked beer but wanted to reduce their alcohol intake.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But that consumer niche apparently is miniscule. Industry
estimates put Anheuser's LA production last year at only
about 20,000 barrels -- so small that the company didn't even
mention the brand in its latest annual report.
   Analysts said the beer market has evolved into an
all-or-none situation, where drinkers either want regular
beer or beer with no alcohol at all. To meet the latter
niche, Anheuser recently introduced O'Doul's, a
premium-priced non-alcoholic brew.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trade Panel Backs
   U.S. in Restricting
   Canadian Lobsters
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- A Canada-U.S. panel upheld U.S. restrictions on
Canadian lobster imports, dealing a blow to Canada's
depressed lobster industry.
   The panel, set up under the Canada-U.S. free-trade
agreement, said the U.S. restrictions aren't a trade barrier
because they don't apply to imports alone. Canada complained
that the law violated the free-trade agreement, but the U.S.
argued that the restrictions were necessary conservation
measures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. law, which took effect last December, prohibits
imports of live lobsters smaller than the U.S. minimum legal
size of 3 1/4 inches. The U.S. size minimum is to tighten to
3 5/16 inches by 1992. The regulations are designed to limit
the catch of younger lobsters, which still are unable to
reproduce.
   Canada has less stringent size restrictions on its lobster
catches because Canada has a larger lobster supply and
because the Canadian lobsters grow in warmer waters, where
they mature faster and are able to reproduce sooner. Canada
also uses other conservation measures, including a shorter
harvesting season.
   Canadian exports of live lobster to the U.S. totaled
US$100.8 million in 1989. The Canadian lobster industry
estimated that the U.S. restrictions could result in a $25
million drop this year in Canadian lobster exports. The
decline is expected to increase as the U.S. increases the
minimum size of lobsters.
   The Canadian industry already is suffering from depressed
prices. Lobster prices have fallen in recent years because of
a high Canadian dollar, declining demand and a 45% increase
in landed catches since 1982.
   "Lobster fishermen who have had to suffer through
abnormally low prices are now faced with a restricted
market," Russell MacLellan, a Member of Parliament from Nova
Scotia, told the Canadian House of Commons. He called on the
government to provide assistance to the Canadian lobster
fishermen who would be hurt by the ruling.
   New England lobster fishermen have complained that
Canadian lobsters were flooding the U.S. market and
depressing lobster prices.
   In a minority finding, the panel, which includes three
U.S. members and two Canadian, said the U.S. restrictions
were a trade restriction as well as a conservation measure.
U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills and Canadian Trade
Minister John Crosbie have 90 days to consider the panel's
report and decide what action to take.
   The importance of the dispute was underscored last year
when Prime Minister Brian Mulroney made a personal appeal to
President George Bush. Mr. Mulroney called the president's
decision to allow the restrictions a "deep disappointment."
   The lobster ruling was the second fisheries dispute
referred to a panel set up under the settlement mechanism of
the free-trade agreement. The trade pact, which went into
effect in January 1989, seeks to eliminate most trade
barriers between the two countries. Last year, another panel
ruled against Canada in a case involving West Coast salmon
and herring. As a result of the ruling, Canada made 20% of
its salmon and herring catch available to U.S. buyers
directly without first being landed and counted in British
Columbia ports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Silber's Bid in Race in Massachusetts
   Challenges Liberal Democrats' Control
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- In liberal Massachusetts, conservative Democrat
John Silber is an unlikely candidate for governor. But the
combative president of Boston University, a political novice
who was virtually unknown to many voters a few months ago,
has surged to the front in recent polls.
   Which may not matter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite his lead, Mr. Silber might not even get on the
ballot for the Democratic primary, much less for the general
election. Only Democrats who get at least 15% of the delegate
votes at the party convention on Saturday are allowed on the
primary ballot. And although he is a favorite with many
voters, Mr. Silber isn't a favorite with party insiders, and
could fall short of the needed percentage.
   The possibility that Mr. Silber will be denied a position
on the ballot has become the central issue in the campaign.
His supporters say it is a case of the insiders trying to
keep control of the party. Mr. Silber compared the party
rules to the "white supremacist tactics" once used in the
South to keep blacks out of politics.
   Some of his critics say the rules are fine and that
candidates with Mr. Silber's politics don't belong on the
Democratic party ballot. "Those who emerge from ivory towers
shouldn't be shocked by what they find on the ground below,"
says Louis Elisa, president of the Boston chapter of the
NAACP and a critic of Mr. Silber.
   Mr. Silber, who columnist George Will recently termed "the
nation's most interesting candidate in 1990," has a
predilection for the inflammatory phrase that provokes and
outrages. He has produced headlines this spring for calling
Massachusetts a "welfare magnet." He called Lowell, Mass.,
the "Cambodian capital of the U.S." and suggested unmarried
mothers who have a second child should have their welfare
payments reduced.
   But Mr. Silber's comments, which he complains are
distorted by media and opponents, are playing well among some
voters. A recent Boston Herald poll of voters likely to cast
ballots in the Sept. 18 primary found that he has edged into
the lead with 28%, ahead of Lt. Gov. Evelyn Murphy's 23% and
former state attorney general Frank Bellotti's 19%.
   But despite recent endorsements, Mr. Silber remains short
of the delegate votes needed. He asserts the
delegate-selection system "should be embarrassing to people
who call themselves liberal and call themselves
inclusionary."
   In fact, much of the leadership is embarrassed. A Boston
Globe survey found eight of the state's 10 Democratic U.S.
congressmen favor changing the 15% rule. Some uncommitted
delegates say they will vote for Mr. Silber to get him on the
ballot, even though they won't endorse him.
   Ms. Murphy predicts that Mr. Silber will end up getting
the 15% he needs. But Mr. Silber, who says he is getting
close to having enough delegates, is worried: "I've been told
by an old Boston politician that they can steal an elephant
on the floor of the convention."
   Mr. Silber's strong showing among voters is something of a
surprise. A Texan with a Yale doctorate in philosophy (he
wrote his thesis on Immanuel Kant) he has had a stormy
20-year tenure as president of Boston University, where his
$275,000 annual salary makes him one of the nation's best
paid college heads. While boosting the school's reputation,
he has locked horns with students, faculty and trustees over
such issues as the Marine Corps' right to recruit on campus,
gay rights and faculty unionization.
   A slight, bespectacled 63-year-old whose right arm was
deformed at birth, Mr. Silber is generally conservative on
foreign affairs. His public support for U.S. policy in
Central America and refusal to divest stock of companies with
South African investments is an anathema to most
Massachusetts Democrats. He voted for Ronald Reagan and
George Bush in the last three elections. He denounces
abortion as homicide and calls some new prisons
"air-conditioned Taj Mahals."
   Still, many Democrats here have been disillusioned by the
collapse of the Massachusetts Miracle and the directionless
bickering of party leaders since Michael Dukakis lost his
presidential bid to George Bush in 1988. With a big deficit
and tax increases inevitable, some see a chance for
Massachusetts's dormant Republican Party to win top state
offices unless a conservative like Mr. Silber is nominated.
   Although many of his stands play well with conservatives,
Mr. Silber maintains that he is a traditional Democrat.
Indeed, many of his positions are far from orthodox
Republicanism. He favors stricter gun controls and opposes
the death penalty, arguing that it isn't a good deterrent and
is unfair to minorities. An ardent supporter of preschool
education, he favors expansion of early childhood programs.
   He is even enough of a maverick to talk about raising
taxes. He is pushing for a 12 cent-per-gallon gasoline tax
increase to put construction workers back to work, and says
that a temporary sales and income tax increase is needed to
pay off the $1 billion deficit accumulated by the Dukakis
administration. Mr. Dukakis announced he wouldn't run for
re-election as governor a year ago.
   And Mr. Silber can spout an idea a minute. Asked about
homelessness on a televised debate, he proposed spending
$100,000 to rehabilitate old rooming-houses rather than
ordering them closed for housing code violations. He says the
state should acquire abandoned military bases as
"prison-schools" where criminals would be forced to earn high
school degrees. He supports drug treatment on demand and says
it could be partly paid for by turning treatment centers into
"rehabilitative institutions" where patients could make
products for the state.
   Mr. Silber says his strongest suits are knowledge about
education and background as a manager. "I'm the only
candidate who's ever run anything complicated," he claims.
   After taking over as president of deficit-ridden Boston
University in 1970, he promptly remade the budget and now
boasts the school has run surpluses every year since. The
28,000-student school has an annual budget of about $570
million. During his tenure, the endowment has grown tenfold;
the faculty has been enhanced by such stars as Nobel prize
winner Elie Wiesel, and BU's reputation has been burnished by
special events such as the appearance at last year's
graduation of both President Bush and France's President
Mitterrand.
   Lately he has been criticized for investing some $60
million-equivalent to one-third of BU's endowment -- in
Seragen Inc., a biotechnology start-up that doesn't expect to
be profitable until 1995. Mr. Silber argues that the annual
investment is only 3% of the school's budget and should be
seen as part of its medical research program. However,
criticism heightened recently when the Boston Herald
disclosed that 10 of the university's trustees also hold
investments in Seragen.
   But many observers say the biggest question is how Mr.
Silber's autocratic management style would play in the give
and take of Massachusetts politics. In a debate with Mr.
Silber, Ms. Murphy said: "My leadership style is to bring
people together. I won't divide them."
   Mr. Silber argues that his tenure at Boston University
proves he can work with disparate groups. Besides, he adds,
he should get along well with the state's legislators because
"they'll know the reason for my election is that there is a
highly unusual match between my views and the views of the
voters of Massachusetts."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Placer Begins Bid
   Of $193.8 Million
   For Gold Concern
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   PDG T.SKZ ICRA
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Cash-rich Placer Dome Inc.
offered 229.5 million Canadian dollars (US$193.8 million) or
C$67.50 a share for Stikine Resources Ltd., 50% owner of
British Columbia's burgeoning Eskay Creek gold deposit.
   The offer, which begins today and expires June 19, is
expected to spark a battle with Toronto's Corona Corp. for
control of the rich deposit. Its reserves to date total 4.8
million contained ounces of gold or equivalent, worth about
US$1.76 billion at current spot prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We see it as very unfriendly. It caught us by surprise,"
said Peter Steen, Corona's chief executive officer. He said
Corona and Placer Dome were holding unspecified talks prior
to the offer; an analyst who declined to be indentified said
the companies were studying a possible joint venture at Eskay
Creek.
   The shares of Stikine, a small Vancouver-based exploration
outfit whose stock traded at less than C$1 a share just 18
months ago, rose sharply yesterday in Toronto Stock Exchange
trading, closing at C$68.50 each, up C$7.25 and C$1 above
Placer Dome's bid price. Placer Dome closed at C$19 a share,
unchanged.
   Currently, Corona owns 20% of Prime Resources Group Inc.,
Stikine's partner and the operator of the Eskay Creek
project, which is in northwestern British Columbia. Under a
complex plan announced in April, Corona proposes to secure
control of Eskay Creek by acquiring 44.6% of a new company
formed through the merger of Stikine and Prime.
   Corona's proposal, which still requires shareholder
approvals at meetings expected in July, calls for Stikine
holders to receive a package of securities, including Corona
shares, that analysts value at anywhere from C$65 to C$70 a
Stikine share.
   Placer Dome, a big gold producer whose cash holdings will
swell to about C$1 billion with the pending sale of its oil
and gas interests, said it views its bid as "superior" to
Corona's plan. As an alternative to its cash bid, Placer Dome
is also offering to swap 3.5 of its shares for each Stikine
share.
   Placer Dome's offer, if successful, would block the
planned merger of Stikine and Prime, which requires approval
from 75% of each company's shareholders to proceed. If more
than 25% of Stikine's shares are tendered to Placer Dome's
offer, therefore, analysts said Placer Dome could stymie the
merger plan, as well as Corona's effort to gain control of
Eskay Creek.
   Mr. Steen wouldn't say whether Corona would consider
sweetening the pot for Stikine shareholders, though investors
clearly expect a higher offer to come, in view of Stikine's
C$68.50 closing price yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   British Economy
   Is Said to Show
   A Mixed Picture
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BA U.DWT U.BBA U.RCA U.EUR EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The troubled British economy faces double-digit
inflation, downward pressure on the pound and slackened
capital investment, according to the latest economic bulletin
by the Bank of England.
   But the central bank's report carried a glimmer of
optimism: British companies are managing to increase exports
to countries such as West Germany, where economic conditions
are more robust. That finding dovetails a suprisingly
sanguine report by Salomon Brothers, which predicted a boom
in U.K. manufacturing exports during the 1990s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The British inflation virus is currently the worst of any
major industrial country. But the Bank of England warned that
tight labor markets in the U.S. and Japan, along with skill
shortages in Europe, harbinger more inflation in those
regions.
   German unification threatens further international
inflation, according to the Bank of England, which cited
higher consumer demand from East Germans, along with added
spending by the West German government. In addition, the bank
report argued that the West German trade surplus probably
will decline as West German industry shifts its focus from
export markets to shoring up the collapsing East German
economy. That could lead to higher German interest rates.
   Notwithstanding the worrisome inflationary trends,
economic activity in continental Europe should bring a surge
in exports for Britain's steel, aerospace and auto
industries, according to Salomon Brothers' equity strategist
Michael Howell.
   Overall, Mr. Howell predicted a reversal of the economic
patterns that prevailed in the 1980s, when the U.K.
manufacturing sector shrunk and the service sector expanded.
In the 1990s, he said, British advertisers, real estate
brokers and leisure companies will suffer while manufacturers
rebound.
   Already, the Salomon report said, U.K. manufacturing
exports are running 20% higher than in 1988. Salomon
predicted 15%-20% growth in each of the next two years.
Assuming such growth, Mr. Howell said it's "increasingly
realistic" to consider Britain "the Hong Kong of Europe" in
the new decade.
   The Bank of England wasn't that optimistic, but it
forecast that export growth will "remain strong" despite
sluggishness elsewhere in the British economy.
   Salomon predicted that British Aerospace PLC, Dowty Group
PLC and BBA Group PLC should all gain from increased demand
for aerospace engines and equipment. Increased demand for
cellular radios and telephones should boost sales for Racal
Electronics PLC, Salomon said. Meanwhile, Eurotunnel PLC,
after weathering a succession of cost overruns and slowdowns,
can expect profits to roll in after 1996, according to the
report.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sober Summit:
   Despite Arms Progress,
   New Tensions Mark
   U.S.-Soviet Relations
   ---
   Bush and Gorbachev Disagree
   Over Germany, Lithuania
   And the Soviet Economy
   ---
   Girding for Thursday's Talks
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   When Soviet advance men visited Washington to plan this
week's summit between George Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev,
White House aides treated them to a night out at a Washington
Capitals hockey game.
   Sitting in a plush skybox at the Capital Centre sports
complex, the Soviets wolfed dozens of hot dogs, guzzled mixed
drinks and amused their hosts with a running critique of
American hockey. They also illustrated that U.S.-Soviet
relations have improved to the point that presidential aides
can have a rollicking good time planning a summit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unfortunately, their bosses may not have quite as much fun
when they meet this week.
   Publicly, the Bush-Gorbachev summit that begins Thursday
is sure to be hailed as a big success. That's largely because
the two leaders are expected to declare that they have agreed
on the major elements of a long-awaited treaty slashing
strategic nuclear arms.
   But after those headlines are forgotten, this summit is
likely to be remembered for the sober and businesslike new
tone it sets in superpower relations and for how it shapes
the future of Europe. The honeymoon with Mr. Gorbachev is
over. Nuclear arms aside, the U.S. and Soviets are unhappily
bogged down in disputes over issues that constitute a higher
priority for both: reunification of Germany, conventional
arms cuts across Europe and the fate of the Baltic states.
These are the issues that will determine the face of
post-Cold War Europe.
   Now, says Secretary of State James Baker, push is coming
to shove. "Moscow's willingness to make hard choices
internally and externally will affect the course and future"
of its relationship with Washington, he says. In particular,
the hopes raised at the Malta summit last December for broad
U.S.-Soviet economic cooperation have faded, and disagreement
over Lithuania has nearly eliminated the chances that trade
liberalization will be enacted at this summit.
   "Both sides are likely to feel uneasy during the talks"
because of the new tensions, predicts Andrei Kortunov, a
political analyst at the U.S.A. and Canada Institute, a
Soviet government think tank in Moscow.
   Mr. Gorbachev last week took steps to ease some of the
tension with Washington by telling Lithuania that it might be
able to negotiate its freedom within two years if it suspends
its declaration of independence. But it's far from certain
that such a trade-off is acceptable to Lithuania's leaders,
and Mr. Gorbachev has also threatened to tighten his grip on
the republic if his deal is refused.
   As the Soviet leader slides deeper into domestic trouble,
Mr. Bush's ability to wrest concessions at the negotiating
table may be declining. The acute Soviet economic crisis, for
example, directly affects European troop talks because it
makes it harder for Mr. Gorbachev to bring the Red Army home:
The Soviets say they have neither houses nor jobs for
returning soldiers. The Soviet military is already
increasingly inclined to criticize him. Mr. Gorbachev will be
vulnerable to charges that he is giving away the store to the
Americans if he makes further concessions on the crucial
question of whether a united Germany can be part of the
Western military alliance. Moreover, his economic problems
are clearly more immense than any economic assistance from
Washington could remedy.
   "I don't think our leverage was ever as great as we
thought it was," says Ed A. Hewett, a specialist on the
Soviet economy who recently returned from Moscow and has just
briefed President Bush. "We had a kind of illusion of great
leverage."
   Over the weekend, Mr. Gorbachev's troubles took another
turn for the worse. A new government plan to raise the price
of bread and other goods set off a wave of panic buying in
cities throughout the Soviet Union. Mr. Gorbachev was forced
to go on television to try to calm the country's citizens.
And in Armenia, Soviet troops clashed with nationalists in
gun battles that left at least 21 people dead, and again
inflamed passions in the region.
   While President Bush's domestic concerns aren't as
serious, he too feels new constraints. He's already under
attack from American conservatives for supposedly giving away
too much to Mr. Gorbachev in bargaining in the strategic arms
reduction talks, or START. "I think you're going to have some
real resistance in the U.S. to any START agreement," says
former defense secretary Harold Brown.
   The generally hard line Mr. Gorbachev has pursued against
Lithuanian independence has tarnished his image in the U.S.,
making it harder for Mr. Bush to offer economic help. Mr.
Bush "will be split between the wish to support Gorbachev and
the understanding that the situation is changing," says Mr.
Kortunov. Yet since Malta, Mr. Bush has invested so much
political capital in Mr. Gorbachev that he may be able to do
little more than complain mildly about the Soviet leader's
tactics.
   Of course, either president could pull a surprise out of
his hat. Some analysts, for instance, speculate that Mr.
Gorbachev may try to sidestep the disagreement over whether
Germany should be part of the Western alliance by proposing
that all Soviet and American troops and nuclear weapons be
yanked off German soil. Mr. Bush undoubtedly would say no;
such a scheme would undermine his plan to keep Germany in the
Western orbit. Nonetheless, simply making the offer could
bolster Mr. Gorbachev's image in Germany.
   Similarly, some American analysts are urging the Bush
administration to take a bold step by offering Mr. Gorbachev
emergency economic relief -- with the firm understanding that
such help is contingent on rapid moves toward a market
economy and true democracy in the Soviet Union, and an end to
pressure on Lithuania. The administration's policy is that
the West shouldn't proffer the Soviets significant aid until
the Kremlin makes more fundamental economic reforms. But
there are now indications that U.S. officials nonetheless may
have discussed some possible aid -- in broad and vague terms
-- in recent meetings with the Soviets.
   Without such surprises, public attention at the summit
will focus on Cold War-era arms-control issues that are of
declining importance in rapidly changing East-West relations.
In addition to the expected statement that they have nearly
finished a START agreement, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev will
sign agreements to restrict nuclear testing and begin
destroying chemical weapons.
   In the end, the ability of the U.S. and the Soviet Union
to go further may be determined partly by the personal
chemistry that emerges between Messrs. Gorbachev and Bush,
who have developed a good but tentative relationship. In many
ways, the two men are similar. Consummate products of their
nations' political systems, each spent two decades working up
the political ladder. Each is far more of a hands-on manager
than his predecessor. And each is excitable and competitive,
and has a readily apparent sense of humor.
   At one point in the Malta summit, for instance, Mr.
Gorbachev pulled out a map showing the location of American
naval forces at sites all around the Soviet Union and said it
illustrated why the Soviets sometimes feel surrounded. Mr.
Bush wryly responded by asking whether he could show the map
to the Central Intelligence Agency to check the Soviets'
accuracy.
   Yet there also are key differences in style that could
crimp this personal diplomacy. Mr. Gorbachev is given to
public flamboyance, while Mr. Bush is not. More notably, the
Soviet is a natural risk-taker, while the American prides
himself on his prudence.
   Another difference bears directly on this week's meetings.
Mr. Bush likes to conduct business with world leaders in
informal recreational settings, where he thinks he gets a
truer measure of his counterpart. This session will be no
different: He initially wanted to take Mr. Gorbachev to his
Maine vacation home, but wound up settling for a Saturday
with the Soviet at the Camp David retreat near Washington.
   Mr. Gorbachev doesn't seem to have much use for relaxed
settings. One U.S. official who has watched him at several
superpower summits says he has yet to see him remove his suit
coat or loosen his tie. "Gorbachev is a lot looser than any
Soviet leader we've ever seen before, but that's not saying
much," says Peter Teeley, a longtime Bush adviser. "The guy
has come light years from the Brezhnev mold, but there's
still a certain stiffness there."
   The private summit talks the two men hold on Thursday,
Friday and Saturday could prove to be some of the most
important since Yalta. For as long as 14 hours, the two
leaders will discuss the future shape of Europe and the
Soviet Union itself. The most urgent and contentious of these
issues is the future of Germany.
   East and West Germany are roaring toward political
unification. The U.S. and West Germany want the united German
state to be a full member of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, the Western military alliance. At least
publicly, Mr. Gorbachev remains hard set against that. Above
all he wants to avoid accusations that he has lost the Cold
War by allowing the World War II prize of Germany to slip
away for nothing.
   A related Kremlin worry about Germany also appears to have
slowed negotiations on a sweeping new treaty cutting
conventional troops and arms in Europe. Mr. Gorbachev
apparently wants assurances that the new, unified German army
will be too small to threaten the Soviet Union.
   Thus, American officials say that Mr. Bush's top priority
at the summit will be persuading Mr. Gorbachev to back off on
these German-related issues. He will argue that the Soviets
should want a united Germany in NATO because that would
stabilize Europe, and that cutting the size of the new
Germany's armed forces will have to be decided as part of a
round of future troop cuts throughout Europe.
   But even if he does agree to a Western-oriented united
Germany, Mr. Gorbachev may insist that, in return, he get
economic help from West Germany, some German demilitarization
and a new pan-European security organization to succeed NATO
and the Warsaw Pact. He may even push for a peace treaty
formally ending World War II, something the Germans fear
could be used to extract big economic concessions from them.
   The Soviets "want to get a price" for letting go of East
Germany, says Dimitri Simes, an emigre Soviet scholar at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "They want to be
sure it won't appear they are surrendering."
   Thus it isn't surprising that Germany and rebellious
Lithuania are so dominant on the summit agenda. "The German
issue really involves whether the Soviet Union can continue
to be a superpower," says Stephen Sestanovich, a former
National Security Council staff member. "Lithuania involves
whether the Soviet Union can be a power at all."
   Mr. Gorbachev's worsening domestic problems make the task
of resolving these issues more complicated than it was just
six months ago at the friendly Malta meeting. Soviet
economists now indicate privately that, rather than growing
sluggishly, the Soviet gross national product actually has
been shrinking by 2% to 4% for each of the last four years. A
new package of economic reforms proposed this month by the
Kremlin is widely considered too timid.
   What's more, the Soviet Communist Party now is divided
into at least three factions. A formal split is likely to
take place at the Party's 28th Congress, which opens July 2.
Even Mr. Gorbachev's personal popularity is suffering. This
month he was elected a delegate to the party congress by
Communists in his home district -- but won just 61% of the
vote.
   While these problems distract Mr. Gorbachev, a clearer
constraint on his bargaining freedom is his strained
relations with the Soviet military. In a recent article, Yuri
Katasonov, a retired colonel, summed up many of the
military's grievances about Mr. Gorbachev's arms-control
policies by charging that Mr. Gorbachev "is trying to
conclude agreements at any price."
   The Soviet defense establishment already is struggling to
cope with the consequences of unilateral troop cuts Mr.
Gorbachev announced in 1988. A staggering 170,000 officers
and their families now have no permanent place to live,
according to the Soviet Defense Ministry. Clearly, the
military will be even unhappier if Mr. Gorbachev agrees to
more troop cuts in Europe.
   "When our units are withdrawn from Eastern Europe, dozens
of thousands of families will find themselves in a similar
situation," grumbled one officer in a recent article in the
Soviet press.
   ---
   Walter S. Mossberg in Washington contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Argentina Revives $1.4 Billion Accord
   With IMF and Sets Talks With Banks
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Argentina, striving to repair relations with
its foreign creditors, has revived a $1.4 billion loan
agreement with the International Monetary Fund and will begin
negotiations Thursday on resuming payments to its main
commercial bank creditors.
   Late Friday, the IMF's executive board cleared a $240
million loan to Argentina, after the board had approved
revised targets for an economic program originally agreed to
in November 1989. Argentina can draw the $240 million
immediately; it previously had drawn another $240 million of
the $1.4 billion credit. The IMF had held up further
disbursements until Argentina had set revised targets for
such important economic indicators as inflation and the size
of the government deficit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Latin American country has succeeded in reviving its
agreement with the IMF after two months of much-improved
management under Economy Minister Erman Gonzalez. Inflation
has moderated, and the government even seems to be balancing
its budget.
   The renewed IMF agreement will, for the first time, allow
Argentina to set aside 25% of what remains of the $1.4
billion credit to allow it to pursue plans to reduce its bank
debt. Faced with a total of about $60 billion of foreign debt
-- with more than half of that owed to commercial banks,
Argentine officials are eager to try such strategies.
   Argentina's leading commercial bank creditors struggled
hard -- but failed -- to ensure that the country made an
interest payment to them before it could restore its
relations with the IMF. They also had hoped to extract an
interest payment from the Argentines as the price of resuming
talks on Argentina's approximately $30.5 billion of medium-
and long-term foreign bank debt. But that strategy also
didn't succeed.
   Nevertheless, the banks remain hopeful that they will
receive a payment around the time the talks start in New
York. "I think that they'll make a payment when we start
talking," said a senior U.S. banker. Argentina is as much as
$6 billion in arrears on interest payments to banks, having
not paid interest to them for as much as two years. It is
struggling to restructure its economy, and is reluctant to
make payments to banks from its estimated $1 billion of
foreign-exchange reserves.
   In a statement released in New York, William Rhodes, the
Citicorp executive who heads the 13-bank committee that
negotiates with Argentina, and Javier Gonzalez Fraga, the
vice president of the Argentine central bank, said they had
agreed to resume negotiations. Mr. Rhodes said they will
discuss "the resumption of a regular flow of payments by
Argentina to commercial bank creditors" on the country's
medium-term and long-term public-sector debt.
   Argentina's progress with its foreign creditors contrasts
with Brazil, which has yet to reach agreement with the IMF
and reopen talks with foreign bank creditors. Brazil, which
now has interest payment arrears to its commercial banks that
amount to about $5 billion, seems to be preoccupied with
trying to improve the enactment of its economic plan.
   Its economy minister, Zelia Cardoso de Mello, visited
senior bankers in New York recently. They seemed
disappointed. "She's not doing much in the way of listening,"
said one. With reserves of as much as $8 billion, the bankers
reckon that Brazil could start to clean up its payments
arrears before they become unmanageably large.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Adobe, Apple Send
   Mixed Signals;
   Stocks End Lower
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   AAPL ADBE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Apple Computer Inc. may well be Adobe Systems Inc.'s
largest customer, but last week the two companies had a hard
time computing together.
   On Friday, Adobe's stock plunged $15.25, or about 30%,
despite the company's raising of a disappointing earnings
projection made late Thurday. The revision followed an
unusual public debate between Apple and Adobe over the
strength of sales of Apple laser printers that use Adobe
software.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Thursday, Adobe surprised analysts by saying earnings
and revenue for the second quarter ending June 1 would be
sharply below analysts' expectations. And one of the main
reasons it cited was a 23% drop in revenue from Apple
compared with the first quarter.
   But Apple said the falloff wasn't that sharp, and Friday,
before markets opened, the two companies issued separate news
releases to that effect.
   Adobe said it had obtained revenue estimates from Apple
for the months of April and May and then used that
information for its quarterly estimate. Then, "Apple got back
to us and said the April number provided had been incorrect,"
Adobe said.
   An Apple spokeswoman tells a different story. "Adobe did
receive preliminary numbers for the months of March and
April. Adobe called to confirm the {quarterly} trend, but we
told them we did not agree with their analysis. They decided
to issue a press release anyway."
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, Adobe stock
closed at $35.25 a share on volume of 8.5 million shares. The
drop, which was credited with prompting a wave of selling of
technology issues, came a day after Adobe's stock climbed
$1.50 to a high of $50.50 on anticipation that the company
would release positive news. Apple shares closed at $40, down
$2.
   In its revised forecast Friday, Adobe said it expects
earnings of 29 cents to 37 cents a share, on revenue of $33
million to $36 million. Although higher than the forecast
issued the day before, it was well below some analysts'
estimates of 51 cents a share and revenue of about $42
million. In the year-earlier quarter, Adobe earned $7.6
million, or 35 cents a share, on revenue of $28.1 million.
   Some analysts are still concerned that Apple's printer
sales are lagging, in part because of increased competition
from Hewlett-Packard Co. The Apple spokeswoman said the
company's printer sales are still "healthy."
   Certainly Apple's relations with Adobe aren't as close as
they once were. In July, Apple decided to divest its 16.4%
stake in Adobe, and last fall, Apple and Microsoft Corp. said
they would develop printer software that would compete
against Adobe's.
   Meanwhile, Adobe is only beginning to get some lift from
other potentially lucrative revenue sources, including
International Business Machines Corp., which in March said it
would start offering Adobe software with its OS/2
personal-computer operating system.
   Separately, Invest/Net, a North Miami, Fla., firm that
tracks insider buying and selling, said that from Jan. 1
through April 30, Adobe insiders sold 501,153 shares,
compared with a total of 293,032 shares in all of 1989. In
April, a total of 90,000 shares was sold by Adobe Chief
Executive Officer John Warnock at between $37.75 and $38.25,
and a total of 40,000 was sold by Adobe President Charles
Geschke at between $39 and $40 each. Adobe officials couldn't
be reached to comment on the selling.
   ---
   Georgette Jasen contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler to Pay
   U.S. $2.9 Million
   To Settle Suit
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. agreed to pay $2.9
million to settle allegations that its Electrospace Systems
Inc. unit overcharged the government in contracts before
being acquired by the auto maker in 1987.
   Also, four top officials of Richardson, Texas-based
Electrospace resigned last week. Chrysler maintains the
departures were unrelated to the settlement, although a
government prosecutor says the moves were related.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There's nothing in the settlement at all that is
conditional with employment changes," said John Stellman,
chief financial officer at Chrysler Technologies, the
subsidiary that includes Electrospace. A government
prosecutor, while declining to mention names, said the
government wouldn't have approved the settlement unless
Chrysler agreed "to remove the officers involved in the
allegations."
   Marvin Collins, U.S. attorney for the northern district of
Texas, added, "We typically don't allow a contractor to
insulate the people involved."
   The allegations involved hundreds of government contracts
handled by Electrospace Systems between 1978 and 1987, said
Ronald Eddins, an assistant U.S. attorney in the northern
district of Texas. Many of the contracts were for electronics
installed in U.S. Air Force planes, including one contract
for Air Force One, the plane used to transport the president.
   The government contends that Electrospace used a
subcontractor to do much of the work and then billed the
government as if the work had been performed by Electrospace
itself. "Instead of doing the work themselves, they had (the
subcontractor) using less-skilled labor at a lower cost,
increasing the profit to themselves," Mr. Eddins said.
   Chrysler characterized the issue as a "price dispute" and
added that the civil settlement contained no admission of
"improprieties" by Electrospace.
   Mr. Collins, the Texas U.S. attorney, said the government
had conducted a criminal investigation before agreeing to the
settlement. "We didn't find a case that could be successfully
prosecuted before a jury," he said.
   The settlement is a "global settlement," meaning that the
government won't seek criminal prosecution in the case. The
$2.9 million settlement is roughly twice the amount the
government contends it was overcharged from 1985 to 1987, Mr.
Eddins said. The government was unable to seek restitution
for contracts before 1985 because of a five-year statute of
limitations.
   Chrysler recently dropped plans to sell Electrospace and
two other units of Chrysler Technologies because it couldn't
find a buyer. "Chrysler settled to avoid the cost and
disruption of a long dispute," Mr. Stellman said. "The
settlement allows Electrospace management to concentrate on
the main thrust of our business."
   The officials leaving Electrospace included Electrospace
President Robert Carrel and former Chairman James Lightner,
who was still an Electrospace director at the time of his
departure. Mr. Stellman said the officials left because their
three-year employment contracts, signed when Chrysler bought
the company, had expired.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Reporter's Notebook:
   For Restaurateurs, Convention Is Smogasbord of Tips
   ---
   They Learn of Cost-Conscious Diners,
   And for Some, the Light Bulb Goes On
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   VDEF AXP
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Restaurant diners seem more finicky than ever
these days.
   They still want something different. But they don't want
to take too many risks, at least compared with diners of a
few years ago. And compared with a few years ago, they're
more tightfisted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That was the message some experts offered restaurateurs at
the annual National Restaurant Association convention here
last week. The thousands who attended work in a notoriously
difficult industry dominated by small business. Most sought
ideas that can give them an edge in a field where so many
fail.
   They searched the massive McCormick Place exhibition halls
for suppliers of fresher, more nutritious items, grazing as
they went. They tried out equipment designed to cut
preparation time. They observed chefs racing through culinary
contests -- and stole their menu ideas.
   But more than anything, they sought clues to understanding
the wily consumer. Some listened to Barbara R. Caplan, vice
president of Yankelovich Clancy Shulman, a Westport, Conn.,
market research firm, who described today's consumers as,
paradoxically, seekers of "safe adventure."
   As in the 1980s, consumers still desire new experiences,
but they feel less need to be trendy, she said. Rather, they
demand novelty within a familiar framework -- and don't want
their sensibilities jarred. They'll try, for instance, a new
restaurant if the chef is familiar.
   In a backlash to the opulent, risk-seeking '80s, consumers
now are dollar-conscious and risk-averse. They insist more
than ever on quality food, service and atmosphere but don't
want to pay top dollar, Ms. Caplan said. And they're more
mindful of their own social image in selecting eating places,
afraid someone may say, "You chose this dump?"
   ---
   Restaurant owners had an eye out for solutions to common
problems. Robert Schimmel, a restaurateur in York, Pa.,
dreamed of a way to keep tabs on his diners' needs while the
waiter is away. "Somebody always wants something when you're
not there," he says.
   While strolling among exhibitors' booths at the show, Mr.
Schimmel stumbled on an answer to his problem: a call light
for the diner's table. The gadget, dubbed a Waiter Lite, has
a button on its base that activates a light at the end of a
clear plastic wand. There's an optional water vase to hold
fresh flowers that slips over the wand.
   The device's inventor, Stephen Hauser, said his company,
Roher Industries Inc., Santa Ana, Calif., started selling the
devices earlier this year at a base price of $24.95. Mr.
Schimmel said he'd buy 48.
   However, Michael E. Hurst, president of the National
Restaurant Association and a restaurant owner himself, says
he wonders whether use of call lights might actually make a
staff less attentive.
   ---
   American Express Co. used the convention to launch a
sweepstakes promotion that it says will help restaurant
owners reward employees for good service. It is the company's
latest salvo in the intensifying battle for restaurant
credit-card business.
   Predictably enough, the promotion requires diners to pay
their bills on their American Express cards. In addition,
they must fill out a portion of a sweepstakes brochure,
praising an employee for good service, then mail it to
American Express. The employee fills out another part of the
brochure and sends it in.
   The grand prize for the employee submitting the most
entries is $10,000. The top prize in a drawing for card
holders is a food-and-wine trip through the French
countryside. Restaurants that card holders cite most
frequently for good service will be awarded with ads touting
them.
   Not everyone loves the promotion. Spencer Nilson,
publisher of the Nilson Report, a credit-card industry
newsletter, called it "a dumb idea." He wondered why American
Express, which has long marketed a prestige name, would sully
that image by trying to encourage somebody to enter a
sweepstakes. But he noted that the high price of American
Express cards is "hurting" the company in the marketplace and
he complimented it for trying anything to boost card usage.
   ---
   Restaurant owners fed up with cooking everything
themselves found hope at the convention. Among many
exhibitors pushing products to ease the restaurateur's load,
Vie de France Corp. touted its new entry into the market for
precooked menu items, prepared using a controversial method
called "sous vide."
   The Alexandria, Va., company recently joined other U.S.
sous vide processors by opening a plant to produce the items.
In the sous vide process, popular in France, fresh food is
sealed in special pouches, cooked at low temperature in
water, then refrigerated until it's reheated and served. Vie
de France also offers a frozen version of the products.
   Harve A. Elsea, owner of a French-American restaurant in
Arlington Heights, Ill., said he may order from Vie de
France's new line, because the precooked, prepackaged foods
would better control portion sizes and cut labor costs.
   However, federal regulators remain mindful of the dangers
of food contamination that theoretically could result from
faulty processing. No known cases of botulism have resulted
from the sous vide method so far, says an analyst at the
federal Food and Drug Adminstration. And the agency permits
processors, such as Vie de France, to use the process,
assuming they pass inspection. But it advises state and local
health authorities to prohibit restaurant cooks from making
their own sous vide products.
   ---
   Cooking contests drew crowds of restaurateurs at the
convention. For professional chefs, a top honor is a gold
medal at the international Culinary Olympics in Frankfurt,
West Germany.
   Thanks to a strong showing in elimination rounds for the
1992 U.S. team at the convention, Franz Poepperl, a Portland,
Ore., chef, will have a shot at the gold.
   But the meal he prepared was far from perfect. The chef
himself admitted, "I overcooked my roast." Overall though,
his skills impressed the judges -- and they expect he'll
sharpen up in time for 1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST F.CLU JAPAN LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
RAILROADS (RAI)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARNING FOR EUROPE'S AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sir Leon Brittan, European Community commissioner for
competition, warned airlines not to try dodging competition
in a single European market through anti-competitive mergers
and alliances.
   The EC's goal for airlines under its 1992 single-market
plan "is to eliminate altogether the restrictive agreements
and abuses of joint dominance which persist," Sir Leon said,
adding that the EC would "replace these with the conditions
needed for genuine competition."
   But, he said, some airlines have already taken steps to
dodge competition by buying or linking up with would-be
competitors. He then cited Air France's purchase of French
airline Air Inter, and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines' buy-out of
Transavia. "We are also concerned about the trend toward
Europeanwide networks and the possibility of so-called
nonaggression pacts between airlines," Sir Leon said, noting
link-ups among Air France, Lufthansa and Iberia and among
Sabena, KLM, and British Airways.
   If these arrangements are found to violate EC rules, the
EC Commission can order that they be dismantled or altered to
conform to the bloc's competition laws.
                                                                                                       

   PHILIPPINE GRAFT CASE
                                                                                                       

   The Philippine government filed a graft case against a
business ally of the late President Ferdinand Marcos for
allegedly helping Mr. Marcos grab control of the country's
largest newspaper chain, an official said. A government
commission that investigates cases of ill-gotten wealth among
Marcos allies filed charges in the anti-graft court against
Eduardo Cojuangco, an estranged cousin of President Corazon
Aquino. Mateo Caparas, head of the presidential commission on
good government, alleged Mr. Cojuangco served as a proxy for
Mr. Marcos in running the Manila Bulletin chain.
                                                                                                       

   A BULGARIAN CLUB MED
                                                                                                       

   Club Mediterranee S.A. reached an accord with the
government of Bulgaria under which the French company will
transform a Black Sea resort formerly reserved for Communist
Party officials into one of Club Med's trademark "villages."
A Club Med official said a contract will be signed with
Bulgarian Tourism Minister Stoyan Zhulev in the next few
days. The 600-bed resort, situated 10 miles from the town of
Varna on the Black Sea, is scheduled to open in 1991.
                                                                                                       

   SWISS RAIL PROJECT
                                                                                                       

   The Swiss government gave its approval for plans for a
10.1-billion-franc ($7.09 billion) rail project through the
Alps. The executive Federal Council suggested that
Switzerland should tap the capital markets for three-quarters
of the cost. The rest would come from a fund made up of fees
on oil products. The project is subject to approval by
Parliament.
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRALIA WIDENS SMOKING BAN
                                                                                                       

   Australia said it would ban smoking aboard international
flights traveling within its borders. Acting Prime Minister
Paul Keating told a conference of the Australian Medical
Association that from Sept. 1 smoking wouldn't be permitted
on international carriers flying between Australian cities.
Smoking has been banned on Australian domestic flights since
December 1987, but international carriers have so far been
exempt.
                                                                                                       

   NEW VENTURE IN VIETNAM
                                                                                                       

   Vietnam and South Korea have agreed to establish a
joint-venture company in Ho Chi Minh City to produce
cigarettes, the Korea Tobacco &amp; Ginseng Corp. announced.
Corporation officials said that agreement was reached last
week when Hong Do Kyun, head of the Korean corporation,
visited Vietnam's state-run tobacco plant. Mr. Hong agreed to
transfer technology, equipment, raw material and technicians,
they said.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN: LARGEST CREDITOR NATION
                                                                                                       

   Japan had record net overseas assets of $293.2 billion
last year, making it the world's largest creditor nation for
the fifth straight year, the Finance Ministry said.
   The figure was up 0.5% from 1988, according to an annual
report presented by Finance Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto to the
cabinet. The 0.5% increase, which followed a 21.1% jump in
1988, was the lowest rise since 1982, when Japan began
posting a yearly increase in its external assets, ministry
officials said.
   The officials attributed the slower growth to such factors
as a drop in Japan's current-account surplus in 1989 and an
increase in appraised profits in Japanese stocks held by
overseas investors.
   Japan's governmental and private assets abroad at the end
of 1989 totaled $1.771 trillion, up 20.5% from a year
earlier, while liabilities rose 25.5% to $1.475 trillion, the
report said.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Thieves stole 66,000 gallons of kerosene valued at $36,000
from a storage tank at the closely guarded U.S. Embassy in
Tokyo. . . . A Brazilian court ruled that the tiny Green
Party, which campaigned to save the Amazon rain forest, must
disband because it hadn't met legal obligations such as being
represented in nine states. "From now on, Brazil enters the
restricted club of countries like Albania and China, which
don't have ecological parties," said a party leader.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Triton Energy Stake
   Totaling 9.3% Is Held
   By Brierley Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   H.IEP OIL A.BRY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- A company controlled by New Zealand financier
Sir Ronald Brierley said it now owns a 9.3% stake in Triton
Energy Corp. and may seek federal clearance to acquire 50% or
more of the energy concern.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Industrial
Equity (Pacific) Ltd. said it has clearance under federal
antitrust laws to acquire as much as 14.9% of Triton's common
shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To get the most from its investment, Industrial Equity
also said it may seek to exercise a controlling influence
over Triton's affairs, pursue a seat on its board or make a
tender offer for some or all of Triton's shares.
   A spokesman for Triton, which has extensive overseas oil
and gas holdings, said it is unsure of Industrial Equity's
intentions. The Hong Kong-based investment firm is a vehicle
for U.S. and British investments by Mr. Brierley.
   "All we know is what has been on the financial wires," the
spokesman said. "They've previously held the stock for
long-term value. There have been rumors over the years of
takeover potential," but he said Mr. Brierley and the company
have developed a "close relationship."
   In its filing, Industrial Equity said it believes current
trading prices for Triton shares fail to reflect the value of
the company's underlying business and assets. Triton's stock
price, which traded about $15 a share in March, had fallen to
below $11 recently. It jumped $1.125 Friday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading to close at $11.625.
   In recent months, Industrial Equity has tangled with
Cummins Engine Co. over shareholder rights issues and sought
clearance under antitrust laws to raise its stake in
Petroleum Helicopters Inc. to 25%.
   Industrial Equity said it holds almost two million of
Triton's 21.2 million shares. That includes 1.3 million
shares bought between April 30 and May 22 at between $10.13
and $10.76 a share.
   Triton has operations in France, Britain and the North
Sea. For the nine months ended Feb. 28, it had a net loss of
$19.6 million, after a $5.6 million write-down of assets, on
revenue of $192.5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   John Wiley's Ellis
   Is Appointed Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WILLA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- John Wiley &amp; Sons Inc., an independent book
publishing company, said it named Charles R. Ellis president
and chief executive officer, succeeding Ruth R. McMullin, who
resigned, effective next Thursday.
   Mr. Ellis, 54 years old, is an executive vice president of
Wiley and president of its Wiley Publishing Group unit. The
company specializes in scientific, technical and business
titles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said Mrs. McMullin, 47, is leaving voluntarily
to pursue personal interests. Before being named chief
executive last year, she was the company's chief operating
officer for two years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Parlux Fragrances
   Resolves Its Dispute
   With Holder Lekach
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<CO>
   PARL WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Parlux Fragrances Inc. said its board resolved
a dispute over business strategy with Ilia Lekach, a director
and major shareholder, by expanding its membership to nine
directors.
   The arrangement effectively hands control of the board to
Mr. Lekach and his associates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Parlux said it expects to report a significant loss for
the year ended March 31. The firm also said that several
companies have expressed interest in buying one of its
divisions.
   Parlux Chairman Fred Purches said three newly created
board positions were filled by business associates of Mr.
Lekach. Since another of Mr. Lekach's associates already sits
on the board, the arrangement gives control of the board to
Mr. Lekach's group, which holds a 32.6% stake in Parlux.
   Parlux said one of the new directors, Robert Kaufman, will
also join the company's corporate ranks, as executive vice
president/special assistant to the president. The other new
directors are Zalman Lekach, who is Mr. Lekach's brother, and
Jerome Falic.
   In return for the changes, Mr. Lekach agreed to drop his
request for a special shareholders' meeting to consider the
removal of three Parlux directors. Parlux said Mr. Lekach
also won't seek further changes in the composition of the
board, or in the officers of the corporation.
   "This was an argument between gentlemen," said Mr.
Purches, who said the disagreement centered on whether Parlux
should sell off some or all of its operations -- as Mr.
Lekach wished -- and on the timing of any possible sales.
"There is no real animosity," he added.
   Mr. Purches refused to quantify the likely loss, or
identify the division that has attracted interest from
possible buyers. Perlux, which Mr. Purches said has annual
revenue of "well over $20 million," announced Feb. 28 its
intention to consider the sale of the company, or of some of
its assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pension Insurer
   Is Dealt a Blow
   In LTV Decision
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   LTV LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The judge overseeing LTV Corp.'s bankruptcy-law
proceedings dealt the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. another
blow last week, concluding that the pension insurer isn't
entitled to special treatment in the case and that its $2.23
billion claim against LTV's estate is way too high.
   While the decision was hailed as a positive one for LTV's
other creditors, the federal pension insurance and regulatory
agency warned that the ruling could reduce its potential
recoveries from LTV by as much as $1 billion. Such a
reduction would exacerbate the financial troubles at the
agency, which currently has about $3.2 billion in assets and
$4.2 billion in liabilities, the PBGC said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruling by federal bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland
must be affirmed by a federal district judge to be adopted.
The PBGC said it plans to challenge the decision in federal
court.
   Disputes between the Dallas-based steel, aerospace and
defense concern and the Washington-based PBGC have become the
centerpiece of LTV's almost four-year-long tangle with
bankruptcy-law proceedings. The company sought protection
from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy
Code in 1986, in part because it couldn't continue to fund
its steel unit's pension plans. The PBGC terminated three of
those plans in 1987, assuming those plans' liabilities to
keep its losses from growing.
   But the agency ordered LTV to reinstate those plans and
pick up the tab after LTV implemented new retirement
benefits. LTV sued, and both a district court and a federal
appeals court ruled that the agency couldn't force LTV to
resume the old plans without proving that the company could
afford them. The U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments in the
case in February, but hasn't issued a decision.
   Judge Lifland's ruling last week affects four pension
plans, including one that isn't involved in the Supreme Court
case. If his decision is affirmed, last week's ruling would
require that the PBGC be treated as a general unsecured
creditor in LTV's reorganization, rather than as a taxing
entity as the PBGC had argued it was. Under bankruptcy laws,
taxing agencies like the Internal Revenue Service are given a
higher priority in the reorganization and are paid ahead of
other creditors.
   In addition, Judge Lifland argued that bankruptcy laws,
not pension laws, should govern the discount rate that the
agency uses to calculate how much it needs to recover from
LTV to pay out future pension benefits. The PBGC, citing
pension laws, used a 7.5% discount rate in calculating its
$2.23 billion in claims. But most pension and investment
funds reap returns much greater than 7.5% on their
investments. Using a discount rate of, say, 10.5% would
reduce the agency's claim by $500 million or more.
   In assessing the agency's claims, Judge Lifland also found
some to be redundant. The PBGC said that based on the judge's
ruling, it could expect to recover perhaps $230 million from
the LTV's reorganization, instead of the $500 million to $1.5
billion it had hoped for.
   However, the ruling is "absolutely very good" for LTV
creditors who have to divide up just over $4 billion to
satisfy claims that now exceed $7 billion, said Gary Hindes,
chairman of the Delaware Bay Co., a brokerage concern
specializing in distressed companies. However, a
reorganization plan isn't expected until the pension disputes
are resolved.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   Compiled by Selwyn Feinstein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEAK HIRING seems likely in second half. But bright spots
persist.
   International Business Machines Corp. plans to cut 10,000
U.S. jobs this year. Still, it looks for programmers,
engineers and holders of advanced degrees. Union Pacific
Corp. wants to bargain reductions in unionized rail crews.
But it anticipates adding 400 to 600 truck drivers, 100
professionals for a new telemarketing center and 30 oil and
gas workers. Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. calls its hiring
plan "conservative." Yet it can't recruit enough engineers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. Homes Corp. says "all we're doing is replacing people
lost to attrition." Eastern Co. expects little change.
Stevens Graphics, though, wants to add 25 to 50 new workers
in the second half to increase marketing efforts in Western
Europe and the Eastern bloc. And Pier 1 Imports says its
employment has jumped to 9,000 workers from 7,800 a year ago,
and it expects to add 15 employees for each new store it
opens every 4 1/2 days.
   Apple Bank is "in a replacement mode" but it has trouble
finding qualified workers for entry-level jobs.
                                                                                                       

   LABOR SHORTAGE grows more worrisome in Japan. Can you wait
five years?
   Last year, for the first time in 14 years, the number of
job openings exceeded the number of job seekers in Japan, and
the imbalance is getting worse in 1990, says the Fuji
Economic Review. But Japan's bustling export trade isn't
responsible. The review lays the current worker shortage to a
strong increase in domestic demand in Japan.
   It may take five years, but the shortage will ease, the
publication says. One reason for its optimism: "The Japanese
economy has grown about 5% annually for nearly three years.
This pace will not likely be maintained." And Japan, it says,
could recruit more males over 55 and females between the ages
of 25 and 44. Far fewer women of child-bearing age work in
Japan than in the U.S., it observes.
                                                                                                       

   IN MIDDLE AGE, some still fantasize about what we'll do
when we grow up.
   Most people between 35 and 54 continue to daydream about
their careers: to anticipate a job change, compensate for
something missing, or escape from day-to-day tedium. But
Judith Meyerowitz, in a doctoral dissertation at Columbia's
Teachers College, says something seems to happen at age 45.
We shift from daydreaming about our current jobs to
fantasizing about what we will do in the future.
   The study -- based on interviews with 60 bankers, teachers
and university personnel -- finds we look for different
rewards as we grow older. In early career lives, men
particularly dream of control, pay and recognition. By 45,
these daydreams turn to personal expression, even aesthetics.
"Women, too, look inward as they grow older," Ms. Meyerowitz
says. "But as men enter late middle age they seem to
fantasize more about a less complex life while women talk
more about owning their own businesses as a way to assert
themselves."
   Most fantasies are realistic. Still, one librarian dreams
of playing shortstop for the St. Louis Cardinals.
                                                                                                       

   RATING THE BOSS: Only 36% of the workers surveyed by
consultant Hay Group from 1987 through 1989 thought their
companies were run well. But that's an improvement from the
30% who expressed such confidence in 1981-82.
                                                                                                       

   STRESS RIDES one way. Three of four managers say stress at
work sometimes affects their home life, finds a study by
Dunhill Personnel System and Columbia Business School. But
only one in three managers brings stress from home to work.
                                                                                                       

   REIMBURSEMENT ACCOUNTS grow. Consultant Foster Higgins
says 41% of all companies, up from 30% a year ago, let
workers set aside pretax dollars to pay for health and
dependent care. A further 22% are considering the benefit.
                                                                                                       

   TRAINING WORKERS at colleges costs companies $2.9 billion
a year, the American Society for Training and Development
says. Total training expenditures come to $30 billion, of
which $9 billion goes to outside contractors, including the
schools.
                                                                                                       

   WORKERS APLENTY are ready to mow lawns. But sprayers often
need a license.
   In Southern California, immigrants from Mexico and Central
and South America assure an ample supply of hands for routine
lawn chores. But Green Scene in Tarzana, Calif., has a hard
time finding workers fluent enough in English to deal with
customers. To apply pesticides and herbicides, it needs
people with a high school education "who can read and
understand labels."
   Atlanta firms, too, see no shortage of applicants for
$6-an-hour lawn-cutting jobs. But Alfred L. Simpson &amp; Co.
says even $8 to $10 an hour isn't enough incentive for some
workers to handle chemicals. "A lot of people are afraid of
pesticides," it says. And Landscapes Inc. worries that lawn
labor is going to become a lot scarcer. "We're having to do a
much smarter job of hiring" to secure people who "are
prepared for their jobs and will stick with them."
   Carey's Professional Turf in Des Moines says spring hires
often weary of the work by summer's heat.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: One in two senior executives never takes
unsolicited calls and most see only 10% of their mail, says
Blue Chip Marketing Group. . . . "Additional time spent on
breaks at work apparently does raise earnings (i.e.,
productivity), but not to the same extent as does additional
time spent working," concludes a study by the National Bureau
of Economic Research.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   West Germany's Far-Right Republicans,
   Robbed of Nationalist Card, Fade Away
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Only a year ago, the
ultrarightist Republican Party was flying high with its
borderline neo-Nazi brand of nationalism. This year it should
have been celebrating a new legitimacy as Germany
rediscovered nationhood.
   But West Germany's mainstream parties have stolen its
thunder.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   German nationhood is no longer an issue for the
Republicans alone, and the rush toward reunification has
deflated the nationalist party's bid for political leverage.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian Democratic Union, or CDU,
and other important parties now embrace German unity with a
zeal previously heard only at the Republicans' beerhall
rallies, albeit more delicately and with greater effect.
   Voters are turning away from the Republicans' blunt
law-and-order rhetoric and its haunting visions of a greater
Germany. Demoralized and split into bickering camps, the
party is being written off as a contender in national
politics.
   Indeed, the party's death knell may have been sounded
Friday with the resignation of Chairman Franz Schoenhuber,
who complained that the party he founded had been taken over
by "a small clique of extremist functionaries" that he felt
unable to oppose. Otto Lambsdorff, head of Chancellor Kohl's
junior coalition partners, the Free Democrats, commented:
"The remains. . .of this party will soon scatter themselves
into the wind."
   The Republicans burst onto the national scene with a
startling 7.5% vote in the January 1989 city-state elections
of West Berlin, where social tensions played to the party's
anti-immigrant themes. Alarm grew in Bonn again last June
when the upstarts captured 7.1% of the West German national
vote for the European Parliament. Germany's European
neighbors and Israel expressed concern over the party's
popularity.
   The center-right Christian Democrats were battered in the
polls as conservative voters flocked to the brash Republicans
in state and local elections, handing upset victories to the
left-of-center Social Democratic Party, or SDP. The
Republicans hoped to win more than 5% of the vote in next
December's national ballot, enough for parliamentary seats.
Worried CDU leaders talked of coalitions with the Republicans
on the state level.
   All that has changed. In the key May 13 elections in the
big states of North-Rhine Westphalia and Lower Saxony,
accounting for 40% of the West German electorate, the
Republicans fell woefully short of the minimum 5% required
for representation. Pollsters say the party would be lucky to
muster 2% of a national vote now.
   The relief in Bonn is audible. During a televised
political roundtable analyzing the May election results, the
only point on which CDU Chairman Kohl and SDP Chairman
Hans-Jochen Vogel could agree was the demise of the
Republicans.
   Paradoxically, many West Germans, including Republican
supporters, lately have been thinking twice about
unification. Estimates that unity will cost West Germans
hundreds of billions of marks over several years have even
sent some conservatives scurrying to the Social Democrats,
who have been urging a slower approach to unification.
   "Unification has become a two-edged sword for us. We've
lost a lot of wind from our sails," concedes Centa Hirsch,
the Republicans' national manager.
   The Republicans, described by senior SDP politician
Johannes Rau as "a mixture of prejudices brewed into a
political soup," have tried to regain the initiative. They
assert that German unity should reinstitute the borders of
1937, which include large parts of what is now Poland and the
Soviet Union. This drew a deafening silence from an
electorate already fretting about the Kremlin's reaction to
losing East Germany.
   Meanwhile, West Germany's preoccupation with unification
has overshadowed other issues that earned the Republicans
points: tough anti-crime reforms and airtight immigration
laws to keep "Germany for Germans." In addition, the Kohl
government, trying to regain right-wing voters, last year
switched interior ministers and clamped down on immigrants
with a series of tougher asylum laws.
   Before he quit, Republican Chairman Schoenhuber, a
charismatic, hard-hitting speaker who referred frequently to
his wartime service as a Waffen-SS sergeant, had blamed the
party's poor showing in the elections and in polls on a
hostile news media and left-wing smear campaign. On the
morning after the Republicans' May 13 setbacks, Mr.
Schoenhuber declared that the political winds would shift
again, and "the votes will go to those who have had a
snootful of socialism in all its forms."
   Admittedly, the Republicans' press has been less than
favorable. But the media hasn't had to look hard for
material.
   Mr. Schoenhuber's wartime escapades with the Waffen-SS
were vividly described in his memoir, "I Was There."
Anti-Semitic remarks by one regional party boss was followed
by another's assertion that anti-nuclear protesters were scum
belonging in labor camps. Yet another gained a reputation as
a bully for personally manhandling dissenters at party
meetings.
   Hounded by the commercial press, the Republicans took a
stab at setting the record straight with its own Credo
magazine. But the venture backfired after Die Zeit, a
national newsweekly, drew attention to the fact that Credo
was advertising videos for sale featuring Third Reich
newsreels of Adolf Hitler and other Nazi bigwigs.
   "Things can't go on like this," said the Republicans' Ms.
Hirsch. "Voters from the far right aren't enough. We can't
get into the big parliaments without mainstream voters. And
they are being alienated by some of our front-line people."
   As the party split into rebellious factions, Mr.
Schoenhuber tried to weed out radical firebrands. His prime
target was the Bavarian party chief, Harald Neubauer. Mr.
Neubauer, co-publisher of Credo magazine, was seen as a
leading candidate to eventually replace Mr. Schoenhuber, who
is 67 years old. After Mr. Schoenhuber resigned Friday, party
headquarters in Munich said his former deputy, Johanna Grund,
56, would replace him until a new party leader is chosen.
   If the Republicans have one last shot, it would be
October's state election in Bavaria, an arch-conservative
stronghold long dominated by the Christian Social Union, the
Bavarian sister party of Mr. Kohl's Christian Democrats. The
Republicans confidently set a goal of polling 15%. But a
recent Munich newspaper poll put their statewide backing at
less than 3%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GNP Commodities, Monieson Are Fined
   $500,000 Each, Banned From Industry
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- GNP Commodities Inc. and its chairman, former
Chicago Mercantile Exchange chairman Brian P. Monieson, were
ordered banned from the futures industry and fined $500,000
each, in one of the toughest actions ever by federal
commodities officials.
   The closely watched case hinged on charges that GNP and
Mr. Monieson failed to control allegedly renegade commodities
salesmen. If applied aggressively across the industry, this
enforcement standard could easily trip up other firms and
their top officers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An administrative law judge at the Commodities Futures
Trading Commission, George H. Painter, revoked the
registrations of GNP and Mr. Monieson and barred both from
trading on U.S. futures exchanges. Mr. Painter found that Mr.
Monieson and his firm failed to stop promptly the alleged
bilking of customers by some GNP salesmen.
   GNP and Mr. Monieson plan to appeal, and the sanctions
will be put on hold until the full CFTC or, beyond that, the
federal courts decide the matter. If the decision is upheld,
GNP would be forced out of the commodities industry. The
overwhelming portion of the firm's revenue came from the
commodities.
   One of the brokers was a close friend of Mr. Monieson, and
the judge found believable testimony that Mr. Monieson was
warned about -- and failed to stop -- the allegedly illegal
trading. Calling the small investors who were cheated
"virtually defenseless," Mr. Painter wrote in his 135-page
opinion: "The shame of this case is that GNP and Monieson
were so callously indifferent to the wrongs done to their
most vulnerable customers."
   The case has also received attention because of the
powerful figures who came to Mr. Monieson's defense. U.S.
Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter, who served as Merc
president under Mr. Monieson, and current Merc chief Leo
Melamed, both testified as character witnesses for their
friend. Also, Jerrold E. Salzman, the Merc's powerful outside
counsel, represented Mr. Monieson in the CFTC case.
   Mr. Melamed and Mr. Salzman have said they saw no conflict
of interest -- even though the Merc was pursuing nearly
identical failure-to-supervise charges against GNP, though
not against Mr. Monieson -- because their friend wasn't
charged personally by the Merc.
   Former U.S. Senator Thomas F. Eagleton quit the Merc board
over the incident last November, saying Messrs. Melamed and
Salzman had improperly intruded into a government enforcement
action to protect their friend. The episode showed the
potential for conflicts of interest in the industry's system
of self-regulation.
   Friday, the Merc said it fined GNP $100,000 as part of a
settlement with the firm over the case, and that GNP is in
the process of reimbursing about $300,000 to customers who
were hurt by the brokers' actions. GNP neither admitted nor
denied guilt as part of the settlement.
   The two brokers involved, Norman Furlett, the longtime
friend of Mr. Monieson, and Ira P. Greenspon, were also
banned from the futures industry and fined $75,000 each. The
two earlier agreed to leave the business. Their lawyer, James
Koch, said he hadn't seen the decision yet and declined
comment. The two men, who live in California, have denied any
wrongdoing.
   They were accused of so-called trade allocation --
initiating trades without the required customer account
number and then keeping the winners for themselves and
placing the losers in customer accounts. According to
internal Merc documents not made public, for instance, during
the first two months of 1986, accounts they had including one
named Horse Trading had $62,372.95 in profits. Four customer
accounts the Merc examined had for those months combined
losses of $20,988.12.
   Mr. Monieson was warned at least five times about the
alleged cheating by GNP employees, the CFTC alleged. Mr.
Monieson denied this, but Mr. Painter didn't believe him, he
wrote in his decision. "It appears that Monieson's misplaced
allegiance to Furlett and Greenspon overshadowed his greater
duty to the customers they were defrauding," he wrote. The
judge believed one GNP worker's testimony that the worker was
told the alleged cheating was allowed to go on "because Norm
Furlett is Brian Monieson's good buddy."
   Mr. Monieson has contended that he didn't know about the
alleged cheating and that, as Merc chairman and head of GNP,
he was too busy to know of such relatively small matters. The
trading involved represented less than 1% of the volume
handled by GNP, which has a lot of big institutional
investors as clients.
   "The decision and sanctions are not rational," Mr.
Monieson said. "No firm could survive under that standard."
   Mr. Monieson said GNP will stay open for business during
the appeal process. Since the case began, he has sold off
most of GNP's so-called retail sales operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bank of New England Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NEB
</CO>
<LP>
   BANK OF NEW ENGLAND Corp. (Boston) -- James F. McNally,
chairman of this bank holding company's Connecticut Bank &amp;
Trust Co. unit, has informed the company that he intends to
retire this summer. Mr. McNally, 57 years old, has been with
Connecticut Bank &amp; Trust for 31 years and has been chairman
of the unit since 1988. Bank of New England said it hasn't
yet named a successor to Mr. McNally.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Geodyne Resources
   To Post Drop in Net
   For Its 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Patricia Ann Mckanic
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GEOD
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Geodyne Resources Inc. said it expects to
report that net income in its fourth quarter ended Feb. 28
fell to roughly $1 million, or about six cents a share, from
$1.6 million, or nine cents a share, a year earlier.
   Michael W. Tomasso, president and chief executive officer,
said that revenue declined to about $6 million from $6.3
million a year earlier. PaineWebber Inc., Geodyne's majority
shareholder, raises capital for Geodyne to acquire ownership
in domestic producing oil and natural gas wells on behalf of
investors. Geodyne receives interests in the producing
properties as well as a management fee from the investors for
managing and operating the properties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Tomasso attributed the drop in revenue and earnings to
a decrease in property acquisitions for the period. Geodyne
bought about $18 million in properties during the quarter,
compared with about $30 million in the year-ago period. In
addition, Geodyne paid its first ever taxes in the quarter.
The company's pretax operating profit rose, Mr. Tomasso said.
   Revenue and earnings are expected to continue upward on a
year-to-year basis, while quarter-to-quarter results will
fluctuate, largely dependent upon the number of acquisitions
made during a given quarter, Mr. Tomasso said.
   For the full year, Geodyne expects to report net income of
about $5.8 million, down from $7.4 million a year earlier.
Pershare earnings are expected to be about 33 cents, compared
with 43 cents. Revenue is expected to climb about 27%, to
$25.7 million from $20.2 million.
   Calling itself "risk adverse," Geodyne looks to acquire
properties in proven fields such as Oklahoma's Arkoma Basin
and the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and Texas. And, "by
design," Mr. Tomasso said, Geodyne puts a lot of its eggs
into one basket -- natural gas. The company owns about 20
billion cubic feet of natural-gas reserves, about 70% of its
overall energy assets.
   Geodyne, like many other energy concerns, anticipates
natural gas prices, currently depressed, will rise in coming
years. It says demand should rise, in part, because gas is a
more environmentally clean fuel than oil in many respects.
   Geodyne thinks it can still acquire natural gas properties
at attractive prices ahead of the expected upturn. "We
consider natural gas underpriced," Mr. Tomasso said.
   Geodyne's oil reserves total about 950,000 barrels. The
company expects its oil and natural gas reserves to increase
by the equivalent of about one million barrels of oil in
fiscal 1990, similar to increases in recent years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bairnco's Fichthorn
   Is Elected Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   BZ WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bairnco Corp.'s board elected Luke Fichthorn
as chairman, as expected. Mr. Fichthorn, 48 years old,
succeeds Glenn Bailey, the Bairnco founder who announced in
January his intention to retire.
   Mr. Bailey, 65, was also president of the holding company.
But a Bairnco spokesman said Friday he didn't know, and
couldn't find out, whether Mr. Bailey still holds that
position, which is Bairnco's top executive post.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bairnco said in January that Richard Shantz, 54, will
succeed Mr. Bailey as president at the completion of the
company's proposed spinoff to shareholders of its Keene Corp.
unit. The spokesman said that completion is imminent, and
will occur before the end of the second quarter.
   Messrs. Bailey, Fichthorn and Shantz couldn't be reached
for a clarification of their positions.
   Mr. Fichthorn is a financial adviser, and has served on
Bairnco's board since the holding company was formed in 1982.
Mr. Shantz is retired chairman and president of Kaydon Corp.,
a bearings maker that in 1984 was Bairnco's first spinoff.
   Keene, which Mr. Bailey started in 1962, initially was
Bairnco's predecessor; it became a subsidiary when Bairnco
was established. Keene makes heat-shielding devices for
aerospace, defense and commercial markets, and manages a $130
million investment portfolio.
   At the annual meeting, held in Orlando, Fla., the site of
its new headquarters, shareholders elected a new director,
Charles Foley, 51, to fill Mr. Bailey's vacated seat on the
board. Mr. Foley is president of Estabrook Capital Management
Co., a New York investment advisory firm that is beneficial
owner of 6.7% of Bairnco's stock.
   But the company adjourned the meeting until June 7 to
permit further solicitation of proxies on three matters: the
reincorporation of Bairnco in Delaware; a new stock incentive
plan; and a shareholder proposal on shareholder ratification
of auditors.
   The Bairnco spokesman said many shareholders whose stock
is held in street name didn't receive their proxies in time
to vote at the meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Mondadori S.p.A.:
   Leading Italian Publisher's
   Net for 1989 Plunged 48%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   I.MND
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mondadori S.p.A., Italy's largest publishing concern, said
1989 net income plunged 48% to 54 billion lire ($4.4 million)
from 103.5 billion lire a year earlier.
   Directors proposed reducing dividends to 180 lire an
ordinary share from 380 lire, and to 200 lire each for
preferred and savings shares from 400 lire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mondadori blamed the earnings drop on costs stemming from
last year's acquisition of L'Editoriale Espresso S.p.A., a
Rome-based publisher. Revenue jumped to 2.367 trillion lire
in 1989 from 1.495 trillion lire in 1988. Excluding special
items, profit fell 31% to 138.3 billion lire. Debt totaled
372.5 billion lire at the end of 1989, compared with net
liquidity of 220 billion lire a year earlier. The parent's
profit fell to 73.9 billion lire from 78.4 lire and sales
rose to 1.106 trillion lire from 1.091 trillion lire.
   Mondadori is at the center of a conflict between the media
magnate Silvio Berlusconi, who was named chairman in January,
and the financier Carlo De Benedetti, who lost control of
Mondadori in December; the two sides are in talks on a
compromise that may break up the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Mitsubishi Motors Corp.:
   Unconsolidated Pretax Profit
   For Fiscal Year Rose 23%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MOT
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mitsubishi Motors Corp., Japan's third-largest auto maker,
reported that its unconsolidated pretax profit for the year
ended March 31 increased 23% to 41.42 billion yen ($274.4
million) from 33.72 billion yen a year earlier.
   Operating profit rose 11% to 48.77 billion yen from 44.07
billion yen, contributing to a 58% rise in net income to
20.24 billion yen from 12.84 billion yen. Per-share earnings
rose to 23.71 yen from 16.59 yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales climbed 6.7% to 2.026 trillion yen from 1.899
trillion yen, boosted by an increase in domestic sales and a
surge in exported parts for overseas production; revenue from
the latter more than doubled to 161.6 billion yen from 69.8
billion yen. Interest and dividends income rose 28% to 20.55
billion yen.
   The company decided to extend a dividend of 5.5 yen a
common share, up 10% from five yen a year earlier.
   Mitsubishi predicted sales of 2.2 trillion yen in fiscal
1991, up 8.6%; net income is seen at 22 billion yen, up 8.7%,
and pretax profit at 46 billion yen, up 11%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Boeing Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   BA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BOEING Co. (Seattle) -- John E. Schmick, formerly vice
president of this aerospace concern's Washington, D.C.,
office, was named vice president of the Electronic Systems
division of the Boeing Defense &amp; Space Group. Mr. Schmick, 54
years old, succeeds John Sheridan, who was recently named
executive vice president of the Aerospace &amp; Electronics
division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Will Raise
   $1.4 Billion by Sale
   Of About $10 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury said it plans to raise $1.4
billion in new cash Thursday by selling about $10 billion in
52-week bills and redeeming $8.59 billion in maturing bills.
   The bills will be dated June 7; they will mature June 6,
1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum denominations
of $10,000, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Thursday at the
Treasury, or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
   The Treasury also said that tomorrow it plans to sell $6
billion in 21-day cash-management bills and $6 billion in
111-day cash-management bills, both issues to raise new cash.
   These bills will have a minimum denomination of $1
million, and no noncompetitive tenders will be accepted.
Tenders are due by 1 p.m. EDT tomorrow at Federal Reserve
Banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Allied Research Adds
   Chief to Carter's Posts,
   Posts 3rd-Period Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ARAI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BALTIMORE -- Allied Research Corp. named Reinald W. Carter
to the added post of chief executive officer, succeeding M.B.
Ruffin.
   Mr. Carter, 58 years old, has been president and chief
operating officer. Mr. Ruffin, 72 years old, plans to remain
chairman until December, and then become a consultant to the
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, the company reported a $2.1 million loss for
the third quarter on revenue of $8.4 million, and said it may
not return to profitability as it had predicted. The company
cited revisions to a contract at its Belgian subsidiary,
Mecar S.A., and a spokesman said the margins on the $9
million contract with an unnamed country haven't been as
large as the company anticipated.
   The company said Allied Research, which designs and
develops high-technology products and weapons systems, "was
facing a variety of financial issues," but expected to
resolve them through more cost cutting and refinancing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Mannesmann AG:
   First-Quarter Profit Helped
   By Increase in Sales of 5%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   G.MMW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mannesmann AG said its group profit in the first quarter
"was at the good level of the year earlier," as sales climbed
5%.
   But the diversified West German steel and engineering
company didn't provide specific first-quarter earnings
figures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mannesmann recently said last year's group profit had
soared 73% to 505 million marks ($300 million) on sales of
22.3 billion marks ($13.3 billion), a 9% increase.
   The company said that the "favorable conditions" continued
in the first quarter for most divisions. It said that gains
in its machinery-making and plant-equipment divisions, along
with vehicle technology, more than compensated for declines
in other groups.
   Mannesmann is benefiting from the inflow of business from
European manufacturers who are retooling their plants in
advance of the border-free Europe after 1992. Also, business
is being boosted by companies that are trying to expand
capacity to take advantage of the opening of Eastern Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- NEC Corp.:
   Pretax Earnings for Year
   Rose 31% to Record Level
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   NIPNY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEC Corp., a leading Japanese maker of computers and other
information equipment, said its consolidated pretax earnings
for the year ended March 31 climbed 31% to a record 173.74
billion yen ($1.15 billion) from 132.19 billion yen a year
earlier.
   Net income rose 32% to 85.22 billion yen, or 56.08 yen a
share, from 64.48 billion yen, or 43.18 yen a share. Sales
rose 12% to 3.444 trillion yen from 3.082 trillion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NEC's unconsolidated results were equally strong. Pretax
earnings rose 30% to 133.24 billion yen from 102.14 billion
yen. Unconsolidated net jumped 35% to 74.89 billion yen, or
49.29 yen a share, from 55.34 billion yen, or 37.05 yen a
share. Sales rose 8.6% to 2.76 trillion yen from 2.542
trillion yen. All of the results were records.
   Sales of computers and other electronic products -- NEC's
largest line, representing 44% of the total -- rose 13% to
1.506 trillion yen; communications equipment rose 9% to
875.02 billion yen; and electronic devices, including
semiconductors, rose 7.1% to 605.95 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Auto Companies Lag Behind
   Western Rivals in Race for Eastern Bloc
   ----
   By William Echikson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY J.CIT J.DHM EUROP NSANY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Japanese auto makers, slowed by their cautious
business culture and unfamiliar with Eastern Europe, remain
well behind their Western competitors in the race to enter
the former East Bloc.
   Toyota Motor Corp. moved ahead of most other Japanese
companies merely by saying that it and C. Itoh &amp; Co. are
studying the possibility of setting up an auto assembly plant
in Czechoslovakia with a local car manufacturer. Toyota
officials here said plans are at an early stage and no cash
commitment has been made. They said the company's major
effort in Europe still is a new plant in Burnaston, England,
that eventually will produce 200,000 cars annually.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We just have begun investigating the situation in
Czechoslovakia," said Hidenori Tsutsui, managing director of
Toyota Motor Marketing Services Europe SA. "Concrete
decisions are a long way off."
   Other Japanese car companies, with the notable exception
of Suzuki Motor Co., take a similar cautious view. While
Volkswagen AG, Opel AG, Fiat S.p.A. and other Western
manufacturers have announced ambitious investment programs
for East Germany and the rest of Eastern Europe, the Japanese
have restricted their plans to information-gathering trips.
   "This is the European's own backyard," argued Nissan
Europe's president, Yoshikazu Kawana. "We don't know what the
market is in Eastern Europe, what kind of political and
economic system will be in force, and we don't have any type
of expertise there."
   In the early 1980s, well before the recent democratic
revolution, several Japanese car companies investigated
making Eastern Europe a low-cost production center for
cracking the Western European market. But the European
Community warned that Japanese cars produced in the
then-Communist countries would be denied entry under
anti-dumping restrictions. Toyota, Nissan Motor Co. and Honda
Motor Co. responded by expanding or building factories in
England.
   "What we're doing in England is tremendously expensive,"
said Nissan's Mr. Kawana. "Along with continuing to digest
our new U.S. plants, my opinion is that we aren't ready to go
it alone in Eastern Europe."
   The only solid foothold for a Japanese car company is
Suzuki Motor Co.'s recently announced deal to build 15,000
small cars a year in Hungary starting in 1992, eventually
increasing output to 100,000. Analysts pointed out that
Suzuki had been negotiating for almost five years with the
Hungarians and that, unlike much larger Toyota, Nissan or
Honda, it has no other European production facility.
   "The Suzuki deal came well before the recent warming" made
the region look so interesting, explains John Lawson, an auto
analyst at Nomura Research Institute in London. "Otherwise,
the Japanese don't really know what to do with Eastern
Europe."
   A potential deal between Daihatsu Motor Co. and Poland's
national auto maker, FSO, collapsed. Daihatsu had proposed
that FSO assemble 500 midsized Daihatsu Charades a month,
with all the parts coming from Japan. The Poles preferred a
larger direct investment. Earlier, Fiat had beaten out
Daihatsu for a much larger contract to build 160,000
subcompacts.
   The lesson may be that the Japanese are ill-prepared to
deal in Eastern Europe. Because of what he calls "language
and cultural difficulties," Nissan's Mr. Kawana said his
company would probably enter the region only in alliance with
a European manufacturer. "It's the only way we can understand
this new mosaic," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Spending Law
   Presages Fights
   In Washington
   ---
   Fiscal '90 Measure, Totaling
   $4 Billion, Forces Bush
   To Accept Military Cuts
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A $4 billion fiscal 1990 spending bill,
signed into law by President Bush during the holiday weekend,
is a harbinger of fights to come with Congress over military
appropriations and aid to Central America.
   The measure includes $720 million in economic assistance
for Panama and Nicaragua, but the president was forced to
accept more than $2 billion in Pentagon cuts to help pay for
the increased foreign aid and accompanying domestic spending.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The military reductions come as the Pentagon faces a $1.45
billion shortfall of its own in hospital and personnel
accounts, and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's frustration
spilled over last week when he threatened to make budget
adjustments himself if an agreement can't be reached with
congressional committees.
   Panama will receive $420 million, but Nicaragua's $300
million is more urgently needed and important politically.
After years of war, there was broad support in Congress for
strengthening the fledgling Chamorro regime, and the
emergence of the new government is also seen as an
opportunity to rethink U.S. policy toward neighboring El
Salvador.
   The administration sidestepped the Salvadoran issue last
week, but as the threat of a Marxist takeover has subsided,
House votes show a loss of support for continued military aid
to the regime. Southern and Western lawmakers appear less
"anti-communist" than "anti-foreign aid," and this shift
gives the upper hand to liberal critics demanding that a
substantial portion of future military aid be withheld to
force both sides to end human-rights abuses and move toward a
settlement.
   On both military spending and El Salvador, the
administration has been most vigorously challenged in the
House, and the maneuvering discloses an often hands-off style
of Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.). House Armed Services
Committee Chairman Les Aspin has been left largely alone to
carry on his fight with Mr. Cheney, and in the El Salvador
debate, Mr. Foley stayed removed and appeared to cede
critical tactical decisions to the Appropriations Committee
or Rules Committee Chairman Joe Moakley (D., Mass.).
   This style fits Mr. Foley's image of himself as an
institutional leader, but as the nation's highest Democrat,
his distance angers traditional liberal backers who have a
stake in both issues.
   Mr. Aspin, for example, has support in the House
Democratic caucus for taking more money from strategic
programs to resolve the Pentagon personnel problem. But the
Wisconsin Democrat risks being isolated by Mr. Cheney and
more conservative leaders of congressional military
committees. Mr. Foley stepped in last week as an intermediary
with Mr. Cheney, but the speaker -- a past mentor and
protector for Mr. Aspin -- has been a picture of studied
neutrality on the underlying dispute.
   Similarly, in the debate over Central America, Mr. Foley
appeared reluctant from the outset to support a strategy
whereby aid to Nicaragua and Panama would be held up until
some resolution of the Salvador military-aid question. In a
private meeting, the speaker offered words of encouragement
to Jesuits lobbying for conditions on military aid, but he
was outwardly more diffident and seemingly irritated by
nettlesome questions of how to proceed on the legislation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baker Hughes Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   BHI X.TRA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Baker Hughes Inc. said it completed the
purchase of Tracor Holdings Inc.'s Instruments Group for
about $95 million.
   Baker Hughes, an energy services concern, said the
Instruments Group had revenue of $103 million last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.:
   Unconsolidated Pretax Profit
   For Fiscal '90 Tumbled 52%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.FJH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. of Japan, which makes Subaru
autos, aircraft and other machinery, said its unconsolidated
pretax profit for the year ended March 31 tumbled 52% to 6.65
billion yen ($44.1 million) from 13.86 billion yen a year
earlier, citing surging material costs and higher
administrative and general expenses.
   Operating losses totaled 29.63 billion yen, compared with
fiscal 1989 operating profit of 2.68 billion yen. Income from
dividend and interest payments helped offset pretax losses,
but special losses erased extraordinary gains from sales of
capital assets. Thus, net income fell 47% to 5.74 billion
yen, or 9.85 yen a share, from 10.89 billion yen, or 19.81
yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales eased 0.8% to 658.02 billion yen from 663.44 billion
yen. Exports contributed 268.65 billion yen to sales. The
auto category, Fuji's biggest business, was the only area of
decline, substantial enough to obliterate gains in all other
sectors. Sales of autos, including exports and domestic
sales, fell 2.7% to 524.4 billion yen.
   Fuji intends to cut the annual dividend to six yen a
share, including a 0.5 yen special payout already paid, from
eight yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Newsprint Use
   Fell 2.7% Last Month
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. newsprint consumption decreased by 2.7%
to 1,022,172 metric tons last month from 1,050,918 metric
tons in April 1989, according to preliminary estimates by the
American Newspaper Publishers Association.
   The industry group said U.S. daily newspapers used 769,987
metric tons of newsprint in April, down 2.7% from 791,234
metric tons in April 1989. In the first four months of 1990,
daily newspapers' consumption rose 0.3% from a year earlier.
A metric ton equals 2,204.62 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Total estimated U.S. newsprint consumption by all users
was 3,978,517 metric tons in the first four months of 1990, a
marginal decrease from 3,983,339 metric tons in the year
earlier.
   Newsprint inventories for newspapers in the association's
statistical sample averaged a 38-day supply, compared with a
41-day supply in April 1989. Stocks of North American mills
decreased about 18.1% from April 1989.
   Canadian newsprint mills operated at 93% of rated capacity
in April and 94% for the year to date. U.S. mills operated at
97.4% and 97.2%, respectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Gets Order
   From Iberia Airlines
   Valued at $1 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   BA E.ILA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Boeing Co. confirmed that it received firm
orders valued at $1 billion for 16 757 jetliners from Spain's
Iberia Airlines.
   The order also includes options Iberia secured on 12 more
of the jetliners plus spare parts and training. Engine
selection will be made at a later date, Boeing said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The order, disclosed by Iberia in Madrid last Friday,
calls for the airplanes to be outfitted for 188 passengers,
86 in business class and 102 in tourist. Iberia said the
jetliners will be delivered starting in 1993 through the
third quarter of 1994.
   Iberia, which is controlled by Spain's National Industrial
Institute, has said it is in the midst of renovating much of
its fleet, which consists of 84 aircraft ranging from
McDonnell Douglas DC-9s to widebody Boeing 747s.
   The airline's new Boeing airplanes will replace some of
its 35 Boeing 727 aircraft, Iberia said. They will be used
primarily on its route network to European, African and
Middle Eastern destinations.
   Last year, Iberia ordered eight airbus A-340 airplanes and
took options on four others, as well as 17 McDonnell Douglas
MD-87 aircraft, at a combined cost of $1.1 billion. Iberia
has said it expects to replace its entire fleet by 2000.
   Seattle-based Boeing said that Iberia's order for 16 of
its 757s brings to 648 the number of 757s ordered by 33
customers including Iberia. The aerospace concern said that
so far this year, it has had orders for 154 of the aircraft
valued at about $12.4 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Statewide Bancorp.
   Boosts Loan Reserves,
   Omits Cash Dividend
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<CO>
   STWB
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOMS RIVER, N.J. -- Statewide Bancorp. said it increased
its allowance for loan losses by $30 million, omitted its
cash dividend and agreed to a close review of its main
subsidiary bank.
   The loan-loss provision rose to $50 million from $20
million at March 31, as some real estate loans continued to
deteriorate and the New Jersey real estate market remained
uncertain, the bank said. One of its loan participations had
been criticized by the Comptroller of the Currency, the
principal regulator of both of Statewide's subsidiaries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Statewide, which has about $2 billion in assets, said it
believes the new provision is adequate, but it didn't rule
out further increases. "We can't hold out to people that it
definitely won't get worse," said Charles Sanders, the bank's
secretary.
   Statewide said the suspension of its quarterly cash
dividend, which was 20 cents a share, will take effect in the
second quarter and continue indefinitely. Douglas Johnson,
president and chief executive officer, said the bank's
previous dividend payments have amounted to about $8 million
a year.
   Mr. Johnson said the suspension is intended to preserve
Statewide's "strong capital position," which he said is well
above regulatory requirements.
   The review of Statewide's lead subsidiary, First National
Bank of Toms River, is the result of an agreement with the
Comptroller of the Currency. It covers the adequacy of
loan-loss provisions and requires the development of plans to
strengthen assets, ensure adequate capitalization, and
improve supervision of bad loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Macy Is to Woo Credit Firms This Week
   As Latest Results Fail to Ease All Fears
   ----
   By George Anders and Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MZ
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- R.H. Macy &amp; Co. this week will court the
factoring companies vital to its retailing business,
following quarterly results that eased some -- but not all --
of its creditors' worries.
   Factoring companies provide credit to apparel makers and
other retailing suppliers. Last week, one major factoring
company, Heller Financial Corp., said it was tightening
standards on shipments to Macy, causing Macy's bond prices to
plunge. Macy, which went private in a 1986 management
buy-out, carries more than $5 billion in debt and has
reported a series of quarterly losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This week Macy's chairman, Edward Finkelstein, has
scheduled one-on-one meetings with about eight of Macy's
largest factors. Following the past six months'
bankruptcy-law filings by Federated Department Stores Corp.,
Allied Stores Corp. and Ames Department Stores Corp., the
factoring companies "want to be reassured about Macy," said
Barbara Wedelstaedt, an analyst with Duff &amp; Phelps Inc.
   "A number of factors were hurt big with the Ames
bankruptcy {filing}," said Howard Davidowitz, a retail
consultant. "Now they are really on the alert. Macy lost
money in the Christmas quarter and they are still losing
money. It's a tricky situation."
   "Macy will have to assure the factors that the company is
cutting expenditures and has bank commitments for the next
six months," Ms. Wedelstaedt added.
   Analysts and lenders took some comfort Friday from Macy's
preliminary earnings report for its third quarter ended April
28. Its net loss narrowed slightly to $63.1 million from
$64.1 million the year earlier. The February-April quarter
usually is retailers' weakest of the year.
   "Their results were slightly above what we expected," said
Michael Cha, an analyst at J.P. Morgan Securities Co. Like
most people on Wall Street, Mr. Cha focused on Macy's cash
flow -- its net income plus interest expense, taxes and
depreciation. Cash flow rose 4% to $160.2 million, even
though sales were flat at $1.49 billion.
   In the bond markets Friday, Macy's bonds generally rose
one to two points on Macy's financial news. The retailer's
bonds still trade at depressed prices, though; Macy's 14 1/2%
subordinated debentures due 2001 were quoted at 60 cents on
the dollar. At that price, they have a yield to maturity of
more than 23% -- an unsually high level even in the
high-risk, high-yield junk bond market.
   In its financial report, Macy didn't disclose its
inventory levels, but analysts said they believed they had
been pared from $1.48 billion as of Jan. 27. Macy has said it
wants to keep inventories lower than last year. Inventories
peaked at more than $2 billion in October 1989 and played a
role in the company's poor Christmas 1989 results.
   "The retail environment has improved," Mr. Cha said. "It's
temporarily back to normal. But I'm not certain it will
continue. We will have to watch the next Christmas
particularly closely -- and watch Macy's inventory levels."
   Analysts generally expect Macy to report cash flow of $140
million to $180 million in the next two quarters. That will
be only slightly above the quarterly interest expense from
its more than $5 billion in debt. Estimates vary widely on
how Macy might perform in its crucial Christmas quarter. But
most analysts say that if the company is to improve its
financial health, it must come far closer to the $390 million
of cash flow during the calendar 1988 quarter than the mere
$210 million of cash flow it showed last Christmas season.
   Manufacturers doing business with Macy expressed support
for the retailer but acknowledged that they were nervous.
   "Five years ago nobody ever questioned the financial
health of Macy," said Stanley Stern, president of Finity
Sportswear Ltd., a women's apparel maker that has done
business with Macy for 20 years. "We're a small company and
we can't afford to take a hit the way a Liz Claiborne could."
   Mr. Stern attributed Macy's problems to general industry
nervousness, but he noted that the company has consistently
failed to achieved its projected earnings levels. In
documents related to its 1986 buy-out, Macy had predicted it
would report a modest profit for the year ending July 31.
Instead, analysts say, Macy probably will post a loss of
about $200 million.
   This isn't a robust retail period, Mr. Stern said,
although many leveraged buy-outs such as Macy were predicated
on the theory that consumer spending would increase.
   Steve Stoller, president of the Karin Stevens Apparel
Group, said that that credit company is approving June
deliveries to Macy. "Everything is okay so far," said Mr.
Stoller, who does about $2 million at wholesale with various
Macy divisions. "I don't think we're seeing a Federated
situation here," he added, referring to the bankruptcy
filings by Campeau Corp.'s two retailing units last January.
   Mr. Stoller noted that Macy has been paying its bills
promptly and that he expects the company to pay its bills due
June l0.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Two Tokyo Oil Firms
   Report Pretax Profit
   Fell for the Fiscal Year
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MBO J.NPO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Mitsubishi Oil Co., an oil refiner and
distributor associated with the Mitsubishi Group, and Nippon
Oil Co., Japan's largest oil company, each reported lower
profits in the fiscal year ended March 31.
   Unconsolidated pretax profit at Nippon Oil fell to 21.216
billion yen ($140.5 million) from 28.533 billion yen in a
year earlier. At Mitsubishi Oil, pretax profit went to 11.522
billion yen from 17.320 billion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Higher acquisition costs, along with increased
administration and marketing costs, were behind both
companies' lower earnings.
   Net income at Nippon Oil was 13.777 billion yen, down 21%
from 17.382 billion yen. Per-share net was 11.28 yen compared
with 14.47 yen.
   Sales rose 11% to 1.853 trillion yen from 1.667 trillion
yen in the 1988 fiscal year. Cost of sales however, which
includes oil acquisition costs, rose to 1.690 trillion yen
from 1.498 trillion yen. Administrative and marketing costs
were higher by 4.445 billion yen, at 162.252 billion yen from
157.807 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grossman Inc. Says
   Shareholder Group
   Seeks to Oust Board
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GROS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRAINTREE, Mass. -- Grossman's Inc. said a shareholder
group has indicated its intent to solicit shareholder consent
to unseat the company's directors.
   The action comes one month after Grossman's nine directors
were re-elected to the board at the company's annual meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission
announcing the proxy contest, the dissident group indicated
disastifaction with the board's decision to reject a recent
financial restructuring plan it had proposed.
   The proposal, made last month, included an $85 million
capital infusion through the sale and leaseback by the
building materials retailer of 81 properties. Grossman would
have the option of buying back all the properties in five
years.
   In a May 21 letter Grossman's rejected the proposal saying
it wasn't in the best interest of shareholders, Stanley G.
Berman, executive vice president of administration at
Grossman's said.
   The shareholder group, led by Hawaii-based real estate
investor Jay H. Shidler and Robert W. Holman Jr., a San
Francisco investor, holds approximately 21.6 million shares
of Grossman's stock outstanding, or 4.7% of the company.
   The SEC filing also disclosed that the Holdman-Shidler
group offered to acquire Grossman's last year for $10.25 a
share but withdrew the proposal after Grossman's agreed to
sell its Moore division.
   The division, consisting of 59 stores, was sold last
September for approximately $85 million to a U.S. unit of
Harrisons &amp; Crossfield PLC of London.
   A month later the partnership again offered to acquire 83%
of Grossman's for $9 a share in cash and the remainder for
preferred stock. Grossman's didn't respond, according to
federal filings.
   The partnership continued to express interest in the
company through last March. Instead the Holman-Shidler group
said it has decided to solicit shareholder consent to remove
the board. Because technically this is a consent solicitation
and not a proxy contest an election can be held before the
board's next annual meeting. The group said in its SEC
filings that Mr. Holman and Mr. Shidler would serve as
nominees for election as directors but added that it hasn't
determined who the other candidates will be.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   A SHAREHOLDER GROUP led by Jay H. Shidler and Robert W.
Holman Jr. holds about 1.2 million shares of Grossman's Inc.,
or about 4.7% of the stock outstanding. In Tuesday's edition,
the number of shares was misstated.
   (WSJ May 31, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First Executive Corp.:
   Firm's Board of Directors
   Rejects Rosewood Proposal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC
</CO>
<LP>
   First Executive Corp. said its board of directors rejected
Rosewood Financial Inc.'s proposal that a Rosewood nominee be
elected to the troubled insurance concern's board.
   Los Angeles-based First Executive said that, in light of
Rosewood's actions as a stockholder in First Executive, the
proposal wouldn't be "in the best interests of the company,
its policyholders and stockholders."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials of Rosewood Financial, whose previous efforts to
take over troubled First Executive failed, couldn't be
reached for comment over the holiday weekend.
   The unit of Dallas-based Rosewood Corp., which is owned by
the trust estate of oil heiress Carolyn Rose Hunt, had
proposed earlier this month that First Executive expand its
board by one seat and appoint Donald F. Craib Jr., former
chairman and chief executive of All State Insurance Group, to
the position.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Degussa AG:
   Chemical Firm Posts Drop
   Of 13% in First-Half Net
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DGS EC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Degussa AG said its group, or world-wide, pretax profit in
the first half of the year ending Sept. 30 slid 13%.
   In the six months, ended in March, pretax profit fell to
159 million marks ($94.5 million) from 183 million marks a
year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Frankfurt-based chemical company's earnings fell
despite a modest 3.1% gain in world-wide sales to 7.09
billion marks from 6.88 billion marks.
   Overall earnings were dragged down by the chemical sector,
where despite a 6% rise in sales to 2.35 billion marks,
earnings fell by an unspecified margin. Degussa explained
that profit margins were tightened by foreign exchange
factors.
   In its other sectors, Degussa registered both sales and
earnings gains. The pharmaceutical division "posted good
results," the company said, citing a slight, though
unspecified, profit gain.
   Degussa said it is still negotiating the takeover of
U.S.-based Engelhard Corp.'s world-wide gold and silver
operations. A letter of intent was signed in March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Denison Mines Faces
   Selling More Assets
   To Meet Obligations
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<CO>
   DEN.A
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Denison Mines Ltd., which is already trying to
sell its oil and gas assets, said it may have to put other
noncore assets on the block to meet its financial
obligations.
   Helen Roman-Barber, chairman and chief executive officer,
told the annual meeting that the company's plan to sell its
overseas oil and gas assets has "proved to be a difficult"
task.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Denison sold its Canadian oil and gas properties last
November for 44.6 million Canadian dollars (US$37.7 million).
Ms. Roman-Barber declined to place a value on the remaining
assets, which are in Spain, Egypt, Italy and Greece.
   "We are dealing with the prospect that the oil and gas
divestiture program may not provide us with sufficient funds
to meet our financial obligations," she said.
   The company has about C$316 million in debt and faces
payments of C$31 million this year and C$86 million in 1991.
It also will need about C$175 million next March to retract
its Series B preferred shares. The company has the option to
pay stock for the shares, but Ms. Roman-Barber said Denison
hopes to be able to pay cash.
   The company decided in 1989 to concentrate on its uranium
operations. But uranium prices are at all-time lows, and
Denison had a first-quarter loss of C$4.8 million, or 15
Canadian cents a share.
   On the Toronto Stock Exchange Friday, the company's Class
B shares fell one Canadian cent at C$1.13, well off the
issue's 52-week high of C$5.375.
   The company continues to have interests in potash and coal
mining, though it wrote off its entire interest in its only
remaining coal operation in 1986.
   Jake Fowler, president and chief operating officer,
wouldn't say which assets might be sold. "We like the potash
business very much, but our core business is uranium," he
said.
   Mr. Fowler also said the company won't pay dividends on
its common shares until "we're generating sufficient cash."
Denison doesn't have a set dividend policy. Previous payment
was a stock dividend in Class B shares equal to 24 Canadian
cents in Febuary 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merck's Losec Drug
   For Ulcers Obtains
   FDA Panel's Backing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MRK
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- An advisory committee of the Food and Drug
Administration recommended that the agency approve a Merck &amp;
Co. drug to treat acute duodenal ulcers.
   The drug, Losec, is currently marketed to treat other
disorders, including severe heartburn. The advisory committee
recommended extending its use to people suffering duodenal
ulcers that fail to respond to such other drugs as Tagamet,
manufactured by Smith Kline &amp; French Laboratories,
Philadelphia; and Zantac, made by Glaxo Inc., Research
Triangle Park., N.C.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The advisory committee urged that Losec be approved only
for short-term use. Merck spokesman Gary Bruell said that the
company requested approval only for short-term use because
the drug was a powerful inhibitor of acid secretion. He added
that ulcer treatment is "typically short term."
   The advisory committee previously had expressed concern
about a possible cancer risk associated with Losec, according
to Dr. Stephen Fredd, director of the FDA's division of
gastro-intestinal and coagulation drug products. But Dr.
Fredd said that the committee was reassured by new human data
supplied by the company, and now agreed with the company that
the drug is safe for short-term use.
   A written statement released by Merck noted that two
studies of rats receiving Losec over their two-year lifespan
showed a dose-related increase in gastric carcinoid tumors.
The company, which is based in Rahway, N.J., said it found no
evidence of cancer risk for human patients, but that more
human data was needed "to rule out the possibility of an
increased risk of tumors from long-term therapy with Losec."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Avery, Dennison
   Plan to Merge
   In Stock Swap
   ---
   Deal, Valued at $456 Million,
   To Form a Leading Firm
   In Office-Products Field
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle and Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   AVY DSN WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Avery International Corp. and Dennison Manufacturing Co.
agreed to merge in a stock swap with an indicated value of
$456 million that would create one of the nation's largest
office-products concerns with $2.5 billion in annual sales.
   The successor company, Avery Dennison Corp., would be
dominated by the board of Avery International and based at
its corporate offices in Pasadena, Calif. Besides marker
pens, stationery and other office supplies, Avery Dennison
would sell self-adhesive materials, product fasteners, and
printing and labeling systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, approved by the boards of both
companies last week, Dennison shareholders would receive 1.12
shares of Avery common stock for each share held of Dennison
common.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Dennison shares jumped $8.375 to $27.375 on turnover of 1.7
million shares. Avery shares fell $2.25 to $26.25; 1.8
million shares changed hands. Dennison has 15.5 million
shares outstanding; Avery has 44.2 million shares
outstanding.
   Avery and Dennison described the transaction as a
"strategic merger" of companies with "complementary"
products. Dennison, based in Framingham, Mass., is stronger
in certain East Coast markets, while Avery is stronger in the
Midwest and on the West Coast. About 35% of Avery Dennison's
sales would be in overseas markets that are growing more
quickly than domestic ones.
   Charles D. Miller, Avery chairman and chief executive
officer, would retain those titles at Avery Dennison. The
merger would create a strong global competitor on the eve of
the integration of the European Community in 1992, he said.
Avery Dennison also would be a "more important supplier" to a
growing group of office-supply superstores.
   The emergence of superstores such as Staples Inc., which
sells stationery goods at big discounts, has put strong
downward pressure on wholesale office-supply prices. Because
of this trend, there will be more consolidations like the
Avery-Dennison deal, analysts said. Some of the two
companies' biggest competitors are Minnesota Mining &amp;
Manufacturing Co. in St. Paul, Minn.; Esselte AB of
Stockholm, Sweden, and American Brands Inc., Greenwich, Conn.
   The chairmen of Dennison and Avery have known each other
for 15 years. Mr. Miller said he proposed a merger with
Dennison in 1987 that fell apart at the last minute over
price and "organization structure." The latest talks were
initiated by Dennison in March, Mr. Miller said.
   Nelson S. Gifford, Dennison chairman and chief executive
officer, would become vice chairman of Avery Dennison. The
board would include Avery's 12 current directors and four
Dennison directors. The combined companies would have 19,000
employees, of which more than one-quarter would be overseas.
   Analysts generally agreed that the companies are a good
fit, but some of them worried that Dennison's problems might
rub off on Avery. "Conceptually {the merger} makes sense;
making it work is a completely different ballgame," said
David Nelson, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. Avery
could have trouble integrating Dennison, which is
restructuring, he said.
   Last December, citing "a rapid slowdown" in its domestic
orders, Dennison announced a plan to cut costs by $10 million
annually. By the end of the first quarter, Dennison had let
go 400 employees, or 4% of its work force. As conditions
continued to deteriorate, the company said it would
re-evaluate its assets for possible downsizing.
   For the year ended Dec. 31, 1989, Dennison's profit
plunged 24% to $29.1 million, or $1.82 a share, from $37.2
million, or $2.35 a share, the prior year. Its 1989 sales
edged up to $770.9 million from $721.8 million the year
before. Reflecting its lackluster earnings, Dennison's stock
price has declined from a 52-week high of $32.875.
   Avery sales rose 10% to $1.73 billion from $1.58 billion
for the year ended Nov. 30, 1989. Net income increased 11% to
$86.5 million, or $1.96 a share, from $77.7 million, or $1.77
a share.
   If the merger is completed, Avery management said it would
recommend a quarterly cash dividend of 18 cents a share.
Avery currently pays a quarterly per-share dividend of 16
cents, or 64 cents a year. Dennison pays an annual dividend
of $1.32 a share.
   The merger is subject to shareholder and regulatory
approvals, but analysts doubted that antitrust or other
obstacles would emerge. Certain Avery affiliates and employee
benefit plans expected to approve the merger hold about 25%
of Avery shares. Dennison directors and officers and an
employee stock ownership trust expected to vote for the deal
own about 20% of Dennison's stock. Mr. Miller said he hoped
the merger could be completed by the end of September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   New York Clearing House
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK CLEARING HOUSE (New York) -- This commercial bank
clearing house named William M. Walsh executive vice
president. Mr. Walsh, previously senior vice president and
director of data processing, is succeeded by George F.
Thomas, previously vice president, systems development and
technical services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- National Semiconductor Corp.:
   NEC of Japan to Sell Chips
   Under U.S. Concern's Label
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NIPNY NSM
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Semiconductor Corp., Santa Clara, Calif., said it
entered a joint venture with NEC Corp. of Japan under which
National will sell certain NEC memory chips under the
National label.
   The pact shows how U.S. chip concerns are increasingly
taking on foreign partners to round out their product lines.
National's agreement covers NEC's static random access memory
chips, known as SRAMs, which are considered high-volume
standard parts. In recent years, National has been
specializing in making high-end parts for supercomputers and
other specialized products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   National said the companies also agreed to explore future
cooperative efforts in SRAMs, including marketing,
manufacturing and technology. National said it would start
offering the NEC chips in July.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   New York Mercantile Exchange
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (New York) -- Stephen C.
Daffron was named vice president of the newly created
strategic planning department at this commodity exchange and
energy market trading company, beginning June 1. Mr. Daffron,
an assistant professor at the U.S. Military Academy at West
Point, N.Y., has been serving as a consultant to the exchange
on the development of electronic trading and the effects of
eliminating dual trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Anti-Drug Messages May Target Children
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   IPG HMC SAA
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Partnership for a Drug-Free America, the group that
created the fried egg anti-drug commercial, is changing its
strategy by reaching out to kids as young as six years old.
   The Partnership, created four years ago by a coalition of
ad agencies and advertisers, thus weighs in, in the debate
over what is the right age to talk to kids about drugs. When
the Partnership first began, it concentrated its efforts on
preteens and teens as well as adults. Some of its executives
were skittish about bringing up drugs to first and second
graders; some childhood experts had suggested that at that
age, the commercials might just make kids more curious. Ads
using scare tactics especially were a concern, since kids
tend to be attracted to scary movies and stories anyway.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Partnership executives recently commissioned two ad
agencies experienced in kids' ads, Griffin Bacal and
Campbell-Mithun-Esty in Chicago, to come up with commercials
geared to six- to eight-year-olds. As far as anti-drug
activists and others are concerned, it's about time. Many
think kids should be reached at even younger ages than six.
   "We've been discussing this issue with the Partnership for
some time. We felt it was important to reach kids at an early
age -- earlier than the eight or 10 years old that the spots
that now exist target," says Harvey Dzodin, a vice president
at Capital Cities/ABC's ABC network.
   Karen Issokson, an associate director of the Partnership,
says the coalition never created ads for younger kids because
it didn't have the resources to do so, and wanted to
concentrate first on the more immediately vulnerable preteen
and teenage set. But she concedes that younger kids are an
especially difficult target because they are so
impressionable.
   "We didn't want to stimulate curiosity; that was one
important issue," she says. "We had to make sure the
message's thrust was undeniably anti-drug. It's very easy to
miss the boat when talking with young kids."
   The Partnership's move follows last month's airing of a
Saturday morning anti-drug cartoon special, "Cartoon
All-Stars to the Rescue," that ran simultaneously on all
three networks. The cartoon, which included animated
creatures from the Smurfs to the Muppet Babies, attracted 30
million viewers, 63% of viewers watching television at the
time.
   But a similar public service effort being considered for
the Partnership may run into trouble. Griffin Bacal presented
several ideas to the Partnership last week, including one
commercial featuring a popular animated character. Paul
Kurnit, the agency's president, declined to identify the
character, but said Griffin Bacal had considered the most
popular animated characters, such as the Simpsons and Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles.
   The major networks, though, generally won't run ads using
cartoon characters whose shows air elsewhere. The Simpsons is
a Fox program, while the Mutant Ninja Turtles will appear on
CBS next fall. CBS did recently allow a public service
message with "fleeting exposure" of the Simpsons, notes
Matthew Margo, a vice president. "But obviosuly, we aren't
going to encourage the use of competitive characters. We'd
have to see if there was a very strong public interest
consideration for using it."
   Griffin Bacal's Mr. Kurnit concedes that "that's
definitely an issue. The networks are pretty skittish" about
giving the competition's cartoon characters air time, even
for a good cause. But he says, "we'll talk to the networks,
and I would hope the cause will rise over the economic
issue."
   Mr. Kurnit says his agency tested several possible ads
with kids, and that the animated ad and a scare-tactic
commercial were best received. In the fright spot, which Mr.
Kurnit dubs "a sleepover date run amok," a little boy going
to spend the night at a friend's house is greeted by an
ambulance, there because the friend's big brother has just
died of a drug overdose.
   Mr. Kurnit defends his agency's commercial concepts,
saying kids are much more cognizant than grown-ups think. He
notes that Griffin Bacal, whose typical fare leans more
toward perky Hasbro toy commercials, created the ad concepts
after interviewing six to eight-year-olds -- and their
parents -- to find out how much the kids knew about drugs.
   "We found that the drug education programs in schools are
getting better and better, and younger and younger, and
parents don't really understand how much their kids know,"
Mr. Kurnit says. "The kids, even the six-year-olds, are
savvier than the parents thought they were. It's a very
topical issue for them."
   ---
   Rubins May Join McCann
                                                                                                       

   McCann-Erickson is negotiating with Jack Rubins, the
former top executive at London's Dorland Advertising, to
become chairman of its U.K. office, a new position, industry
executives said.
   A spokeswoman for McCann, an Interpublic Group agency,
declined to comment.
   Mr. Rubins was a key executive in merging Dorland, a unit
of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Co., with Dancer Fitzgerald Sample in
1986. He later left the agency, however, after a falling out
with Charles and Maurice Saatchi.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Honda Power Equipment Manufacturing,
Swepsonville, N.C., named Fahlgren Martin, Atlanta, to handle
its estimated $5 million to $7 million ad account. Honda
Power is a subsidiary of Honda Motor's American Honda Motor
unit. Fahlgren Martin is a unit of Interpublic Group's Lintas
agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Honest Labor:
   U.S. Offensive Hurts
   Mob-Backed Unions,
   But Progress Is Slow
   ---
   Some Construction Prices Fall
   As Prosecutors Use Rico
   To End Violence, Payoffs
   ---
   `There's No More Hiding'
   ----
   By Stanley Penn
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Hans Martin Glang, a roofing contractor in Philadelphia,
didn't want to sign a collective-bargaining agreement with
the local union, so 11 thugs attacked him one night outside
an American Legion hall. Thomas Hudecheck, a contractor in
Downington, Pa., accepted a commercial roofing job, so the
union, which said he could only work on residential
buildings, firebombed his office. Robert Kryszczak used two
union roofers for a warehouse repair job instead of the six
that the union had demanded. So at the Bucks County, Pa.,
jobsite one day, the shop steward beckoned to Mr. Kryszczak
to join him on the warehouse roof.
   Mr. Kryszczak climbed up a 40-foot ladder and was
confronted by six men. "We want six roofers on the job]" one
demanded. Then, Mr. Kryszczak later testified in a federal
case, "I received a bone-crushing blow to the left side of my
face, which caught my jaw underneath and literally ripped it
off and rendered me semiconscious on the roof. I remember
more kicks to the head, and I started pleading to God for the
kicking to stop, but it didn't." Mr. Kryszczak's jaw was
wired shut for 12 weeks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But things have changed. Philadelphia's 1,500-member
Roofers Union Local 30/30b, once controlled by a Mafia-backed
hoodlum who terrorized roofing contractors in Pennsylvania,
southern New Jersey and Delaware, now is supervised by the
U.S. government. The union local was declared a criminal
enterprise, union officials went to prison, and people like
Nicodemo (Little Nicky) Scarfo were replaced with a
Philadelphia lawyer named Robert Welsh Jr., who says, "They
can't write a check or hire a secretary without my
signature." The result, says Mr. Hudecheck: "I don't have to
look over my shoulder anymore."
   The U.S. takeover of Local 30/30b -- and of a New York
cement workers' union and a New Jersey Teamsters local -- are
examples of the government's most successful offensive ever
against the Mafia. Fourteen Mafia chieftains -- the heads of
nearly half the crime "families" in the nation -- are in
prison, more than at any other time since the Mafia first
emerged as a nationwide crime syndicate in 1931.
   Nor is the pressure easing. In March, the Mafia boss of
Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut, Raymond
Patriarca Jr., was indicted on racketeering and other
charges. "There's no more hiding," complained Anthony F.
(Guv) Guarnieri, a captain in Pennsylvania's Bufalino crime
family. "They can get us no matter where we go." He was
right: He was being secretly recorded at the time.
   More witnesses are speaking up as the fear of retaliation
eases, according to Mafia specialist G. Robert Blakey, a law
professor at Notre Dame University. "As more bosses are
prosecuted," he says, "the notion that the Mafia is
invincible is seen as a myth."
   The ebbing influence of the Mafia -- or La Cosa Nostra,
the crime group established by Salvatore (Lucky) Luciano and
still supervised by a ruling council known as the Commission
-- extends beyond its hobbled leadership cadre. In the past
four years, the government has made significant inroads on
another front: ridding the marketplace of domination by
Mafia-infested unions. Using the broad powers of the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations act,
prosecutors are tackling labor racketeering with a dual
thrust: filing criminal RICO charges against mob figures and
civil RICO actions against the unions themselves. That allows
judges to appoint trustees to supervise the union and set the
stage for free elections.
   Since last year, three court-appointed overseers have been
policing the Mafia-linked International Brotherhood of
Teamsters. In February, the Justice Department zeroed in on
what it describes as a Mafia stranglehold of the New York-New
Jersey waterfront, the world's second biggest port. Through
civil RICO, federal lawmen are seeking a court's
authorization to police an entire marketplace by clamping
trusteeships on six local unions of the Mafia-linked
International Longshoremen's Association. The ILA locals, the
government asserts in a civil RICO case, are employed by the
Mafia for extortion and other crimes -- charges that the
defendants deny. "There's a general malaise, if you will, in
the Cosa Nostra underworld," says Frederick T. Martens,
executive director of the Pennsylvania Crime Commission.
   The news, of course, is not all good. John Gotti, reputed
boss of the New York-based Gambino crime family, enjoys a
charmed life. Three times in recent years, the "dapper don"
has beat the rap, including his acquittal in February of
assault charges.
   The Mafia still exerts control over legitimate businesses
through as many as 400 individual local unions nationwide,
law-enforcement officials estimate. Although they make up
less than 1% of the total, these Mafia unions are often
strategically situated to shut down an entire industry
through mob-directed work stoppages.
   The Justice Department estimates income of all organized
criminal groups at $100 billion a year. The Mafia has the
largest share, and the biggest chunk now comes from labor
racketeering -- usually extortion of employers or
embezzlement of union pension and welfare funds. The Mafia
maintains a strong presence in parts of the transportation,
meat processing, waste disposal and construction industries.
   And building RICO cases against union locals is tedious
and often frustrating work. Years of entrenched mob influence
can't be obliterated with the stroke of a judge's pen. Still,
as the following vignettes show, there is demonstrable
progress in the fight against the Mafia.
                                                                                                       

   Philadelphia Roofers
                                                                                                       

   Philadelphia's Roofers Union Local 30/30b has a history of
sporadic violence and corruption. In the 1980s it sank to new
lows.
   In late 1980, Local 30/30b's boss, John McCullough, was
murdered in a Mafia hit. In the union power struggle that
followed, according to federal law enforcement officials,
Philadelphia Mafia chieftain Nicodemo Scarfo threw his
support to a McCullough functionary, Stephen Traitz Jr. Mr.
Traitz, easily elected union leader, lost no time repaying
his powerful benefactor. He collected Mr. Scarfo's debts,
gave jobs to Mr. Scarfo's people, and had his sons serve as
Mr. Scarfo's bodyguards. Mr. Scarfo won assurances from Mr.
Traitz, an ex-boxer, that he wouldn't physically assault
roofing contractors friendly to the mob. Mr. Traitz also
allowed some of these contractors to pay below-scale wages.
   In return, Mr. Scarfo gave Mr. Traitz his blessing. As Mr.
Traitz said in a recorded conversation, "{Scarfo} says what
can I do for you? I says . . . make sure everybody knows I'm
your {expletive} guy. . . . If they know you're in back of
me, I'm un{expletive}beatable."
   For a time, it seemed he was. Roofing contractors bought
labor peace with "initiation fees" and other questionable
payments to the union. Those who challenged Local 30/30b even
in petty matters risked property destruction or assaults by
union goons weighing as much as 340 pounds. In a recorded
conversation, Mr. Traitz boasted: "I'm a fistfighter. I got
all fistfighters."
   Money embezzled by union officials from a local 30/30b
benefit fund was used for payoffs to nearly 50
Philadelphia-area public officials. Recipients of bribes
included judges, policemen, prison officials, an employee of
the Philadelphia district attorney's office and an official
of the Pennslyvania Department of Labor, according to federal
Judge Louis C. Bechtle, who imposed the government
supervision on Local 30/30b.
   Contractor Thomas Zimmerman tangled with Local 30/30b in
1983 while serving on the board of a Philadelphia trade group
that negotiates contracts with the union. After Mr. Zimmerman
opposed the union twice on policy matters at board meetings,
his veteran roofing employees were ousted by the union and
replaced with union-designated workers.
   William Hargrove, a contractor in Camden, N.J., was
beaten, his trucks were set afire and his repair work was
vandalized because he refused to dismiss his nonunion roofers
and hire Local 30/30b workers, he said in an interview. And
Mr. Hudecheck, whose office earlier had been firebombed, was
later beaten up in his office when the union accused him --
falsely -- of hiring a nonunion employee.
   Mr. Hudecheck, now a nonunion contractor, joined other
roofers in testifying in a civil RICO hearing. "When they
asked us to cooperate, a lot of us were a little reluctant,"
he says. "Anybody who cooperated faced retribution if nothing
was done to those in power."
   Today, the Scarfo-Traitz alliance has ended. Last year Mr.
Scarfo received life in prison for murder in a state case,
and 55 years for racketeering in a federal case. Meantime, 13
union officials and employees have been convicted under RICO
of extortion, racketeering and other crimes. Mr. Traitz drew
a 15-year prison sentence. Local 30/30b was declared a
criminal enterprise by Judge Bechtle, who named Mr. Welsh to
supervise the union.
   The situation "has changed 180 degrees for the better,"
says Mr. Hargrove. "We can operate without intimidation since
the government has taken over." Since the federal crackdown,
he also is winning back subcontracting business. "Contractors
had second thoughts about hiring us a second time," Mr.
Hargrove says. "They feared they'd suffer retaliation from
the roofers union. Now some of the guys who had stopped using
us are using us."
   Says Mr. Hudecheck: "The government did a thorough job.
The intimidation is basically nonexistent now."
   Mr. Zimmerman has operated as a nonunion contractor since
last November, and says he has experienced no intimidation.
Yet he is still shaken. "The feds asked me if I wanted a gun
permit," he says. "I said no, I'm no Wyatt Earp." Instead, he
armed himself with a mobile phone. "I can punch in Welsh's
number, and the Department of Labor. I take it to the roof
with me. That's my lifeline."
   Mr. Welsh, the court-appointed officer of the union,
agrees that there has been external progress. "Instead of
violence {against employers} or burning buildings," he says,
"now the union puts up picket lines, or files charges with
the National Labor Relations Board."
   But, he cautions: "In terms of internal democracy, I'm not
encouraged. They have a long way to go in that area." The
roofers union elected officers last June in what Mr. Welsh
says "appeared to be a free election." But he says many of
those elected had been associated with the Traitz group and
"haven't yet learned to permit dissenting opinion." Mr. Welsh
believes it could take more than five years before dissenters
can criticize the leadership without fear of reprisal.
                                                                                                       

   N.Y. Concrete Workers
                                                                                                       

   For the privilege of pouring the concrete foundations of
Manhattan office and apartment buildings, contractors
regularly paid kickbacks to Ralph Scopo, a member of the
Colombo crime family and president of the New York District
Council of Cement and Concrete Workers Union, according to
testimony in federal criminal cases in New York. Carlo
D'Arpino, a New Hyde Park, N.Y., contractor, testified in
1985 that he gave $16,000 to the union leader during a period
of about two years. "{Scopo} made it plain, if you want to
exist and get by with no problem, this is the procedure," Mr.
D'Arpino says in an interview.
   Testimony in a 1987 federal criminal case showed that Mr.
Scopo and the Colombo family extorted 1% of all
concrete-pouring contracts up to $2 million. In an intricate
bid-rigging scheme, contracts exceeding $2 million were
allocated among roughly six Mafia-designated contractors
known as "the Club." Club members paid kickbacks of 2% of
their contracts, and the payoffs were split among four New
York crime families. Contracts above $15 million were
reserved for S&amp;A Concrete, in which Genovese crime family
boss Anthony (Fat Tony) Salerno held a secret interest,
according to the New York State Organized Crime Task Force.
   Contractor Stanley Sternchos testified that his company
was excluded from the Club and thus could bid only on jobs
under $2 million. He also testified that he obtained some
larger contracts by paying Mr. Scopo personally $10,000 per
contract. His company's total payments to the mob over
several years totaled $800,000, he testified.
   The FBI estimates that during the period of Mafia control,
New York concrete companies overcharged builders by more than
$40 million a year to offset their illegal payoffs. Prior to
construction of Manhattan's Jacob K. Javits Convention
Center, for example, engineers projected that the contract
for pouring concrete would be $18 million. Instead, S&amp;A
Concrete got the contract for $30.3 million.
   The shakedown ring was smashed. Mr. Scopo and his Mafia
bosses were sentenced under RICO in 1987 to 100-year prison
terms for extortion and other crimes. Then, in a civil RICO
action, the District Council and Local 6a of the Cement and
Concrete Workers were placed under a court-appointed trustee.
   Mr. Salerno, a member of the Mafia Commission, is in
prison; S&amp;A Concrete still operates, but under court-imposed
trusteeship.
   Irving Fisher, chairman of HRH Construction, a major New
York builder, estimates that the absence of competition
increased developers' costs 20%. Since the federal crackdown,
he says, "there's no question in my mind there's more
competition." Typically, he says, six or eight companies will
bid on a job now, versus one or two in the past.
   Though Mr. Scopo and some of his henchmen have been ousted
from the union, other officials -- against whom no damaging
evidence surfaced -- kept their jobs. Eugene Anderson, the
New York attorney who is the union trustee, says that the
incumbents of Local 6a and the District are viewed by the
membership as part of the old regime, whether or not such a
view is justified. For whatever reason, the membership
refused to challenge the incumbents in elections held in 1987
-- a fact that Mr. Anderson calls his "single biggest
frustration" as trustee. New elections are scheduled for this
fall.
                                                                                                       

   New Jersey Teamsters
                                                                                                       

   For a quarter-century, Anthony (Tony Pro) Provenzano, a
captain of New York's Genovese crime family, bossed the
7,800-member Teamster Local 560 in Union City, N.J. He died
in 1988 while serving a 20-year sentence for accepting
illegal payments from employers. Since 1986, the local has
operated under a trusteeship, the first imposed on a union
under RICO.
   In an interview, the current trustee, Edwin H. Stier,
relates an incident that occurred during Christmas 1987 to
show how deeply embedded union corruption was. A union
business agent whom Mr. Stier had appointed paid a routine
call on an employer, whose warehousemen belong to Local 560.
According to Mr. Stier, the employer asked the business
agent: "Who do I make the payment to? Every Christmas I'm
supposed to come up with $5,000."
   "The employer believed he was buying labor peace," Mr.
Stier says. "He didn't realize, until he was explicitly told,
that the corruption was over."
   During the Provenzano regime, two union dissidents were
murdered, union funds were misused, and former convicts were
put on the union payroll. Some employers paid union officers
illegal kickbacks for "sweetheart contracts" that enabled
them to pay below-scale wages.
   Robert Kortenhaus, an Elizabeth, N.J., trucking executive
and critic of the Provenzano regime, employs Teamster drivers
who don't belong to Local 560. For a long time, he says, this
put him at a disadvantage: "You can't compete when {Local
560} negotiates $9 to $10 an hour, against your $14 an hour."
Today, he says he's better off "to the extent there's not all
these sweetheart deals going on with Local 560." Under the
trusteeship, "employers have got somebody to go to. As long
as the police are on the beat, we're in good shape. We needed
an overseer. Now there's a feeling of honesty."
   Union pension and welfare funds are now under the control
of the trustee, and the corruption alleged by the government
is being rooted out. The cleanup not only frees more money
for actual benefits but also "tends to slow down the
acceleration rate in employer premiums," says John West,
president of TNT Red Star Express in Newark.
   In Teamster Local 560, the election for president in late
1988 was the first under the trusteeship. Michael Sciarra, a
former 560 president, was the choice of the union's
pro-Provenzano group. But the court removed him as a
candidate after the Justice Department contended that he
acted on the Genovese crime family's behalf even after the
court declared the trusteeship. Mr. Sciarra has denied any
wrongdoing.
   Instead, his brother, Danny, was elected president by a
two-to-one margin and took over the union's day-to-day
operations, as he was permitted to do under terms of the
trusteeship. He replaced the trustee-appointed business
agents with his own people, including his brother Michael.
"We're doing a good job here, and the members like us," Danny
Sciarra says. "The government don't belong here."
   Some employers, too, are satisfied with the new
leadership. "I'd much rather deal with Sciarra's {business
agents} now than with the trustee's people," says Bill
Clifford, the president of St. Johnsbury Trucking Co. "The
Sciarra people are more knowledgeable."
   Mr. Stier, who, as trustee, retains control of Local 560's
pension and welfare funds, says some people may be
disappointed by the election results. But he says the RICO
trusteeship has clearly had a positive effect. After all,
"this was the first contested election in 25 years."
   What's more, the union's executive board recently asked
Mr. Stier -- to his surprise -- to become the permanent, paid
overseer of 560's pension and welfare funds after the union
trusteeship expires. According to Mr. Stier, union officials
told him they wanted to protect the funds from racketeering.
"To me, this is a behavioral change since the trusteeship,"
Mr. Stier says. "Regardless of motive, the executive board
did make the offer. There's hope that this board, left to its
own devices, can run this union effectively without control
by organized crime.
   But Mr. Stier cautions: "It's a war of attrition. You're
trying to change values. The change will come about in small
increments."
   In the meantime, Michael Sciarra has been removed as
business agent effective May 31 under a preliminary
injunction issued by Judge Dickinson Debevoise. The judge,
ruling on a Justice Department request, found that Michael
Sciarra's dominating presence inhibited the board from acting
independently.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Reed's Cahners Unit
   To Buy Sail Magazine
   From Meredith Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDP U.REE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Cahners Publishing Co. agreed to acquire Sail,
the leading sailing magazine in the U.S., from Meredith
Corp., continuing its push into consumer magazine publishing.
The price wasn't disclosed.
   Cahners, the U.S. subsidiary of London-based Reed
International PLC, said Sail will join its Marine Publishing
Group, which includes Power &amp; Motoryacht, MotorBoat, and
Motoryacht International.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sail was an odd fit for Des Moines, Iowa-based Meredith,
which publishes service-oriented magazines such as Better
Homes and Gardens, Ladies' Home Journal, Country Home, and
Metropolitan Home. Sail had a paid circulation of 163,000 in
December 1989, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
   But the sailing magazine may mesh well with Cahners's
other publications. "We have had pure power (boat) books, and
now we are adding a pure sail book," Neal Vitale, a Cahners
vice president, said, adding that the company will look for
other acquisitions in the boating field.
   Sail competes in a growing field of power boat and sailing
magazines owned by Diamandis Communications Inc., New York
Times Co. Magazine Group, and Times Mirror Co. Recently,
Times Mirror Magazines acquired two marine magazines, The
Yacht and Tournament Digest, which covers the salt-water
fishing tournament circuit.
   Cahners's mainstay still is business magazines, with 65
titles. But with acquisitions such as American Baby and
Modern Bride, Cahners now has 11 consumer titles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Downdrafts in May Data Seen as Slight
   ---
   Jobs, Purchasing Reports
   Expected to Blow Breezy
   Rather Than Blustery
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Fresh May data promise to bring more economic
downdrafts through two favorite reports, employment data and
the purchasing managers' index, both to be released Friday.
   But economists said they expect more breeze than bluster
in the numbers. Overall civilian payrolls are expected to
rebound from April's poor showing -- payrolls actually shrank
after subtracting temporary census workers -- though factory
jobs are likely to fall again, all contributing to an
unchanged unemployment rate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, the consensus view expects the purchasers'
index to fall below the pivotal 50% reading attained in
April, according to MMS International, a unit of McGraw-Hill
Inc., New York. The week's other offerings wrap up April
softness with weaker data expected from new home sales,
factory orders and construction spending.
   After four months of eccentric behavior in employment
data, economists hope that the May numbers could return to
more normal patterns; that is, after accounting for the
lion's share of census workers in the one month. Even Janet
Norwood, federal commissioner of labor statistics,
acknowledged to Congress that unusually warm weather in
January and February boosted hiring, which, in turn, made
March and April look particularly weak.
   Or, as Donald Fine, economist at Chase Manhattan Bank,
noted, "We've had two months of ridiculously strong growth
and two months of ridiculously slow growth." So, after four
months of "distortions," Mr. Fine hopes that the May number,
"if not yet the trend number, will be closer to a trend."
   The consensus view expects overall, nonfarm payrolls --
excluding census workers -- to add about 127,000 jobs in May,
according to the MMS survey. In April, nonfarm payrolls grew
by 69,000 new workers. But excluding the government's hiring
of 79,000 temporary workers, the April number declined.
Economists estimate that census workers are expected to
account for more than 100,000 jobs in May.
   No matter how the May jobs numbers are sliced, they look
weak to economists. Nonfarm payroll growth of 127,000 jobs,
while stronger than in March and April, is much softer than
during 1989, when growth averaged more than 225,000 jobs a
month. What's more, factory jobs are expected to decline in
May, as are positions in the services sector.
   Brian Fabbri, chief economist at Midland Montagu
Economics, New York, pointed out that recent flooding in the
Southwest could cut employment data further. Mr. Fabbri
expects nonfarm payroll growth of 130,000 jobs in May. But he
said: "The flood could wipe my number right out. And it could
prevail over all the numbers that come out in May."
   Still, economists seem able to fit these weaker numbers
into a slow-growth-but-no-recession outlook. Chase
Manhattan's Mr. Fine holds that the manufacturing sector has
"bottomed out." He expects real gross national product to
grow 1.5% or so in the months ahead. Midland Montagu's Mr.
Fabbri said he is "still in the 2% camp."
   The MMS consensus expects that the National Association of
Purchasing Management index slipped to 49.7% in May, after
pushing above 50% in April for the first time in months. A
reading below 50% indicates a generally expanding
manufacturing economy, while one below 50% suggests a
declining economy.
   Gary Ciminero, economist at Fleet/Norstar Financial Group
in Providence, R.I., said he expects the association index's
decline to "mark the resumption of the contraction in
manufacturing, which had been under way for 11 of the prior
12 months." Still, economists noted one month's move
shouldn't carry too much weight in the index, particularly if
it might be teetering on a new trend.
   Often, the association index provides the first reading on
the new month. But this month, the May employment data will
precede the index by two hours on Friday. Most likely, the
jobs data will steal thunder from the index, though
economists didn't rule out the possibility of conflicting
signals from the two reports.
   April's leading indicators' index, to be released
tomorrow, is expected to have declined 0.2%, following
March's jump. Once again, building permits are expected to
have dragged the index down. Other negative contributors are
likely to include contracts, and orders for plants and
equipment, as well as manufacturers' unfilled orders,
economists said.
   Last week's report of a 4.1% drop in April durable goods
orders led economists to expect a falloff in overall factory
orders, data for which are to be posted Thursday. April
factory orders are expected to have declined about 2%,
following March's steep 3.8% gain, according to MMS.
   All continues to look weak on the housing front. April new
home sales, the report on which is to be released tomorrow,
are expected to have dropped 1%, albeit much less than
March's sharp fall. The report on April construction
spending, scheduled for release Friday, also is expected to
show a 1% drop, according to MMS. In March, construction
outlays fell 1.4%, as the spending trend retraced gains
induced by warm weather earlier in the year.
   ---
                 Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

       Statistics Released in the Week Ended May 25
                                                                                                       

                                                   CHANGE
                                                (from prior
                                   TOTAL           period)
                                                                                                       

   Money supply
                                                                                                       

      M1 -- Week ended
      May 14 (in billions)         $802.9            -$3.2
                                                                                                       

      M2 -- Week ended
      May 14 (in billions)       $3,266.5            -$5.0
                                                                                                       

      M3 -- Week ended
      May 14 (in billions)       $4,064.1            -$3.9
                                                                                                       

   Personal income
   April, annual rate
   (in trillions)                  $4.688            +0.3%
                                                                                                       

   Personal consumption
   April, annual rate
   (in trillions)                  $3.680            +0.6%
                                                                                                       

   Savings rate
   April, change in
   percentage points                 5.5%             -0.3
                                                                                                       

   Real GNP
   First quarter, revised,
   annual rate (in trillions)      $4.188            +1.3%
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales
   Mid-May total vs. year ago     160,645           -19.3%
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
   Week ended May 12              353,000            Unch.
                                                                                                       

   Durable goods orders
   April (in billions)            $123.27            -4.1%
                                                                                                       

            Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Leading indicators index (Wed.)
   April
                                                                                                       

   New home sales (Wed.)
   April
                                                                                                       

   Factory orders (Thurs.)

                                                                                                       

   Auto sales (Thurs.)
   May
                                                                                                       

   Farm prices (Thurs.)
   May
                                                                                                       

   Chain store sales (Thurs.)
   May
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Employment, payroll (Fri.)
   April
                                                                                                       

   Unemployment rate (Fri.)
   April
                                                                                                       

   Purchasing managers' index (Fri.)
   May
                                                                                                       

   Construction spending (Fri.)
   April
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Regal International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS RGL
</CO>
<LP>
   REGAL INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Houston) -- Vijay Dandapani was
elected a director of this energy industry products maker.
Mr. Dandapani is president of Zurich Corp., an investment
concern and major investor in Regal. He succeeds George
Moore, who resigned from the board last Tuesday for
unspecified reasons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- British Petroleum Co.:
   BP America Affiliate to Sell
   Coal Operations to Zeigler
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE BOC
</SO>
<CO>
   BP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cleveland-based BP America Inc., the U.S. affiliate of
British Petroleum Co., said it agreed to sell most of its
remaining U.S. coal operations to closely held Zeigler Coal
Holding Co., Fairview Heights, Ill., for $115 million.
   The agreement, which is subject to government approval,
includes the sale of BP's Franklin Coal and Old Ben Coal
companies. The coal operations consist of BP's four
underground steam coal mines in Illinois, two surface steam
coal mines in Indiana, and steam and metallurgical operations
in West Virginia. Only a few small inactive reserves will
remain in BP's coal operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year, the oil and gas concern sold a tract of
low-sulfur coal reserves to Ashland Coal Inc. for $137
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Capital Unit
   To Buy Subsidiary
   Of Travelers Corp.
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   GE TIC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   A GE Capital Corp. unit will move into a new area of the
mortgage finance business with its agreement to purchase
Travelers Corp.'s mortgage services subsidiary. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   The acquisition will allow GE Mortgage Capital Corp.,
Raleigh, N.C., to enter the mortgage servicing business.
Until now, GE Mortgage's main activities were selling
mortgage insurance and packaging bundles of mortgage loans
for the secondary market. GE Mortgage was formed in 1983.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "In today's marketplace, many of our customers are trying
to sell valuable servicing rights to generate capital. Due to
the current restructuring of the industry, there's a shortage
of buyers," said Greg Barmore, GE Mortgage Capital's
president.
   Travelers Mortgage Services Inc., headquartered in Cherry
Hill, N.J., will be transferring to GE Mortgage a $12 billion
portfolio of residential mortgage loans that it currently
services. The acquisition includes Travelers' mortgage
servicing business, its relocation services and its mortgage
wholesale operation, which buys mortgages originated by other
companies as well as thrifts and banks.
   But GE Mortgage's purchase won't include Travelers' retail
mortgage origination business. GE Mortgage doesn't want to be
in the business of making mortgage loans because it doesn't
want to compete with its customers, which are thrifts, banks
and other mortgage finance companies.
   Before it finalizes its deal with GE Mortgage, Travelers
hopes to find another buyer for the mortgage origination
business. The Hartford, Conn., insurer originally planned to
sell the entire mortgage services unit to management and
investor group nearly a year ago. But the transaction fell
through in last December and the mortgage unit remained since
then.
   Travelers is selling the mortgage unit as part of its
restructuring to return to its core insurance business. The
insurer purchased the unit, formerly known as Brokers
Mortgage Services, in 1985.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southern Co.
   Wins a Victory
   In Tax Dispute
   ---
   Justice Agency Won't File
   Criminal Charges; Unit
   May Face Civil Action
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   SO TAXES GPE+
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- In a major victory for Southern Co., the
Justice Department said it won't file criminal tax-fraud
charges against the electric utility holding company or its
Georgia Power Co. unit or any employees in an investigation
related to spare-parts accounting.
   Georgia Power said it may still face civil action from the
Internal Revenue Service over its method of accounting for
emergency spare parts, and, according to individuals familiar
with the matter, other aspects of a federal grand-jury
investigation of Southern Co. continue at a brisk pace.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decision not to prosecute follows a highly publicized,
20-month investigation into whether the utility's accounting
for emergency spare parts resulted in its underpaying federal
income taxes of more than $50 million in 1985 and 1986. The
accounting issue turns on the timing of tax deductions for
emergency spare parts: Georgia Power has taken tax deductions
when it purchased the parts, while the IRS's position is that
such parts generally should be expensed, or deducted from
taxes, only when they are put into use.
   Georgia Power's president, A.W. "Bill" Dahlberg, said the
company had consistently asserted that its method of
accounting was a valid one and that the matter should be
handled civilly, not criminally. Civil charges involve only
the issue of whether taxes are owed, while criminal charges
also include the issue of the taxpayer's intent to defraud.
   "Twenty months is a long period of time," Mr. Dahlberg
said at a news conference. "It has been arduous, it has been
difficult. . . . I guess I'm just pleased that they've
reached this outcome."
   The investigation has placed the company under a cloud,
damaged its public image, and hurt employee morale throughout
the system, which is the largest investor-owned utility in
the nation.
   Despite baiting by reporters, Mr. Dahlberg refused to
criticize the government. "I'm proud of the government coming
to a good conclusion on this," he said. However, many
employees have wondered privately why the U.S. attorney's
office in Atlanta seemed to handle the investigation with
such a penchant for publicity.
   For example, the grand-jury investigation became public in
August 1988 when the U.S. Attorney filed an affidavit for a
search warrant for Georgia Power's offices. Then-U.S.
attorney Robert L. Barr held a news conference regarding the
search.
   In an interview, Mr. Barr, who is now president of the
Southeast Legal Foundation and who says he has political
ambitions, said Friday that the purpose of the press
conference wasn't to promote publicity on the matter, but
rather to dispel rumors. He said he wanted to emphasize that
a search wasn't a charge of any wrongdoing "and to keep
everything in perspective."
   The IRS declined to comment.
   The spare-parts investigation began in 1988 after Gary
Gilman, a Georgia Power accountant, went to the IRS and told
agents the company had devised an "off-the-books" scheme to
disguise that it was accounting improperly for emergency
spare parts. He became a confidential informant for the IRS
and wore a hidden microphone to work, taping conversations
with key Southern Co. and Georgia Power employees about the
accounting method.
   The search-warrant affidavit, which lays out the
government's justification for a search, alleged that Arthur
Andersen &amp; Co., the utility's outside auditor, was also aware
of the accounting scheme. In a statement Friday, Robert F.
McCullough, managing partner of the Atlanta office of Arthur
Andersen, said the firm had maintained all along that the
allegations were "preposterous."
   Southern Co. spokesman Gale Klappa said Sunday that
Georgia Power simply used a personal computer to help it in
converting from one accounting method to another.
   Late last year, the U.S. attorney's office in Atlanta
completed its grand-jury probe of spare-parts accounting at
Southern Co. and recommended to the Justice Department in
Washington that it be authorized to proceed with a criminal
tax-fraud case. Like all criminal tax cases, the matter was
reviewed by the main Justice Department's Criminal Tax
Division to determine whether the department should authorize
or decline a criminal prosecution.
   In January, Southern Co.'s outside attorneys, James C.
Fleming and two other Atlanta attorneys, met with officials
in the tax division for three days to present their
interpretation of events and to argue that no criminal
statutes had been broken.
   While company officials expressed delight at Friday's
announcement, their crowing was noticeably muted. The
beleaguered utility holding company isn't out of the woods
yet. As previously reported, a federal grand-jury
investigation is continuing to examine, among other things,
alleged improprieties involving Southern Co.'s pension fund
as well as alleged illegal political contributions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Texas Air Corp.:
   Court Rules Worker Group
   Entitled to Some Back Pay
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Continental Airlines said a federal appeals court ruled a
group of employees was entitled to back pay, but awarded them
less than $1 million, not the $40 million the workers had
sought.
   The Fifth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans
ruled that the employees could get back pay only for the six
days between the time Continental filed for bankruptcy in
1983 and when the workers struck the carrier, the carrier
said. Continental, a unit of Texas Air Corp., filed for
bankruptcy protection Sept. 23, 1983, unilaterally abrogating
labor contracts and offering lower wages. The unions struck
the carrier Oct. 1. Continental emerged from Chapter 11
protection in 1986.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A group of 474 pilots and flight attendants claimed they
were owed several years of back pay, the amount they
contended they would have received if the bankruptcy court
hadn't approved the abrogation of their union contract. The
court of appeals agreed the employees were entitled to back
pay, but denied damages for the time they were on strike.
   Continental said it was pleased with the ruling.
Representatives of the employees couldn't be reached.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Pfizer Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PFE
</CO>
<LP>
   PFIZER Inc. (New York) -- William E. Harvey was named vice
president and treasurer of this health-care and
pharmaceuticals company, succeeding James W. Murray, who will
retire Friday. Mr. Harvey was previously assistant treasurer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Petro-Canada Inc.:
   Alberta Oil Refinery Is Shut
   In Wake of an Explosion
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petro-Canada Inc. said its 120,000-barrel-a-day oil
refinery near Edmonton, Alberta, will be closed indefinitely
after an explosion late Thursday killed one worker and
injured two others.
   A Petro-Canada spokeswoman said in Calgary that the cause
of the blast wasn't immediately known and that an
investigation is under way.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Edmonton plant accounts for about one-third of
Petro-Canada's refined crude output. The state-owned company,
which the Canadian government is preparing to take public, is
Canada's second-largest oil refiner, after Toronto-based
Imperial Oil Ltd., 70%-owned by Exxon Corp.
   The Edmonton refinery had been closed for about five weeks
for routine maintenance prior to the explosion, and was
scheduled to resume production shortly.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Subaru of America Inc.:
   About 285,000 Cars Recalled
   To Fix Suspension Problem
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SBRU J.FJH
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Subaru of America Inc., Cherry Hill, N.J., said it is
recalling about 285,000 cars because of a rear-suspension
problem that has caused at least four minor accidents but no
injuries.
   The distributor of vehicles made by Fuji Heavy Industries
Ltd. of Japan said the models being recalled are its
four-wheel-drive 1980 through 1984 sedan hatchback and
hardtop cars, and 1985 and 1986 hatchbacks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Subaru said continuous exposure to road salt may corrode
the rear suspension of the cars, making them difficult to
steer. A Subaru spokesman said about half of the 285,000 cars
are in geographical areas where large amounts of road salt
are used to aid snow and ice removal in winter. The company
said it will rustproof or replace the rear suspensions free
of charge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Merrill Stock May Just Be Bridge to Troubled Waters
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MER
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Merrill Lynch said it bit the bullet last year
when it took a $470 million pretax charge for layoffs and
other retrenchment. But there might be another bullet or two
on the way.
   Inside Merrill, executives are worried about a possible
credit crunch this summer at companies whose temporary
"bridge" loans Merrill has financed. There's a chance Merrill
will need additional reserves of $100 million to $200 million
to deal with soured bridge loans and other exposure to the
struggling market for high-yield, high-risk junk bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a result, Merrill's stock, tempting though its may seem
as it languishes below book value, may not be a happy hunting
ground for bargain hunters just yet.
   A Merrill insider says the firm is "constantly looking
over {its} shoulder" at the bridge loans and "will take
reserves as necessary" if a borrower stops making interest
payments.
   Until Merrill safely navigates out of its junk-bond
dilemma and shows that its cost-cutting plan has worked, the
firm's earnings potential is suspect, some analysts say.
   "We don't see the commitment by management to really push
this company toward a competitive {earnings} return," says
James P. Hanbury of Wertheim Schroder, who maintains an
unenthusiastic "hold" rating on the stock. Earnings probably
won't improve without "an even more stringent cost-reduction
program" and "another big write-off."
   On Friday Merrill closed, in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, at 24 3/4, off 1/4. The shares traded as
high as 36 3/4 early last year and 46 3/4 before the October
1987 stock-market crash.
   Besides bridge loans, the major concern for investors is
whether Merrill's cost-cutting has been sufficient. Merrill
acknowledges that revenue in its capital markets segment --
including underwriting, trading and other non-brokerage
business lines -- has been less than expected this year. Some
analysts can't see any way to avoid more cost-slashing and
another charge, unless the firm's investment banking business
stages a miraculous recovery.
   A Merrill spokesman says: "As of now, we are on target
with our restructuring program, and don't envision any
further charges or reserves relating to the restructuring."
But he adds: "We continuously reserve against possible
exposures of various kinds throughout the year." Last year's
big one-time charge gave Merrill its first yearly net loss as
a public company -- $213.4 million.
   Merrill has a lot of exposure to markets that have been
weak, including stock-and-bond underwriting, merchant banking
and the junk bond market.
   The company has $540 million tied up in five bridge loans,
which are used to finance takeovers, and $350 million in
junk-bond inventory. It now appears that Merrill is working
to refinance three of the five big bridges; it wants to
reduce its bridge exposure to about $200 million by the end
of the third quarter, if business conditions cooperate.
   Merrill may have a tougher time getting the junk bonds off
its hands. Once hellbent on dethroning Drexel Burnham Lambert
as junk-bond king -- it briefly considered opening a junk
office near Drexel's Beverly Hills, Calif., headquarters --
Merrill has, since Drexel's demise, been adamant about
reducing its financial commitment to junk. It wants to trim
whatever it can from its junk inventory by the third
quarter's end, and at the very least not add to it.
   Although Merrill has been increasing its trading of junk
bonds and its manpower devoted to related areas such as
corporate restructurings, "I want to make it absolutely clear
-- we're not committing more dough to this market," a Merrill
insider says of the world of junk.
   Merrill can't control what the junk market does. But it
has a bit more control over its own expenses. For two
consecutive years, Merrill has had to set aside money to pay
for layoffs, retreats from excess office space and the like.
If it takes another restructuring charge, it would be further
evidence of the severity of Wall Street's industrywide slump.
Yet some industry analysts say an additional charge is just
what Merrill needs.
   People inside Merrill and several securities analysts say
they understand that since the fourth-quarter charge, revenue
isn't coming through as anticipated. Among other things,
investment banking revenue plunged 26.7% in the first
quarter, when Merrill had net income of $41.3 million mainly
because of a $27 million increase in money-management and
custodial fees. In 1988 Merrill made a $65.5 million pretax
provision for restructuring, and in 1989 it made the $470
million pretax provision ($395 million after tax).
   That fourth-quarter charge covered rental losses related
to excess space at its World Financial Center headquarters in
lower Manhattan, as well as severance payments for layoffs
this year of at least 3,000 employees.
   So why isn't Merrill's empire shrinking? At rival Shearson
Lehman Hutton, a cost-cutting drive has included the closing
of 67 of that firm's almost 520 U.S. branches. Merrill, in
contrast, has closed some branches but opened others, leaving
it with the same number as last year: 460.
   Perrin Long, an analyst at Lipper Analytical Services,
says that "if things don't get better and better quickly,"
hundreds of millions of dollars in additional reserves or
charges will be required "to get the company whipped into
shape."
   The timing of any charge is uncertain. Wertheim's Mr.
Hanbury says: "My guess is there will be one, but I don't
know when."
   Lawrence Eckenfelder of Prudential-Bache is another
brokerage analyst with a "hold" on Merrill. "I'd like to be
able to get enthusiastic about it, but there's not much to
get enthusiastic about," he says. "They're focused on the
cost side until revenues get stronger -- but my concern is
when revenues pick up that the commitment to cutting costs
goes out the window, which has been the pattern in past
years."
   ---
   Merrill Lynch
   (NYSE; Symbol: MER)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Brokerage, investment banking
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Revenue: $11.34 billion
   Net loss: $213.4 million; $2.31 a share*
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, March 30, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: 34 cents vs. 31 cents**
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 282,148 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 102.7 million
                                                                                                       

   *Includes $395 million net charge from restructuring.
   **Year-ago figure restated to reflect discontinued
operations.
   ---
   Index funds may soon double in size, the New York Stock
Exchange says.
   In its annual report just off the presses, the Big Board
envisions tremendous growth in institutional investors' role
in the markets. Currently, there is about $250 billion in
index funds that buy long lists of stocks and futures in an
attempt to match the performance of major indexes such as the
Standard &amp; Poor's 500. "Before the decade is half over,"
predicts the Big Board, "that sum is likely to reach $500
billion."
   What about the little guy? The Big Board goes on to say a
"top priority" of the exchange for the 1990s will be
"encouraging participation by individual investors."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CSX Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CSX
</CO>
<LP>
   CSX Corp. (Richmond, Va.) -- B.C. Eason, 41 years old, was
named vice president, customer service and systems, for CSX
Transportation Inc., the rail-transport and
distribution-services arm of this holding company. William H.
Cosgrove will succeed Mr. Eason as vice president, car
management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Interface Systems Inc.:
   Firm Acquires 25% Stake
   In Sintec Peripherals Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   INTF WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Interface Systems Inc. said it has acquired 25% of Sintec
Peripherals Ltd., a London-based distributor of computer
peripherals to users of IBM mainframe and midrange systems.
   Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As part of the agreement, Carl L. Bixby, the president and
board chairman of Interface Systems, Ann Arbor, Mich., has
joined the board of directors of Sintec Peripherals.
Interface Systems said it also received an option to purchase
in 1992 the remaining 75% of Sintec Peripherals, along with
all of its wholly owned subsidiary, Sintec Supplies Ltd.,
which sells printer supplies in Europe.
   Interface said it is making the acquisition to expand its
share of the growing European market. Sintec Peripherals has
handled European sales and distribution of Interface Systems'
IBM-compatible printers since 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph:
   Watertown, Mass., Facility
   Is Targeted to Be Closed
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9C
</SO>
<CO>
   T
</CO>
<LP>
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. said it plans to close
its Watertown, Mass., service center by late summer and
consolidate the work in other service centers in Kansas and
North Carolina.
   AT&amp;T said the service center has experienced a steady
decline in operations over the past six years, leading to a
smaller work force. About 235 people are employed at the
facility, compared with 750 when the Bell System was broken
up in 1984.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman said the center specialized in repair of
older, analog transmission equipment that is being replaced
by digital equipment. The company said employees affected by
the closing will have the option to accept early retirement,
retraining, reassignment and transfer to other AT&amp;T
locations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Acme-Cleveland Corp.:
   Sunderland Group Reduces
   Its Stake in Firm to 3.9%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A group including Sunderland Holdings Corp., a Washington,
D.C.-based investment concern, said it lowered its stake in
Acme-Cleveland Corp. to 3.9% of the common stock outstanding.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the group said it sold 67,500 Acme-Cleveland common shares
from Feb. 16 to May 8 for $8.875 to $10 each, lowering its
position to 247,100 shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last December, the group said it acquired a 5% stake in
the Cleveland-based maker of machine tools and other
products. The group also includes Sunderland's chairman,
Richard L. Kramer, and its president, William L. Remley.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Horizon Industries Inc.:
   Investor Buys More Shares,
   Boosting Interest to 7.58%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<CO>
   HRZN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investor M. Edward Ralston said he bought 240,000 shares
of Horizon Industries Inc. common, raising his individual
position in the carpet company to 7.58%.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Mr. Ralston said he bought the 240,000 shares on May 17 for
$7 each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Ralston is part of a larger shareholder group,
Beaulieu of America Inc., a Dalton, Ga., yarn and carpet
manufacturer, which has said it may seek control of Horizon.
   The additional shares bought by Mr. Ralston bring the
group's combined ownership to about 17.7%.
   Mr. Ralston is president of D&amp;W Carpet &amp; Rug Co., a
Chatsworth, Ga., carpet maker.
   Horizon, based in Calhoun, Ga., declined to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   SOUTHERN CO. WON a major vic tory in a long-running tax
dispute with the government. The Justice Department said it
won't file criminal tax-fraud charges against Southern or its
Georgia Power unit, but the unit may face an IRS civil suit.
The case stems from a 20-month investigation of whether
Southern's accounting method for spare parts led to
underpayment of over $50 million in taxes.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Express is expected to name one of its top travel
executives, Jonathan Linen, to head the Shearson unit's vast
brokerage and money-management operations. The move would
confirm American Express's plan to split Shearson in half.
   ---
   Merrill Lynch executives are worried that the firm may
need additional reserves of up to $200 million to deal with
sour loans and other exposure in the struggling junk-bond
market.
   ---
   GM holders approved a big increase in executive pensions.
But criticism of the plan led GM Chairman Roger Smith and his
successor, Robert Stempel, to say they may not put such an
issue to a vote again.
   ---
   Campbell Soup plans to shed some of its least-profitable
foreign operations, conceding the businesses can't bring
adequate returns to shareholders. The food company plans to
post a $55 million quarterly charge in connection with the
divestitures.
   ---
   OPEC's oil output is believed to have fallen in May
because of apparent cutbacks by three major overproducers,
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. Worries
about OPEC overproduction have sent prices skidding recently.
   ---
   Personal income rose 0.3% in April, the smallest gain
since September. Personal spending climbed 0.6% and is
expected to continue growing, particularly in the service
sector.
                                                                                                       

   Machine-tool orders rose 19% in April, mainly due to
stronger demand from U.S. factories. Also, executives said
there's no sign that even small makers are feeling a credit
crunch.
   ---
   Stock prices tumbled Friday, sending the Dow Jones
industrials down 34.63 points, to 2820.92, the biggest
decline since Feb. 20. Bonds were flat to lower, and the
dollar weakened.
   ---
   Argentina revived a $1.4 billion loan accord with the IMF
and will start talks Thursday on resuming debt payments to
foreign banks. The moves follow Argentina's recent success in
moderating inflation and easing the government's deficit.
   ---
   Avery International agreed to merge with Dennison
Manufacturing in a $456 million stock swap. The combination
would create one of the largest office-products companies.
   ---
   Adobe Systems' stock plunged about 30% Friday, to $35.25,
even though the software maker said quarterly results
wouldn't be as bad as it had projected the day before.
   ---
   Financial markets were closed yesterday for the Memorial
Day holiday.
   Friday's Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 120,250,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2820.92, off 34.63; transportation 1152.74, off 6.76;
utilities 211.27, off 0.88.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3341.26, off
17.73.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.15, up 0.31; spot
index 136.21, up 0.40.
   Dollar: 149.40 yen, off 1.65; 1.6824 marks, off 0.0006.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bargaining Set for July on New Accord
   For Global Trade in Garments, Textiles
   ----
   By Steven Jones
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Hard bargaining is about to begin on a new
international framework for governing trade in garments and
textiles.
   For the past four years, negotiators in the Uruguay Round
of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade have been
discussing ways to bring trade in garments and textiles under
GATT. The final series of negotiations will begin in Geneva
in July, with a December deadline set for a wholesale
revision of GATT.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Representatives of the 22-member International Textiles
and Clothing Bureau met in Hong Kong last week to draft the
organization's negotiating stance for the July meeting of
GATT. Formed in 1985, the bureau comprises developing
nations, such as Indonesia and Mexico, and newly
industrialized countries, such as South Korea and Hong Kong.
Its members account for between 50% and 60% of the world's
annual exports of garments and textiles.
   Many contentious trade issues remain for the 96-member
GATT, whose protocols have governed most of world trade since
1948. Among the issues are disputes over agricultural
subsidies, protection of intellectual property and market
access for such services as banking and insurance.
   But trade in garments and textiles may prove to be the
thorniest item on the agenda in the final six months of
bargaining. It also is an issue that sharply divides the
developed countries, particularly the U.S., and the
developing nations. Rather than a so-called North-South
issue, however, many see textiles as a touchstone for the
free-trade system that GATT was formed to uphold.
   "It is important for the Uruguay Round that textile
negotiations succeed," Hassan Kartadjoemena, chairman of last
week's conference of the International Textiles and Clothing
Bureau, told a news conference.
   "For many countries, it is inconceivable to have a
successful round if there is no success in the handling of
textiles," said Mr. Kartadjoemena, who holds the rank of
ambassador as Indonesia's special representative to the
multilateral trade negotiations in Geneva.
   Since 1974, international trade in garments and textiles
has been governed by the Multi-Fiber Arrangement. The MFA,
which expires in July 1991, exists separately from GATT
because GATT doesn't allow quantitative restrictions on
trade.
   The MFA allows nations to restrict imports of garments and
textiles through bilateral agreements between the importing
and exporting countries. The agreements aim to set import
quotas that provide reasonable protection for manufacturers
in the importing nations while still allowing for growth in
trade.
   For the most part, industrialized nations argue that the
MFA quota system is needed to protect their manufacturers
from inexpensive imports produced by low-wage, developing
nations. The developing countries argue that the quotas
restrict their ability to sell abroad, thus crimping economic
growth.
   Most GATT members favor phasing out the MFA and its quota
system, eventually governing trade in garments and textiles
under the same rules as trade in other goods. However, there
is wide disagreement on the phase-out process among those
nations that have stated positions -- and both the U.S. and
Canada have proposed new "global quota" systems for the
interim period.
   The U.S., the largest market for many of the textile
bureau's members, has proposed integrating the MFA into GATT
after a 10-year transition period to begin in January 1992.
But during the transition, there would be a new global quota
system and tariff rate. The global quotas would have both
specific country allocations covering current bilateral
agreements and a "global basket" that would expand to provide
growth. Each year, the specific country quotas would shrink
while the basket would expand.
   Critics of the global-quotas proposals argue that a
progressive phase-out of the existing MFA would be less
disruptive than the institution of any new system. They also
say the global quotas threaten to be tighter than existing
ones.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Shipments Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- West Germany shipped 69% more goods to East
Germany in April than a year earlier, according to the West
German Federal Statistics Office.
   Goods with a record total value of 1.17 billion Deutsche
marks ($695 million) were sent to East Germany in April, up
479 million marks from April 1989. The previous record for
one month was December 1989, the month after the wall
separating the two German countries was opened, when a total
of 1.01 billion marks was sent to East Germany. In March, 848
million marks of goods were sent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But data indicated that East Germany's economy continues
to languish ahead of the monetary and economic union with
West Germany, as East German shipments to West Germany
dropped 2% to 564 million marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Says Zuckerman
   Plans to Leave Company
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   C WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. confirmed that Vice
President and Treasurer Frederick W. Zuckerman is planning to
leave the auto maker.
   In a statement issued on Friday, Chrysler said Mr.
Zuckerman approached Chrysler management "several months ago"
to say "he was considering leaving Chrysler . . . because of
his strong desire and interest to involve himself in
corporate restructurings or other senior financial officer
activities." Chrysler said Mr. Zuckerman also "has grown
tired of the travel grind" after 11 years of commuting
between Detroit and his home in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler said its management "reluctantly agreed to let
Fred pursue the many other opportunities open to someone of
his experience and expertise." Chrysler added that Mr.
Zuckerman, 56 years old, "has put together an outstanding
team in the treasurer's office, which will see to it that
Chrysler's financial stability and strength continue to
grow."
   A spokesman said the company hasn't any more details about
Mr. Zuckerman's departure, including where he might go or
when.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tony Bettenhausen Places
   26th in Indianapolis 500
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   INDIANAPOLIS -- Race car driver Tony Bettenhausen, the
subject of a Journal page one story on the finances of auto
racing, finished 26th at the Indianapolis 500.
   Mr. Bettenhausen's race car developed engine problems
early in the race Sunday, forcing him to retire after
completing 76 laps of the 200-lap race. Mr. Bettenhausen
expected to make a profit on the race only if he finished
seventh or better, but said after the race that he planned to
return to the Indy 500 next year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His brother, Gary, finished 31st of 33 entries because of
problems with a wheel bearing. Only 15 cars were still
running at the end of the race, which was won by Arie
Luyendyk, a native of Sommelsdyk, the Netherlands, now living
in Scottsdale, Ariz.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Telephonics Navy Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KMT
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Telephonics was awarded a $17.5 million Navy
contract for multiple input tracking and control systems.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Komatsu Dresser Co. received a $12.4 million Defense
Logistics Agency contract for scoop loaders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Maintains Forecast
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Despite the Hong Kong economy's stagnation in
the first quarter, the government is maintaining its forecast
that gross domestic product will grow 3% in 1990, up from
1989's 2.5% expansion.
   Government economist Tang Kwong-yiu said that while Hong
Kong has registered three consecutive quarters of
"negligible" growth, the economy's underlying strength is
indicated by the persistently high level of capacity at which
local factories operate and the large number of job
vacancies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Bankruptcies Rise 4.3%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The number of corporate bankruptcies,
liquidations and legal settlements in France rose 4.3% in
April to a seasonally adjusted 3,780 from 3,623 in March and
3,165 in February, the National Statistics Institute said.
   The monthly average rate for corporate failures in 1989
was 3,337.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aceto Corp. Drops Planned Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9C
</SO>
<CO>
   ACET
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Aceto Corp. said it agreed to drop the planned
sale of its Pfaltz &amp; Bauer Inc. research chemicals business
to a U.S. subsidiary of MTM PLC of the U.K. The agreement was
mutual, Aceto said.
   Aceto said it plans to keep the business and strengthen
its position as a supplier of research and development
chemicals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Time Off: Diversions and Excursions May 29-June 11
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   ART
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fleischer Museum, Scottsdale, Arizona: The first museum
dedicated to the California school of American impressionism
-- which capitalized on the intense sunlight and stunning
natural landscapes of the American West -- just opened its
doors to the public. Located inside the corporate
headquarters of Franchise Financial Corp. of America, the
15,000-square-foot museum showcases some 200 works by
painters such as Franz A. Bischoff (1864-1929), Guy Rose
(1867-1925) and William Wendt (1865-1946). The Perimeter
Center, 17207 North Perimeter Drive.
                                                                                                       

   Wichita Art Museum, Kansas: "We Like Ike" -- This unusual
show of more than 600 objects examines the Eisenhower
presidency and 1950s America. Visitors enter the show through
a hand-painted 12-foot-by-28-foot mural of the White House
and can see everything from Eisenhower portraits and campaign
materials (including the button shown here) to 30 of Mamie
Eisenhower's outfits; and 16 paintings by the president
himself, an accomplished amateur artist (see accompanying
illustration -- WSJ May 28, 1990). One gallery highlights the
Eisenhower years: the interstate highway system, the coming
of the jet age, and the addition of Alaska and Hawaii as
states. 169 Stackman, through July 8.
                                                                                                       

   Washington State Convention &amp; Trade Center, Seattle:
"Moscow: Treasures and Traditions" -- From Moscow and Kremlin
museums, more than 200 objects and works of art from the 15th
through 20th centuries. Icons, paintings, engravings, fine
metalwork in gold and silver, porcelains and historic
costumes reflect the creative life of the Soviet Union's
capital city. 8th Avenue and Pike Street, June 1-Sept. 30.
The show then moves to the International Gallery at the
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C., October 1990
through February 1991.
                                                                                                       

   FILM
                                                                                                       

   American Museum of the Moving Image features dozens of
Hollywood's funniest short films in "Laughing Out Loud: The
Comedy Short 1925-1935," running from June 9-July 6. Look for
old favorites Laurel and Hardy, Ben Turpin, Zasu Pitts, Burns
and Allen, Buster Keaton and W.C. Fields. On June 16 the
museum will honor Stan Laurel's 100th birthday with a
presentation of five silent shorts starring Laurel without
Hardy. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, New York.
For general information: (718) 784-0077; for travel
directions: (718) 784-4777.
                                                                                                       

   DANCE
                                                                                                       

   "Fresh Tracks": Maybe the next Petipa will emerge at this
biannual showcase for fledgling choreographers. The diverse
program offers works from six new talents selected by
audition. May 30-June 2, Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West
19th St., New York. (212) 924-0077.
                                                                                                       

   MUSIC
                                                                                                       

   Rockport Chamber Music Festival kicks off its ninth season
May 31 with a performance by the Manhattan and the Muir
string quartets of Brahms's Sextet in G Major and Dvorak's
Piano Trio in F Minor. Other featured artists at this
monthlong seaside event are the Amadeus Trio and the
Scarborough Chamber Players, June 7-10; the New Jersey
Chamber Music Society and the trumpet and organ duo
Giangiulio &amp; Riedo, June 14-17; and Directors &amp; Friends, a
gathering of musicians from previous seasons, June 21-24.
"Happy Birthday Rockport]" is a June 10 celebration of the
founding of Rockport with an emphasis on New England
composers. Rockport Art Association, Main Street. (508)
546-7391.
                                                                                                       

   San Francisco Opera offers a revival of its Nikolaus
Lehnhoff production of Wagner's "Ring." Cycles I and II will
be conducted by Viennese maestro Peter Schneider, whose
Bayreuth Festival credits include the 1984, '85 and '86
"Rings." British conductor Donald Runnicles, music director
of the Freiburg Opera, will preside over Cycles III and IV.
The cast includes Helga Dernesch, Hildegard Behrens, William
Johns, Gwyneth Jones and Gary Lakes. War Memorial Opera
House, 301 Van Ness Ave. June 6-July 1. (415) 864-3330.
                                                                                                       

   Hunters &amp; Collectors: Australia's band of the year
introduces the U.S. to the melodic, multitextured pop on its
new album "Ghost Nation" (Atlantic). It'll be opening for
countrymen Midnight Oil, no slouches either in the
guitar-powered pop department -- New York (Radio City), May
29-30; Wantagh, N.Y. (Jones Beach), June 1; Pittsburgh
(Palumbo Center), June 2; Cleveland (Blossom Music Theater),
June 3; Atlanta (Lakewood Amphitheater), June 5; St. Louis
(Fox Theater), June 7; Chicago (Poplar Creek), June 8;
Detroit (Pine Knob), June 9; Houston (Amphitheater), June 12;
Dallas (Starplex), June 13; Denver (Red Rocks), June 15; Salt
Lake City (Park West), June 16; Los Angeles (Universal
Amphitheater), June 19-20; San Diego (Open Air Amphitheater),
June 21; Irvine, Calif. (Irvine Meadows), June 22; Berkeley,
Calif. (Greek Theater), June 23; Seattle (Coliseum), June 25;
Vancouver (Thunderbird Stadium), June 26.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rutan Has Tough Time Making Simple Idea Fly
   With Pentagon That Likes Things Big, Expensive
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   WYMN
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Burt Rutan, a soft-spoken aircraft engineer
with a talent for making radical ideas fly, came to
Washington in April offering a solution to a
multibillion-dollar question that's been nagging Pentagon
planners for a dozen years.
   The question: How should the U.S. military handle close
air support for its troops? Mr. Rutan's solution: a $2
million combat plane made out of a plastic-like composite of
graphite and fiberglass designed to be more maneuverable,
simpler to build and maintain and far, far cheaper than any
U.S. combat aircraft currently on the drawing boards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is a solution the Pentagon doesn't want to hear. The
Air Force told him it hasn't any need for such a plane. The
Army was even less hospitable. Officials, he says, told him
they regarded his plane as a threat to the Army's $39 billion
light-helicopter program.
   "Rutan's airplane is not under our consideration," says
Lt. Col. Don Black, an Air Force spokesman, who says the
A-16, an F-16 fighter modified with more electronic equipment
and safety devices, is the service's top candidate for close
air support. The defense secretary, he adds, will make a
selection from a number of candidates -- which don't include
the Rutan plane -- later this year.
   The 46-year-old Mr. Rutan has faced challenges before. He
is the designer of Voyager, the first plane that flew nonstop
around the world, and creator of the sailwing device that
brought the America's Cup back to the U.S. But the inner
workings of the Pentagon have him baffled. "I never knew much
about the politics of this. I just heard about it from the
periphery," he explains.
   Some Pentagon veterans see a parallel between Mr. Rutan's
experience and that of Christopher Spencer, inventor of the
first reliable repeating military rifle. After the Army
rejected his idea in 1860, Mr. Spencer went to the White
House and got President Lincoln to try a few shots. Then the
Army wanted it.
   "This will only get inside (the Pentagon) if there is a
super champion around someplace," says Robert Costello, the
Defense Department's former acquisition chief. He tried to
spend $1 million in Pentagon money to help Mr. Rutan build
his prototype two years ago. Mr. Costello resigned, however,
before the deal was completed and Mr. Rutan finished the
prototype himself.
   In theory, at least, he has the right idea at the right
time. He says his close-air-support plane sells for between
$2 million and $4 million, depending on electronic options.
Estimates of the cost of future competitive weapons systems
-- the Army's light helicopter and the Air Force's modified
F-16 fighter -- begin at around $13 million each and go well
beyond $20 million, depending on how the costs are
calculated, and they are being calculated very carefully now,
especially on Capitol Hill.
   Moreover, the Army's current helicopter program, the AH-64
Apache, is in big trouble. A recent General Accounting Office
report says that the $12 billion program has produced a
gunship that is so complicated that less than half of its 500
Apaches are combat-capable at any given time.
   Close air support is basically the art of shooting down
enemy helicopters and destroying tanks and troop
concentrations, often within a few yards of U.S. forces. It
requires maneuverability, good vision and, above all,
precision.
   It was the Army's own experiments at Fort Lewis, Wash., in
the early 1980s that the potency of Mr. Rutan's planes
against helicopter gunships was discovered. Called the High
Technology Test Bed, the project was designed to see whether
there was inexpensive commercial technology that could help
the Army. There was.
   A veteran helicopter-gunship pilot from the Vietnam War,
Maj. Jim Kreutz, put together two light, single-seater,
recreational airplanes from kits sold by Mr. Rutan. Maj.
Kreutz flew the tiny, composite planes, called the "Long-EZ,"
against helicopter gunships in over 80 missions, recording
the results with gun cameras.
   "It wasn't a 100% win situation, but I would say we
probably won 90% of the time," recalls Mr. Kreutz, who has
since resigned from the Army. The little, hard-to-see plane
almost always had the helicopter in its sights first and
could easily outfly it, he says, by staying above the
gunship, which is unable to shoot upward without destroying
its rotor.
   Mr. Rutan was retained by the Army to develop the plans
for a bigger plane that could carry a big gun. Then,
suddenly, everything seemed to go downhill. The Fort Lewis
project was closed down and Maj. Kreutz was told his career
was in danger. He resigned in 1985, and is currently an
aviation consultant in Graham, Wash.
   Mr. Rutan and Mr. Kreutz were operating dangerously close
to the invisible political seam between the Air Force and the
Army, an area of much turf fighting over the years. Since
Vietnam, the Air Force has agreed not to interfere with the
Army's plans for helicopter gunships as long as the Army
doesn't use airplanes with guns.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Rutan, a former Air Force test engineer,
built a fancier version of what the Army had specified, using
his own funds during slack time at his factory at Mojave,
Calif. (Mr. Rutan's company, Scaled Composites Inc., is now a
subsidiary of Wyman Gordon Co., Worcester, Mass.)
   He borrowed a turbofan engine long used on business jets
and installed a machine gun that is widely used in the
military services. He designed the plane with simple
mechanics and electronics that can be fixed in the field.
   The result, which he calls the Ares, made its maiden
flight in February, but the services haven't accepted his
offer to let them test it in simulated combat situations for
$3,500 an hour. "They (the services) are going to fight like
hell against this for a long time," predicts Rep. Denny Smith
(R., Ore.), a former Navy pilot who flew close-air-support
missions in Vietnam.
   Rep. Smith, whose exposure of faulty Pentagon testing
practices doomed the Army's projected $5 billion Divad
anti-aircraft-gun program, believes the Rutan plane might win
competitive tests because the use of fast-moving jets for
close air support often gives pilots very difficult,
split-second choices.
   "If the Air Force doesn't want to fly it," says the
congressman, "the Army should be given a chance to own some
and use them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Colombia Votes
   Cesar Gaviria
   As Its President
   ---
   Victor Vows He'll Continue
   War on Drug Traffickers,
   Seeks U.S. Aid in Trade
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cesar Gaviria, the newly elected president of beleaguered
Colombia, will continue his country's war on drugs, but will
seek to exact a price from the U.S. in the form of more open
markets for Colombian exports and more cooperation in
fighting drug consumption.
   The 43-year-old Mr. Gaviria emerged as the clear winner in
Sunday's elections, polling almost twice as many votes as
conservative dissident Alvaro Gomez. Antonio Navarro, the
leader of the M-19 guerrilla-group-turned-political-party,
produced a surprise that could portend a political
realignment by outpolling conservative Rodrigo Lloreda and
finishing third with about 13% of the vote.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Gaviria's victory was weakened somewhat by a
turnout of only 45%. This indicated that a campaign of
intimidation through murders and bombings, waged by the
country's drug barons and guerrilla groups, was largely
successful -- raising questions about the strength of Mr.
Gaviria's mandate to pursue the drug war.
   The boyish Mr. Gaviria becomes Colombia's youngest
president, succeeding Virgilio Barco, who launched the war on
drugs last August after presidential contender Luis Carlos
Galan was gunned down while campaigning.
   Mr. Gaviria, who headed Mr. Galan's campaign after serving
as Mr. Barco's finance minister and interior minister, picked
up the mantle and emerged as the toughest of the four major
candidates on the drug issue. At the same time, he wants to
continue the peace process with guerrilla groups, whose
crimes he views differently from those of drug traffickers.
   In his acceptance speech at a Bogota hotel, Mr. Gaviria
vowed that his government would bring drug-related terrorism
"to its knees." But he mixed this confident prediction with a
warning that Colombians were tiring of the heavy burden of
the drug war and could only keep fighting it if they got more
international support.
   "Drug trafficking is a multilateral problem, and
industrialized countries aren't doing much to confront the
problem of drug consumption," he said. "If they don't do
this, it will become increasingly difficult for the Colombian
people to understand that their sacrifice isn't being
matched."
   In an interview shortly before his victory, Mr. Gaviria
made clear he wanted help to go beyond the traditional U.S.
response of military support; he urged strong efforts to
combat money laundering and weapons trafficking. In addition,
he asked for economic compensation in the form of more open
U.S. markets for Colombian products, citing the estimated $1
billion that Colombia spent last year in its war on drugs.
   "Economic aid and military equipment are important," Mr.
Gaviria said, "but the Colombian people hope that in some way
the great economic effort that the country is making will be
rewarded by making it easier for our products to enter the
international market."
   He cited flowers and coffee as Colombian exports that
ought to be allowed greater access. U.S. officials say they
expect trade to emerge as a contentious issue with the
Gaviria administration, although Mr. Gaviria says he's
committed to continuing the progressive opening of the
Colombian economy begun by Mr. Barco.
   Another issue likely to surface is the extradition of drug
suspects to the U.S. Mr. Barco has used extradition as his
main instrument in the fight against Colombia's drug barons,
but Mr. Gaviria says it should be "a complementary policy,
not a principal instrument." Mr. Gaviria proposes, instead,
to undertake a broad effort to strengthen Colombia's judicial
system to enable it to try drug traffickers.
   Colombians also voted overwhelmingly Sunday in favor of
naming a constituent assembly to revise the country's
104-year-old constitution.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Output Drops
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel production totaled 296,125 metric
tons in the week ended May 19, a 6.7% decline from 317,282
tons the previous week and a 4.5% decline from 309,983 tons a
year earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   From Jan. 1 through May 19, production totaled 5,525,599
tons, an 11% drop from 6,225,071 tons a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vishay Tops Offer
   Made by TT Group
   For Crystalate
   ----
   By Frank Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9C
</SO>
<CO>
   VSH U.CRY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MALVERN, Pa. -- Vishay Intertechnology Inc. made a
friendly tender offer valued at about $52 million to acquire
Crystalate Holdings PLC, topping a hostile offer of about $47
million by TT Group PLC.
   Crystalate, a U.K.-based maker of resistors and automotive
sensors, issued a brief statement advising its shareholders
to take no action for the time being.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the statement, Crystalate said its board believes there
would be "considerable logic" in combining its operations
with Vishay's. But the company also indicated that it wants a
higher offer.
   Vishay's chairman and chief executive officer, Felix
Zandman, said he held talks last week with Crystalate
officials, who had originally asked Vishay in April to make a
competing bid for the company. He didn't indicate whether
Vishay would be willing to increase its offer.
   Mr. Zandman said Salomon Brothers International Ltd. is
making the tender offer on behalf of Vishay, a maker of
resistors, sensors and strain gages. The bid isn't being made
to any U.S. citizen or to anyone residing in the U.S., he
said.
   Terms call for Crystalate holders to receive 80 pence in
cash for each of the 32 million ordinary shares outstanding
and 55 pence for each 5.6% cumulative preference share.
   Instead of cash, holders may elect to receive one Vishay
common share for every 14 Crystalate ordinary shares.
However, the option of exchanging stock is limited to 1.5
million newly issued Vishay common shares. The stock swap
would cover about 60% of the proposed transaction, Mr.
Zandman said. Vishay has about 12 million shares outstanding.
   The proposed merger, if successful, would strengthen
Vishay's operating base in Europe and would boost
significantly the company's market share in the U.S.
   Vishay supplies Crystalate with resistor chips and other
products for distribution and resale. In addition, two
Crystalate units have a combined 10.4% share of the U.S.
market for fixed resistors; Vishay already has a 33% share of
that market. For the year ended Sept. 30, 1989, Crystalate
had sales of about $180 million.
   TT Group officials were unavailable to comment on the
Vishay bid.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Lender May Be Liable for Client's Cleanup
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and Edward Felsenthal
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   FNG MO CI MD TKC WNEWS LATAM FREST
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
INSURANCE (INS)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal appeals court ruled that Fleet Factors Corp., a
commercial financing company, may be liable for the cleanup
of hazardous waste at a site owned by a company to which it
lent money.
   The decision, reached late last week in Atlanta, could
have far-reaching significance for financial institutions
that lend money to companies that own or operate property
contaminated with hazardous substances.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case had been closely watched because it is the first
time an appeals court has ruled on the scope of an exemption
in the federal Superfund law that shields lenders from
liability when they have a security interest in a company but
don't participate in its management. Under Superfund, those
who own or operate contaminated sites are responsible for
cleaning them up.
   The majority of courts have ruled that lenders who
foreclose on contaminated property are no longer covered by
that exemption. But Fleet, a New York-based subsidiary of
Fleet/Norstar Financial Group Inc. of Providence, R.I.,
didn't foreclose on a facility owned by defunct Swainsboro
Print Works in Swainsboro, Ga. Fleet had loaned money to
Swainsboro secured by that company's accounts receivable and
inventory.
   The government sued Fleet in 1987 to recover the cost of
cleaning up hazardous waste at the site. In 1982, after
Swainsboro Print filed for bankruptcy-court protection, Fleet
arranged to auction off the company's inventory and equipment
to recoup its security interest. According to the government,
during the winding down process asbestos was released and
drums containing hazardous waste spilled on the property.
Fleet has said it is not liable for the cleanup because it
did not own or operate the site and that Fleet's actions were
covered by the exemption.
   In its decision, the appeals panel said that lenders who
are able to affect hazardous waste disposal decisions at a
site are liable under Superfund. The panel found that the
lower court had erred when it ruled that lenders must be
involved in the day-to-day operations of a facility to incur
liability.
   The panel said that lenders must insist that debtors
comply with environmental standards as a requirement for
continued and future financial support.
   "Banks will now have to assert a greater degree of
diligence over their borrowers and their borrowers'
activities with hazardous waste than had previously been
thought necessary," said Richard G. Leland of the New York
law firm of Rosenman &amp; Colin, who argued the lower court case
on behalf of Fleet.
   But Richard B. Stewart, assistant attorney general for
environment and natural resources, said that while the
court's ruling was broad, "we're dealing with a case where
there was very active involvement by the creditor in the
day-to-day management."
   Richard Miley of Nixon, Yow, Waller &amp; Capers, a lawyer for
Fleet, said the company hadn't decided whether it will
appeal.
   ---
   PHILIP MORRIS SUES INSURER over Panama factory destroyed
in wake of U.S. invasion.
   In its suit, Philip Morris International, a unit of Philip
Morris Cos., New York, claimed that Cigna Property &amp; Casualty
Insurance Co. breached an insurance agreement by refusing to
pay for theft and destruction at the cigarette factory. The
suit seeks damages of at least $2 million. According to the
suit, the damages and looting occurred Dec. 22, two days
after the U.S. invaded Panama to oust Gen. Manuel Noriega.
   Cigna, a unit of Philadelphia-based Cigna Corp.,
countersued, arguing that its coverage excludes damages that
occur during "hostile or warlike action . . . by military,
naval or air forces." The company said it doesn't have to pay
because damages to the cigarette factory, in an industrial
park in Panama City, happened during hostilities. Both suits
were filed in federal court in Manhattan.
   A Cigna spokesman said the company doesn't comment on
suits.
   A Philip Morris spokeswoman said the company maintains
that the damage occurred during "looting by civilians,
following the military invasion."
   The spokeswoman said the $2 million in damages included
destruction of the factory as well as the theft of tobacco
and liquor at the facility.
   ---
   SATELLITE-TECHNOLOGY MAKERS WIN jury verdict dismissing
negligence suit.
   Officials in the aerospace industry had been closely
watching the California case, believed to be the first trial
of property damage claims arising from an incident in outer
space. Many were concerned that a damage verdict might
encourage a wave of suits second-guessing the design of
satellite products that are on the cutting-edge of
technology, says Victoria Cloninger, an attorney in the Los
Angeles office of Lord, Bissell &amp; Brook, counsel for Hitco, a
defendant.
   "This isn't the average toaster that you buy off the
shelf," Ms. Cloninger says. "Everybody was sitting on pins
and needles."
   The case involves the failure of a telecommunications
satellite built for the Indonesian government and launched
from the U.S. space shuttle in 1984. Shortly after the
launch, the satellite malfunctioned, falling short of its
proper orbit. In January 1986, a products liability suit was
brought by three insurance companies to recover $5.6 million
which they paid to Perumtel, the Indonesian government's
telecommunications agency.
   Accused of negligent product design were McDonnell Douglas
Corp., St. Louis, which made the launch vehicle; Morton
Thiokol Inc., now Thiokol Corp., Ogden, Utah, which built the
rocket motor; and Hitco, which fabricated the so-called exit
cone that is used to maximize the rocket's thrust. Hitco is a
subsidiary of B-P Chemicals Advanced Materials, Gardenia,
Calif.
   After a five-month trial, a state court jury in Fullerton,
Calif., held on May 15 that none of the defendants had been
negligent. The jury did uphold a breach of warranty claim
against Morton Thiokol, but, following the trial judge's
instructions, awarded damages of only $52,000, including
interest.
   The plaintiffs were Lexington Insurance Co., Boston;
Talbot, Bird &amp; Co., New York, and Northbrook Excess Insurance
Co., Chicago.
   Phillip Bostwick, a lawyer with the Washington, D.C., law
firm of Shaw, Pittman, Potts &amp; Trowbridge, counsel for the
plaintiffs, said an appeal is being considered.
   ---
   RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI IS SWITCHING New York law firms.
   The former Manhattan U.S. attorney is moving from White &amp;
Case to Anderson Kill Olick &amp; Oshinsky, a smaller law firm
that has attracted many former Manhattan prosecutors.
   Mr. Giuliani, 45 years old, said the move was "an exciting
opportunity to join some of my old friends." He joined White
&amp; Case in February 1989 and failed in his bid to be mayor of
New York last November. He called Anderson Kill a firm with a
"dynamic atmosphere" and more opportunities to practice
litigation.
   Mr. Giuliani is known for his prosecution of New York's
mob "families" and white-collar criminals.
   Dennison Young Jr., Mr. Giuliani's deputy U.S. attorney
who went with him to White &amp; Case, also will move to Anderson
Kill.
   At White &amp; Case, Mr. Giuliani was making more than
$600,000 a year and Mr. Young, more than $300,000 a year,
said individuals knowledgeable about the situation. At
Anderson Kill, the two will be making less, said the
individuals. Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Young declined to comment
on their compensation. White &amp; Case's managing partner could
not be reached for comment.
   In recent months, there has been much speculation that Mr.
Giuliani, rumored to be restless, would leave 365-lawyer
White &amp; Case, which specializes in banking, insurance and
international law. Mr. Giuliani wouldn't comment on his
political aspirations.
   Said Mr. Giuliani, "I remain interested in public issues.
We'll see what opportunities are out there later."
   ---
   NORIEGA'S ATTORNEYS resume their battle to get paid.
   Attorneys for the deposed Panamanian leader are scheduled
to appear in federal court in Miami today to ask Judge
William M. Hoeveler to clear the way for their fees to be
paid by the U.S. government.
   In late April, Mr. Noriega's defense team, led by Frank
Rubino, asked the court to be allowed to withdraw from the
drug-racketeering case. They complained that the U.S. had
stopped the flow of their fees by freezing Mr. Noriega's
assets.
   Last week, federal prosecutors said the government would
agree to pay the bills under a provision of the Criminal
Justice Act. The act sets a limit of $75 an hour for legal
fees. But the U.S. attorney's office and Mr. Noriega's
attorneys had hoped that a provision in the act concerning
"complex" cases would allow the court to award full
commercial fees of about $350 an hour. Mr. Noriega agreed to
sign an affidavit saying he would reimburse the government if
and when his assets are unfrozen.
   Last Thursday, however, Judge Hoeveler indicated that the
Criminal Justice Act doesn't allow him to break the
$75-an-hour barrier, and the agreement to pay the defense
team collapsed.
   Today, according to David Lewis, one of Mr. Noriega's
attorneys, the defense team will file a motion asking the
court to declare the act unconstitutional as it applies to
Mr. Noriega's case because of its size and complexity.
Failing that, Judge Hoeveler will hold hearings to determine
which of Mr. Noriega's assets could be unfrozen to pay his
attorneys.
   Mr. Noriega's attorneys have alleged that he was paid at
least $11 million by the U.S. and between $6 million and $7
million by foreign governments in his position as head of the
Panamanian Defense Force. Those funds, the defense maintains,
shouldn't have to be forfeited.
   The cost of Mr. Noriega's defense, they add, will total at
least $5 million.
   ---
   DREXEL MAY HAVE TO PAY LEGAL FEES of securities-fraud
defendant, judge says.
   Federal Judge Charles Haight said that Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc. may be forced to pay more than $600,000 in legal
fees to Morvillo, Abramowitz &amp; Grand, which represented Ross
Frankel, a former Drexel employee convicted of securities
fraud, conspiracy, and other charges last month.
   Morvillo Abramowitz has been trying to collect fees from
Mr. Frankel. The law firm had tried to withhold case files
Mr. Frankel needs to appeal his conviction. Judge Haight
ordered the law firm to release the files to Bernstein &amp;
Milner earlier this month.
   A spokesman for Drexel said that after Mr. Frankel's
conviction the company stopped paying his legal bills because
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, the brokerage's parent, had
filed for bankruptcy court protection. "The company is under
no obligation to fund anybody's fees who's been convicted of
a crime," the spokesman said.
   Mr. Frankel, who directed arbitrage research at Drexel,
was implicated in the 1986 "Yuppie Five" case, in which five
young Wall Street professionals were charged with insider
trading.
   In an opinion late last week, Judge Haight said that
because Drexel paid Mr. Frankel's bills until the time of the
Chapter 11 filing, it may still be liable for the expenses.
Judge Haight has also asked the parties to submit briefs on
the fee issue.
   Mr. Frankel had signed an agreement with his former
lawyers that he would pay his legal fees but his new lawyer,
Michael Milner, of the New York law firm of Bernstein &amp;
Milner, argues the agreement applies only to pretrial
representation. According to Mr. Milner, Drexel had said in
writing it would pay Mr. Frankel's fees.
   Paul Grand of Morvillo Abramowitz, who represented Mr.
Frankel in the trial, wouldn't comment on the fee dispute.
   According to the judge's opinion, the only fees paid by
Drexel for Mr. Frankel's defense went to Mr. Grand's former
law firm, Grand &amp; Ostrow, which merged with Obermaier &amp;
Morvillo last year. Obermaier &amp; Morvillo represented Mr.
Frankel's co-defendant, Victor Teichner and his securities
firm, Victor Teichner &amp; Co.
   ---
   Wayne E. Green in Houston contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Dance: Boston Ballet's Soviet-Style `Swan Lake'
   ----
   By Dale Harris
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Boston -- Boston Ballet's new "Swan Lake" attracted a lot
of attention, largely because it was promoted not simply as a
dance event but also as an example of glasnost. According to
the company, the production represents "the first full-scale
collaboration between artists from the United States and the
Soviet Union on all facets of ballet production in the
history of Western dance."
   Obviously impressed by these claims, John E. Frohnmayer,
chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, has endorsed
the venture -- apparently sight unseen -- as a contribution
to international understanding. Perhaps Mr. Frohnmayer should
have waited before speaking: The production has turned out to
be less an example of cooperation between two cultures than
an act of artistic appropriation on the part of the Soviet
participants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On paper, it's true, the American contribution to this
"Swan Lake" looks substantial. Bruce Marks, director of
Boston Ballet, conceived and produced it; John Conklin
designed it; Craig Miller lit it; Anna-Marie Holmes -- in
actuality, a Canadian -- helped to stage it; Jonathan McPhee
conducted it. Apart from a handful of Soviet guest artists,
virtually every dancer taking part in it is a full-time
member of Boston Ballet.
   In the event, however, the American component seems
negligible. The reason is simple: In ballet, identity is
style, and the style of Boston's "Swan Lake" was established
by Konstantin Sergeyev, assisted by his wife, Natalia
Dudinskyaya, former stars of Leningrad's Kirov Ballet and
currently directors of the company's school, who were
summoned by Mr. Marks to establish both the choreographic
text and the manner of its presentation.
   What lies behind the invitation to this famous pair, one
suspects, is the conviction that only in Leningrad have the
traditions of classical ballet been properly preserved. For
an authentic "Swan Lake," the thinking goes, one must turn to
the Kirov, where the definitive version of the piece was
given its world premiere in 1895, two years after
Tchaikovsky's death, and where the work has been in the
repertoire ever since.
   The search for authenticity is by no means
inconsequential. In the past three decades, "Swan Lake" has
been saddled with a number of egregious, even preposterous
interpretations, many of them designed to give the characters
greater psychological complexity and all of them betraying a
lack of belief in the self-sufficiency of the work. For
example, in Rudolf Nureyev's Paris Opera version, seen in
this country last year, the Prince evinces more emotional
interest in his middle-aged tutor -- a role played by Mr.
Nureyev himself -- than in the Swan Queen.
   Authenticity, however, is not simply a matter of deferring
to the original scenario. If it were, the Boston version
would be significantly truer to the original than the Kirov
version, which also is the work of Mr. Sergeyev. In Boston --
at the insistence, it appears, of Mr. Marks -- the Swan Queen
and her Prince are united in death, just as Tchaikovsky
intended. In Leningrad, they live happily ever after, just as
socialist realism dictated in 1949 (when Mr. Sergeyev's
production was new) and apparently continues to do right now.
   The change is not enough to validate the Boston version:
Like the Leningrad version, it is thoroughly vitiated by
anti-musicality. The essential spirit of "Swan Lake," the
element that gives the ballet its perpetual currency, is,
when all is said and done, its extraordinary score. At once
scenic, dramatic and poetic, it expresses with uncanny
conviction a belief in love as an irresistible, universal
force.
   To Tchaikovsky, Mr. Sergeyev has hardly listened. For one
thing, he has replaced virtually all the mime with passages
of indeterminate, vaguely expressive movement, thus ignoring
the clear distinction between narrative and lyrical
expatiation so clearly made in the music. For Tchaikovsky,
plot gives focus to the large poetic meanings that are his
true subject. For Mr. Sergeyev, plot simply is an impediment
to mood and atmosphere, which he takes to be the ballet's
point.
   Like so many artists associated with the Kirov, Mr.
Sergeyev regards music as the servant of dance rather than
its source, an emotional ambience rather than its structural
quintessence. For him, therefore, the dancer, and not the
composer, determines the rhythm and tempo of a performance.
Since the artists of the Kirov are taught to perform in
whatever manner suits them best, the clear intentions of the
music are sacrificed to their individual requirements. Since
few of them can dance with speed and sparkle, the
characteristic style of the company is slow and languorous --
even when such qualities are utterly inappropriate to the
task in hand.
   The self-same qualities, along with the deadening rhythmic
inertness that follows inevitably from the Kirov approach,
were only too evident in Boston, where the excellent
conductor, Mr. McPhee, evidently was encouraged to follow the
dancers -- and especially the Soviet guests -- rather than to
lead them. The results were interesting as well as
depressing, since the style of this "Swan Lake" minimized the
virtues of the gifted Moscow ballerina, Nina Ananiashvili,
who needs to be challenged rather than coddled.
   Finer by far was the company's resident ballerina
Marie-Christine Mouis, who, lyrical and brilliant by turns,
seems to have asked for the tempi specified by the composer.
Ms. Mouis's Prince, the Kirov's Konstantin Zaglinsky,
benefited from dancing with a musical partner, whereas
Fernando Bujones, the Prince to Ms. Ananiashvili's Swan
Queen, did not shine.
   What the company needs is a "Swan Lake" that will express
a specifically American set of aesthetic ideals. Our dancers
are swift, open and unsentimental -- classical rather than
romantic. They are, in any case, as much the heirs of Petipa
as their Soviet counterparts -- more, indeed, by virtue of
the influence on them, conscious or unconscious, of
Balanchine, the true successor to the great 19th-century
Franco-Russian ballet master.
   In one respect, at least, Mr. Sergeyev's "Swan Lake" was
useful: It reaffirmed what the Kirov revealed on its American
visit last season, when, rather limply, it tackled
Balanchine's "Theme and Variations": We Americans have
infinitely less to learn from the Soviets than they do from
us.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Retail Sales Up
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian retail sales rose 0.4% in March from
February, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   Retail sales fell 0.3% in February and rose 1.6% in
January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The March increase was attributed partly to a rise in
sales of autos and other vehicles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RMI Titanium Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   RTI
</CO>
<LP>
   NILES, Ohio -- RMI Titanium Co. said it plans to enter a
joint venture arrangement with a unit of Australia's Minproc
Holdings Ltd. to build a $35 million plant to make titanium
sponge.
   RMI said the plant, at Ashtabula, Ohio, will be
constructed and operated by a venture with Minproc Resources
Inc. Terms of the venture and financing haven't been
completed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Construction is expected to be completed by the end of
1991. RMI, which went public in April, makes titanium
products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France's Unemployment Data
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The number of people in France seeking jobs in
April fell an adjusted 0.9% from March to 2,481,300,
representing a decrease of 20,900, and declined 2.3% from a
year earlier, the French Labor Ministry said.
   France's unemployment rate decreased to 9.3% in April from
9.4% in March. The rate had been 9.4% since December 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                     U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $16.8 billion in three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                       Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   $6 billion in 20-day cash management bills and $6 billion
in 111-day cash management bills.
                                                                                                       

                        Thursday
                                                                                                       

   $10 billion in 52-week bills.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                      One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Del-Val Financial Corp. -- 1.2 million common shares, via
Interstate Johnson Lane Corp.
   Maxus Energy Corp. -- nine million common shares, via
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   Mr. Coffee Inc. -- initial four million common shares, via
Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
   Phibro Energy Oil Trust -- initial four million units of
beneficial interest, via Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Urcarco -- five million common shares, via Alex. Brown.
                                                                                                       

                            MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                            Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Howard County, Md. -- $55.6 million of consolidated public
improvement bonds, 1990 Series A, and metropolitan district
bonds, 1990 Series A, via competitive bid.
   Los Angeles Municipal Improvement Corp., Calif -- $85
million of lease-hold revenue bonds, City of Los Angeles
Central Library Project, 1990 Series A, via competitive bid.
   University of California Regents -- $50 million of revenue
bonds, 1990 Seismic Safety Projects Issue, via competitive
bid.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   New Jersey -- $50.9 million of certificates of
participation, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                   One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   Birmingham Airport Authority, Ala. -- $50 million of
airport revenue bonds, 1990 Series A and B, (AMBAC-insured),
via a Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. Inc. group.
   Illinois Regional Transportation Authority -- $100 million
of general obligation bonds, (AMBAC-insured) via a Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co. group.
   Port Authority of New York and New Jersey -- $200 million
of Continental Airline and Eastern Airline special program
bonds, La Guardia Airport Passenger Terminal Project, via a
Smith Barney, Harris Upham group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices
   Should Turn
   On Job Data
   ---
   May Report Will Be
   A Clue to Whether
   Economy Is Sluggish
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MZ JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- One clue to whether interest rates will fall
further in the weeks ahead will be revealed on Friday, when
the Labor Department releases the potentially market-moving
employment report.
   In the mercurial bond market, the employment report has
become a potent economic indicator with the power to
instantly turn bond-market sentiment upside down.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This week, the employment report for May will be even more
crucial in helping to shape investors' perceptions about the
economy's strength. Analysts will be looking carefully at the
report to see if the extremely weak employment numbers in
March and April were aberrations, or confirmation that the
economy is sluggish.
   "A weak employment report is the only thing that can get
the bond-market rally up and going again," said Sung Won
Sohn, a senior vice president at Norwest Corp.
   Immediately after the April employment report was released
on May 4, bond-market sentiment suddenly shifted from bearish
to bullish because the jobs data suggested that the economy
was much weaker than previous economic reports had indicated.
   In response to the report, prices of the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond jumped 1 1/2 points, or $15 for a bond
with a $1,000 face amount. Since then, yields on long-term
and intermediate-term bonds have fallen one-third of a
percentage point to about 8.7%, paving the way for lower
mortgage and other consumer lending rates.
   Another weak report for May would reinforce perceptions
that business activity is winding down and that eventually,
although not right away, the Federal Reserve may push
interest rates lower in an effort to stimulate economic
growth.
   But many economists believe a moderate or strong report
could create confusion and uncertainty, prompting bond yields
to remain at current levels or even rise somewhat. Susan M.
Hering, an economist at Salomon Brothers Inc., said strong
employment growth could keep "the 30-year Treasury yield
trapped in its recent trading range above 8.50%."
   Mr. Sohn is more wary. He said a strong employment report
-- one that shows job gains in excess of 150,000 -- would
cause bond-market investors to focus on negative technical
factors and lead to widespread bearish sentiment.
   High on the list of negative technicals is the huge amount
of new bills, notes and bonds the Treasury must sell to
finance the thrift-industry bailout. Last week, Treasury
officials admitted that the cost of the bailout is soaring
and that the government may have to spend $300 billion over
the next 10 years to clean up the industry.
   The Treasury will have to borrow massive amounts of money
to finance the bailout, and that could put upward pressure on
interest rates.
   In addition, Japanese investors, who tend to buy large
amounts of U.S. Treasury notes and bonds, have sharply
reduced their purchases in recent months.
   "The Japanese are not all that wild about participating in
the U.S. market; they have become reluctant buyers," said Mr.
Sohn. He said that Japanese institutions are searching for
investment opportunities in their own stock and bond markets,
which were severely depressed earlier this year.
   Those markets are now recovering, in part because the
value of the yen is rising and long-term interest rates in
Japan appear to be heading lower. Last week, for example,
Japan's major long-term credit banks lowered their prime
lending rate to 7.6% from 7.9%. The yield on Japan's
benchmark 10-year government bond, which peaked at 7.3% in
mid-March, was quoted at 6.9% on Friday.
   "Clearly, things have turned around for the Japanese,"
said Brian Fabbri, economist at Midland Montagu Securities
Inc. "This is taking some of the steam out of our market," he
said. The only way to revive the U.S. bond market rally, he
said, "is another piece of weak employment data."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were unchanged to lower in quiet pre-holiday
trading. Most investment banks and commercial banks closed
their bond trading operations at 2 p.m. EDT on Friday and
were closed yesterday in observance of Memorial Day.
   On Friday, a report indicating that consumer spending
advanced at a steady 0.6% clip during April pushed prices of
longterm Treasury bonds lower.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell 5/8 point, a
loss of $6.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The price
of the benchmark bond ended at 100 25/32 to yield 8.66%, down
from Thursday's price of 101 13/32 to yield 8.81%.
   Short-term rates jumped. The discount rate on three-month
Treasury bills ended at 7.75%, for a bond-equivalent yield of
7.99%. That was down from a rate of 7.68%, for a bond
equivalent yield of 7.92%. The rate on six-month bills fell
to 7.75% to yield 8.16%, compared with 7.71% to yield 8.11%
on Thursday.
   In the junk-bond market, most prices ended unchanged. The
major exceptions were the bonds of R.H. Macy &amp; Co., which
gyrated wildly.
   The bonds, which fell a total of six points on Wednesday
and Thursday, staged a partial rebound on Friday due to
Macy's release of better-than-expected third-quarter
financial results.
   The New York-based retailer said its cash flow -- or
earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation -- increased
in the third quarter to $160.2 million from $154 million in
the year-ago period, based on preliminary results.
   The company's loss, after interest, taxes and
depreciation, in the period ended April 28, totaled $63.1
million, a slight improvement over last year's $64.1 million
loss. Sales in the third quarter were $1.486 billion, almost
unchanged from $1.482 billion a year ago.
   "These are very positive results for Macy's," said Andrew
Leinoff, a high-yield analyst who covers the retail industry
at McCarthy Crisanti &amp; Maffei Inc. "What it means is that the
margins are a little better than last year, and the company
has recovered, as it stated, from its dismal performance at
Christmas."
   Macy's 14.5% subordinated debentures maturing in 2001
finished at a bid price of 60, up two points from late
Thursday. Macy's 14.5% senior subordinated debentures due in
1998 also finished up two points at 69, while its zero-coupon
bonds gained two points to end at 26.
   Despite these gains, Macy bonds have yet to recover fully
from the rout that took place earlier in the week. News that
Heller Financial Corp., a major factoring agent, shifted from
a "revolving credit" policy toward Macy suppliers to an
"order-by-order" policy triggered the declines.
   In the tax-exempt market, municipal bonds ended 1/8 to 1/4
point lower. Despite the declines, traders said the market
managed to digest more than $1.6 billion in new debt that was
issued last week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Yen Is Expected to Continue Outperforming
   Other Currencies on Renewed Confidence in Japan
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The yen is expected to keep outperforming
other currencies for the time being, thanks to the gradual
renewal of confidence in Japan.
   With investors warming up to Japanese stocks and bonds
again and uncertainties about German monetary union
depressing the mark, it will be hard for the yen to stay
down, traders say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There's a feeling that Japan is "a comparatively good
place to be," says Douglas Ostrom, an economist at the Japan
Economic Institute of America, a nonprofit organization in
Washington, D.C., that is funded by the Japanese Ministry of
Foreign Affairs.
   Judging from the yen's rally Friday, the mood about Japan
is undoubtedly upbeat. Late Friday here, the dollar was
quoted at 149.40 yen and 1.6824 marks, compared with 151.05
yen and 1.6830 marks late Thursday. The dollar's intraday low
of 149.23 yen was its weakest level in almost three months.
   In cross-trading Friday, the mark plunged to 88.80 yen
from 89.75 late Thursday, while the Swiss franc dropped to
104.95 yen from 106.00.
   In the last month, the yen has risen about 6% against the
dollar and the mark and 3.5% against the Swiss franc.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the U.S. currency
opened for trading at 149.02 yen, down a bit from Monday's
Tokyo close of 149.45 yen.
   Traders are encouraged by the strengthening even though
the yen has retraced only a fraction of the losses it
registered between January 1989 and last month.
   The yen was pounded by sales during that lengthy period
because of the series of scandals that rocked Japan's
government and the Bank of Japan's failure to tighten its
monetary policy aggressively enough to stem inflation worries
and boost the yen.
   Now that those hard times appear to be over, the yen is
apparently settling into a "more comfortable level" somewhere
between 145 and 150 against the dollar, says Daniel Seto, an
economist at the U.S. unit of Nikko Securities Co. In early
April, the dollar hit a 39-month high of 160.30 yen.
   Mr. Seto and others say the rising interest in
yen-denominated investments has been important to the yen's
turnaround, particularly demand for Japanese stocks.
   The Nikkei index of 225 issues finished at 32,793.88
Friday, up from levels around 30000 at the end of March.
Between the end of 1989 and late April, the Nikkei plummeted
24%.
   As for Japanese government bonds, the yield on the
benchmark issue was 6.89% in late Tokyo trading Friday, down
from 7.31% in mid-March, the highest yield recorded for a
benchmark security in six years. Japanese interest rates are
finally starting to work in the yen's favor after a series of
tightening actions by the Bank of Japan, analysts say.
   Higher rates are generally beneficial for a currency
because they may increase demand for interest-bearing
investments denominated in the currency. Also, yields on
deposits of the currency become more attractive in the
Eurocurrency market when rates rise.
   Many market participants believe "interest rates in Japan
have gone as high as they're going to go" at this time, says
Mr. Ostrom of the Japan Economic Institute. "We're more
likely to see (the yen) strengthen than weaken" during the
next few months, he says.
   But some traders argue that the yen isn't out of the
woods. "I'm still bullish on the dollar," says Takaharu
Fukawa, chief trader at Sumitomo Trust &amp; Banking Co., New
York.
   His bullishness, he says, is rooted in expectations that
the U.S. economy's growth will strengthen later this year.
But Mr. Fukawa concedes that the dollar could run into
considerable trouble in the near term if important support
around 145 yen collapses.
   Meanwhile, analysts say one of the yen's main drawbacks in
the past will probably remain -- substantial movement of
Japanese capital to foreign nations.
   Investors from Japan and other countries had loaded up on
mark-denominated investments because of euphoria about the
toppling of the Berlin Wall last year and the prospect of
German monetary union.
   Although uncertainties about West Germany's future have
caused the mark to be shunned in the past few months,
Japanese investment in that nation will probably continue,
contends Mr. Ostrom of the Japan Economic Institute.
   "Japan sees itself as a source of capital," he says.
"They're interested in Europe in that sense."
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $368.20 an ounce, up $1.70.
Estimated volume was a moderate 3.5 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Tuesday, gold was quoted at $367.25 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OECD Jobless Rate
   For 11 Nations Falls
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The average unemployment rate among the 11
leading industrialized countries eased to 5.9% in March from
6% in February, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said.
   The organization said jobless rates declined in nine of
the countries, with the most significant drops in Canada, the
Netherlands and Australia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The OECD average unemployment rate in this year's first
quarter was 6%, down from 5.8% a year earlier. But the
jobless rate has remained roughly unchanged since mid-1989.
European unemployment rates, however, have eased about 0.5%
on average, compared with a year earlier, with the greatest
declines in West Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Britain.
   The organization said April unemployment rose slightly in
four of the six countries for which data are available.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Listen Up, Guys]
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   "Is It Fair," asks Jolie Solomon in her April 20 article,
"to Tailor Perks Just for Women?"
   The answer "Yes]" should be obvious, but the phrasing of
the question tends to muddy the issue by suggesting that men
and women are just two more special-interest groups with
conflicting goals. Men who think this way could become much
wiser by literally pondering their navels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Male executives might approach the issue differently if it
were put like this: "Should corporate benefits be structured
in such a fashion that your wife, sister or daughter has
career opportunities that approximate your brother's, your
son's or your own?"
   Now, can we talk about parental leave for men?
   Mark E. Dixon
   Wayne, Pa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Market Lures, Vexes Retailers
   ----
   By Teri Agins and Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   HMX TOY TIF WSGC J.DMR X-LVI J.RNW SHRP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   U.S. retailers and apparel makers, looking for new markets
to conquer, are eager to cash in on the consumer boom in
Japan. But they're quickly discovering how hard it is to set
up shop there.
   Dozens of American apparel makers and retailers -- from
one-man shops to giants such as Hartmarx Corp. -- have moved
into Japan. Apparel maker Polo/Ralph Lauren Corp. and toy
retailer Toys "R" Us Inc. have opened stores there or made
plans to do so in the near future. Hartmarx, the big menswear
company, already earns half of its licensing royalties from
Japan, while Tiffany &amp; Co.'s sales in Japan, by far the
retailer's biggest foreign market, totaled more than $60
million in the latest fiscal year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With demand in many other countries sluggish, and many
U.S. department store chains unsettled, the Japanese market
seems more appealing than ever. The Japanese spend an
estimated 15% to 20% more on clothes per person than
Americans do, and European and American brands such as
Chanel, Giorgio Armani and Donna Karan have become the rage
there -- a result of the strong yen and wide travel by the
Japanese in the late 1980s.
   The foreign-label cachet isn't limited to apparel. A
growing number of affluent Japanese housewives are chopping
vegetables with food processors bought at Williams-Sonoma
Inc. boutiques, which have been open in the Tokyu department
store chain for the past two years. And more suburban
homeowners are sleeping on beds from Drexel Heritage
Furnishings Co., which has a fast-growing presence in Japan
through a joint venture with the Daimaru Inc. store chain.
   But American retailers venturing into Japan often have to
learn some hard lessons about conducting business in another
culture. Middlemen there exert much control over retailing.
Real-estate costs are astronomical. Local customs and laws
sometimes thwart the best-laid business plans. Though
partnerships can greatly ease an American company's entry
into Japan, they can later become a brake on growth.
   "The moment you go in there pompous, assuming the cachet
of American brands is enough, you will be in store for some
unhappy surprises," says David Rosenzweig, president of the
fashion group of Bidermann Industries Corp., which markets
Bill Robinson-label menswear in Japan. "We are used to
approaching business like a Polaroid {camera}, while they
treat it as a 35 millimeter."
   The easiest way to gain entry to the Japanese market is
through an alliance, usually a licensing agreement, with a
Japanese partner. One early entrant to Japan was Polo/Ralph
Lauren, which teamed up with Seibu Department Stores Ltd.,
part of Saison Group, in 1976. Polo/Ralph Lauren says the
14-store partnership has been very successful, and a separate
Ralph Lauren company was formed two years ago in Japan for
the purpose of opening free-standing boutiques selling
household linens as well as clothes. "We want to market to
the mass market at department stores while targeting the
high-income customers at the boutiques," says Tomoyuki
Asaoka, an executive at Seibu, which is also financing the
new company.
   Peter Strom, president of Polo/Ralph Lauren, says the
company decided to enter Japan through a licensing alliance
because "you don't have to put up your own money, and the
{licensee} knows the etiquette of the business better than
you do."
   But licensing arrangements have drawbacks. One problem is
that a company loses a lot of control over how its
merchandise is displayed and sold. As a result, disparate
items often get jumbled together. Near the main-floor
entrance at the fancy Mitsukoshi store in Tokyo's Ginza
district, for example, high fashion is displayed next to
ordinary goods, with $1,500 Christian Lacroix ensembles sold
adjacent to towering shelves of $200 Coach handbags.
   Bidermann officials say they were shocked by a Bill
Robinson display at Seibu, which initially provided an
exaggerated setting for the designer's sophisticated,
glamorous look. "They decorated the department like a movie
set with Hollywood posters and movie cameras," says Maria
DeLuca, a Bidermann senior vice president of marketing. "It
was all wrong." She said Bidermann should have better
explained what kind of tone it wanted to set.
   For successful brands, licensing agreements can quickly
become a hindrance to expansion. Japan's traditional retail
chains, such as Seibu and Mitsukoshi, are big players on the
licensing front because they have locked up Japan's prime
real-estate locations, often situated above main subway
arteries. But because most Japanese department-store chains
have fewer than 30 stores, American companies can be severely
limited in their growth. "Western apparel companies that own
and license brands successfully in Japan probably regret that
they didn't invest in their own subsidiaries five or 10 years
ago," says Robert Frazier, a managing director in New York
with Kurt Salmon Associates, a consulting company.
   Trying to gain a foothold without a licensing deal,
however, can pose formidable problems of its own. Toys "R"
Us, which had its eye on Japan for years, was stymied by
Japanese law. Under longstanding provisions, small shops
could force retailers to scale back plans to open big stores
in their neighborhoods, and to delay the plans for several
years. The restrictions threatened to delay Toys "R" Us's
plans for a 46,000-square-foot store in northern Japan.
   But Japanese regulators are moving to ease the
restrictions, under pressure from the U.S. In what many other
U.S. retailers see as a test case of the change, Toys "R" Us
now plans to open four to six stores in Japan beginning next
year. It's too early to tell how much easier it will be for
large stores to open, but analysts say local merchants will
continue to exert strong pressure, even without legal
leverage. Indeed, Toys "R" Us faces opposition from a newly
formed organization of owners of local toy boutiques.
   Whether going solo or in an alliance, U.S. retailers face
other obstacles in Japan. A complication not present in the
U.S. is the middleman, an extra player between the wholesaler
and retailer who stocks merchandise from various
manufacturers and delivers it quickly when stores call for
it. This practice persists partly because stores don't have
warehouse or storage space to keep goods in stock. But it
means added costs for manufacturers, who pay for shipping and
other expenses.
   In this system, goods are considered to be sold on
consignment, and manufacturers are required to take back
merchandise that doesn't sell, a practice unheard of in the
U.S. outside the publishing industry. "In America, you can't
imagine a store returning something that it has bought
already," says Masafumi Ohki, managing director of Levi
Strauss &amp; Co.'s Japanese subsidiary. Mr. Ohki says he had a
hard time talking his American parent company into paying the
extra costs of working with a broker.
   Japanese stores' rigid quality control can be a stumbling
block for even the most prestigious imported brands. Japanese
consumers scrutinize buttonholes and inner seams as closely
as they do labels. "They have been brought up to be much more
observant than Americans when it comes to stitching and eye
for detail," says Clifford Grodd, president of Paul Stuart, a
U.S. apparel retailer that has three stores in Japan.
   According to Renown Inc., Japan's biggest apparel maker,
up to 30% of imported designer apparel doesn't meet Japanese
standards. Japanese apparel marketers often restitch seams
before distributing items to Japanese stores, where they're
inspected again by store employees.
   Like other big chains, Seibu stores maintain
quality-control departments where workers inspect all
garments for workmanship, colorfastness and other properties
before they are placed on the sales floor. Seibu says these
checks add as much as 15% to the cost of a garment.
   Another retailing practice also frustrates some apparel
makers. Japanese department stores tend to carry many more
brands than their U.S. counterparts, but in much smaller
quantities, says Nobu Asano, a New York broker for U.S.
clothing companies that export to Japan. This practice
prevents any one clothing line from getting a big order from
any one chain, he says, and means it can take years for a
brand to develop a following.
   Any company trying to do business in Japan has to cope
with the high cost of real estate. Monthly rent for retail
space in the Ginza district can exceed 18,000 yen ($120) a
square foot, five or six times the level on New York's
Madison Avenue. Moreover, landlords often request deposits of
up to four years of rent. "That tends to be the biggest
hurdle," says William Best, vice president of consulting
company A.T. Kearney International Inc.
   The high cost of real estate has caused Sharper Image
Corp., which sells high-tech and upscale gadgets, to slow its
expansion in Japan. The company has opened six free-standing
stores in Japan since 1988 and had planned to open more than
10 such stores in its first three years there. But now, to
control its real-estate costs, Sharper Image plans to begin
opening stores within department stores. With free-standing
stores, "we need extremely high sales just to break even,"
says Masaru Tanaka, who manages the Sharper Image's venture
in Tokyo.
   Cost isn't always the only hurdle in real estate, as
Talbots Inc., a subsidiary of Japan's Aeon Group, found
recently. Before it opened its first store in Tokyo in
February, the prospective landlord wanted to acquaint himself
with the U.S. store, even though its parent company is
well-known in Japan.
   So, says Arnold Zechter, president of Talbots, "I had to
have tea with the owner of the building to see if he liked
me."
   ---
                     Apparel Sales in Japan
                                                                                                       

 AMERICAN                                    1989 SALES
 BRANDS                                     (In millions)
                                                                                                       

 Ralph Lauren                                  $420.0
 J. Press                                       120.5
 Norma Kamali                                    60.1
 Bill Blass                                      59.6
 Oscar de la Renta                               46.3
 Anne Klein*                                     29.1
 Brooks Brothers                                 26.5
 Calvin Klein                                    21.8
 Perry Ellis                                     19.9
 Evan Picone                                     14.6
 Coca-Cola Clothing                              13.2
 Geoffrey Beene                                   9.9
 Donna Karan                                      8.6
                                                                                                       

   Note: Figures converted at current exchange rates
   *Includes Anne Klein II line
                                                                                                       

   Sources: Kojima Fashion Marketing, Polo/Ralph Lauren Corp.
and Mitsukoshi Ltd
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone:
   Pretax Earnings Rose 17%
   For Year Ended March 31
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Corp. said its consolidated
pretax earnings in the fiscal year ended March 31 climbed 17%
to 510.55 billion yen ($3.38 billion) from 438.06 billion yen
in the previous fiscal year.
   Net profit earned by the parent company and its one
consolidated subsidiary, NTT Data Communications System
Corp., rose more, going up 23% to 273.75 billion yen from
222.96 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Operating revenue came to 6.022 trillion yen, rising 3.1%
from 5.841 trillion yen and exceeding six trillion yen for
the first time.
   NTT plans to pay a dividend for the year of 6,000 yen,
including a special 1,000-yen dividend to commemorate the
100th anniversary of telephone service in Japan. Last fiscal
year, the company paid a dividend of 5,000 yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Investor Black Shuns Shifting Fads,
   Uses Old-Fashioned Values in Stock Picks
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   USW USWNA ELDC ASTR AIND FCOB CSTB
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Scott Black clocks more than 100,000 miles a
year in his search for undervalued companies. These days it's
taking him to some unlikely places.
   An old-fashioned value investor, Mr. Black, president of
Delphi Management Inc., Boston, is prospecting among
California banks, military service and trucking companies --
not exactly the year's most chic stocks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   From Puget Sound to Long Island Sound, he's found such
obscure companies as Eldec, tied to the rising fortunes of
Boeing, and Astrosystems, a military contractor whose stock
is trading at nearly half its book value.
   In Lebanon, Pa., Mr. Scott visits Arnold Industries, one
of the oldest holdings in the 11-year-old, $865 million
Delphi fund. Arnold, which owns the New Penn Motor Express
fleet of trucks that operates along the eastern seaboard,
consistently shows annual returns on equity above 20%.
   East of Los Angeles, in West Covina, he found California
State Bank. Despite the state's faltering real estate market,
California State Bank is growing at 10% to 15% a year,
although its stock trades at less than seven times estimated
1990 earnings. Further north in Sacramento, First Commercial
Bancorp, coming off a 38% jump in earnings last year, expects
to brake to around 15% growth this year. Its stock trades at
about 7.5 times estimated earnings.
   In Denver, U S West NewVector Group is a fast-growing
cellular telephone company, owned 82% by regional telephone
company U S West. Mr. Black conservatively estimates that the
company's assets, minus debt, are valued at $45 a share. When
he bought the stock at $30 a share, it was a "great asset
play." Even now, at 37 1/8, he still sees long-term value in
a company with 40% to 45% growth in quarterly revenue.
   Mr. Black shuns the shifting fads of the market for value
investing. Behind languishing shares, he looks for companies
with robust growth, little debt and internally generated cash
flow, among other factors. He prizes straightforward
accounting practices and long-range planning. If he's
investing in a traditional manufacturing company, he buys its
stock only at or below its tangible net value. If he's
investing in a company for its assets, he calculates those
conservatively and then buys stock at a substantial discount.
When investing in companies for their earnings potential, he
prefers buying shares that trade at 10 times estimated
earnings or less.
   His investing method requires patience. In the past
decade, Delphi has earned a 594.7% return, or 21.4% annually,
outperforming the S&amp;P 500's return of 403.9%, or 17.4%
annually. Last year, however, the fund underperformed the
31.4% return of the S&amp;P 500 with a 23.5% gain. "It was a
tough year for value," Mr. Black notes.
   Mr. Black's investing criteria include: Returns on equity
on average of 15% or higher; ability to grow revenue and net
income at a rate faster than inflation over a three-to-five
year period; cash flow generated from internal operations
rather than from borrowing or stock offerings; "clean"
accounting (for instance, banks and insurance companies that
adequately reserve for bad loans and losses) and, for
technology companies, a high turnover of inventory.
   Applying his criteria, Mr. Black finds value in the
following over-the-counter stocks:
   Eldec: "A surrogate for Boeing." Mr. Black bought Eldec at
$8 a share after the 1987 market collapse. Now at 11 1/2,
just above the Lynnwood, Wash., company's $11-a-share book
value, it's not the steal it once was. But Mr. Black likes
the long-term outlook of the supplier of parts for Boeing's
aircraft as business switches to supplying commercial, rather
than military, aircraft. Eldec has a $133 million backlog of
orders, up from $126 million a year earlier; his estimated
earnings for fiscal 1991 ending in March are $1.10 a share,
up from 90 cents a share. With practically no debt on its
balance sheet, "they don't have to worry about whether the
local bank will keep {them} in business," says Mr. Black.
   Astrosystems: "A turnaround, but not a runaway freight
train." Earnings for the Lake Success, N.Y., maker of
self-contained power systems for the military peaked at 55
cents a share in 1984 during the height of defense spending;
the company had a deficit last year. Mr. Black expects
Astrosystems to return to profitability this year as it
supplies power systems for 32 torpedoes funded by the
government. With book value at $6 a share, $5 a share in cash
and $5.50 a share in net working capital, the $3 stock is a
classic value play.
   Arnold Industries: "Probably the best in terms of
sustainable return on equity year-over-year." From its hub in
Lebanon, Arnold's fleet of trucks guarantees 24-hour delivery
to its East Coast customers. Its annual return on equity
since 1984 has been higher than 20%. Mr. Black estimates the
company has $4 a share, or a total of $27 million, in cash,
compared with $2 million in debt. At 34 3/4, the stock is
trading at about 10 times his estimated 1991 earnings of
$3.40 a share. "That's relatively cheap," he says, "for a
company of this quality."
   U S West NewVector: "For someone who wants a long-term
cellular play." Although U S West NewVector hasn't yet
reported a profit, the cellular company's revenue is "growing
by leaps and bounds" as it signs on more and more
subscribers. Thanks to its association with U S West, the
company already has digital technology, Mr. Black notes. He
estimates the company's assets are valued at $45 a share.
"It's a good company, well-run with a deep-pockets parent,"
he says.
   California State Bank: With a market capitalization of $29
million, the bank confines its commercial lending to
businesses with $100 million to $200 million in sales. The
bank develops some housing, with many of its housing sales to
Japanese "who pay in cash," according to Mr. Black. The
bank's reserves for loan losses are four times its
nonperforming assets. In 1989, California State earned a
return on equity of more than 16% and a return on assets of
1.5%, well ahead of the average among West Coast banks.
   First Commercial Bancorp: A new management team turned
this Sacramento bank around, says Mr. Black. The bank now is
fully reserved for bad loans. In 1989 it earned a 20.1%
return on equity and 1.86% return on assets, which Mr. Black
calls "sensational." Its commercial lending customers have
annual sales of as much as $500 million, with many of them
servicing the state government. Sacramento is one of
California's fastest growing cities.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   A plunge in Adobe Systems shares stopped the
over-the-counter market in its tracks Friday, but smaller
shares still fared better than exchange-listed issues.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 4.60 to 453.69, a 1.0%
decline. That was slightly better than the 1.21% drop in the
Dow Jones Industrial Average. Declining shares overtook
advancing stocks, 1,105 to 825, as volume slipped to 152.2
million shares from 174.3 million Thursday.
   Adobe plummeted 15 1/4 to 35 1/4 on 8.5 million shares
after the Mountain View, Calif., software maker said its
earnings for the second quarter ending Friday will be lower
than expected. That drove the Nasdaq 100 index of large
industrial and technology issues 2.13% lower and spurred
profit-taking in other technology stocks.
   Microsoft fell 2 1/2 to 74 1/4; Apple Computer slid 2 to
40; and Quantum tumbled 1 1/4 to 21 3/8. Profit-taking also
took a toll on cellular, cable and other technology issues
included in the Nasdaq utility index, which lost 2.15%.
   Epsilon Data Management surged 6 3/4 to 18. Late Thursday,
American Express agreed to buy the Burlington, Mass.,
software and services company in a stock swap valued at about
$64 million.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   U S WEST NEWVECTOR GROUP Inc. is based in Bellevue, Wash.
In Tuesday's OTC Focus column, the headquarters was given
incorrectly.
   (WSJ May 31, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Foreign Insight:
   Iraqi President's Hoped-For Strong Show
   For U.S.-Soviet Summit Fails to Develop
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   When Iraqi President Saddam Hussein called for an Arab
summit in Baghdad, the plan was that Arab heads of state
would formulate a message to George Bush and Mikhail
Gorbachev when they meet this week in Washington.
   So far, the message seems unlikely to be the one Mr.
Hussein intended. He had hoped to demonstrate that the Arab
world is a united force, but yesterday's poorly attended
opening session indicated lingering disunity among Arab
nations. Calls in the government-controlled Iraqi press for
an Arab investment embargo and use of the "oil weapon"
against Western nations suggested that radical Arabs are
groping for ways to impose their will.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The main item on the agenda is the mass immigration of
Soviet Jews to Israel, which many Arab leaders, including
such moderates as Egypt's Hosni Mubarak and Jordan's King
Hussein, see as a threat to the peace process because the
influx may increase Israel's appetite for land. Yet the
summit opened without Hafez Assad of Syria, a crucial figure
in any attempt to pressure neighboring Israel. Mr. Assad
didn't attend because he and the Iraqi president have been
engaged in a feud for years. Lebanon, Syria's ally, also
boycotted the gathering. Algeria, Oman and Morocco sent
delegations below head-of-state level, making the turnout the
worst in the past four years of Arab League summits.
   Last year's summit in Casablanca, called to address the
Lebanon problem, failed to come up with a workable plan. A
1988 gathering in Algeria was supposed to finance the
Palestinian cause, but Palestine Liberation Organization
leader Yasser Arafat has complained that the funds weren't
forthcoming.
   The Iraqi president opened the Baghdad summit with a
speech attacking Israel. He reiterated his threat of a month
ago that Iraq will use "weapons of total destruction" against
Israel if it attacks Iraq with similar weapons. He blamed the
U.S. for arming and encouraging Israel, saying, "The Zionist
entity would not be able to commit aggression and expansion
territorially at the expense of the Arabs without the
military might and political support of the United States."
   In an interview before the summit, Nizar Hamdoon, Iraq's
deputy foreign minister, said the issue of Soviet immigration
is one on which the Arab position can easily be
misrepresented. "We don't like to appear as if we are against
freedom of movement," he said, but the rights of Soviet Jews
can't be allowed to trample the rights of Palestinians. "We
are for the right of people to move, but we are also for the
right of Palestinians to return to their homes, whether
inside Israel's pre-1967 borders or on the West Bank."
   Mr. Hamdoon said the summit was motivated by fear that the
Middle East could turn more violent in a short time if a
combination of such factors as stagnation in the peace
process, economic hardship in such states as Egypt and Jordan
and the repercussions of Soviet immigration weren't
addressed. "I don't want to talk about months, but there is a
very small gap of time when somebody can do something. After
that it will get out of control," he said.
   Jordan's King Hussein, speaking at the session, asked help
for his state's troubled economy, warning that "abandoning
Jordan is abandoning Palestine." Previously, the king has
said that since 1987 thousands of Palestinians have crossed
the border separating the West Bank from his kingdom, driven
out by Israeli military harassment and fear of extremist West
Bank settlers. If Soviet Jews begin to settle the West Bank
en masse, he says he fears such numbers could accelerate,
destabilizing his already fragile kingdom in which half the
population is Palestinian.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Telecommunications Conference Focuses
   On Fiber Optics and Computer Networks
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM, Sweden -- The telecommunications industry's
leading technology symposium opened with fiber optic
communications and so-called intelligent computer networks
taking center stage.
   The triennial conference, last held in Phoenix, Ariz., in
1987, goes by the arcane name the International Switching
Symposium. It is a place for the industry's most prominent
scientists and developers to present their views on
leading-edge technologies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ISS in the past has offered a window on where the
telecommunications industry is headed in terms of new voice
and data services for business and residential customers.
This year's presentations on optical switches and network
management systems seemed to presage a revolution in the
public phone network over the next three to 10 years.
   These changes will enable companies to begin trading vast
amounts of information with other firms by using fiber optics
and the public network. Moreover, the presentation shows that
public phone companies have begun laying the groundwork for
better integrating of disparate communications technologies,
which include cellular radio and private data networks.
   Many of the technologies discussed were in varying stages
of development at the time of the Phoenix meeting in 1987,
when the thrust of the technical presentations dealt with
so-called System VII common channel signaling networks that
helped route voice and data calls. Others dealt with
Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) technology for
sending voice and data calls simultaneously over the same
wire.
   Since Phoenix, System VII networks have proliferated. In
fact, one of those networks figured prominently in the
software malfunction that felled American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph Co.'s long-distance network last January. And ISDN
systems are now being used by numerous companies, such as
American Express Co., to increase the efficiency of their
workers, who can now talk on the phone and share computer
information on their personal computers without having to
make an expensive and time-consuming second call.
   Some of this year's more noteworthy presentations include
those by scientists at AT&amp;T, Japan's NEC Corp. and France's
Alcatel, who are presenting papers on optical computers that
switch voice and data calls using light beams from lasers
rather than electronic signals. Other industry giants, such
as Northern Telecom Ltd. of Canada; Ericsson of Sweden;
Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. of Japan, and British
Telecom plan presentations on high-capacity or broad-band
transmission using fiber optic networks and the methods for
managing such traffic.
   Systems management is becoming more critical because
companies will eventually transmit their data through the
public network at the rate of trillions of bits of
information per second, compared with the millions and in
some cases billions of bits today.
   "In the future, the public networks will have to provide
whatever transmission {pipeline} is needed by a customer and
make it as accessible as dialing a simple voice call," said
Desmond Hudson, president of Northern Telecom World Trade.
   Another focus is so-called Intelligent Networks of
computers that will someday enable phone companies to allow
third-party suppliers, such as software companies, to send
their programs to customers on a dial-up basis. Bell
Communications Research Inc., the laboratory owned by the
seven Bell regionals, and telecommunications authorities from
West Germany, France and Italy are among the presenters in
this category.
   Attendance at this year's ISS underscores the
globalization of the telecommunications industry, with 84
countries sending scientific representatives, compared with
48 countries three years ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Petroleum Output Is Falling in 3 Nations
   Where Overproduction Led to World Glut
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petroleum output is declining in the three Persian Gulf
nations whose overproduction led to the world oil glut and
the recent sharp fall in prices.
   That is the new assessment by several leading monitors of
OPEC production. They will be reporting estimates that total
production in May by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries is down as much as 500,000 barrels a day or more
from the level in April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such a production trend, if it holds, could have a major
impact on world oil markets by providing support to weak
prices. It was the apparent lack of follow-up to OPEC's early
May pledge to trim high output that led to the price drop of
more than $2 a barrel.
   The new May estimates are only preliminary and could prove
to be misleading signals for oil markets. Still, they should
provide OPEC with some breathing room and shrink prospects of
a runaway output race.
   The estimates differ some on how much OPEC is producing.
But it is agreed the major reduction so far is by Saudi
Arabia -- which appears to be producing slightly under its
quota of 5.4 million barrels a day -- and that there are
signs of modest cuts in both Kuwait and the United Arab
Emirates, the chronic overproducers.
   "It's not out of the question for Kuwait, which has cut
back spot sales to U.S. customers significantly, to be down
200,000 barrels a day for the month to around 1.7 million,"
said Cristina Haus, who monitors OPEC production for Energy
Security Analysis, a Washington-based company that tracks oil
supplies world-wide.
   As a result, she has lowered the output figure she expects
to report for OPEC for May from a prior estimate of 23.5
million barrels a day. Now, she said, OPEC's May production
appears to be 23 million to 23.5 million barrels a day, down
from 23.7 million in April and more than 24 million in March.
   Some other monitors of OPEC production see May output
settling in a higher range of 23.4 million to 23.5 million
barrels a day. But that still would mean a drop of 500,000
barrels a day because they have revised upward their old
April estimates to some 24 million.
   "If we see another decline of 500,000 barrels a day in
June, that will be the one million total they were looking
for," said a European-based monitor of OPEC production.
Although the exporters had stated after their early May
meeting that they planned to reduce OPEC output a total of
1.4 million barrels a day through July, several leading oil
ministers had suggested privately that they believed oil
markets would be satisfied with a drop of one million.
   But even though the new production indications for May
could be a firming factor for oil prices, they still don't
end a major worry for many members of OPEC. Neither Kuwait
nor the United Arab Emirates will have yet met in full
reduction promises of 400,000 barrels a day and 200,000
barrels a day, respectively. The concern is that Saudi Arabia
will retaliate by raising its output back to 5.7 million
barrels a day.
   "If you take the May figures at face value," said a senior
OPEC official, "only the Saudis are down significantly. The
issue is how long they will stay down."
   Only last week, the kingdom may have signaled that its
patience was wearing thin. In an official government
statement, Hisham M. Nazer, the Saudi oil minister,
reiterated the kingdom's commitment to the early May accord,
noting that it had given its "word of honor" to market no
more oil than its official quota. He called on other OPEC
members to practice a similar production discipline.
   Still, the authoritative Middle East Economic Survey,
which has close contacts with the kingdom, reported yesterday
that "the Saudis aren't now planning to take any steps to
review their present {production} policy until around
mid-June."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shearson Picks
   Linen to Head
   Brokerage Unit
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP SLH WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Express Co., in a move that confirms
plans to split Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in half, is
expected to put one of its top travel executives in charge of
Shearson's vast brokerage and money-management side.
   The executive, Jonathan S. Linen, is currently head of the
traveler's checks, direct marketing and publishing group of
American Express Travel Related Services Co. Described by
colleagues as "very refined" and statesmanlike, Mr. Linen has
no experience running a brokerage firm, let alone one of
Shearson's size.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet despite his inexperience on Wall Street, the
46-year-old Mr. Linen is considered one of American Express's
rising stars, with experience at fixing the firm's troubled
businesses over the years. "He's big on customer service and
quality. Those things are important {too,}" said one American
Express person familiar with the situation who requested
anonymity.
   When he takes over at Shearson this week -- an official
announcement is expected today -- Mr. Linen will run the
nation's second-biggest brokerage firm behind Merrill Lynch &amp;
Co., with 470 branches, nearly 10,000 brokers and $90 billion
under management.
   His job will be to restore the brokerage force's shattered
morale, stem defections of key personnel and preside over the
cleanup of Shearson stumbles -- including its spotty record
in marketing limited-partnership investments during the
1980s.
   Neither American Express nor Shearson would comment about
the expected naming of Mr. Linen. However, it's understood
that the appointment has been in the works for most of this
month, and was completed over the holiday weekend.
   The loser in the management move is Hardwick Simmons, for
nearly a decade the head of Shearson's individual-investor
businesses, including the brokerage network. Mr. Simmons
resigned Friday after being told he was being passed over in
favor of Mr. Linen. Mr. Simmons couldn't be reached for
comment over the weekend.
   The expected heads of the non-brokerage side of the
reconfigured Shearson are expected to come from within
Shearson. The betting is that Richard S. Fuld Jr. and Sherman
Lewis will co-head this side of the firm, which will operate
under the resurrected name of Lehman Brothers, and will
include Shearson's investment banking and trading operations.
Shearson took over the venerable Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb
Inc. investment bank in 1984.
   Mr. Linen's side of the firm will probably retain the
Shearson name, and be called Shearson Group or something
similar.
   American Express -- forced to pump more than $1 billion
into struggling Shearson and acquire the remaining common
stock it doesn't already own -- has been moving to put its
imprint on the company and restore confidence in it. The
Shearson split-up is part of that plan; American Express
denies Shearson is being divided as a precursor to a sale of
one or both parts of the firm.
   Earlier in the year, Shearson Chairman Peter Cohen was
ousted and was replaced by Howard Clark Jr., at the time
American Express chief financial officer.
   Now, Mr. Clark's friend Mr. Linen is moving down from
American Express's executive suite to Shearson's. A person
familiar with the thinking of James D. Robinson III, American
Express chairman, avows that Mr. Robinson has "gone to the
A-team" in installing Mr. Linen at Shearson.
   "It's Jim's reaffirmation that he's serious about reviving
Shearson," the person said.
   Mr. Linen's first job at American Express 20 years ago was
as an assistant to Howard Clark Sr., then-chairman of
American Express and father of the current Shearson chairman.
   American Express has shown a clear dissatisfaction with
the management talent currently at Shearson. It brought in
its own man, Mr. Clark, to run Shearson after Mr. Cohen's
departure. Now, it again has tapped an American Express man
for a senior management role at Shearson, bypassing Shearson
hopefuls.
   American Express executives say privately that they think
Shearson can turn around if it's run as well as American
Express is.
   Still, American Express has had problems of its own over
the years. And Mr. Linen has been the man that Mr. Robinson
has turned to in the past for problem-solving. Among other
things, Mr. Linen has handled potential major problems at
American Express's travel, publishing and insurance
businesses, say American Express executives.
   Mr. Linen wasn't available for comment yesterday.
   Mr. Linen's new move will cause some shuffling at American
Express Travel Related Services, where he was one of three
chief executives who, along with Chairman Aldo Papone, report
directly to Mr. Robinson.
   Mr. Linen had been head of what is technically called the
Direct Marketing and Travelers Cheques Group, encompassing
traveler's checks, publishing, merchandise services,
world-wide quality assurance, the Amex Life insurance arm and
investment products.
   It is expected that Mr. Linen's responsibilities will be
divided between Edwin Cooperman, chief executive of Travel
Related Services North America (which includes American
Express charge cards), and Rick Thoman, chief executive of
American Express International.
   Although one American Express executive denied it
yesterday, Mr. Linen's shift to Shearson could remove him as
a candidate to succeed Mr. Robinson as American Express
chairman one day.
   In April 1989, when American Express reorganized top
management, the company indicated that one of the three chief
executives in Travel Related Services would probably be named
to follow Mr. Robinson. A job at Shearson, never considered a
direct member of the American Express family, seems to take
Mr. Linen out of the running for the top job, even if he were
to be successful in helping to revive the brokerage firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tudor Investment's Jones Pleads Guilty
   To Filling Protected Maryland Wetlands
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Paul Tudor Jones II, one of the country's most successful
futures and options traders, pleaded guilty to a federal
charge of illegally filling protected wetlands on Maryland's
Eastern Shore.
   The guilty plea, unsealed Friday along with a seven-count
indictment against a project manager hired by Mr. Jones, is
the largest case ever prosecuted criminally by federal
officials for illegally filling wetlands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Jones, 35 years old, is the founder and president of
Tudor Investment Corp., one of the most closely watched
trading firms on Wall Street. He pleaded guilty to a
one-count misdemeanor that carries a maximum jail sentence of
six months and agreed to $2 million in fines and restitution.
The charges stem from plans by Tudor to build a corporate
retreat and wildlife habitat -- Tudor Farms -- in Dorchester
County, Md.
   The indictment and the guilty plea were unsealed by the
U.S. attorney's office in Baltimore, which spent a year
investigating the case. "The filing of today's charges
reflects the seriousness with which this office and federal
law enforcement in Maryland view environmental crime," said
Breckenridge L. Wilcox, U.S. attorney in Maryland. "The
protection of Maryland's Chesapeake Bay wetlands is of vital
importance in the effort to arrest the Bay's decline . . ."
   Mr. Jones, emphasizing that the plea agreement will have
no impact on his company's investment operations, said that
Tudor Farms had been conceived as a conservation project and
that the firm retained 15 experts, including a project
manager, William B. Ellen.
   "We believed in error that our experts had properly
addressed the complex issues related to habitat development
in wetlands . . .," Mr. Jones said in a statement. "The
severe drought in 1988 . . . made it difficult to recognize
non-tidal wetlands. With identification so difficult, certain
permits to move soil on these wetlands were not obtained."
   Neither Mr. Jones nor his attorney could be reached for
comment.
   According to a copy of the plea agreement, Mr. Jones hired
Mr. Ellen to develop a corporate retreat for duck hunting on
3,272 acres of prime shore land that Mr. Jones bought between
1987 and 1989. More than half the land was marsh, and Mr.
Ellen was contracted to clear wooded areas, dig ponds, build
roads and fill in tidal areas with gravel.
   Federal prosecutors allege that Mr. Ellen filled in 86
acres of wetlands without a permit, despite an order to cease
and desist from the Army Corps of Engineers in February 1988.
Copies of the order were mailed to Mr. Ellen and Mr. Jones,
according to Mr. Jones's plea agreement, yet the work
continued unabated. Mr. Jones visited the site an average of
twice a month, according to federal prosecutors, but it
remains unclear whether he was aware of any problem over
proper permitting.
   According to his plea agreement, Mr. Ellen refused to stop
work and the project was only halted after the Corps of
Engineers contacted the independent contractors involved. Mr.
Jones expressed "surprise and dismay" when told the extent of
the damage in March 1989 and immediately fired Mr. Ellen.
   Since then, according to the plea agreement, he has
"cooperated fully" with plans to restore the land. Mr. Jones
agreed to pay a $1 million fine, another $1 million in
restitution and restore the damage done on his land.
   Mr. Ellen, of Matthews, Va., could not be reached for
comment. He was charged with six counts of knowingly
violating the Clean Water Act by filling in wetlands, and one
count of violating the Rivers and Harbors Act by dumping fill
material in navigable water. He faces a maximum 31-year
prison term and more than $1.5 million in fines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900529-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900529-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   DELL INEL QUIK CNS CHH PLIT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Dell Computer         $ .28    ...      $ .08  (3)  250.00
  Intelligent Elec        .96    ...        .90  (4)    6.67
  Quiksilver Inc          .58    ...        .55  (3)    5.45
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Consol Stores        ($ .08)   ...     ($ .03) (3)    ...
  Carter Hawley          (.24)   ...       (.14) (5)    ...
  Petrolite Corp          .32    ...        .36  (4)   11.11
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
