<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0191
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0191.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Manufacturers Assail Seoul,
   Demand Action on Counterfeit Goods
   ----
   By Joseph P. Manguno
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6F
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- French manufacturers of
sophisticated consumer goods accused South Korea of being the
world's chief counterfeiter of trademark products, and
demanded that the government put a stop to the practice.
   Officials of the Paris-based Union des Fabricants, an
international anti-counterfeiting organization, charged that
South Korea has become "a haven for the protection of fakes
and a top world exporter of fakes." They said most of the
counterfeit products sold in Japan, the U.S. and South
America today are made in South Korea.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Union des Fabricants said it had complained about the
issue many times to South Korean officials. All it has gotten
in response, it says, are a number of seizures of fake goods,
excuses about the difficulty and expense of enforcing
anti-counterfeiting laws and promises to toughen policing
procedures.
   The South Korean government official in charge of
protecting patents and trademarks denied claims that his
country has become the world's leading maker and exporter of
fake trademark products.
   Kim Chulsu, commissioner of the Korea Industrial Property
Office, conceded that a counterfeiting problem does exist in
South Korea. He put the domestic sales alone of fakes at
about 80 billion won ($113.2 million) a year, and he
acknowledged that while his government has no figure on
exports, it probably is higher. But he said that the
government is making great headway in curtailing the problem.
"Their impressions are just impressions," said Mr. Kim, "and
I don't agree with their assessment of the situation."
   He said South Korea has "made a very strong and concerted
effort" to reduce the domestic and export traffic in fakes.
   "Our own perception," he said, "is that the problem of
counterfeits has substantially decreased" since 1987, when
South Korea began to toughen investigation and law
enforcement on counterfeiting. He noted that South Korean
authorities confiscated 186,000 fake products in the first
half of this year, compared with more than 150,000 seized in
all of 1989.
   Mr. Kim took particular exception to the claim by a
trademark specialist for Cartier that South Korea has become
"number one in the world of fakes." He said: "I regret that a
responsible person from a very well known company has made
such an allegation, which is . . . quite unfounded."
   But Union des Fabricants officials, flanked by
representatives of such luxury-goods makers as Chanel, Yves
Saint Laurent, Louis Vuitton, Cartier and Nina Ricci, said
the problem is getting worse and has become a major issue for
them as it has spread into exports.
   Marc Fransanco, trademark specialist for Cartier, said 95%
of fake leather goods in Taiwan are South Korean-made, and
that hundreds of thousands of counterfeit Cartier eyeglass
frames made in South Korea have been seized in the Middle
East.
   "In South America," said Mr. Fransanco, "not only Korean
products are offered there. Even Korean people are going into
countries like Argentina, Chile and Paraguay to create the
counterfeit business in those countries. So Korea is
definitely No. 1 in the world of fakes. And they want to stay
there."
   Mr. Fransanco and the other manufacturers acknowledged
that their sales in Korea hadn't been hurt by counterfeiting,
but declined to disclose financial details. But they said the
on-going damage to their image and the credibility of their
trademarks could eventually cripple them.
   For that reason, they said, they are throwing down the
gauntlet to Seoul. They said they will deliver a position
paper on counterfeiting in South Korea to the government,
offer their help in stopping the proliferation of fake
products made in South Korea and set a deadline for achieving
some progress. Although the group didn't say what it would do
if the deadline isn't met, Alain Thrierr, president of Union
des Fabricants, said the issue may next be taken up with
international organizations.
   "We want to pass the message that we don't want to suffer
this problem any longer," said Mr. Thrierr. He said his group
has targeted Itaewon, one of Seoul's most popular shopping
districts, internationally known as a source of fake Gucci
bags, Cartier watches, Yves Saint Laurent clothing and other
products.
   "Itaewon is not the only place in Korea, but it's our
choice of where to begin," said Mr. Thrierr. He said Union
des Fabricants will help. "We will make searches. We will
supply information. We will pay some expenses, like for
trucks and things like that." But in the end, he said, the
South Korean government must enforce its own laws against
trademark violation.
   The position paper asks that the government:
   -- Systematically confiscate and destroy counterfeit
goods.
   -- Inspect all trade and accounting documents of known
counterfeiters to track down suppliers, customers and other
accomplices.
   -- Extend crackdown operations from wholesalers to include
retailers.
   -- Apply strict criminal sanctions against violators as
laid down by South Korean law.
   -- Take special emergency measures in Itaewon, such as
slapping permanent injunctions on major retail counterfeiting
networks.
   It was the latest European broadside in an escalating
conflict between manufacturers of sophisticated consumer
goods and the South Korean government over what the companies
consider to be unfair trade practices that are damaging their
business.
   Last month, a group of European ambassadors delivered a
formal protest to Seoul about intellectual-property-rights
violations. The ambassadors also complained about a public
campaign against so-called "luxury imports," that has forced
the closure of some boutiques importing costly European
products.
   Neither Union des Fabricants officials, nor company
representatives, linked the two issues openly. But they noted
that the campaign against the import of genuine high-value
products would likely boost the sales of counterfeit products
in South Korea.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0190
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0190.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Engelhard Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ENGELHARD Corp. (Edison, N.J.) -- L. Donald LaTorre, 52
years old, previously president of the pigments and additives
division of this specialty chemical maker, was elected senior
vice president and chief operating officer, succeeding Cyrus
H. Holley, who will remain an executive vice president and a
director until his scheduled retirement next year at age 55.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0189
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0189.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chemfix to Redeem Warrants
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CFIX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   METAIRIE, La. -- Chemfix Technologies Inc. said it will
redeem on Aug. 6 common stock purchase warrants for 10 cents
a warrant. Until that date, holders may exercise the warrants
at a price of $6.50 a share. There are 488,750 outstanding of
these warrants, which were part of a unit offering in 1983.
The environmental services concern said it has about 7.2
million common shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0187
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0187.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Old Dominion Electric Cooperative
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   OLD DOMINION ELECTRIC Cooperative (Glen Allen, Va.) --
John P. Edwards, senior vice president for customer affairs
at Public Service Co. of New Hampshire, was named president
and chief executive officer of this electric cooperative,
effective Aug. 20. He succeeds Guy C. Lewis Jr., who has been
serving as acting president and chief executive since last
May. Mr. Edwards was also named president and chief executive
of the Virginia, Maryland and Delaware Association of
Electric Cooperatives.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0186
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0186.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Critique:
   In Search of an Authentic Debate
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- The struggle for the survival of the National
Endowment for the Arts (NEA) is a story without heroes. Its
adversaries in Congress have grossly distorted or
misrepresented its accomplishments, while several Christian
leaders, in attempting to destroy the NEA, have adopted
decidedly un-Christian tactics. Meanwhile, those on the side
of the arts, presumably creative, expressive individuals,
have been sadly inarticulate and disorganized.
   The endowment is a remarkable, in fact, a unique federal
agency. When it was created 25 years ago, the government made
a de facto proclamation that the arts are important to our
nation. In the same way that we maintain a Defense Department
to protect our lives and our land and we have a National
Parks Service to protect the beauty of our plains and
forests, so we have an NEA to safeguard an important part of
our spiritual life: to preserve great art from the past and
to ensure free artistic expression in the future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The period of the NEA has been an astonishing time of
growth for the arts in this country: In 1965 there were about
60 professional orchestras in this country; today there are
three times that many. The growth in theater and dance
companies has been even more dramatic. Audiences have
increased as well. The estimates are that dance audiences
have gone from one million to 16 million in that 25-year
period. The growth has been not only in quantity but in
quality, with far more first-rate museums and performing-arts
organizations now than before.
   On the money side, one of the NEA's most extraordinary
accomplishments has been the leveraging of its funds, a feat
that should be dear to the heart of any free-enterprise
entrepreneur. Virtually every institutional grant of the NEA
is a matching grant, requiring funds from the private sector,
usually on at least a 3-to-1 basis. In the past decade, $237
million in NEA challenge grants have been matched by more
than $2 billion in new or increased contributions from
private sources. The cost to taxpayers for all of this is 64
cents per person per year.
   When it was discovered last year that a few photographs in
two exhibits were offensive to many individuals, the
opponents of the NEA entered the battle in full cry. Ignoring
Lithuania abroad, the homeless at home, and the S&amp;L debacle
(which will cost every man, woman and child in the U.S. more
than $2,000 before it is over), irate congressional and
Christian leaders aimed their blunderbusses at the tiny mouse
of the NEA. The Rev. Donald Wildmon of Mississippi, head of
the American Family Association, mounted a campaign of
disinformation, not only brandishing photographs out of
context from exhibitions and museum catalogs but reprinting
only portions of them. (In a suit for libel and copyright
infringement brought by artist David Wojnarowicz, a federal
judge recently issued a temporary injunction stopping further
publication of a Wildmon pamphlet.) Pat Robertson in a recent
full-page ad in a Washington newspaper asked members of
Congress: "Do you want to face the voters in your district
with the charge that you are wasting their hard-earned money
to promote sodomy, child pornography and attacks on Jesus
Christ?" Looking beyond the ugly threat in the ad, one is
prompted to ask: What hard-earned money? A small fraction of
64 cents? Come on.
   Meanwhile, Sen. Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Rep.
Dana Rohrabacher of California set their congressional staffs
to work (spending thousands and thousands of taxpayers'
dollars) to comb the 84,000 grants the NEA has made over its
25-year history to find offensive material. After months of
searching, the staffs are likely to come up with less than
one-tenth of one percent that offends their notion of
community standards.
   On the other side, the arts community had its own
problems; in fact, it has been in almost complete disarray.
When Mr. Wildmon and Mr. Robertson mounted enormous
letter-writing drives to members of Congress, it took arts
organizations months to respond. Just when arts groups began
to get their act together several state arts agencies put
forth a plan to divert funds from the NEA to the states. The
plan, which was out-and-out fratricide, would have meant the
end of the NEA and subsequently was withdrawn.
   John Frohnmayer took over as head of the NEA just when the
storm broke. Caught in the crossfire, he didn't know quite
where to turn. In the meantime, he was getting no help from
the White House, which has sent mixed signals, when it has
sent any at all. Timidly supporting the notion of
reauthorization of the NEA for five years, the White House
later supported a one-year extension, but that was
immediately shot down by congressional leaders.
   One of the great misfortunes of this brouhaha has been
that it has diverted attention from what should have been a
serious debate about the mission of the NEA. After 25 years,
this was the ideal time to review its goals and its means of
achieving them. In fact, a commission headed by John Brademas
and Leonard Garment has been appointed to do just that.
   A number of issues surrounding the NEA need to be
addressed. How best can grants to artists be made -- not in
terms of censorship, but to assure that the most promising as
well as the most talented are supported? There also is the
question of how much NEA support should go to established
arts organizations, "national treasures" such as our great
museums, symphonies, opera and theater companies -- and how
much to individual artists. These are valid issues and should
be the subject of vigorous, informed debate.
   On the other hand, debating whether we should have an NEA
at all, or whether it should attempt to control content is a
wrong-headed exercise in demagoguery that ultimately benefits
no one, least of all conservatives. They have better things
to do with their energies, some of which might be spent
visiting museums, galleries and theaters in order to get a
more balanced sense of the vigorous world of the arts in this
country today. Quite a lot of that vigor flows directly from
the admirable performance of the NEA over the last quarter
century.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0185
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0185.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ameritech
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AIT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERITECH (Chicago) -- Jerre L. Stead, chairman, president
and chief executive officer of Square D Co., was elected to
the board of this telecommunications company. His election
raises board membership to 16 and is effective Aug. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0184
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0184.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Pathe Says Talks With Time Warner
   Over MGM Bid Financing Hit Impasse
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle and Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MGM PCC TWX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pathe Communications Corp.'s proposed $1.31 billion
acquisition of MGM/UA Communications Co. appeared in jeopardy
as Pathe said discussions on a $650 million financing
arrangement with Time Warner Inc. had "reached an impasse."
   Los Angeles-based Pathe said, without providing details,
it "will seek alternative sources of financing to conclude
its acquisition of MGM/UA." It also said it would "continue a
dialogue with Time Warner" about the agreement that Time
Warner and Pathe signed in April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Time Warner executives, who had agreed to provide or
guarantee about half the financing for the deal in exchange
for coveted distribution rights and a security lien on the
United Artists film library, expressed surprise at the
announcement and had no immediate comment.
   Wall Street analysts have said Time Warner's participation
is the single most credible part of Pathe principal Giancarlo
Parretti's bid for MGM/UA.
   In Culver City, Calif., MGM/UA officials were understood
to believe that the deal will go through, with or without New
York-based Time Warner. "I don't know of anyone who would put
up that kind of money if they didn't believe the deal would
get done," one MGM/UA insider said, referring to the $200
million in earnest money that Pathe deposited into an escrow
account and stands to lose if the deal falls apart.
   But analysts contend Mr. Parretti's MGM/UA bid is all but
dead, marking the latest in a series of disappointments for
financier Kirk Kerkorian, who holds about an 82% stake in the
entertainment concern.
   "The chances of Kerkorian doing a deal with Pathe are
somewhere between zero and 0.0001 now," said David Londoner,
an entertainment analyst at Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co. Jeffrey
Logsdon, an analyst at Crowell, Weedon &amp; Co. said it was
unlikely that another financial backer would be found to
replace Time Warner. "This deal in every form and concoction
has already been shopped everywhere."
   The analysts speculated that Time Warner was scared off by
concerns that it might be accused of obtaining the United
Artists film library through "fraudulent conveyance" if a
debt-heavy Pathe were to default on its credit obligations.
Under that scenario, a court might invalidate Time Warner's
lien on the library and award those assets to all of the
creditors.
   "Without the library as collateral, Time Warner would
become just another lender," Mr. Londoner said. "That
obviously would be taking too big a risk." Other potential
financing sources probably would shy away for the same
reason.
   In recent weeks, Pathe has been trying to persuade Time
Warner to ease the terms of their agreement that require
Pathe to come up with $650 million in equity, including $450
million from its own sources rather than borrowed money.
Pathe officials contended they had met the spirit of the
agreement because much of their borrowing carried an option
letting the sum be paid back in the form of an equity stake
in Pathe.
   But Time Warner executives, led by Warner Brothers
Chairman Bob Daly and the studio's president, Terry Semel,
rejected the Pathe interpretation. Time Warner, burdened by
its own $10.6 billion debt, wasn't prepared to supply any
additional equity or other funds itself. Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp., citing the huge Time Warner debt load, put the company
on its CreditWatch list recently because of the risks of
bankrolling the Pathe deal.
   Separately, Pathe and MGM/UA said they signed a merger
agreement for Pathe to acquire the movie studio upon terms
that were revised last week. As expected, Pathe also
terminated its $20-a-share tender offer for all 61 million
shares of MGM/UA because the new agreement structures Pathe's
acquisition as a merger rather than as a tender offer.
   Under terms of the new agreement, holders of MGM/UA common
and preferred would receive a total of $21.50 a share, of
which $4 a share would be paid July 20. Closing of the
transaction and payment of the remaining $17.50 a share is
expected on or before Oct. 23.
   Pathe said the $4-a-share payment would be funded from the
$200 million escrow account. An additional $53 million needed
to make the distribution is due July 16. Pathe is also
required to deposit into the account an additional $100
million in two installments of $50 million each on Aug. 21
and Sept. 20.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0183
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0183.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chase Manhattan's Labrecque, Ryan
   Face Investors' `Show-Me Attitude'
   ----
   By Robert Guenther and Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6F
</SO>
<CO>
   CMB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- To put it bluntly, Thomas G. Labrecque and
Arthur F. Ryan, Chase Manhattan Corp.'s newly designated
chairman and president, respectively, face a credibility
problem with investors.
   Together with retiring Chairman Willard C. Butcher, they
persuaded investors last October to buy 16 million newly
issued common shares of the nation's second largest banking
company. At the time, they painted a rosy earnings outlook.
The response was so enthusiastic that Chase was able to raise
$625 million rather than the $500 million originally planned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But problem real estate loans and a slack corporate
financing market have pulled the rug from under those
projections, and investors think management was caught
sleeping. The stock has plummeted from $40.125 for each newly
issued share to close yesterday at $23.75, down 12.5 cents in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Mr. Labrecque, 51 years old, concedes that the level of
corporate finance activity is 30% below Chase's earlier
projections. "There were judgments that turned out not to be
right. I will accept that," he said in an interview.
   Mr. Labrecque said Chase management was "probably not as
quick {responding to the drop in revenue} as we should have
been." But he said management had been working with the board
for several months on plans to streamline Chase's commercial
banking business.
   For years, some Chase executives have privately questioned
whether Mr. Labrecque is up to the tough tasks that Chase
faces. He came to the limelight in 1980 when he was
catapulted out of Chase's treasury department over the heads
of two movers and shakers -- Barry Sullivan, who went on to
become chairman of First Chicago Corp., and William Ogden,
who in 1984 left to run Continental Bank Corp. -- into the
president-elect post.
   But other Chase executives credit Mr. Labrecque for two
moves that today are paying off for Chase: the decision to
expand its consumer banking and another to decentralize and
beef up back-office technology. Last year, the consumer bank
contributed roughly half of Chase's core earnings, and
Chase's technical services for corporate and institutional
clients are rated among the industry's most advanced.
   In that light, Mr. Ryan, a chain-smoking Brooklyn native,
is a logical choice to serve as Mr. Labrecque's No. 2. Mr.
Ryan, who in 1972 joined Chase from Control Data Corp.,
worked on the decentralization project and later took over
the consumer business. Chase today says its consumer business
is in a neck-and-neck race with Chemical Banking Corp. for
the No. 2 spot in the New York City market behind Citicorp.
   The selection of Mr. Ryan was cheered by many Chase
insiders. Engaging and straight-talking, he serves to offset
what some say is Mr. Labrecque's aloofness.
   To regain investors' faith, Messrs. Labrecque and Ryan
have embarked on Chase's second restructuring in recent
years, seeking to cut more than $300 million out of its
non-interest expenses, a reduction of about 8%, by the end of
the year. The cuts are expected to eliminate about 3,000 jobs
from Chase's 41,600-person work force.
   Analysts expect that cut to result in a restructuring
charge of less than $100 million in either the second or
third quarter. However, much of that restructuring charge is
expected to be offset by the sale of Chase buildings in
Frankfurt, West Germany, and in London and Switzerland.
   Mr. Ryan, 47 years old, said previous cost-cutting steps
were "a pure case of not enough." He said: "We have to be
more `real time' in responding to changes in the marketplace
so you don't have a restructuring every three years. What
happens in the market isn't something that I can control."
   While they find the moves promising, analysts remain wary
about whether Chase has a grip on where things are headed.
Charles Peabody of Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. said, "The
investment community is taking a show-me attitude."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0182
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0182.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   U.S. Trust Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   USTC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   U.S. TRUST Corp. (New York) -- Maureen Scannell Bateman,
46 years old, previously vice president and counsel at the
Bankers Trust Co. unit of Bankers Trust New York Corp., was
named senior vice president and general counsel at this
private banking, asset-management and securities-services
concern, succeeding Briscoe R. Smith, 52, who is returning to
private law practice.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0181
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0181.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Digi International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DGII WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DIGI INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Minneapolis) -- David Stanley,
chairman and chief executive officer of Payless Cashways
Inc., was named a director of this maker of
communication-related hardware and software products,
increasing board membership to five.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   On Sports: Voice of the Yanks
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Mel Allen has been a broadcaster for 53 years,
but he is not beyond an occasional muff. "Time for this
queeks whiz," he intoned last week in the cool innards of a
Manhattan sound studio while taping his part for "This Week
in Baseball," a syndicated weekly highlights show.
   The control-room people, none of whom looked old enough to
remember Allen's glory days as the radio voice of the New
York Yankees, broke up in laughter. So did he. Mistakes in
taped TV shows are no big deal, because everything's done six
or eight times anyway, and Mel gets "this week's quiz" right
the next time. And the next. And the next.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If that was radio, I'da heard about that mistake for a
month," the 77-year-old giggled later. "Guess there's
something to be said for television."
   But then was better than now in other, more important
ways, continued the man of whom it was said "a florist must
have decorated his voice."
   "I think just about every announcer who's done both radio
and television would say he preferred radio," declared Allen,
who is gray-haired and walks a bit stiff-legged, but whose
memorable baritone still resonates. "In television, the
directors don't like you talkin' about anything the people at
home can't see, but the camera only picks up a fraction of
what a flick of the eyes can cover.
   "They talk about television puttin' you in the ballpark. A
good radio announcer can do that by pointing out the little
maneuvers and gestures that are such a big part of the game,
and the listeners can fill in the pictures themselves.
Baseball never had a better ally than peoples' imaginations
in the radio days. Heck, sometimes the games folks at home
saw in their minds'd be better than the ones on the field."
   The games Melvin Allen Israel helped put in people's minds
mainly spanned the 1939-64 seasons, when he broadcast the
Yankees. If you lived in or around Gotham then, you called a
home run a "Ballantine blast" after the team's longtime beer
sponsor, like he did, and went around saying "How 'bout
that]" when DiMag, Yogi, Whitey or The Mick worked some of
their routine magic.
   If you lived elsewhere, Allen's was the voice that brought
the World Series through the radio you smuggled into school
or work. He broadcast 20 of those nationally, plus 24
baseball All-Star Games. Chances are, no one will do more.
   Most of that ended for Allen after the '64 season, when
the Yankees, ever-gracious, dumped him unceremoniously. He
returned in 1976 to cover the team's games on cable TV and
held that job through the 1988 season, but it wasn't quite
the same.
   That last stint brought his play-by-play career into six
decades, and he extended it to seven by doing a game earlier
this season. When baseball inaugurated the Ford C. Frick
Award, conferring Hall of Fame status on broadcasters, he and
Walter "Red" Barber shared the first, in 1978.
   Barber, an erudite Mississippian, was the Brooklyn
Dodgers' radio man in the 1940s and '50s, and later teamed
with the Alabama-born Allen on the Yanks, so for much of
three decades New York baseball had a Southern accent. Allen
writes that off to coincidence.
   "I've heard it said that Southerners make the best
sportscasters because they're such good storytellers, but
that shouldn't apply to me. Back home in Alabama, I was
always too busy to sit around tellin' stories," he says. "I
graduated law school {from the U. of Alabama} and was set to
be a lawyer until somebody talked me into auditioning for CBS
Radio. I did news there, special events, lots of things. The
first baseball games I covered were the 1938 World Series. I
bet no other baseball announcer ever broke in like that.
   "Barber was more of a Southerner than I was. He used
expressions like `rhubarb' for an argument, and `sittin' in
the catbird seat,' and he sounded more Southern," Allen
continues. "I always thought I spoke pretty good English; I
taught speech at Alabama for a while, you know. Give me
something to read and I'll read it clear as anyone. O'course,
when I'm just talkin', I drop my "g's" and all. I guess
broadcasting baseball is more like talkin' than reading a
speech."
   Baseball being what it is, what you thought of Allen uring
those years probably depended on how you felt about the
Yankees. He was, in current parlance, something of a "homer,"
although he'll quibble about the term.
   "There's a difference between partisanship and prejudice,
and while I naturally was partial to the Yankees I never
rooted for them openly the way other announcers did for their
teams," he contends. "I always reported the game honestly. If
a player on another team did something well, I'd give him
credit.
   "I never could convince some people of that, though," he
muses. "I remember being in the Boston Red Sox clubhouse
before a game, talking to Bobby Doerr. Ted Williams came up
to me and said, `Thanks for making me look like a horse's ass
the other day.' I didn't know what he meant then, and I still
don't. I suppose he assumed that if you worked for one team
you were against all the others. But I never felt that way
about myself."
   Allen says he listens to lots of sports on radio and TV
these days, and wishes the announcers wouldn't talk so much.
He acknowledges that he was faulted for volubility from time
to time, but maintains that the longer he broadcast baseball,
the more he allowed the game to speak for itself. "I'd try to
pick up every key play an instant before the crowd did, and
keep quiet while it reacted," he says. "I did some of my best
work with my mouth shut."
   Allen says he injects this philosophy into "This Week in
Baseball," a show he's been doing for 13 years. "It's
scripted pretty tight, but they let me ad lib during the
action scenes," he says. "Mostly, I do it by cuttin' things
out. If you say, `Here's the throw] Safe]' there really isn't
much you can add, is there?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Conseco Firm Completes Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CNC TIN GE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   CARMEL, Ind. -- Conseco Inc. said Conseco Capital Partners
L.P., a company it created with institutional investors, has
completed the purchase of Temple-Inland Inc.'s Great American
Reserve Insurance Co. for $143.5 million.
   Conseco, an insurance holding company, said GE Capital, a
unit of General Electric Co., provided $98 million in debt
financing for the purchase. GE Capital also is a limited
partner in Conseco Partners, which provided $7.5 million for
the transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Temple-Inland, a Diboll, Texas, forest products and
financial services concern, said the sale allows it to
concentrate its financial services business on mortgage-loan
servicing operations and Texas thrifts. Temple-Inland said it
won't record a significant gain on the sale, contrary to
earlier expectations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FRE FNM MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thursday, June 28, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 7/16% high, 8 5/16% low, 8 5/16% near
closing bid, 8 3/8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.175% 30 to 44 days; 8.15% 45 to 59 days;
8.10% 60 to 89 days; 8.05% 90 to 119 days; 8% 120 to 149
days; 7.95% 150 to 179 days; 7.875% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.26%
30 days; 8.21% 60 days; 8.18% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.70% one month; 7.74% two
months; 7.76% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.14% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.30% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.35% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.20% 30 days; 8.11% 60 days; 8.07%
90 days; 8.01% 120 days; 7.98% 150 days; 7.93% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% one month; 8 3/8%
- 8 1/4% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8 7/16% -
8 5/16% four months; 8 7/16% - 8 5/16% five months; 8 7/16% -
8 5/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 7/16% six months; 8 1/2% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, June 25, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.78% 13 weeks; 7.67% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.04%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.98%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.75%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.81%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Varity Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VAT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   VARITY Corp. (Toronto) -- Neil Arnold was appointed chief
financial officer of this industrial equipment manufacturer.
Mr. Arnold, 41 years old, succeeds James Vance, 60, who is
retiring, the company said. Mr. Arnold, senior vice president
and chief administrative officer of Varity, was formerly the
company's treasurer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American International Group
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   AIG EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American International Group Inc., an insurer
with interests that include three Paris-based companies, said
its stock will begin trading Tuesday on the Paris bourse.
   The company said the listing will broaden its shareholder
base and strengthen ties with the European financial
community. American International's stock is traded on two
other foreign exchanges, in Tokyo and London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Birmingham Steel Expansion
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BIR
</CO>
<LP>
   BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -- Birmingham Steel Corp. said it plans
to spend $35 million to $45 million to double the melting
capacity and upgrade the rolling operation at its Jackson,
Miss., mini-mill.
   The mini-mill operator said it has begun engineering and
environmental-impact studies for the proposed project, which
includes replacing the melt shop furnace and continuous
caster. The company said the expansion project, which should
be completed in the summer of 1992, will enable the company
to take advantage of the growing Southeast steel market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Abitibi-Price Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   ABY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ABITIBI-PRICE Inc. (Toronto) -- Eileen A. Mercier was
named to the new position of senior vice president and chief
financial officer. Ms. Mercier previously served as vice
president, corporate development, of this forest products
concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   DNB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DUN &amp; BRADSTREET Corp. (New York) -- Mary Johnston Evans
was elected a director of this marketer of business
information and services, increasing the board to 13. She
serves on the board of a number of major corporations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Minolta
   Puts Name
   On Polaroid
   ----
   By Ron Suskind
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   PRD J.MNO
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Polaroid Corp. has a new way of
selling more of its instant cameras: put Minolta's name on
them.
   Polaroid agreed to let the Japanese company sell the
Spectra Pro, Polaroid's most expensive consumer instant
camera, in the U.S. as the Minolta Instant Pro starting late
this summer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For Polaroid, which long has boasted that it has one of
the world's best-known brand names, making products for rival
Minolta Camera Co. is a highly unusual marketing move
reflecting the company's general woes. Sales of instant
cameras have been sluggish for much of the past decade, as
35mm cameras sold by Minolta and others have overwhelmed the
instant market. As a result, Polaroid is looking for new ways
to get more cameras in the hands of photographers so it can
sell more film, its most profitable product.
   "It translates to the public that somehow the Polaroid
name doesn't have the value anymore," said Stephen A.
Greyser, professor of marketing at Harvard Business School.
"And, in terms of selling one's highest-end product -- the
one you spent the {research and development} money producing
-- under a competitor's name, it is very peculiar."
   Polaroid contended that agreement with Minolta is a
logical move. "We're trying to find new ways to grow our
business by putting another camera on the market that, with
Minolta's good name, would lend a positive brand
identification to instant photography," said Lee C. Brewer,
vice president of Polaroid's world-wide sales group. "This is
absolutely not a white flag."
   Minolta won't be selling Polaroid's regular Spectra camera
or its lower priced Impulse, which account for the bulk of
Polaroid's camera sales.
   Analysts agreed that the move was somewhere between
pragmatic and creative, allowing Polaroid to take advantage
of Minolta's superior marketing force in specialty camera
stores. Ultimately, Polaroid will sell more Spectra film,
because the agreement doesn't permit Minolta to sell instant
film for the cameras.
   The move is a truce, "a friendship flag saying, `We need a
little help from our Japanese friends,'" said Brenda Lee
Landry, an analyst at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "Polaroid is
desperate for some new growth. And, remember, these high-end
cameras really burn film. Sure, you've got to sell your
cameras, but the money is in film."
   All of which offers Polaroid some solace. The company's
instant camera sales peaked at 9.4 million in 1978, says Ms.
Landry, as compared with about 3 million cameras sold in
1989. Meanwhile, she says, the amount of film sold dropped
only slightly over the decade, with Polaroid expanding into
the industrial and medical markets.
   Overall, the company's sales have been disappointing of
late. First-quarter sales slipped 1.4% to $436.2 million.
That followed a meager 2.2% increase in sales last year to
$1.90 billion.
   Polaroid's main problem, said Eugene Glazer, an analyst
for Dean Witter Reynolds, is that instant photographs cost
twice as much per print as conventional film. The Minolta
Instant Pro, however, will be aimed at buyers such as
insurance adjusters, real estate agents and architects, who
need instant prints and care less about cost. He said that
the arrangement, albeit somewhat peculiar, shows Polaroid is
being "more open-minded, maybe more realistic about its
situation."
   In general, it is a well-known company that will sell,
under its brand name, the products of companies that don't
have names that are as strong. For instance, Polaroid sells
conventional film made for it by several lesser known
companies.
   But such agreements between major, high-profile
competitors are rare, says Harvard Business School's Prof.
Greyser. "The closest I can come is the Sears-Whirlpool
alliance" under which Whirlpool Corp. makes appliances that
Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. sells under the Kenmore brand name. But
that is different, he says, in part because Whirlpool sells
its low-end models to Sears, not its more expensive models
with the latest features.
   Still, Polaroid said the agreement may be just the
beginning of its relationship with Minolta. It is "a first
step to explore a potential long-term collaboration between
our two companies," said Polaroid President and Chief
Executive Officer I. MacAllister Booth.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Polaroid's stock rose, closing at $40.625 a share, up 87.5
cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Housewares Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GHW WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GENERAL HOUSEWARES Corp. (Stamford, Conn.) -- Robert L.
Gray was named vice president-finance, treasurer and chief
financial officer, succeeding Philip H. Dallow, who is
leaving the maker of cookware and cutlery products. Mr. Gray
had been treasurer of Helene Curtis, a Chicago-based
cosmetics company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Environmental Magazines Ride Wave of Social Concern
   ---
   Challenge for New Publications Is
   To Outlast Initial Flurry of Interest
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Remember the glut of science magazines that hit the
newsstands in the 1970s only to vanish or metamorphose into
something else? Backers of a new crop of environmental
periodicals hope to escape the same fate.
   Carrying intriguing titles such as Buzzworm, Garbage and
E, the new environmental magazines have been bankrolled by
entrepreneurs and nonprofit groups. Now flourishing in the
afterglow of Earth Day this spring, the magazines' backers
are betting that there is a long-term appetite in American
households for more articles on ozone depletion, recycled
diapers and pest-free gardening.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the moment, their optimism looks well-placed. For the
maiden issue of Garbage last fall, Editor and Publisher
Patricia Poore planned to print 50,000 copies and figured
"we'd have to give some of these away." But interest rose and
the first press run hit 126,000 copies. After five issues,
Ms. Poore says she has 110,000 subscribers for her
irreverently named bimonthly, based in Brooklyn, N.Y.
   Doug Moss, editor and publisher of E, a bimonthly
published in Norwalk, Conn., says his inaugural issue got a
boost when two members of Congress from Connecticut sent
copies with a personal note to all their congressional
colleagues. Mr. Moss says his fifth issue is nearing deadline
and adds, "We've got advertisers we're turning away."
   Subscriptions to Buzzworm, a Boulder, Colo., bimonthly
that uses striking color photography to illustrate global
environmental issues, have topped 50,000, according to
managing editor Elizabeth Darby Junkin. She says the
magazine's start-up is being financed "the old-fashioned way.
. . . We found some people with money."
   The initial signs of success these magazines enjoy
underscore the boost a new venture can get riding a major
social trend. But publishing veterans say a flurry of early
interest is no guarantee of long-term victory in the fiercely
competitive world of magazines. Like small businesses
generally, more magazines fail in the early years than
succeed.
   "The lesson with all these fringe magazines is that people
perceive a big interest from readers and rush in," says Ron
Javers, editor of Philadelphia magazine. "But you also need
advertiser interest in those readers. If you don't have both,
you're out in the cold."
   Making matters worse for fledgling publishers, advertisers
have been unusually stingy with their magazine budgets,
negotiating for lower rates or cutting ads altogether. On top
of this, new nature-oriented publications face added
competition from established magazines published by
environmental groups such as the Sierra Club and the National
Audubon Society.
   "A number of well written, extremely handsome magazines
have already staked out this territory," says Thomas Rawls,
editor of Country Life magazine.
   Publishers of the three new magazines remain upbeat. Ms.
Poore is running Garbage in the image of her 16-year-old
magazine, Old House Journal, a publication about restoring
old houses that has a circulation of 190,000. She carefully
targets potential readers by direct mail and prices
subscriptions relatively high, (Garbage is $21 for six
issues), so that circulation revenue carries about 70% of
total costs. "The magazine grows slowly but it's a little
more inflation proof," she says.
   The magazine's offbeat title is designed to be both blunt
and humorous. "We're about day-to-day life, not your
wilderness vacation," Ms. Poore says. Garbage's stories deal
with such gritty issues as packaging, composting and
breakthroughs in toilet design.
   "Buzzworm is into conservation beauty while we're sort of
the dishpan hands of the movement," Ms. Poore says.
   Like Garbage, Buzzworm's odd title was designed to be
catchy and easy to remember. It's slang in the Southwest for
rattlesnake. "It's awkward on the East Coast, we realize
that," says Ms. Junkin, the managing editor. "As we get
older, if we have to do a title change, we'll look at it."
   Founded in mid-1988 by photojournalist Joseph Daniel,
Buzzworm uses striking photographs to illustrate
environmental stories from around the world. The latest issue
includes photo essays on residents of the Amazon rain forest,
the elusive Indian tiger and coral reef diving off the
Mexican coast.
   "We include adventure travel; we don't forget that we're
here to entertain," says Ms. Junkin. "A magazine that thinks
it can preach all the time is not going to work."
   Preaching is E's forte. "We're following major social
issues, not just how to recycle your cups at home," says Mr.
Moss, the editor and publisher. "My job . . . is to make
waves and rock the boat."
   Grants from several nonprofit foundations and a $50,000
interest-free loan from the Humane Society of the U.S. helped
launch the magazine. Mr. Moss's own business forms company
subsidized staff salaries in the early going.
   Ads are a prickly issue for environmental publications. Ad
revenue may keep the magazine afloat, but readers may view it
as a publisher's sellout.
   At E, Mr. Moss's foundation financing frees him to be
choosy about ads. He says, for example, that E wouldn't run
an automobile or truck ad because gas-powered vehicles are
polluters. "Companies that say `Rah, rah, rah, we're
environmentalists, too,'" he says. "That's not what we're
about."
   Buzzworm takes a different tack. "If the profit motive
gets a multinational corporation to become more
environmentally conscious, there's nothing wrong with that,"
says Ms. Junkin. "We're happy to say that Nike, Esprit and
Sears came to us."
   E is increasing its size to 84 pages so that it can sell
more space, but Mr. Moss says he won't go over a self-imposed
ceiling of devoting no more than 40% of the magazine to ads.
"You can cross the line where you look too commercial," he
says.
   Though Mr. Moss thinks E will be a survivor, he assumes
some environmental magazines will sink. But he adds: "If we
can support swimsuit annuals and motorcycle magazines and all
that fluff, we can support three environmental magazines and
probably more."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ecogen Sets Pact to Let
   Investor Boost Stake
   To About 36% From 9%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6G
</SO>
<CO>
   EECN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LANGHORNE, Pa. -- Ecogen Inc. said it signed a letter of
intent with New York investor David Blech for Mr. Blech to
increase his stake in the company from about 9% to about 36%.
Under the proposed agreement, Mr. Blech will buy 3.25 million
newly issued shares for $2 a share, or $6.5 million.
   Because Mr. Blech is injecting new capital, the
biotechnology firm said it is no longer seeking a buyer for
the company. In February, Ecogen retained Piper, Jaffray &amp;
Hopwood Inc. to assist it in reviewing its options, including
the sale of all or part of the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under terms of the proposed purchase, Mr. Blech will also
receive a seven-year warrant to purchase as much as four
million additional shares at $3 a share. In addition, he will
have the right to name a majority of nominees to Ecogen's
board.
   The company currently has about 7.5 million shares
outstanding.
   Under a March agreement with Mr. Blech, the company can
require him to buy 666,666 shares at $2.25 a share. As part
of that pact, Mr. Blech also received a warrant to purchase
500,000 shares at $4.50 a share as part of that pact. Ecogen
said that both the company's put option and Mr. Blech's
warrant will expire upon the closing of the current
transaction, which is expected to occur in July.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thai Joint-Venture
   Plant for Guardian
   Industries Cleared
   ----
   By Helen E. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6H
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   BANGKOK -- Thai authorities' about-face on a proposed
joint-venture glass factory has removed an irritant in
U.S.-Thai economic relations.
   The Board of Investment this week cleared Siam Cement Co.
and Guardian Industries Corp. of Northville, Mich., to set up
a three billion baht ($116.6 million) float-glass factory to
supply Thailand's booming construction industry. Float glass
is a superior form of plate glass.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move effectively ended a longstanding near-monopoly on
plate-glass production by Thai-Asahi Glass, which has close
links to Chat Thai, the dominant party in Prime Minister
Chatichai Choonhavan's coalition government. It also marked a
triumph for Guardian. Unlike Japanese and Taiwanese
companies, which dominate foreign investment in Thailand, "a
lot of American companies get overwhelmed" by the intricacies
and obstacles in doing business in Thailand, a U.S.
businessman said, but "Guardian dug in . . . and overcame
those problems."
   The float-glass plant, to be 51%-owned by Siam Cement and
49% by Guardian, was proposed last year, but a five-year ban
on new glass factories was imposed last May. U.S. officials
pressured Thailand to remove the ban and allow U.S.
participation in the country's heavily protected glass
market.
   Some analysts believe Thai-Asahi's predominance in the
glass industry is aided by political connections. The
founder, Pramarn Adireksarn, is Chat Thai's advisory
chairman, the government's industry minister and the prime
minister's brother-in-law. He is no longer directly involved
with Thai-Asahi. The company's president, Kiarti
Srifeungfung, is a founding member of Chat Thai. Thai-Asahi,
60%-owned by Thai businessmen and 40% by the Asahi Group of
Japan, has annual capacity of about 219,000 tons of plate
glass; its affiliate, Siam Plate Glass Co., has 30,000 tons.
Shortly before the ban on additional glass output was
ordered, Thai-Asahi received government approval to set up a
131,000-ton-capacity factory, to be operated by Bangkok Float
Glass Co., which is being formed and will be about 60%-owned
by Thai-Asahi and its Thai partners, and about 40% by Asahi
Group.
   Thai-Asahi lobbied hard to block Guardian's joint venture.
It argued that demand wouldn't be sufficient to support
Guardian's production, and that the project would hurt all
Thai glass factories. Yet when the Board of Investment
approved Guardian's project, it sweetened terms for
Thai-Asahi's glass production, which will result in even
greater glass supplies for the Thai market. The board waived
its requirement that Thai-Asahi and Siam Plate Glass export
30% of their output, allowing them to sell all of it
domestically. And Bangkok Float Glass's export requirement
was cut from 80% to 50%, the same as for the Siam
Cement-Guardian plant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citicorp Sets Expansion
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Citicorp said it will open offices in
Czechoslovakia and Poland in response to the countries'
movement toward market-based economies.
   The offices, which are expected to open next week in
Prague and Warsaw, will help corporate clients of its
Citibank unit identify local partners and finance Central
European joint ventures. The offices also will help
Czechoslovak and Polish companies participating in
government-sponsored privatization programs find foreign
partners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citibank entered the Central European market in 1986 in a
joint venture with National Bank of Hungary in Budapest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thriving Thrift:
   If Only All the S&amp;Ls
   Had Been Managed
   Like Golden West
   ---
   Husband-Wife Team Reveled
   In Stodginess to Boost
   Loan Profits, Stock Price
   ---
   No Junk Bonds, No Perks
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   GDW
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- They met on a beach in the Hamptons in
1960. He tried to impress her with his business acumen,
talking at length about securities documents known as "red
herrings." She was coy, not letting on that she certainly
knew a lot more about such matters than he did. Only later
would the talk turn to the topic that would soon become their
shared secret passion: Savings and loans.
   No kidding. Herb Sandler was a gangly New York lawyer, and
Marion Osher was a sharp-minded Wall Street financial analyst
from Maine, and from that chance encounter would spring a
partnership that has become one of the more intriguing -- and
successful -- in American business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Sandlers, who married in 1961, run Golden West
Financial Corp. here, an S&amp;L that is truly a mom-and-pop
operation, albeit one with $20 billion in assets.
   While the air is full of doomsday talk about the thrift
industry these days, by many measures Golden West, whose main
operating unit is World Savings &amp; Loan Association, is among
the nation's strongest financial institutions. Annual growth
in earnings from its traditional lending operations has
averaged 19% over the past 20 years. Analysts expect Golden
West's 1990 net income to surge about 27% to some $200.3
million, or $3.19 a share.
   Its stock price has risen from a split-adjusted $3.75 in
the spring of 1984 to a closing price of $29.50 on the New
York Stock Exchange yesterday. Starting with a $4 million
investment in 1962, the Sandlers now own about 7% of a
company with a current market capitalization of nearly $2
billion. They have achieved this through a remarkable
combination of savvy marketing and relentlessly stodgy --
some say boring -- business principles. First among them is a
ferocious devotion to penny-pinching that has kept their
costs lower than any other large depository institution's,
bringing new meaning to the term "thrift."
   The Sandlers rarely stray beyond making adjustable-rate
loans in the snooze-inducing home mortgage market, declining
to offer even automated teller machines. They do without
corporate jets and corporate dining rooms and even corporate
receptionists: Visitors to the company's 17-story
headquarters are instructed by a placard to announce their
own arrival on an old black telephone. Marion says she does
allow herself the extravagance of a chauffeur: It is her
husband, who handles that extra chore for free.
   Two other principles have been to hoard capital and
concentrate only on conservatively priced home loans. The
Sandlers, for example, basically refused to compete with S&amp;Ls
that in the '80s were routinely making below-market loans or
venturing into commercial real estate.
   "It's the quintessential application of common sense to
the thrift industry," says Alex Sheshunoff, a banking
consultant based in Austin, Texas. "If Benjamin Franklin were
alive today he'd be comfortable sitting on Golden West's
board."
   Along the way, mom and pop Sandler have openly and often
gratuitously insulted some of their competitors, riled
government regulators, influenced federal thrift policy with
high-profile political lobbying and generally earned a
reputation as the shrewdest thrift operators in the country.
   Golden West's story illustrates an oft-overlooked truth
about the battered and much-maligned thrift industry, which
collectively lost $19 billion last year. About half of the
nation's S&amp;Ls -- some 1,250 or so of the nation's remaining
2,500 thrifts not in government conservatorship -- actually
are relatively healthy. Many, like Los Angeles-based H.F.
Ahmanson Corp.'s Home Savings of America unit and Washington
Federal Savings in Seattle, are even thriving, by sticking
close to thrifts' traditional business of making home
mortgages and by squeezing costs.
   It remains to be seen how many of these healthy thrifts
will survive the wrenching changes in the industry augured by
the thrift bailout bill and fierce competition from
commercial banks and government-sponsored mortgage agencies.
Moreover, they still depend on healthy mortgage markets,
which may turn sickly this year if the sharp downturn in home
construction continues. Golden West in particular has to
prove that it, unlike most of other big thrifts, can manage
its recent rapid growth.
   But Golden West's success is all the more striking because
the Sandlers have achieved something far more rare than rich
profits in the thrift industry: jointly running a
multibillion-dollar business and avoiding divorce. Many
couples who've tried, like Susie and Doug Tompkins of
apparel-maker Esprit de Corp., have seen their marriages
dissolve amid feuding over the direction or control of the
company. "A lot of couples would wind up strangling each
other in {the Sandlers} situation," says Herbert Gold, a San
Francisco writer and a friend of the Sandlers. "Most people
vow to stay together for better or worse but not for lunch.
It's a real testament to the uniqueness of Herb and Marion's
relationship."
   That uniqueness shows up in the Sandlers' management
style, a bizarre, two-headed thing that can be disconcerting
to watch. Consider this recent exchange, over a lunch of
decidedly inexpensive cold-cut sandwiches:
   Marion: The secret to our success is that we stay close to
the fundamentals --
   Herb: May I say something, dear? What she means is --
   Marion: I'm not finished, dear. We do a basic business --
   Herb: That's right, dear. Let me explain a little bit . .
. Is that right, dear?
   Marion: Well, no, dear . . .
   And so on. Herb, 58, is chairman of the board and co-chief
executive. Marion, 59, is president and co-chief executive.
They've split their duties as equally as their titles. Herb
tends to focus on big-picture issues, credit matters and
public speaking. Marion, an inveterate numbers cruncher,
handles financial analysis, marketing and deposit gathering;
she also personally writes the company's annual reports.
   Their strategy evolved largely from Marion's work as a
thrift analyst on Wall Street in the early 1960s. "Marion
concluded that the thrift business was almost a guaranteed
moneymaker," recalls Bernard Osher, her brother, who now runs
Butterfield &amp; Butterfield, a San Francisco auction house. "It
was a regulated industry, and she saw that if you kept right
on top of things, kept your costs down and stayed with the
basics, there were profits to be made." It was Marion's idea
to head west from New York -- partly to buy a thrift, and
partly to combat her lifelong asthma.
   In 1962, the Sandlers packed up their belongings, drove to
California and eventually bought Golden West, then a sleepy
institution with $34 million of assets and two offices.
   Golden West has grown steadily since, but the truly
explosive growth has come in the past two years. During the
mid-1980s, as many thrifts grew madly, the Sandlers
retrenched, thinking that home loans were being irrationally
priced too low to be profitable.
   As a result, World Savings, the main lending unit,
basically was shut down from 1985 to 1987, generating no
asset growth. The Sandlers buoyed profits by selling off huge
bundles of mortgage-backed securities; net income from such
sales and other non-lending activities totaled $90.9 million
in 1985 and 1986.
   Golden West at the time had lending operations in just two
states, California and Colorado. The Sandlers saw the need
for expansion, but decided they needed time to overhaul their
lending procedures and risk controls before barreling into
unfamiliar territories. They also dispatched teams to
scrutinize possible new markets.
   "People said we were through, they said we'd lost our
marketing touch," Herb recalls. "Wall Street crucified us.
Well, we knew what we were doing. One thing you don't do is
let Wall Street run your business."
   He adds, with great satisfaction: "Of the competitors that
laughed at us, not a single one is still in business today."
   In its quiet period the company built its capital ratios
far above government requirements, giving it the extra cash
to finance expansion -- through acquisitions and the opening
of new offices -- into 16 new states, and allowing it to pile
on billions of dollars of new mortgages. The company has also
been lucky; its return to a growth mode coincided with a
prolonged boom in the California housing market, still its
main turf. Assets jumped from $12.9 billion at the end of
1987 to more than $20 billion now.
   Such fevered growth usually is a precursor of disaster in
the thrift industry, but the Sandlers reduced that risk by
keeping things boring. During the growth spurt, and
throughout their history, they eschewed junk bonds,
condominium loans, commercial real estate and some of the
other hot new lending games opened up by deregulation in the
early 1980s. Their one foray outside of home mortgages, a
two-year flirtation with car loans, was a bust; they
abandoned that business in 1987.
   Their lending standards also are tougher than those of
most thrifts, in part because of a change the Sandlers made
during their lending lull: most loans must be approved by a
committee of top executives. "There is too much potential for
myopia when you have decision-makers at too low a level,"
Herb explains. "There is a tendency to push for volume
because it looks good."
   Furthermore, the Sandlers generally won't lend more than
80% of a home's purchase price; many lenders in California
will go to 90%. Primarily for these reasons, World Savings'
bad loans are phenomenally low: Its repossessed real estate
amounted to only 0.1% of its roughly $20 billion in assets at
year-end.
   Even more important to the Sandlers' success has been
their fanatical cost-cutting. Top executives -- even the
Sandlers -- never fly first class. James Judd, Golden West's
chief operating officer, stays in mid-priced hotels and rents
economy cars when he's on the road, and expects other
executives to do the same.
   Shortly after acquiring one new branch a few years back,
Mr. Judd noticed that "there were times when the lobby was so
barren of customers that you could fling a dead cat through
there and not hit anybody. Yet we still had the same number
of tellers as at the peak hours." Mr. Judd arranged for more
tellers during heavy hours and fewer during light ones.
   While the Sandlers pay their employees well -- and reward
them with stock options that the company's success has made
very valuable -- they stretch their manpower to save money.
Golden West has about 3,100 employees; by comparison, CalFed
Inc., which is slightly larger in asset base, has 5,620.
   Bonuses are awarded partly on the basis of a manager's
ability to meet or beat budget. That prompted one branch
manager to shut off half the lights in his branch during
working hours; even Marion says "that was going a little too
far."
   Some competitors say this simple, low-cost approach --
particularly the fact that Golden West offers no ATM machines
or credit cards -- could backfire some day. "They may one day
wake up to discover that they are behind the times," says
Patrick Price, retired chairman of San Francisco Federal
Savings &amp; Loan. One generally admiring rival chief executive
says he wonders whether the Sandlers are deferring
expenditures on such products as ATMs so the company's
profits would look better to a possible acquirer.
   "That is an incredibly naive and extraordinarily stupid
comment," Herb replies caustically. "Who said that? Is he in
the business? He ought to find out what his costs are on
ATMs. He obviously doesn't know how to analyze anything."
There are no plans to sell, either, he says.
   "We have analyzed this thoroughly, and we see no evidence
that our customers want ATMs," says Marion. Moreover, the
company has installed spaces for ATMs in all its branches.
"If the customers want ATMs, we can have them put in
virtually overnight," adds Herb.
   Though witty and personable, Herb can be vicious when on
the attack, and among his favorite targets are the fast-buck
thrift operators, regulators and members of Congress he and
Marion blame for a thrift crisis they've been predicting
since the early '80s.
   Herb was in full battle cry at congressional hearings in
August 1988. He figured that losses in the mounting thrift
crisis then were at least $100 billion, and in a
now-legendary performance, he denounced official estimates
that the problem was no more than $15 billion as "pure
unadulterated nonsense right out of Alice and Wonderland."
Arms flailing, voice roaring, he also liberally invoked such
words as "incompetent" and "insane."
   Marion is no slouch as a critic, either. "Every time I go
to Washington I am simply amazed at the the pathetic quality
of this country's leadership," she declares.
   Such tirades have earned the Sandlers as many enemies as
friends, but subsequent events have proved them largely
correct. The cost of paying and financing the thrift
industry's losses over the next decade will range from $400
billion to $500 billion, according to a recent study by Mr.
Sheshunoff, the banking consultant.
   So where do the Sandlers turn for an encore? They're
tight-lipped about their future course, but privately, Herb
has remarked on Golden West's growing capital cushion and
coyly noted that "you don't go hunting for elephant without
an elephant gun." Friends take that to mean that the couple
may be cooking up a big acquisition.
   That might change the look of the company, but as long as
the Sandlers are there, Golden West will continue to bear
their unique stamp. There is Marion's obsession with detail
and level-headedness: She never throws a party without first
sending each guest a full list of who is attending, and she
usually wears clothes she knits or sews herself.
   And there is Herb's quirkiness. In a meeting several years
ago at Golden West headquarters with Sanford C. Bernstein &amp;
Co. analyst Jonathan Gray, Herb is said to have refused to
answer a single question about his business and instead
discoursed for 45 minutes on the mating habits of the praying
mantis.
   Herb says he doesn't remember that. Mr. Gray won't
comment, except to say, "A lot of people like Herb and a lot
of people respect him, but I don't think anybody understands
him."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   S&amp;L Interests' Political Contributions
   Topped $11 Million in '80s, Study Shows
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- During the 1980s, when the savings-and-loan
crisis festered and finally exploded, S&amp;L interests
contributed more than $11 million to congressional
candidates.
   According to an analysis of Federal Election Commission
records by Common Cause, the top recipient of political
contributions from S&amp;L executives, their families and
political action committees associated with thrift
institutions was Sen. Pete Wilson (R., Calif.), who took in
$243,334 from 1981-1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also ranking in the top five are three senators -- Donald
Riegle (D., Mich.); Alan Cranston (D., Calif.); and Alfonse
D'Amato (R., N.Y.) -- who face ethics investigations into
their ties to campaign contributors, including those in the
S&amp;L industry.
   The release of the study comes amid a bitterly partisan
political debate over who is to blame for the S&amp;L crisis. The
executive committee of the Democratic National Committee,
meeting in Portland, Ore., is expected to pass a resolution
tomorrow demanding that President Bush clean up "the
Republican-managed S&amp;L mess." Republicans, meanwhile, are
encouraging their party's congressional candidates to use the
S&amp;L issue to attack Democratic incumbents for mishandling
thrift legislation.
   PACs for the financial-services industry, which includes
S&amp;Ls, have been the largest corporate contributors to
congressional campaigns in recent years. In 1983-1990,
financial-services PACs gave nearly $22 million to candidates
for Congress.
   Common Cause is using the S&amp;L issue to pressure lawmakers
into passing legislation to overhaul campaign financing.
"We've had a $300 billion scandal and no one has done
anything to reform the corrupt system that let it happen,"
said Fred Wertheimer, president of the self-styled citizens
lobby. During the July 4 congressional recess, Common Cause
will unveil S&amp;L-focused newspaper advertisements criticizing
specific lawmakers in eight states and a dozen congressional
districts.
   Congressional Democrats, who control both chambers,
received a larger portion of the S&amp;L campaign bounty,
according to the Common Cause study. Among the top 25
recipients of S&amp;L-related contributions in the Senate and
House, Democrats took in $1.8 million while Republicans
received $1.4 million.
   The study also shows that President Bush's 1988 campaign
benefited from $600,000 in "soft money" (large contributions
from wealthy individuals to political parties that are made
outside of the federal election law limits) from executives
in the S&amp;L industry. That includes $100,000 from Charles
Keating, who is chairman of the former parent of Lincoln
Savings &amp; Loan Association of Irvine, Calif., a
once-highflying thrift now in federal receivership.
   Several failed or deeply troubled thrifts were among the
biggest sources of campaign contributions, including Lincoln;
Western Savings &amp; Loan Association, Phoenix, Ariz., and
Vernon Savings &amp; Loan Association, Dallas, whose former owner
was indicted this month.
   The leading individual contributor among S&amp;L interests was
Carl Lindner Jr., whose Ohio family contributed $828,920 to
congressional candidates. The Lindner family founded and
controls American Financial Corp., which owns Hunter Savings
Association. Mr. Lindner and Mr. Keating were once business
associates.
   The top recipients of S&amp;L-related contributions from
January 1981 through April 1990 were: Sen. Wilson, $243,334;
Sen. Riegle, $200,900; Sen. Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas),
$154,207; Sen. Cranston, $143,700; and Sen. D'Amato, $88,235.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Crown Central Petroleum Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CNPA
</CO>
<LP>
   CROWN CENTRAL PETROLEUM Corp. (Baltimore) -- Donald R.
Yearwood, 50 years old, senior vice president of American
Trading &amp; Production Corp., was elected a director of this
refiner and marketer of petroleum products, succeeding J.
Warren Weiss, 66, who retired as a senior officer of American
Trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Safety-Kleen Building Facility
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SK
</CO>
<LP>
   ELGIN, Ill. -- Safety-Kleen Corp. said it is building a
$40 million oil re-refinery in East Chicago, Ind., which will
process 75 million gallons of used automotive and industrial
oil annually.
   The maker of parts-cleaner services and solvent recycling
said the plant, to be completed by May 1991, will produce 43
million gallons of high-quality base lubricating oil, as well
as other petroleum products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Saftely-Kleen said the re-refinery is twice the size of
the largest facility now in operation, its Breslau, Ontario,
plant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Having Poured Out His Wrath,
   He Offers Up a Bit of the Grape
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   C JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- For years, Lee Iacocca has been known as a Japan
basher, rapping the country for "slamming doors in our faces"
and lamenting its "almost parasitic" dependence on the U.S.
market.
   But now, the Chrysler Corp. chairman is inviting Japanese
consumers to share some of his wine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Today, Mr. Iacocca starts marketing in Japan wine produced
by his vineyard in Italy, promoting it as the perfect
accompaniment to "the renowned cuisine of Japan." His two red
wines, costing $20 and $45 a bottle, respectively, have Mr.
Iacocca's autograph plastered across the label.
   Can he be serious? Mr. Iacocca has just toured the U.S.
claiming that Chrysler cars stand up to the Japanese
competition. In his book "Talking Straight," he states: "I
hate to pick on the Japanese -- but they give me such great
material to work with, I just can't help myself]" And in a
recent Fortune article, for example, he charged that if Sony
Corp. Chairman Akio Morita "didn't know any more about
electronics than he does about fairness, he'd still be trying
to figure out how to put together a crystal radio set."
Despite such comments, Mr. Iacocca has recently been denying
that he is a Japan basher.
   But Mr. Iacocca's wine venture is baffling many Japanese
consumers. "I thought he was like, `Hey you Japs,'" says
Tatsuo Kurata, a 41-year-old employee at a chemical-appliance
company, folding his hand into a fist. "I don't think I'll
buy."
   "It's interesting how he can separate business from his
opinions like that," says 24-year-old Yosuke Kinoshita as he
looks over a stack of books on U.S.-Japan trade friction in a
Tokyo bookstore.
   However, the Japanese importer of the wines hopes Mr.
Iacocca's controversial reputation will help sales. "To have
that Mr. Iacocca bowing his head to Japanese consumers" will
at least spur talk, says A. John Hamaguchi, director of
Hiroya Co.
   Mr. Hamaguchi says he intends to market the wine to
department stores and Italian restaurants. In case anyone
fancies them for Japan's summer gift-giving season, wooden
boxes are available, with the Iacocca signature stamped on
the lid.
   Japanese car makers, the main target of Mr. Iacocca's
attacks, are watching with amusement to see how it fares.
"Perhaps Mr. Iacocca will at last find out for himself that
doing business in Japan is not as difficult as he seems to
want to tell everyone it is," says a spokesman for Toyota
Motor Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   School Days:
   Break the Teaching Monopoly
   ----
   By C. Emily Feistritzer
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   There are vast numbers of adults with at least a
bachelor's degree who want to teach. Many have advanced
degrees and years of successful experience in other careers.
But instead of capitalizing on this opportunity, we are on
the verge of blowing it.
   The obstacles to the highly educated getting into the
classroom are enormous. Leading the list of roadblocks is the
issue of teacher licensing or certification. Each state sets
certification requirements, and in all but Wyoming the
regular route is completion of an approved college teacher
education program. That means one has to go to college and
complete a series of education courses approved by the state
department of education.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   States in recent years -- due to political pressures, in
most cases -- have been creating "alternatives" to this
traditional route. It's a notion given strong support by
President Bush and the governors. But relatively few of these
programs are available to the large numbers of people who
would like to go through them.
   According to a study just completed by the National Center
for Education Information, which I head, 33 states now say
they have implemented alternative teacher certification
programs, and NCEI's analysis of these programs indicates
there are some very good ones out there for people who
already have completed at least a bachelor's degree and want
to enter a teacher preparation program and obtain a license.
These programs require a commitment from the state, the local
school district and usually from a cooperating college to
provide professional education training, mentoring or some
other type of beginning-teacher support -- components that
researchers say are important for successful teaching and
that most traditional teacher education programs do not
provide.
   Unfortunately, one-third of the states that report having
alternative programs tied them to teacher shortages. Since
teacher shortages have been few and far between, despite dire
predictions to the contrary, these programs have produced
very few teachers.
   Examples include Arkansas, which has certified only 21
teachers through its alternative route; Oklahoma, six;
Oregon, three; and Hawaii, 72. Arizona has a program for
secondary teachers that only three people have gone through.
New Jersey, which has gotten most of the publicity for
alternative certification, has had more than 7,000 applicants
for the program but has certified about 1,500. Only about
12,000 teachers in the entire nation have been certified
through alternative routes since 1985. That's about 0.5% of
the 2.4 million teachers now working in elementary and
secondary schools and only about 1% of new hires in the past
five years.
   Alternative teacher certification programs are not wanting
for detractors. Opponents call them "scab programs" and
"short cuts" -- implying that they produce less than
qualified teachers. However, there is not a shred of evidence
to support the contention, nor is there evidence that a
person who completes a traditional teacher education program
is truly qualified to teach.
   There are some studies making their way into the light of
day that show that there really is no difference in the
competence of beginning teachers who have come through
alternative routes and those who have gone through a
traditional program. California even has a study that shows
that emergency certified teachers, who are forced to sink or
swim, perform about the same as those who have gone through
both the alternative route and the traditional route.
   A Texas study shows that it's a dead heat between
beginning teachers who have gone through an alternative route
and those who completed traditional programs, and that the
edge in teaching skill goes to teachers with experience.
Preliminary results of an NCEI survey still in progress
indicate that teachers themselves say the biggest contributor
to their developing competence in the classroom is their own
experience, followed by working closely with other teachers.
   It is not surprising that the nation's some 1,300 schools,
colleges and departments of education are opposed to
state-designed alternative teacher certification programs and
hold fast to the belief that a person is fully qualified to
teach only after going through one of their programs --
preferably one of the ones that take the longest.
   Many in state departments of education that set
requirements for teacher certification are not enthusiastic
about alternative certification either. Several state
officials told us in our recent study, which promised
anonymity, that the only reason they had designed a program
was because of political pressure. One state person
explained, "If we hadn't designed this program, the state
legislature would have, and we didn't want that to happen."
Another noted that her state department wasn't sure any
college was going to submit a proposal for the program and
"definitely the school districts aren't enthusiastic about
it."
   Alternative certification programs mean work for all these
parties. It's much easier to go on with business as usual,
never mind that the demographic composition of this nation is
dramatically different than it was when the college approved
programs for educating and licensing teachers were designed.
   This issue needs to be viewed from a different perspective
for a simple reason: The pool of potential teachers is a new
one. It is older and highly educated.
   In 1970, there were four million more children of school
age than there were adults between 25 and 44 years old. Today
there are 34 million more adults in that age group than there
are children of school age. In addition, in 1970, one in 10
of the 110 million Americans 25 and older had at least a
bachelor's degree. Today one in five of the 150 million do.
Many of these educated adults want to help young people
develop. They want to bring their real life experiences into
the classroom. They want to help improve America's
educational system. They want to teach.
   Since last week, after an article about our study of
alternative teacher certification appeared in the New York
Times, we've gotten scores of phone calls from people who
want to know where the alternative certification programs are
-- they included a dentist who wants to teach biology, an
international businessman with a master's degree in physics
who wants to teach high school physics and math, and a
corporate executive who wants to teach elementary school.
   The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, when it made its
Workforce 2000 projections, stated: "Considerable attention
has been focused on a potential shortage of workers. Often
this reflects not an overall lack of workers, but the
declining numbers in the younger age groups in the labor
force. This has caused employers to turn their attention to
alternative sources of workers." It's time to turn to other
sources of teachers.
   The U.S. faces some serious problems, but finding enough
intelligent and eager adults to teach its children is not one
of them. It is time to open up alternative means of entering
the teaching profession.
   ---
   Ms. Feistritzer is director of the National Center for
Education Information, a private Washington-based research
organization.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chelsea Vocational's
   First Prom in Years
   Boasts All the Frills
   ---
   Inner-City Students Try Out
   Silver Tiaras and Tuxes,
   Watch the Sun Come Up
   ----
   By Christine McAuley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Dianne Soto teeters across the housing project
courtyard in her three-inch white satin heels toward the
waiting pink and white limousine. At $35 an hour, the limo is
a splurge. But Miss Soto and her four girlfriends thought it
was worth the money. After all, Chelsea Vocational High
School is having its first prom in more than a decade, and
its organizers should arrive in style.
   Over the blare of calypso music, Schela Brun, 17, explains
the absence of dates. With only 25 girls in a senior class of
133, it would seem that there are plenty of eligible
bachelors. "You can't go with just one," Miss Brun observes
as she adjusts her white-lace strapless dress, "or all the
others would be jealous and fight."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Six years ago, Chelsea Vocational opened its doors to
girls for the first time since its founding in 1920. This
year, all the class officers are girls. And they are getting
what they want -- a prom with all the trimmings. A revolving
mirrored ball. Balloon bouquets in blue and gold, the school
colors. Party favors. A $60-a-plate buffet with crudites and
dip, fruit salad, and top round of beef. So what if it is a
month later than every other school prom?
   "We've worked so hard for it," Miss Soto says. "At first
everyone wanted a prom, but they didn't think we could do it.
Once it was organized, some kids backed out at the last
minute. We had to collect the money and make it work -- and
we did."
   The hotel deposit was a big hurdle. The Summit Hotel in
Manhattan had to have $250 by mid-May for the late-June
event. So the girls went from desk to desk to raise the
money. They managed to come up with $280. In the end, turnout
was better than anyone expected: 60 total, 40 from the
graduating class.
   Chelsea's students come from all over New York City to
this small high school in a residential section of lower
Manhattan. For some, the school is an opportunity to learn a
trade: computers, electronics, photocopier repair. For
others, it is an opportunity to escape a tough or dangerous
school in their own neighborhood. Miss Brun says that's one
of the reasons she went to Chelsea: "Drugs."
   Not that Chelsea is immune to problems. Steven Lopez, one
of the six teenagers indicted for the rape of a jogger in
Central Park, is a sophomore here. Two members of the
graduating class are teenage mothers.
   Class vice president Sabrina Soto's 5 1/2-month-old
daughter, Crystal Marie, is home with family on prom night.
Miss Soto, who is not related to Dianne, is wearing a regal
purple dress gathered at the hip and shoes dyed to match. "I
had my daughter and finished school," she says proudly. "It
was tough but I did it. And tonight we're all celebrating
what we've achieved."
   If the students are shy or awkward in this formal setting,
it is not around each other or their teachers, but with the
hotel staff. Tracy Noel, a soft-spoken young man who will
join the Navy in September, finishes his dinner and spots a
waiter eyeing his empty plate. "Excuse me, sir" Mr. Noel
asks. "Where should I put this?"
   It's not every day that a 17-year-old sports a tuxedo, so
more than one young man glances in the ballroom's
smoked-glass mirrors to make sure he got his money's worth.
In those desperate few moments before the photographer's
flash pops, Peter Willis practices his stance in a mirror.
Should he smile or look oh-so-seriously into the camera? He
orders an 8-by-10 print of himself in his rented tuxedo.
"I'll also get one with my date and one with my friends," he
says.
   Most students arrive without dates, and the partners on
the dance floor change as quickly as the beat. The music
ranges from slow numbers by Whitney Houston to 2 Live Crew's
controversial single, "Me So Horny." "Let's make a party]"
shouts the deejay, a podiatry student who rushed in still
wearing his hospital whites under a sports jacket.
   In a few days, the senior class will scatter. A few
members plan to go to college in the fall. Many more are
thinking about getting jobs. Five have signed up to serve in
the armed forces, including the valedictorian, Rhazine Brown.
Kenneth Roberts says he is joining the Navy because
recruiters promised he would see the world. "First, I'm going
to Chicago," he says excitedly. "Then I'm going to go to
Virginia."
   Caroline Lavelle wants more for her students, more than
Chicago, more than just any old job in Brooklyn. It
frustrates her. "Maybe the hardest thing is that the kids are
happy with so little," the English teacher says. "I say they
could have done better and they say, `But Miss Lavelle, I
passed.'"
   Under her picture in the yearbook, Noemi Rivera, 17,
requested that "Lawyer" be listed as her ambition. "Everybody
asks me why I'd go to school for seven more years, but for me
the more I know the better I feel," she says. Miss Rivera
says she is going to a local community college in the fall.
Eventually, she wants to study criminal justice at John Jay
College in Manhattan.
   Seniors dedicated the prom to Nelson Mandela and to Ruth
Rondon, class secretary, who helped organize the prom and
whose father died only weeks before. Ruth told her friends
she didn't want to go, but Dianne Soto and Miss Rivera say
they knew it was because she didn't have the money.
   So they took up a collection, and Miss Soto lent her a
black lace dress. Mr. Roberts wrote and performed -- in white
tails -- a rap song in her honor: "The next lovely lady, her
job is secretary, all respect due to Ruthie, the legendary."
   To announce the students voted by the class to be the
prom's royal couple, Robert Mitchell, a teacher who has
volunteered to chaperone, takes the microphone in the center
of the dance floor. "And the King and Queen of the Chelsea
Prom are . . . Hector Ramirez and Dianne Soto]"
   They lead the next dance, a slow one. Mr. Ramirez and Miss
Soto wear their coveted tiaras for the rest of the evening.
They hadn't arrived together, but they spend much of the
remaining evening that way.
   At midnight, after the last dance, the students agree to
gather at Orchard Beach in the Bronx to watch the sun come
up. Thinking ahead, someone loads a half-eaten sheet cake
from the buffet into a limousine.
   And what about next year? Will there be a second annual
prom for Chelsea Vocational? "It's up to the next class,"
Miss Soto says. "We just proved it could be done."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   M/I Schottenstein Homes Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6B
</SO>
<CO>
   MIHO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- M/I Schottenstein Homes Inc. said
shareholders approved the previously announced buy-out by a
family trust for $7.50 a share.
   The residential developer said Irving and Melvin
Schottenstein and their family trusts, which own 80% of the
company, will acquire the remaining 20%, or 1,055,000 shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The value of the share-purchase is about $7.9 million. The
company, which has acted as a financial adviser to the
Schottensteins, will provide about $2.3 million, and the
Schottenstein families will fund the remaining $5.6 million,
the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   100 Years of Antitrust
   ----
   By Richard A. Posner
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tuesday is the centennial of the Sherman Act, the
foundation of U.S. antitrust policy; and antitrust policy is
one of America's most significant contributions to the
science of government. It is time to take stock, and to
consider the prospects for the future in light of the lessons
of the past.
   The beginnings were not auspicious. In its inception the
Sherman Act was a populist, agrarian measure, enigmatically
worded, weakly enforced, opposed by the professional
economics community, handicapped by then notions of the
limited scope of congressional power. Nevertheless, by the
turn of the century the courts had laid the cornerstone for
effective enforcement by holding that the act forbade
cartelization (price-fixing) even if the cartel charged a
"reasonable" price; this was the "per se" rule.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By World War I it was more or less settled that the
members of cartels or price-fixing conspiracies would not be
allowed to circumvent the per se rule of illegality by
merging and both the oil and the tobacco trusts had been
dismembered. The strict prohibition of price-fixing by
competitors, and of mergers by competitors to create monopoly
power, remains the core of the Sherman Act. Subsequent
enactments outlawed mergers that do not create a monopoly,
but facilitate cartelization by substantially reducing the
number of major competitors in a market.
   With the enormous strengthening in recent decades of the
remedies for antitrust violations, and with the promulgation
by the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission
of detailed and economically sophisticated merger guidelines,
we now have an antitrust policy that, seemingly at reasonable
social cost, provides substantial protection for competition.
In so doing it increases the output of goods and services and
reduces their price, and decreases socially wasteful
expenditures on organizing cartels and monopolies.
   But I have gotten ahead of myself and have ignored the
dark side of our antitrust history. The period of "normalcy"
ushered in by the election of Warren Harding as president in
1920 was a period of dormancy for antitrust enforcement, as
was the early New Deal -- some of whose luminaries thought
antitrust passe and blamed the Depression on excessive
competition. Assistant Attorney General Thurman Arnold
reinvigorated antitrust enforcement in the early 1940s, which
was fine, but he and his successors also began attempting to
use antitrust for improper purposes -- to promote quixotic
political goals such as restoring a nation of small
businessmen, to redistribute wealth and to implement
fallacious or untested economic theories.
   In a bipartisan wave of ill-conceived but zealously
pursued enforcement that crested in the 1960s and early
1970s, attacks were mounted against trivial mergers in the
highly competitive retail food industry, against franchising
and other methods of organizing the distribution of goods and
services, against conglomerate mergers and takeover attempts
and against the competitive practices of large and successful
firms such as IBM, AT&amp;T, and Kodak.
   Now distribution, both retail and wholesale, happens to be
-- not despite but because of franchising and other
innovative methods -- the thing that American business does
best, no thanks to antitrust law. It is also the most
competitive sector of the economy. On both counts the amount
of attention the antitrust agencies and private plaintiffs
paid to the distribution sector was extraordinarily perverse.
The suits against conglomerate mergers, especially the suits
brought by targets of hostile takeover attempts, served only
to retard the emergence of an effective market for corporate
control.
   There was a time in the 1970s where almost every one of
America's best firms -- the flagships of capitalism, the
firms that were the envy of the other nations -- was under
antitrust siege; in retrospect only the assault on AT&amp;T made
sense, and that because AT&amp;T was a regulated firm and the
antitrust suits brought against it were in reality ingenious
(and ultimately successful) efforts to undermine an
anticompetitive regulatory scheme. Too often the antitrust
suits in the period I am describing were brought by or on
behalf of inefficient competitors against their deservedly
more successful rivals.
   With the appointment of William Baxter as head of the
antitrust division in 1981, and, beginning the same year, of
conservative judges at all levels of the federal judiciary,
antitrust enforcement was gradually pruned back until today
the excesses so characteristic of earlier decades are for the
most part memories. The number of antitrust suits is down.
The targets are for the most part price fixers, not efficient
producers and distributors. No longer is the termination of a
retail distributor an occasion for suit.
   But the antitrust recession is not only to be explained by
changes in politics and personnel. The growth of
international trade in the American economy has enlarged
American markets and increased the number of competitors. As
competitive pressures increase, the temptation to use
antitrust to make socio-political points fades; the silly
posturing about "bigness" becomes not only quaint, but
socially costly, and antitrust rightly becomes reconceived as
an instrument toward an efficient economy.
   Mr. Baxter and his immediate successors could make a
success of their job by presenting themselves, entirely
accurately, as participants in the deregulation movement.
Antitrust had become a cumbersome regulatory scheme; they
changed that. Now that deregulation has been accomplished and
antitrust restored to its proper and limited role, the proper
role of antitrust chiefs is as caretakers of antitrust
policy. That role may be too modest to satisfy the ambitious.
It has taken the nation a hundred years to develop a rational
and effective antitrust policy; we must hope that government
officials will respect the achievement and resist the clamor
from those who want to turn antitrust in anticompetitive
directions.
   ---
   Mr. Posner is a judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit, and teaches at the University of Chicago Law
School.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Science:
   Apple Computer, in a Switch, Decides
   It Will Keep Claris Unit in Company
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AAPL LOTS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Apple Computer Inc. decided to fold its Claris software
unit -- which has spent most of this year laying plans for an
initial public offering -- back into the company.
   The move is a major switch for Apple, which formed Claris
three years ago to take over much of its personal-computer
software business. At the time, John Sculley, Apple's chief
executive officer, explained that Apple needed to distance
itself from the business of selling software applications so
as not to anger independent companies in that business. Ever
since, Mr. Sculley has cited Claris as an example of what he
describes as a "federation" of companies all supporting the
Apple "mothership."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to industry executives familiar with the
situation, Apple changed its mind because it believes it
needs more control over software applications for its
computers at a time when some of the most creative
independent software companies are beginning to spend more
resources on producing applications for competitors'
computers.
   Spokesmen for both Apple and Claris declined to comment,
but industry executives said Apple was ready to announce the
move as early as today.
   "It's a very sensible decision in my opinion," said
Charles Wolf, an analyst at First Boston Corp. "The entire
premise for setting up Claris no longer holds."
   Mr. Wolf said that unlike several years ago, when Apple's
flagship Macintosh computer had an insufficient amount of
software, there is plenty available for the machine today.
Apple now faces a situation where the outside firms that
write software for the Macintosh have been so successful that
they have begun writing software for machines based on
arch-rival International Business Machines Corp.'s personal
computers.
   Indeed, even executives at Claris conceded that once the
firm was independent from Apple, which was scheduled to
happen later this year, it too would begin writing software
for personal computers made by Apple competitors. While
Claris has posted yearly revenue about $100 million from
selling software from Apple computers, investment bankers,
handling the subsidiary's stock offering, insisted that
Claris broaden its business to flourish outside of Apple's
umbrella.
   According to people familiar with the situation, Michael
Spindler, who was named Apple's chief operating officer in
January, would not brook such a situation. He is said to
believe that Apple must have some internal capacity to
produce applications software that takes advantage of what
the company considers the unique features of its Macintosh
computers.
   Bringing Claris, which is the second biggest supplier of
Apple software after Microsoft Corp., back into Apple could
upset some independent software developers who are wary about
competing directly with Apple in software applications. But
the benefits of an internal applications business are worth
the criticisms.
   "Now Apple has a currency to retain the unique software on
the Macintosh," Mr. Wolf said.
   The flip-flop on the status of Claris is only one of many
organizational and strategic changes occurring at the
Cupertino, Calif., computer maker. This week, the company
hired a new president of Apple USA, its biggest sales and
marketing organization and yesterday it announced the
departure of one of its most senior executives in product
development.
   Donald P. Casey, Apple's vice president of networking and
engineering, joined Lotus Development Corp., a Boston-based
software company, as its new vice president of the
spreadsheet division, in charge of its key revenue source.
   Mr. Casey, 44 years old, said that the Lotus job "is a
great opportunity." He said he wasn't leaving Apple in a
dispute over strategy, but declined to comment on Apple's
outlook.
   Most of the changes are related to decisions made by Mr.
Spindler, who ran Apple's fast-growing European operations
before coming to headquarters to revive the company's
domestic marketing and streamline its field organization.
   On the product side, meanwhile, Apple also has made an
about-face. In recent years the company has introduced a
series of increasingly expensive computers. While successful,
these products have sharply narrowed the market for Apple's
machines, leading analysts to complain that the company is no
longer catering to the mass market.
   Mr. Sculley has made it plain that he intends to fix that
and since taking over direct responsibility for Apple's
product development in late January has been spending most of
his time trying to rush into creation two lower-priced
Macintosh machines.
   While outsiders question the wisdom of Mr. Sculley's
direct involvement in product planning -- the Apple chief is
a marketing man and has no formal training in engineering --
executives inside Apple's product development groups say he
is getting results.
   "Apple's playing a different game now, and frankly, that's
very refreshing," said Lawrence Tesler, vice president for
advanced products at Apple. Mr. Tesler approves of Mr.
Sculley's emphasis on less-expensive models because he
believes it will result in a broader following among computer
users.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Princeton economist William Baumol at a Manhattan
Institute seminar on May 14:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   I see nothing frightening about foreign direct investment
in America. As a matter of fact, almost every country during
its period of takeoff has had plenty of investment from
abroad, in the form of foreigners buying plants and taking
over businesses. Historically, if you go back as far as the
middle ages, there were in succession three clear leaders
before the United States: Italy, Holland, and Great Britain.
In the century before Italy lost its leadership,
opportunities for investment in Italy didn't look too good
and so the Italian bankers sent their money abroad. No one
was spending money in Italy. They lent it to the King of
Spain (who would eventually go bankrupt) and to the King of
England and other useful enterprises like that. When the
Dutch took over, in the century before their decline, people
stopped investing in Holland, including the Dutch, and
started to invest in England, because a country in decline is
not a good place to invest in. Then when the British reached
what is called their apex, they also started to send their
capital abroad. In 1913, half of British savings were
exported. So it is certainly not a sign of decline if the
rest of the world is willing to send money to the United
States.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Fund Assets
   Fell $444.9 Million
   In the Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Assets of the nation's 513 money market funds
fell $444.9 million to $384.99 billion in the week ended
Wednesday, according to the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade association.
   While assets of 250 general purpose funds rose $27.7
million to $133.99 billion, assets of 102 broker-dealer funds
declined $356.4 million to $159.17 billion. Assets of 161
institutional funds dropped $116.2 million to $91.83 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The number of money market funds was revised from 512 the
previous week to include one new general purpose fund with
assets of $112.5 million. For the week ended June 20, money
market fund assets were revised to $385.43 billion and the
reported increase of $1.29 billion in the week was revised to
$1.32 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Hard Road to Power and Vindication
   ----
   By Hilton Kramer
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   In any account of recent Soviet history, the late Andrei
Sakharov is certain to occupy a special place. He was first
of all a pre-eminent physicist who won a high position in the
Soviet establishment as the so-called "father" of the
hydrogen bomb. Beginning in the mid-1960s, moreover, when he
began speaking out against the policies of the Soviet
government -- and ultimately the whole communist system --
Mr. Sakharov won even greater fame as the most privileged of
the Soviet dissidents. For his public campaigns in defense of
human rights and the control of nuclear arms, he was awarded
the Nobel Peace Prize in 1975. And at the time of his death
in December, this recipient of some of the highest honors the
Soviet regime could bestow -- Hero of Socialist Labor, winner
of the Stalin Prize, each accompanied by a large sum of money
-- had become one of the leading spokesmen for democratic
reform in the new Soviet parliament.
   How this essentially shy and unworldly scientist emerged
from what he called "my hermetic world" to become one of the
century's most celebrated champions of human rights, and what
he and his loved ones were obliged to suffer, now is told at
great length in Mr. Sakharov's "Memoirs" (Knopf, 775 pages,
$29.95), a work that is required reading for anyone
attempting to understand the Soviet Union today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The book is of historic importance on a number of counts.
It is the first, I believe, to take us inside the highest
stratum of the Soviet scientific community and illuminate
both the political and the social conditions under which it
functioned. (The Installation, as Mr. Sakharov calls it,
where he lived and pursued his top-secret work on nuclear
weapons for 20 years, was itself a kind of gilded gulag.) The
book also is one of the first to explore the variegated world
of the Soviet dissident movement and identify some of the
conflicts and suspicions that deeply divided it -- conflicts
that, in Mr. Sakharov's case, brought him into open
disagreement with, among others, Alexander Solzhenitsyn and
Roy Medvedev.
   Mr. Sakharov himself was an unlikely candidate for the
task of straddling the disparate worlds of Soviet privilege
and dissident revolt. By his own account, he had approached
his work on the hydrogen bomb "as a soldier" whose loyalty
was never in doubt. While fully conscious of what he
described as "the terrifying, inhuman nature of the weapons
we were building," Mr. Sakharov readily acknowledges that he
nonetheless found "the physics of atomic and thermonuclear
explosions . . . a genuine theoretician's paradise."
   In fact, it wasn't until he had successfully completed his
work on the H-bomb that Mr. Sakharov woke up to the
implications of its use and to the real nature of the regime
his talents had served so faithfully. So deep was his feeling
of attachment to the regime -- and, it must be said, so naive
was Mr. Sakharov about its tolerance of criticism -- that
when he took the fateful step of publishing his "Reflections
on Progress, Peaceful Coexistence, and Intellectual Freedom"
in 1968, he promptly sent a copy to Leonid Brezhnev.
   But with the publication of his "Reflections," which
within a year sold more than 18 million copies around the
world -- "in third place," Mr. Sakharov amusingly reports,
"after Mao Zedong and Lenin, and ahead of Georges Simenon and
Agatha Christie" -- he became the foremost figure of the
entire dissident movement.
   What is most remarkable and most moving about the story
that Mr. Sakharov recounts is both the speed and moral fervor
with which he pursued his new political life. Although new to
the arena of dissident action, he seems to have mastered its
complex strategies as easily as he had surmounted the most
intractable scientific problems in his earlier life. There
can be no doubt that his marriage to Elena Bonner enormously
strengthened Mr. Sakharov in this remarkable endeavor. His
first wife had died of cancer, and the account of his second
marriage in "Memoirs" is at once a very touching love story
and a tale of intrepid political courage.
   Many of Mr. Sakharov's activities as a dissident took
place within the historical framework of the two military
actions that did so much to destroy whatever remained of the
Soviet regime's moral standing in the world -- the 1968
invasion of Czechoslovakia and the 1979 invasion of
Afghanistan. It was the latter, of course, that led to Mr.
Sakharov's enforced exile in the city of Gorky during the
early 1980s, and there is nothing more harrowing in this book
than his account of the incessant harassment he and Ms.
Bonner had to suffer at the hands of the KGB during those
years. Among much else, earlier drafts of and notes for
"Memoirs" were stolen and had to be laboriously rewritten
from memory.
   It is not only for this reason, however, that the book
suffers from some conspicuous literary deficiencies. Mr.
Sakharov is not a literary artist, and he makes it clear to
the reader at the outset that "This book is not a confession,
nor do I lay claim to having produced a work of art."
Needlessly repetitious at times, the book also is a good deal
longer than it needs to be. Yet whatever its faults, the
story told in Mr. Sakharov's "Memoirs" is the story of one of
the great moral victories of our time.
   ---
   Mr. Kramer is editor of the New Criterion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Philips's Timmer Faces Challenge
   Rousing Sleepy Electronics Giant
   ---
   Decade of Dismal Results
   Leaves Shares Depressed,
   Operations in Disarray
   ----
   Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PHG
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   EINDHOVEN, the Netherlands -- Jan Timmer shook up N.V.
Philips's sleepy consumer-electronics division so vigorously
in the late 1980s that Dutch newspapers dubbed him Hurricane
Gilbert. Now the company's future is riding on whether he can
live up to his nickname.
   After a decade of mediocre performance, Philips's
operating profit has almost disappeared in the past year as a
result of huge losses on computers and semiconductors. As Mr.
Timmer prepares to take over as chairman Monday, the
company's share price is languishing at about half its 1986
peak. And the bureaucracy at Europe's largest
consumer-electronics company is so bloated even some union
leaders urge job cuts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "A major pillar of European industry and technology is
crumbling," says Marc E. Fourny, who heads the Brussels
office of consultants A.T. Kearney Inc.
   Thus, the atmosphere is likely to be solemn Monday when
the burly, 57-year-old Mr. Timmer addresses shareholders to
ratify his appointment to succeed Cornelis van der Klugt, who
was forced to resign in May when his profit forecasts proved
too optimistic.
   Philips isn't on the brink of going bust or falling victim
to a corporate raider. Multilayered takeover defenses protect
the company from a hostile bid, at least in the short term.
In addition, Philips still makes reasonable profit in a few
areas, such as light bulbs, electric shavers and compact
disks. By milking those products and selling more of its real
estate riches, Philips could probably limp along for years.
   But the supervisory board, which effectively controls the
company, is running out of patience, as evidenced by Mr. van
der Klugt's humiliating departure. Morale among the company's
293,000 workers is sinking after 10 years of fruitless
reorganizations. Analysts warn that if the company's finances
continue to deteriorate, Philips will be forced to sell many
of its crown jewels and sacrifice its role as one of Europe's
leading research centers.
   "Either the ship is turned around quickly," says Arjen Los
of County NatWest Securities in London, "or you'll see a much
smaller company in a few years."
   In the consumer-electronics business, which accounts for
about 40% of Philips sales, Mr. Timmer proved adept at
hacking through bureaucratic traditions, moving managers
closer to their markets and making them accountable. Analysts
expect him to take the same approach with the rest of the
company.
   Mr. Timmer, who declined to be interviewed for this story,
seems likely to act first and make announcements later,
avoiding Mr. van der Klugt's trap of promising too much. Last
week, apparently at his instigation, Philips announced a
retreat from developing minicomputer technology in the first
stage of what it promised would be an overhaul of the
computer business aimed at "drastically" reducing costs.
   Even for a man of Mr. Timmer's reputation, regaining
credibility at Philips won't be easy. It was only three years
ago that his predecessor, Mr. van der Klugt, proclaimed that
Philips was changing its ways with a massive reorganization.
   Mr. van der Klugt did make some progress in streamlining
Philips. The units producing large domestic appliances were
put into a joint venture controlled by Whirlpool Corp. of the
U.S. Philips sold much of its military-electronics business
as well as some of its more incongruous diversifications.
Employment shrank by 51,000 people, or nearly 15%, over three
years. Mr. van der Klugt made little progress, however, in
trying to force Philips bureaucrats to behave more like
entrepreneurs.
   From its origins as a lamp-making plant opened by Gerard
Philips in Eindhoven 99 years ago, Philips gradually built a
world network of 60 national organizations making products as
diverse as medical scanners and steam irons. The national
organizations became so autonomous they tended to be
considered local companies.
   In the 1960s, Philips was considered a model
multinational. By the 1970s, however, Japanese competitors
had found cheaper ways to compete, making and selling the
same brands in the same way all over the world. Philips
proved too hidebound to respond.
   Mr. van der Klugt tried to give product managers the power
to chart global strategy, removing some traditional powers of
the national organizations. But current and former Philips
executives say the national organizations are resisting that
shift. The company remains so fragmented, one consultant
says, it sometimes lacks a clear idea of how much money it is
making or losing on a given product line.
   Other critics accuse Philips of sheer stubbornness,
refusing to bow out of the computer business despite a weak
presence in the market, for example. And they say the
hugeness of the corporate bureaucracy slows decision-making.
"There were layers and layers of people," says a foreign
executive who recently left Philips. "Very few decisions were
made. It was just lots of wheel-spinning."
   Philips has been far slower than other multinationals in
stripping itself down to core businesses in which it has a
shot at global leadership. The company still has 340
factories, the bulk of them in high-cost European countries,
producing a dizzying array of products including telephone
switchboards, television sets, electron microscopes, radar
systems, automated bank tellers -- "anything an electric
current can flow through," as one critic puts it.
   Even the fiercest detractors acknowledge Philips has huge
technological strengths. The problem, they say, is that it
has too often let old achievements blind it to the realities
of a market where consumers' fickle tastes matter far more
than who invented which gadget.
   With the compact disk, Philips managed to ensure that it
was backing a world standard. And Mr. Timmer has signaled
that Philips will continue to put more emphasis on marketing
realities. "There isn't much room in Europe for technological
wizardry where Thomson {S.A. of France} tries to prove to us
how clever they are and vice versa," he said at a press
conference in February.
   Partly because he unambiguously states such verities, Mr.
Timmer is widely viewed as Philips's savior -- so much so
that some colleagues worry unrealistic expectations are being
raised. Some recall that as a member of the management
committee since 1987, he shares some responsibility for the
company's current troubles.
   What seems clear is that Mr. Timmer is taking on one of
the toughest jobs in business. "I don't think one man --
whether it's the pope of Rome or Mr. Timmer -- will be able
to solve the problems of that company," says Joep Crolla, a
business journalist in Eindhoven.
   Mr. Timmer has a reputation for eschewing small talk.
According to a joke making the rounds in Eindhoven, he knows
how to say just three things: "yes," "no" and "get out of
here." It seems a safe bet that more people at Philips will
be hearing the latter two messages.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Mills' Net
   More Than Doubled
   In Fiscal 4th Period
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GIS
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- General Mills Inc. reported that net income
more than doubled in its fiscal fourth quarter ended May 27.
   Earnings in the quarter totaled $75.3 million, or 93 cents
a share, compared with $35.6 million, or 45 cents a share, a
year earlier, when discontinued operations reduced net by
$22.1 million, or 27 cents a share. Sales rose 18.6% to $1.7
billion from $1.4 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the year, net income was lower, totaling $381.4
million, or $4.64 a share, compared with $414.3 million, or
$5.06 a share, previously. However, last year's net included
a $169 million gain from the sale of two retailing
businesses.
   For the year, earnings from continuing operations set a
record, totaling $373.7 million, or $4.55 a share, compared
with $315.3 million, or $3.85 a share, previously.
   Sales for fiscal 1990 rose 14.7% to a record $6.4 billion
from $5.6 billion.
   Both consumer foods and restaurants sectors achieved
double-digit sales and earnings gains for the year. Pacing
the food side was ready-to-eat cereals, which despite
capacity constraints increased its No. 2 share to 27% from
24.5% in fiscal 1989, the company said. Kellogg Co., which
lost share over the last 12 months, has about 39% of the $7
billion domestic ready-to-eat cereal business.
   General Mills stock rose on the news, closing at $90.125,
up $3.75, in composite New York Stock Exchange trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nike Profit Forecast
   For Quarter and Year
   Sends Stock Soaring
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   NIKE
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Nike Inc. forecast better-than-expected
fourth-quarter and year-end profits, sending its stock
soaring. The stock closed at $77.50, up $4.25 in national
over-the-counter trading yesterday, with about 1.3 million
shares changing hands.
   Nike credited a combination of favorable accounting and
tax changes for the boost in profits, which will exceed Wall
Street's expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Philip Knight, chairman of the athletic shoe company, said
profit in the fourth quarter ended May 31 will be in the
range of $64 million to $66 million, or $1.70 to $1.75 a
share, exceeding analysts' estimates of $1.50 to $1.60 a
share. In last year's fiscal fourth quarter ended May 31,
1989, the company posted profit of $36.5 million, or 97 cents
a share.
   For the year ended May 31, the company expects to report
profit of $240 million to $242 million, or $6.35 to $6.40 a
share, exceeding Wall Street estimates of about $6.15 to
$6.25 a share. In fiscal 1989, profit was $167 million, or
$4.45 a share.
   The unexpectedly strong profits stem from a favorable
revision in the company's last-in, first-out inventory
reserves, and a lower-than-anticipated tax rate.
   Nike said it plans to announce complete fourth quarter and
year-end results July 9 at an analysts' meeting in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Forest Products
   Firms' Net Seen
   Off for Quarter
   ---
   Industry in North America
   Lifted Prices but Output
   Shrank in Weak Market
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6E
</SO>
<CO>
   STO PNTA BCC CHA UCC BOW RPAPF T.PFP FCC.A A.FLC
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   The North American forest products industry got glimmers
of good news in the second quarter, but most of the companies
are still expected to report substantially lower earnings,
compared with a year earlier.
   Major newsprint producers pushed though a price increase
of about 5% in June. Makers of uncoated white papers also
increased prices 5%. But markets and prices for linerboard
and containerboard weakened. Canadian producers of the
premium grade of market pulp kept prices stable, but they had
to slash production to do it. And a variety of operational
problems reduced output at many mills.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mark Diverio of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. said he
expects the group of 18 companies he follows to report that
second-quarter earnings fell about 27% from a year earlier.
Within the group, several companies will report declines of
about 50%, he said.
   For example, Mr. Diverio expects Stone Container Corp. to
report net income of 60 cents a share for the second quarter,
down from $1.06 a share a year earlier. He sees Pentair Inc.
reporting a decline in second-quarter net to 40 cents a share
from 80 cents.
   Mr. Diverio said several companies were hurt by production
problems in the second quarter. Boise Cascade Corp., Champion
International Corp., Union Camp Corp. and Bowater Inc. are
among the companies that had operational problems in the
quarter, he said.
   Though there were variations by region, linerboard and
containerboard markets on both sides of the U.S.-Canadian
border were weak in the second quarter. "Discounts have been
getting a little wider," Raymond Kilroy, an analyst at
Nesbitt Thomson Deacon Inc., said. Linerboard and
containerboard are used to make packaging.
   Uncoated white papers, photocopy and business-forms
papers, for example, "are looking a bit better," Mr. Kilroy
said. After prices drifted lower in the first quarter,
producers pushed through a series of 5% price increases in
the second quarter, Shearson's Mr. Diverio said.
   Canadian forest products companies are expected to repeat
their first-quarter performance and report even sharper
year-to-year earnings declines than their U.S. counterparts
do.
   The fortunes of many big Canadian companies are tied to
newsprint or market pulp. Canada is the world's largest
producer of both products.
   Led by Abitibi-Price Inc. of Toronto, most big Canadian
and U.S. producers raised newsprint prices effective June 1,
too late to give much of a boost to the latest quarter's
results. The benchmark Eastern U.S. list price for newsprint
increased 5.4% to $685 a metric ton from $650. A similar
increase took effect in other markets, where the pricing
system is slightly different. Newsprint is sold now at about
a 19% discount from list price, so actual selling prices in
the Eastern U.S. rose to about $555 a metric ton from $525 a
ton. A metric ton is 2,204.6 pounds.
   The newsprint price increase may only be temporary. Many
analysts and newsprint buyers said that if new labor
contracts are signed in Eastern Canada without a strike, the
price increase will collapse. Fear of a strike at mills in
the region allowed producers to push the price increase
through, they said.
   Drastic production cuts hurt Canadian producers of market
pulp. "They will have some surprisingly low results," John
Johnson, an analyst at Richardson Greenshields of Canada
Ltd., said.
   A sudden surge in inventories at the beginning of the year
prompted producers of northern bleached softwood kraft pulp,
the premium grade of market pulp, to idle their mills
temporarily.
   The producers are trying to prevent a price slide. Small
discounts are available in the spot market, but these didn't
widen in the second quarter, analysts said. The list price of
the premium pulp is $830 a metric ton. But while producers
are selling the northern softwood pulp at or near list price,
they are selling a lot less of it.
   "We're going to see very disappointing earnings from
pulp," Mr. Johnson said. Canadian concerns with big market
pulp operations include Repap Enterprises Inc., Canadian
Pacific Forest Products Ltd. and Fletcher Challenge Canada
Ltd., a subsidiary of Fletcher Challenge Ltd. of New Zealand.
This month, Fletcher Challenge Canada cut its quarterly
dividend in half, joining a long list of big Canadian
concerns that have cut their payouts.
   On the West Coast, Canadian forest products companies had
another problem. Heavy rains "fouled up logging," Robert
Duncan, an analyst at Wood Gundy Inc., said. "We've had a
real disaster from a weather standpoint." Rain makes it
difficult for logging crews to get their heavy trucks into
and out of the woods.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   So Go Already]
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   It used to be, "I'll be leaving now,"
   Then, "I've got to be getting in gear."
   Now the "in" phrase we hear these days
   Is simply, "I'm outta here."
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Bumper Wisdom
                                                                                                       

   The yellow sign warns Child on Board,
   But when the kids get wild
   And discipline must be restored:
   Consider Board on Child]
   -- Doris O'Brien.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USX Corp. Registers
   For Sale of Debentures
   Totaling $250 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   X
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- USX Corp., in an effort to raise cash and
reduce debt, said it filed a registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance of zero
coupon convertible senior debentures due 2005.
   The offering is expected to result in proceeds of about
$250 million, which will be used to reduce debt and for
general corporate purposes. The energy and steel giant has
about $5.9 billion in long-term debt outstanding. First
Boston Corp. is the sole manager of the offering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Each debenture will be convertible at the holder's option
any time on or before the maturity date into -- at the
company's option -- USX common stock or cash. The yield and
conversion rate haven't been determined.
   Holders have the right to sell debentures back to USX five
and 10 years after issuance for cash, shares of common stock,
or repayment notes, at USX's option. In addition, holders
have the right to sell debentures back to USX for cash in the
event of a change in the company's control.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chariot Group Seeks Delisting
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CGR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Chariot Group Inc. said it asked the
Securities and Exchange Commission to delist its common
shares from the American Stock Exchange because of limited
activity.
   The company, a producer of aluminum windows and doors,
said the exchange advised it that the last day the stock will
be traded is July 13. Chariot is also the largest shareholder
in Synalloy Corp., a South Carolina stainless-tube and
specialty-chemical maker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chariot shares are listed at an asking price of $1.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Americas:
   Prescriptions for Latin Growth
   That Won't Kill the Patient
   ----
   By Haroldo J. Montealegre
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   MANAGUA -- Taking a cue from Peruvian economist Hernando
de Soto, President Bush lectured Latin and Caribbean
diplomats in the White House Wednesday on what is stifling
Latin American development: "In one large Latin city . . . it
takes almost 300 days to cut through the red tape to open a
small garment shop," said Mr. Bush. "That's got to change. .
. . The future of Latin America lies with free government and
free markets."
   Today, few in Latin America would argue with that
prescription. The only question is how to administer the
medicine. A microcosm of what has gone wrong -- and what is
possible -- in Latin economies exists in Nicaragua. As the
new government struggles to revitalize Nicaragua's moribund
economy, it's worthwhile to see how it got there and how it
can free itself of the interventionist ties that bind it --
and other Latin economies -- to underdevelopment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the 1980s, Nicaragua combined the import
substitution model with a "command" approach to economics.
Property rights were not respected, regulations were
excessive and market prices were distorted. Productive
activity was burdened by extremely high tariffs, punitive
marginal tax rates, and a wide variety of selective
consumption taxes. Statist monopolies and cartels replaced
the Somoza monopolies that dominated production before the
Sandinistas came to power in 1979. Moreover, the state became
the primary force in the economy through a system of
enterprises that controlled most imports, exports and
distribution, as well as key industries and banking.
   By the end of the past decade, Nicaragua's real salaries
were less than 25% of what they had been 10 years before.
Real output fell nearly every year in the 1980s, and
unemployment soared to nearly one-fourth of the labor force,
despite massive emigration. The real volume of exports last
year was only about one-fifth of what it had been 13 years
earlier. The current account deficit reached one-fourth of
GNP. And Nicaragua's foreign debt amounted to nearly 40 times
its shrunken exports. Sadly, more than 10% of the population
left the country, including a sizable proportion of
Nicaragua's most skilled, energetic and talented "human
capital."
   The previous government began a policy of frequent, large
devaluations of the Nicaraguan currency, designed to
eliminate the spread between official and black-market
exchange rates. But each devaluation creates expectations of
another, so the black-market exchange rate drops in
anticipation of the next official devaluation, requiring an
endless series of inflationary devaluations. The fear of
holding Nicaragua's repeatedly devalued currency results in
an enormous increase in "velocity," as people treat the
currency as a "hot potato" to pass on to someone else.
Inflation, therefore, has risen even faster than the runaway
money supply.
   The main economic objectives of Violeta Chamorro --
inaugurated president on April 25 -- include securing
property rights, initiating substantial deregulation,
liberalizing trade, structural adjustment (including tax
reform) and stabilizing the currency. Her government will
have to move rapidly in all of these areas. Piecemeal reform
will not suffice.
   In some cases, conventional macroeconomic adjustment plans
may, in the very short run, appear to be in conflict with
essential structural adjustments. For example, sharply
reducing protectionist tariffs might seem to conflict with
the budgetary need for revenues. Yet the dramatic reduction
of tariffs in Mexico and Chile did not weaken the fiscal
position of those countries, but instead strengthened it by
expanding employment, profits and sales. Once businesses face
reduced tariff expenses -- particularly on needed materials
and equipment -- the profitability and capacity of
Nicaragua's future export industries can be improved
enormously.
   Excessive concern with short-term budget estimates
likewise could thwart an appropriately drastic reduction in
Nicaragua's steep marginal tax rates, which now top off at
70%. The income thresholds at which those tax rates apply
must be made competitive with those of the U.S. (the main
beneficiary of Nicaragua's flight of human capital). Moderate
tax rates can attract back the many professionals,
entrepreneurs and technicians who have left the country, as
well as attract foreign investment. And since we are starting
with such a small tax base -- Nicaragua's tax revenue as a
percentage of GNP was about 4% in 1989 -- we would have
everything to gain and very little to lose by a steep
reduction of tax rates.
   A very important part of the reform package would be that
the only state enterprises allowed to borrow from the banking
system would be those that are profitable and current in
their tax obligations. Any projected deficit of unprofitable
state enterprises would have to be explicitly approved as
part of the projected deficit of the central government. Such
a requirement, combined with deregulation and liberalization,
will accelerate the necessary privatization or closing of
state enterprises. The Central Bank should not extend credit
or subsidies directly to any state enterprise, and should
program a significant reduction in the growth of credit
extended to the central government (and to the banking
system).
   These reforms will restrain the rate of growth of the
money supply. But lasting monetary stability also requires
increasing the demand for Nicaragua's currency. That
objective requires anchoring the currency to the U.S. dollar,
while explicitly conducting monetary policy with the exchange
rate as the nominal target. If necessary, a temporary
alternative could be a gradual depreciation of the exchange
rate according to a predictable schedule, similar to the
crawling peg in Mexico. In either case, existing exchange
controls must be gradually lifted. A more-stable currency is
not inconsistent with maintaining purchasing power parity,
since it contributes to reduced inflation.
   Nicaragua will need substantial foreign resources over the
next three years to help finance a legacy of external and
internal imbalances while constructive, growth-oriented
reforms are being put into effect. Important assistance has
been received already, including $300 million from the U.S.,
as well as aid from the donors conference in Rome, and
partial financing of oil imports from Venezuela. Nicaragua
also will request financial support for its program from the
International Monetary Fund in the form of a standby and
extended fund facility, and from the World Bank in the form
of structural and sector adjustment loans, with co-financing
from the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB). As a necessary
step, Nicaragua will have to meet arrears with the World Bank
and IDB in excess of $250 million.
   Starting from such a weakened state, the Nicaraguan
economy has enormous potential for dramatic recovery, with
sound money, competitive tax rates, liberalized trade and
deregulation. As Mr. Bush emphasized on Wednesday, the old
days of massive U.S. aid pushing statist "development
programs" clearly are over. And no one should mourn their
passing. Internal development spurred on by deregulation and
openings to the global economy is the key to Latin America's
future.
   ---
   Mr. Montealegre, chairman of a Miami-based investment
bank, was appointed the external economic adviser for
Nicaragua by President Chamorro.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thyssen Plant Modernization
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6E
</SO>
<CO>
   G.THY
</CO>
<LP>
   DUESSELDORF, West Germany Thyssen AG said its steel
divisions would invest up to $15 million to modernize its
Thyssen Steel Detroit plant, which serves the automotive
industry.
   Thyssen said the modernization, slated for a 1991
completion, will add slitting, blanking and cut-to-length
capabilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal Express Volume Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FDX
</CO>
<IN>
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEMPHIS, Tenn. -- Federal Express Corp. said average daily
volume of packages and documents increased 11.5% in May,
before a one-time change in reporting procedures, to 1.3
million units. Total monthly volume, before the reporting
change, increased 11.5% to 28.4 million units.
   With the reporting change, which includes the company's
non-U.S. subsidiaries' volumes for April and May, instead of
just April as in the year-ago volume report, Federal
Express's average daily volume increased 11.9%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Software Firms
   Likely to Post
   Strong Gains
   ---
   Microsoft Is Leading Boom
   In PC Market With Sales
   Of Its Windows Program
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6B
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT LOTS CSOF TATE CA ORCL
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Software companies should post strong gains in the second
quarter, bucking the trend across much of the rest of the
computer industry.
   Personal-computer software makers are expected to do
especially well, led by Microsoft Corp. and Lotus Development
Corp., while companies that sell minicomputer and mainframe
software will grow more slowly. This division mirrors
relative industry growth rates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In PC software, Microsoft continues to dominate the field,
and it shows no signs of slowing down. This week the Redmond,
Wash., company said its new Windows program -- a graphic
enhancement of the ubiquitous DOS operating-system software
-- has exceeded its most aggressive predictions. David
Readerman, an analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton, forecasts
that Microsoft will have sold 500,000 copies of the program
between its May 22 introduction and June 30.
   Mr. Readerman expects Microsoft to report net income of
$75 million, or 62 cents a share, compared with $45.5
million, or 40 cents a share, a year ago. He sees revenue
rising 57%, to $345 million.
   Lotus, too, should report another stellar quarter. But the
worry is whether the big Cambridge, Mass.-based company can
keep it up.
   "Lotus is losing momentum -- and it will become apparent
in the second half," says Richard G. Sherlund, an analyst
with Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. He is one of the few analysts with
an outright "sell" recommendation on Lotus, arguing that its
product cycle has peaked and that the company can't deliver
strong new growth until 1991.
   By most analysts' estimates, Lotus's net income for the
quarter ending June 30 will more than double to $26 million,
or about 55 cents a share, with sales rising about 35% to an
estimated $180 million.
   But the numbers fall off sharply after that, Mr. Sherlund
says. After year-to-year earnings tripled in the first half,
the pace will slow to 10% for the rest of the year, he says.
Sales growth will be better, rising 20% in the second half
compared with 35% in the first. Still, "investors aren't
going to know how long they'll have to wait" until new
products fuel new growth, he says.
   Looming on the horizon, too, is a new onslaught from
Microsoft. Industry executives say Microsoft is hoping to
leapfrog Lotus's top-of-the-line spreadsheet later this year
with a powerful new version of its Excel product. And
Microsoft's line takes advantage of Windows 3.0, a new
program that Lotus's 1-2-3 line hasn't yet adopted. Lotus
isn't expected to have a Windows-based 1-2-3 ready until
early next year -- if everything goes well. And the company
historically hasn't been very good at meeting product
deadlines.
   Michele Preston, an analyst with Cowen &amp; Co., doubts Lotus
will be bowled over by Microsoft. "People aren't going to
switch to Windows overnight," she says. "Customers love
1-2-3, and have a lot invested in it. That's not going to
change anytime soon."
   Benefiting from the booming PC software business is
Westwood, Mass.-based Corporate Software Inc., a big
distributor. "Corporate Software is in a good position to
profit from the strength of the industry," says Scott M.
Smith, an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. He expects
the company to post a 27% gain in net income, to 20 cents a
share, on a 56% boost in revenue, to $48 million.
   Among smaller PC software makers, Ashton-Tate Corp. should
break even at two cents a share, on a 12% sales gain to $67
million, compared with loss of 75 cents a share a year ago,
Mr. Smith says. The firm was hurt by delays in a new version
of its flagship database product. Goldman Sachs' Mr. Sherlund
isn't as optimistic, forecasting a five-cent-a-share loss on
essentially flat revenue of $58 million.
   Computer Associates International Inc., the largest
software company, is expected to recover from a slump in the
quarter a year ago brought on by its acquisition of
money-losing Cullinet Software Inc. The Cullinet business --
mostly mainframe software -- continued to hurt results in the
quarter ending June 30 and is down 50% from levels a year
ago, estimates Timothy R. McCollum, an analyst with Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc. But he sees the company gaining momentum
through the rest of the fiscal year, which closes March 31,
1991.
   Mr. McCollum expects the Garden City, N.Y.-based software
giant to earn about 10 cents a share, or $19 million, up 77%
from a year ago, while revenue should rise just 3%, to $311
million. Mr. McCollum is more cautious on the company's
performance than other analysts, whose estimates range from
12 cents to 15 cents a share.
   Oracle Systems Corp., whose database software spans
desktop to room-size computers, should bounce back in the
fourth quarter ended May 31, following a nasty third-quarter
surprise that sparked a huge sell-off of the stock in March.
Investors were stunned when the fast-growing company reported
its first flat quarter in years, snapping a spectacular
streak of double-digit earnings growth.
   David G. Bayer of Montgomery Securities expects Oracle,
based in Belmont, Calif.,to report that net income doubled,
to $69 million, or 50 cents a share, on a 69% increase in
revenue, to $365 million.
   Mr. Bayer is a bull on Oracle -- the Street consensus is
closer to 45 cents a share. But a few analysts think Oracle
could have a surprise in store. "They had a good wind-up to
the quarter, and I think they'll beat the forecasts," Dean
Witter's Mr. McCollum says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France's Inflation Rate Slows
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's consumer price index in May rose 0.2%
from April and 3% from a year earlier, the National
Statistics Institute said, confirming preliminary results.
   The latest data put the index -- the year 1980 is equal to
100 -- at 182.8, up from 182.4 in April and 177.5 in May
1990. The May result represents a slowdown from April, when
price growth was 0.4% on a monthly basis and 3.2% on a
year-to-year basis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Much of the May improvement was recorded in the service
sector, where monthly price growth eased to 0.2% from April's
0.8%. The April pace reflected the regular inclusion of
housing and rent costs on the index for the first month of
every calendar quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Airborne Express Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE ABF
</SO>
<CO>
   MITSY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Airborne Express, in a joint venture with
Mitsui &amp; Co. of Japan, said it entered a contract to buy
Griffin Associates, an air express company based in Thailand.
   Terms weren't disclosed. Airborne said the acquisition
would expand its position in the air express business to and
from Thailand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Growth
   Is Seen Trailing
   Europe, Japan
   ---
   OECD Forecast for '90, '91
   Shows Investment Rate,
   Growth Less Than Allies'
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6E
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development predicted that the U.S. will trail Europe and
Japan in investment growth and overall economic expansion
this year and next.
   The forecast was part of a larger economic appraisal that
saw a continuation of the industrial world's seven-year
expansion, but at a slower rate, with inflation poised to
subside after several years of creeping upward.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Paris-based organization, made up of the world's 24
leading industrial countries, predicted that U.S. gross fixed
investment would grow at 3.2% this year and 3.4% in 1991,
compared with Japanese investment growth of 9.6% and 4.9% for
the two years. German investment was predicted to expand by
6.6% this year and 5% in 1991. European members of the OECD
were expected to show an investment growth of 4.4% this year
and 4.7% in 1991.
   U.S. economic growth was forecast to be 2.3% this year and
2.5% next year. That compares with Japanese growth of 4.7%
and 4% and German growth of 3.9% and 3.4% for the two years.
As a group, European members of the OECD were predicted to
expand by 2.9% this year and 2.8% next year.
   The projections suggest that industrialized economies have
settled into a pattern of longer, less inflationary growth
periods ending in slowdowns but not necessarily deep
recessions. The prediction of more robust investment in
Europe and Japan than in the U.S. points to another generally
hopeful trend: The major economic blocs aren't moving in
lockstep, so that a sluggish economy in one part of the world
can be offset by exports to economies growing at a more
robust rate.
   In its analysis of the U.S., the OECD said that financial
conditions remain "rather unsettled," with huge insolvencies
in the thrift industry, defaults on junk bonds and problem
real estate loans. Meanwhile, consumer spending is slowing
due to sluggish growth in real disposable income. The
organization noted that the Federal Reserve Board's monetary
stance hasn't changed substantially since an easing in 1989,
creating relatively high borrowing costs.
   The report estimated the U.S. current-account imbalance to
be about $100 billion this year and $97 billion in 1991. But
the OECD, like other organizations, seemed confident that the
deficits can be financed. The risk, it said, is that big
deficits stir up political pressure for protectionist trade
laws and curbs on foreign investment. These steps, the OECD
warned, do have "destabilizing consequences."
   The OECD predicted that Japan's strong world-trade
position will persist, with the Asian economic giant's
current-account surplus rising to $59 billion in 1991 from an
estimated $49 billion this year. Japanese inflation,
minuscule by Western standards, was predicted to inch up to
2.7% this year and to drop to 2.6% in 1991.
   German reunification will unleash considerable investment
and consumer activity, creating export opportunities for West
Germany's trading partners. But the OECD noted that "hard
facts about the state of the East German economy are still
sparse," so that the outlook is full of uncertainties.
   The OECD said other Central and Eastern European countries
represent a potentially large demand for goods and services
from the major industrial countries. But the organization
added that "the speed with which foreign resources can be
productively absorbed will depend crucially on the pace of
structural and institutional transformation."
   Outside East Germany, investment flows to reform-minded
East Bloc states initially will be relatively modest, the
OECD said. The organization even raised the sobering prospect
that such flows from the industrial countries won't be enough
to offset losses stemming from higher energy bills from the
Soviet Union. Eastern European countries are expected to pay
considerably more for Soviet oil and gas once Comecon, the
Communist bloc's trade arrangement, is dismantled next year.
   The OECD predicted a modest increase in jobs in the 24
industrial countries. It noted that 85% of the civilian jobs
created in the seven major industrial countries were in the
service sector. Meanwhile, migration has become "an
increasingly important phenomenon for many OECD economies,"
the report stated. For European countries with aging
populations, immigrants have had the positive effect of
enlarging the working-age segment of the population.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Auto Exports
   Dropped 3.6% in May,
   Continuing a Decline
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN TOYOY NSANY HMC J.MZD J.MOT J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's exports of cars, trucks and buses dropped
3.6% to 444,628 units in May from a year earlier, showing a
continuing decline because of the transfer of export-market
production to overseas plants.
   The Japan Automobile Manufacturers' Association said U.S.
exports have declined because of the production transfer as
well as lower U.S. demand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall vehicle exports in May represent a 3.3% rise from
April, when exports posted an 18% year-to-year decline. An
association spokesman attributed these fluctuations to
shipping schedules.
   However, the U.S. remained the largest buyer of Japanese
vehicles in May, despite a 17% contraction in shipments.
Exports totaled 156,122 units.
   By vehicle types, passenger-car exports edged down to
337,551 units. Exports of medium-sized cars totaled 105,878
units, up 55%, while those of small cars dropped 14% to
231,673 units.
   Overall shipments of trucks declined 13% to 104,152 units.
Those of medium-sized trucks fell 6.6% to 77,645 units, and
of small trucks, 28% to 26,507 units.
   A total of 2,925 buses were exported in May, a 6.5% gain.
Shipments of large buses dropped 6.2% to 424, and shipments
of small buses rose 9% to 2,501.
   The gap between exports to the U.S. and to Europe, Japan's
second largest outlet, has narrowed recently. In May,
shipments to Europe increased 12% to 144,199 units.
   The European Community imported 109,143 Japanese vehicles,
up 14%, reflecting steady growth of shipments to West Germany
and the U.K.
   Shipments to the Middle East increased 48% to 20,405
units, pushed up largely by those to Saudi Arabia, which
imported 10,321 units, up 52%.
   According to the association's report, exports by the two
largest car makers in Japan declined from year-earlier
levels.
   Toyota Motor Corp. exports fell 3.6% to 147,377 units,
while those of Nissan Motor Co. dropped 6% to 67,344 units.
   Honda Motor Co. exported 49,584 units, down 2.7%.
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. shipped 35,788 units, down 9.9%.
Mazda Motor Corp. posted a 3.6% gain to 59,041 units, and
Isuzu Motors Ltd. rose 7.8% to 24,261 units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Ruling Draws the Worried to `Living Wills'
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<LP>
   Planning a graceful death doesn't rank at the top of
anyone's list of fun summer activities, but Monday's Supreme
Court ruling on the "right to die" has got a lot of people
thinking about it.
   By emphasizing the need for "clear and convincing" proof
of a patient's wishes, the ruling is likely to encourage
greater use of so-called living wills. These allow people to
spell out in advance their wishes about being kept alive
indefinitely if they fall victim to some severe and
irreversible condition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We've received thousands of calls," says Fanella Rouse,
executive director of Concern for Dying/Society for the Right
to Die. "There's something about this decision that has
really mobilized people to think about the need to put their
wishes in writing."
   The Supreme Court case involved Nancy Cruzan, a
32-year-old Missouri woman who has been unconscious since a
1983 car accident. Her doctors say there's no hope she will
ever recover, and her parents have asked that life-support
systems be disconnected. They say she had expressed a desire
not to be kept alive after a serious injury if she couldn't
function normally.
   In its ruling, the court recognized for the first time
that the Constitution protects a person's decision to refuse
artificial life support. But, upholding a lower court's
rejection of the parents' request, the justices said the
states may require a high standard of proof of a patient's
wishes.
   For people who are worried that they may someday be kept
alive in a vegetative condition against their wishes -- and
at potentially enormous cost -- a living will is essential,
say lawyers, doctors and others who counsel individuals and
their families on patients' rights. Already, says the
American Medical Association, an estimated 15% to 20% of
adult Americans have written a living will.
   "It's rising exponentially," says Linda Emanuel, a
physician who has discussed living wills with hundreds of
patients at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. "It's
almost a fad, but a fad I approve of."
   The key to writing a successful living will is using
explicit language. Your wishes have to be stated in a way
"that your intent will later be judged sufficiently clear by
people taking care of you," says Ms. Rouse. For example, if
an individual specifies that he doesn't want to be kept alive
if he's in a "terminal" condition, he should indicate what he
means by "terminal," since doctors interpret the word
differently.
   Society for the Right to Die has living-will forms for
each state. They are available by writing to the organization
at 250 West 57th Street, New York, N.Y. 10107.
   Other sources of living-will forms include local senior
centers. While individual lawyers can also help with a living
will, some of them say it probably isn't necessary to spend
the money, since the forms are designed to be used without
legal assistance.
   It would probably make more sense "to fill them out by
yourself, after discussing them with your doctor," says Dr.
Emanuel.
   An advantage of this is that people can then have their
living wills entered into their medical records, which can be
available immediately if they are brought in for treatment.
Doctors also recommend that a spouse or next of kin be given
a dated copy.
   Dr. Emanuel and some others say that people shouldn't rely
solely on a basic living will. To help ensure that a person's
wishes will be clear enough to be effective, they advise
attaching a "medical directive."
   Dr. Emanuel and her husband, Ezekiel Emanuel, a physician
at Boston's Beth Israel Hospital, have developed a suggested
directive. It sets out four scenarios and allows people to
specify the treatment they would want in each case.
   The form combines a living will with a durable power of
attorney, which enables a designated guardian to manage the
patient's finances and legal matters while the person is
disabled. It also includes a section for organ donation
instructions and a personal statement.
   "The personal statement allows people to say something
extremely important to them" and put their choices in a
larger context, says Linda Emanuel. For instance, she says,
someone might emphasize that the most important thing to them
is their independence, or sparing their family financial and
emotional hardship.
   The form can be obtained by sending a self-addressed,
stamped envelope and $1 to The Medical Directive, Harvard
Medical School Health Letter, 164 Longwood Avenue, 4th floor,
Boston, Mass. 02115.
   Even if an individual has already written a living will,
it's important to review it periodically. "You might not feel
the same way at age 60 as you did at age 30," says Ms. Rouse,
"and your interests might also change in light of new medical
discoveries."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hamilton Oil Corp. Discovery
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6G
</SO>
<CO>
   HAML EUROP U.MOG BP U.UMA
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Hamilton Oil Corp. said it discovered oil in a
horizontal well drilled in the U.K. sector of the North Sea.
The company said this is the first horizontal well it has
drilled in the Crawford field in the North Sea.
   The well flowed at a rate of 6,900 barrels of oil a day
through a 72/64 inch choke.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hamilton Oil Corp. is the operator, with a 36.33%
interest. Its partners are BP Petroleum Development Ltd.,
with a 30.33% interest; Elf Oil &amp; Gas Ltd., with a 23.33%
interest; Ultramar Exploration Ltd., with an 8.34% interest,
and Monument Resources Ltd., with a 1.67% interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mellon's Grant Street Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Mellon Bank Corp. said its Grant Street
National Bank unit, which is in liquidation, has deposited
$65.7 million with Continental Bank N.A., trustee for holders
of Grant Street's Class A-2 Extendible Pay-Through Notes.
   The deposit is sufficient to retire the remaining $61.2
million outstanding A-2 Notes on Nov. 1, 1990, their first
call date, the bank said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mellon also said Grant Street has made an initial payment
of $33 million to retire 325,000 shares of senior preferred
stock, plus accrued dividends. Additional payments will be
made as cash becomes available, the company said.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   GRANT STREET NATIONAL BANK is an independent, publicly
held company. In Friday's edition, Grant Street National was
incorrectly identified as a unit of Mellon Bank Corp.
   (WSJ July 2, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Treasurys Are Lifted by Thrift-Bailout Agency's
   Plan to Sell 30-Year, Instead of 40-Year Bonds
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP RJR CUE CHH ISS FRE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- News that the government's thrift bailout
agency will soon auction 30-year bonds, rather than the
oddball 40-year variety, provided a late-day boost to the
bond market.
   Bond prices opened as much as 3/8 point higher -- a gain
of $3.75 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount -- and stuck at
those levels through most of the day as investors continued
to cheer Wednesday's successful four-year note auction.
Optimism that efforts are underway to cut the size of the
budget deficit also helped the market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When the Treasury Department announced that Resolution
Funding Corp. will auction 30-year "bailout bonds" on July
10, trading activity perked up a bit.
   The Treasury's 30-year benchmark bond ended nearly 1/2
point higher while the issue's yield, which moves in the
opposite direction of its price, eased to 8.44%.
   Refcorp is the federal agency that raises money to finance
the government's massive bailout of the troubled savings and
loan industry. Details of the auction, including the size of
the offering, will be announced July 3.
   The next auction will be Refcorp's fourth and will mark
the agency's return to issuing 30-year bonds after selling
40-year bonds in January and April. Although the 40-year bond
auctions were considered flops at the time of the sale,
demand for the securities picked up later when the securities
were "stripped." Strips are created when dealers separate the
interest-paying "coupon" portion of a bond from the principle
or "corpus" portion and sell the two parts separately. Strips
are also divided into different maturities.
   John Costas, co-manager of government trading at First
Boston Corp., said the Refcorp news helped the market because
it relieved some worries about possible supply pressures.
Thirty-year bonds, which have broad investor appeal, are
easier to sell than forty-year bonds.
   Mr. Costas said that another 40-year bond offering might
have saturated the market with "interest only" 40-year
strips, which are not very popular. But, he said, demand for
the "principal" portion, often called a zero-coupon bond, has
been strong.
   Government officials said the decision to issue 30-year,
rather than 40-year, bonds largely reflects the government's
need for large amounts of cash. And because 30-year bonds are
easier to sell than 40-year bonds, the Treasury said it can
raise the size of the auctions without disrupting the market.
   "We have to raise more money than we did at the last
auction" because the thrift industry bailout process is
speeding up, said Michael Basham, deputy assistant secretary
of federal finance at the U.S. Treasury.
   "If we have to raise more money, I felt we would be better
off selling a 30-year bond," said Mr. Basham.
   Treasury officials have indicated the size of the sale
will be between $4 billion and $6 billion, up from the $3.5
billion of 40-year "bailout" bonds sold at the April auction.
   Mr. Basham said Wall Street also seemed to favor a 30-year
bond this time around.
   "At the last auction, the investment community had a
strong preference for a 40-year bond, but we didn't get a
strong response {for a 40-year issue} from the investment
community this time," he said.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at price of
103 8/32 to yield 8.44% compared with 102 26/32 to yield
8.48% on Wednesday. Ten-year notes ended at 102 23/32 to
yield 8.46% compared with 102 11/32 to yield 8.50%.
   Meanwhile, the discount rate on threemonth Treasury bills
ended at 7.75% for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.99% while the
rate on six-month notes fell to 7.63% for a bond-equivalent
yield of 8.02%.
   The Treasury sold $10.26 billion of 52week bills yesterday
at an average discount rate of 7.52%.
   Here are details of yesterday's auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                              52-Week Bills
                                                                                                       

   Applications                             $31,662,840,000
   Accepted bids                            $10,263,830,000
   Accepted at low price                                12%
   Accepted noncompetitively                   $834,280,000
   Average price (Rate) ...................  92.376 (7.52%)

   Low price (Rate) .......................  92.365 (7.53%)
   Coupon equivalent ......................           8.09%
                                                                                                       

   The bills are dated July 5, 1990 and mature July 5, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Tax-exempt securities ended 1/8 to 3/8 point higher.
   Despite a lack of bonds available in the secondary market,
traders reported good activity from investors looking to add
to slim inventories.
   In new-issue dealings, a Lehman Brothers group tentatively
priced $60 million Illinois Student Assistance Commission
student loan revenue bonds to yield from 6.60% in 1995 to
7.38% in 2003.
   Among actively quoted bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% securities of 2018 ended 1/4 point higher
at 98 1/4 to yield 7.34%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Canadian bond prices ended modestly lower in dull trading,
as profit-taking dented the market's upward momentum of the
past few days.
   Traders said there was little reaction in the Canadian
bond market to news that Canada's gross domestic product was
unchanged in April from March or to news that Canadian
manufacturers operated at 80.4% of capacity in the first
quarter, down from 82% in the fourth quarter.
   Canada's benchmark 10-year 10.5% bond due 2000 was quoted
late yesterday afternoon at a price of 98.950, down 0.10
percentage point, to yield 10.67%.
   In other markets, British government bonds ended slightly
firmer as the pound rebounded against some other major
currencies. Britain's 11.75% benchmark bond due 2003/2007 was
up 2/32 at 102 28/32 to yield 11.32%.
   West German government bonds ended slightly higher in
directionless trading. Dealers say the market remains trapped
in a narrow range. Bonn's 10-year benchmark 8.75% bond was up
0.15 point to 100.20 to yield 8.71%.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Robust gains in the junk bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc. led the
junk-bond market higher, sparking buying interest in some of
the market's better quality "Go-Go" issues.
   The active buying was triggered by reports that RJR
Nabisco is proposing to reset the interest rate on $2.6
billion of pay-in-kind bonds at 16.5%. Pay-in-kind bonds pay
interest in the form of additional securities as opposed to
cash.
   RJR Nabisco's 14.07% convertible pay-in-kind debentures,
due in 2009, finished up 2 1/4 points at 103 on the New York
Stock Exchange. The 14.07% exchangeable pay-in-kind
debentures, maturing in 2007, ended 1 3/8 points higher at 84
1/8.
   Most actively traded junk bonds posted gains of about 3
3/8 point. Some notable exceptions, however, were Quantum
Chemical Corp. and Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc.
   Carter Hawley Hale's 12.5% senior subordinated debentures
ended down 3 5/8 points at 79 7/8 on the New York Stock
Exchange while Quantum's 12.5% senior subordinated notes
ended 1/2 point lower at 88.
   The bonds of Interco Inc. slipped on concern that the
furniture maker will skip upcoming interest payments on its 8
7/8% notes. The notes fell one point to 63.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed securities maintained a modestly firm
tone.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9.5% securities
for July delivery finished up 7/32 at 99 6/32 to yield 9.75%.
   In another sector, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9.5%
securities closed up 7/32 at 98 18/32 to yield 9.73%.
   Traders weren't expecting the session's gains to be much
larger, saying that hesitation to build positions as the
quarter ends and as the July Fourth holiday and June
employment report approach would likely take the edge off any
rally.
   In the primary market, a $500 million Freddie Mac
five-year noncallable debenture issue, being sold by Freddie
Mac's 18-member securities dealer group, was priced as 8.70%
securities at par.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heck's Inc. Unit's Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HEXX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NITRO, W. Va. -- Heck's Inc. said shareholders approved
the previously announced sale of its retail division to
Retail Acquisition Corp. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The sale is expected to close in July, leaving the company
with its Steel City Products division, a wholesale
distributor of automotive parts and accessories based in
Pittsburgh. Shareholders also approved resolutions to change
the company's name to Hallwood Industries Inc. and its state
of incorporation to Delaware from West Virginia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Steel Firms
   Report Major Gains
   In Fiscal-Year Profits
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6H
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.NKK J.NIP J.SMM J.KOB J.KWS
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Almost all of Japan's major steelmakers reported
sizable gains in their fiscal 1990 pretax earnings, as a
result of strong demand from big domestic buyers such as
construction concerns and car companies.
   NKK Corp. was the only one that posted a profit decline
for the year ended March 31. NKK officials noted, as they did
when they released parent-company results in May, that the
drop resulted mostly from a change in the way the company
measures depreciation costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The other steel manufacturers -- Nippon Steel Corp.,
Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd., Kobe Steel Ltd. and Kawasaki
Steel Corp. -- all showed profit growth.
   Officials at these companies traced the gains to brisk
demand from domestic steel users. As the economy continued to
expand during the year, they said, companies stepped up
production and boosted steel consumption.
   None of the steel companies provided consolidated sales
breakdowns. Neither did they make earnings predictions for
the current fiscal year.
   Nippon Steel's pretax earnings climbed 25% to 219.94
billion yen ($1.42 billion) from 175.58 billion yen. Net
income surged 50% to 117.14 billion yen, or 17.01 yen a
share, from 78.07 billion yen, or 11.76 yen a share.
   Sales amounted to 2.972 trillion yen, up 13% from 2.635
trillion yen in fiscal 1989.
   Sumitomo reported pretax earnings of 101.56 billion yen, a
13% increase from 90.14 billion yen. Net dropped 32%,
however, to 39.38 billion yen, or 13.05 yen a share, from
58.04 billion yen, or 20.83 yen a share.
   Sumitomo's sales came to 1.805 trillion yen, up 48% from
1.223 trillion yen.
   Kobe's pretax earnings grew 21% to 61.57 billion yen from
50.84 billion yen. Net dropped 9% to 23.26 billion yen, or
8.25 yen a share, from 25.45 billion yen, or 10.02 yen a
share.
   Cutting into Kobe's profit were costs involving the
establishment of pension funds, which came to 9.08 billion
yen. In fiscal 1989, there were no such costs.
   Sales totaled 1.325 trillion yen, up 6% from 1.248
trillion yen.
   Kawasaki posted a 10% increase in pretax earnings to
108.65 billion yen from 98.42 billion yen. Net rose 15% to
55.87 billion yen, or 18.32 yen a share, from 48.53 billion
yen, or 16.54 yen a share.
   Sales were 1.214 trillion yen, up 6% from 1.141 trillion
yen.
   NKK's pretax earnings went down 19% to 85.92 billion yen
from 105.7 billion yen. Net plunged 57% to 39.19 billion yen,
or 11.13 yen a share, from 91.7 billion yen, or 28.76 yen a
share.
   Pushing down net were a 93% drop in extraordinary gains,
including those from sales of fixed assets and securities,
and a 230% jump in extraordinary losses.
   "Without special factors," a company official said,
"business wasn't that bad during the year." NKK's sales
increased 5% to 1.448 trillion yen from 1.379 trillion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environment:
   Home Products Revamped to Curb Smog
   Could Leave Frustrated Users Fuming
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The battle against smog will have a home front, too:
Consumers may struggle with damper hairdos, longer-drying
paint and frozen windshield-washer fluid.
   Hundreds of consumer products containing smog-causing
ingredients may have to be changed in the name of clean air.
The sweeping legislation pending in Congress would require
the Environmental Protection Agency to study consumer
products and issue regulations aimed at reducing their
smog-forming potential. Meanwhile, states already are
pressing their own smog attacks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   California and some other states have required the
reduction of smog-inducing solvents in paints. California
also has adopted standards that will take effect in 1993 for
antiperspirants, and it is considering regulating 20 to 30
other products, including cologne, nail-polish remover and
windshield-washer fluid.
   Meanwhile, Texas has required changes in windshield-washer
fluid used in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. And this summer,
New York state plans to propose restrictions for the New York
metropolitan area covering antiperspirants and deodorants,
air fresheners and hair spray.
   Some changes, industry contends, are to the detriment of
consumers. In Dallas, windshield fluids that meet state
anti-smog rules don't work in freezing temperatures. In
California, paint makers have abandoned some paints that meet
new rules because they aren't satisfied with the
paint-spreading performance.
   But Dean Simeroth, an official of the California Air
Resources Board, says the complaints are overblown. "Advances
in technology," he says, "will keep acceptable products on
the shelf."
   The products in question contain one or more volatile
organic compounds, or VOCs, which react with other chemicals
in sunlight to form smog. Generally, these compounds,
typically an alcohol or hydrocarbon, are found in the
solvent, which carries an active ingredient that actually
holds the hair or cleans the windshield. However, some active
ingredients themselves contain VOCs, too.
   Either way, the compounds often are crucial to today's
products: It's the smog-forming component that helps paints
spread evenly and helps disinfectants in household cleaners
kill germs.
   Compared with contributors to smog like auto exhaust,
individual consumer products release relatively tiny amounts
of smog-producing substances. But their ubiquity -- coupled
with the fact that all of the easy reductions have already
been squeezed from larger sources -- have made this area ripe
for pollution reduction.
   While questioning the need to change some products,
companies nationwide are hard at work redesigning products so
they won't contribute to smog. "Up to three or four years
ago, no one ever heard of VOCs," says Ralph Engel, president
of the Chemical Specialties Manufacturers Association in
Washington. "Now everyone is working on" the problem, he
says.
   Here are some of the likely changes for a variety of
products:
                                                                                                       

   HAIR SPRAYS: Companies will have to attack on two fronts:
the aerosol propellant, generally a hydrocarbon, and the
solvent in the hair spray itself. The solvent, consisting of
water and alcohol, evaporates, leaving behind a resin that
actually holds the hair in place. Changes to fight smog may
threaten the dry look.
   Compressed gases may be usable as an alternative to the
hydrocarbon propellant, but they often don't dissolve as well
in the alcohol, says chemist Joyce Graf of the Cosmetic,
Toiletry and Fragrance Association. Reducing the alcohol
content of the solvent would lower the smog-forming potential
but might also result in less uniform evaporation, also
leaving hair wetter, Ms. Graf says. Non-aerosol dispensers
produce a wetter spray.
   Thomas Pallone, a vice president at Alberto Culver Co.,
Melrose Park. Ill., says reducing the harmful ingredients in
hair spray will mean "far wetter hair" as the industry relies
more on water, which dries more slowly than alcohol. On hot,
humid days, he says, hair might take 20 minutes to dry,
compared with a few minutes with today's products. The price
may rise, too.
   But California officials are confident that the state's
planned hair-spray regulations will result in acceptable
products. "By 1993, nobody will notice any difference," says
Mr. Simeroth.
                                                                                                       

   PAINT: To reduce smog, manufacturers in some states have
to cut the level of solvent, which helps paint flow onto
surfaces and form a uniform film. Depending on the type of
paint, a low-solvent brand might require more frequent
applications, take longer to dry and do so unevenly. It also
could cost more than the paints available today, according to
manufacturers who are already complying with pollution rules
in California and other states.
   Robert Wendoll, environmental regulation administrator for
Dunn Edwards Corp., Los Angeles, says the quality may never
be as good as in high-solvent paint. If not, he says, people
may simply use more paint, which could actually increase,
rather than reduce, smog-forming emissions. His company and
Benjamin Moore &amp; Co., Montvale, N.J., have stopped selling
some paints in certain areas because of dissatisfaction with
quality.
   James Sainsbury, manager of product regulation for big
paint maker Glidden Co., a subsidiary of Imperial Chemical
Industries PLC, says the proliferation of pollution rules is
accelerating the trend toward wider use of latex paints,
which contain fewer harmful solvents and which many consumers
already prefer for a variety of surfaces. Reducing the
solvents in oil-based paints, which many people use on window
sills, doorways and trim among other places, produces a
thicker film that won't dry as well, he says.
   The California Air Resources Board says many low-solvent
paints may require more advance surface preparation. But it
says the products being sold today generally don't require
more frequent painting and perform about as well as the
high-solvent brands. The board says consumers probably won't
notice any difference, and that quality will only improve as
technology gains.
   Last week, the air quality management district for the San
Francisco Bay area agreed to ban aerosol spray paints that
don't meet strict emission levels by Jan. 1. A spokeswoman
for the board, which is under federal court order to reduce
emissions from these products, says there are "very few"
spray paints available today that meet the standard.
                                                                                                       

   WINDSHIELD-WASHER FLUID: To comply with new rules in the
Dallas-Fort Worth area, manufacturers have had to remove the
volatile compounds, typically methanol, that prevent the
liquid from freezing and keep it from beading up or leaving a
film.
   Chem Lab Products Inc., Ontario, Calif., replaced the
compounds in its fluid with a substance similar to an
ingredient used in fancy shampoos. But algae started growing
in the new product while it sat on the shelves, says Dana
Somesla, chief chemist for Chem Lab, so the company had to
add an algae inhibitor. (Texas may allow a small percentage
of methanol or ethanol to help deal with this problem.)
   Mr. Somesla says the company has gotten good responses
from customers for its low-polluting fluid, which costs about
the same as fluid with methanol. But the product really
hasn't been tested in a Dallas winter yet, and Chem Lab
hasn't come up with a marketable product that works in
freezing temperatures. Chem Lab says that it is working on
such a fluid, but that it will probably cost twice as much.
   Looking on the bright side, some companies predict that
consumers may actually seek out new or revised products that
help cut smog, even if they cost a bit more or don't work
quite as well as today's goods. Says Peter Gould, president
of Exxel Container Inc., a Somerset, N.J., maker of a
non-aerosol dispensing can, "We'll be seeing products that
deliver a close-enough performance and make people feel good
because they're doing something environmentally valid."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Science:
   Researchers Hope Genetic Trick Will Aid
   Dairy Cows in Producing Medicinal Milk
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   BGEN ABT
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Researchers pulled off a genetic trick that could turn
dairy cows into pharmaceutical factories.
   Specifically, the researchers combined a human gene that
produces a clot-dissolving protein with a bovine gene
involved in milk production in cattle. When the combined
human-bovine genetic material was inserted into test mice,
the mice began producing milk that was rich in the human
clot-dissolving protein.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The same genetic trick is now being attempted in dairy
cows in hopes the cows will produce milk rich in a number of
human proteins of medicinal and nutritional value, said
Jonathan MacQuitty, president of GenPharm International Inc.,
a closely held Dutch-American biotechnology company based in
Mountain View, Calif., and Leyden, the Netherlands.
   The significance of the new genetic trick rests in
researchers' selection of a bovine gene that could prompt the
animal, whether mouse or cow, to produce a human protein in
the milk in potentially commercial quantities.
   The researchers said that in their experiment, the
genetically altered mice were producing the human
clot-dissolving protein at the rate of one to two milligrams
per milliliter of milk. Had the same trick been accomplished
in a cow, the cow would produce five gallons of milk a day
containing 20 grams of the protein.
   The researchers reported their feat in the May issue of
Bio/Technology, a scientific and trade journal. The
experiment was carried out by Elizabeth Lacy and Nils Lonberg
of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York and
Harry Meade and Liora Gates of Biogen Inc. in Cambridge,
Mass. Mr. Lonberg subsequently went to GenPharm in Mountain
View which, under a license from Biogen, is extending the
research into cattle.
   In recent years, genetic engineers have talked seriously
of having animals produce genetically engineered drugs in
their milk. The ultimate goal is for cows, nanny goats or
possibly ewes to replace the bacterial fermentation tanks
that currently produce genetically engineered drugs. So doing
requires the foreign gene that makes the drug to be
"expressed" or turned on in the mammary tissue of the animal.
   In other experiments in the past three years genetically
altered mice have produced foreign proteins in their milk. In
these cases, scientists took human genes and linked them to
mouse genes that function in the mouse mammary glands. The
mice produced the human proteins in their milk but in amounts
too small to be commercially important.
   The new trick differs in that the scientists hooked a
human gene to a bovine gene directly involved in making milk
in a cow. The bovine gene produces casein, a protein that
accounts for about a third of the total protein found in
cow's milk. In a move that proved to be vitally important,
the researchers also plucked out the pieces of genetic
material at each end of the casein gene that control its
functioning, the so-called regulatory segments.
   The research team then took the gene for human urokinase
and spliced it into the middle of the casein gene. Urokinase
is a protein, normally produced in the kidney, which can
dissolve blood clots. It is commercially produced by Abbott
Laboratories as a pharmaceutical.
   The hybrid bovine-human gene, complete with the regulatory
segments, was then implanted in mouse embryos. Three mice
carrying the gene were subsequently born, one of which passed
the gene along to its progeny to create a line of inbred mice
with the hybrid bovine-human gene.
   The lactating females of this line of mice are producing
milk containing large amounts of human urokinase. The key to
the trick, the researchers said, was including the
all-important regulatory segments with the hybrid gene.
"Because these bovine regulatory sequences function correctly
in mice, we assume they should be at least as effective . . .
in transgenic cows," they suggested.
   GenPharm's Mr. MacQuitty said researchers in the
Netherlands have now used the bovine casein gene and its
regulatory segments to splice other foreign genes into the
embryos of cattle.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonald's Ads
   On Mini-Billboards
   Irk Some Chicagoans
   ---
   Promotions Placed on Boxes
   For the Chicago Observer
   Are Assailed as `Eyesores'
   ----
   By Andrew Patner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6E
</SO>
<CO>
   MCD
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A McDonald's Corp. effort to promote its new
cheddar cheese hamburger may be facing a meltdown in Chicago.
   McDonald's placed hundreds of 3-foot-by-4-foot
mini-billboards throughout Chicago's downtown and its trendy
North Side on boxes for the Chicago Observer, a new monthly
newspaper that appears to be a vehicle for
outdoor-advertising concerns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The signs, featuring the new Cheddar Melt sandwich, invite
passers-by hungry "For All the Juicy Details" to "Inquire
Inside" where cubbyholes hold copies of the 12-page
newspaper. While few people are talking about the paper,
which features an interview with Sean Connery and several
pages of society photographs, the 400 boxes have captured the
attention -- and the wrath -- of city officials. Some of the
boxes don't carry the McDonald's ads.
   Aldermen, storefront businessmen and civic groups have
denounced the boxes as "eyesores" and "sneak attacks" on city
restrictions on billboards, sandwich boards and bench
advertising. The signs weren't up three days before Mayor
Richard M. Daley introduced an ordinance in the City Council
to restrict newsracks to 26 inches by 40 inches and to ban
all advertising from the racks.
   Gary Weintraub, attorney for the Chicago Observer, says
the controversy is "a First Amendment issue involving a free
press and free speech." He says: "There were no ordinances on
the books when our boxes were put up. This is a fundamental
constitutional issue."
   Mr. Weintraub says the Observer is no different from any
other newspaper except for "a policy to feature our
advertisers on our boxes." But Rick Johnson, marketing
supervisor for McDonald's Chicago region, says the
food-service concern bought the poster campaign as "a
package." He says the Oak Brook, Ill., company didn't
anticipate the uproar and usually steers clear of offending
"public perceptions" in its ad campaigns.
   Cindy Mitchell, president of Friends of the Parks, a
watchdog group, says the paper is "trash" and its boxes are
"aesthetic nightmares." But for Mr. Weintraub, "One man's
eyesore is another man's jewel."
   The paper's editor, M. Michael Petrovich, and its
investors, Robert Hoelterhoff and Robert and Terry Durkin,
all involved in outdoor-advertising concerns, couldn't be
reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Exxon Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   XON WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EXXON Corp. (New York) -- In a reorganization of its
corporate and public affairs department, this energy company
named three executives: Elliot R. Cattarulla, vice president
of public affairs, effective Aug. 1; T. Peter Townsend, vice
president for investor relations, effective July 1, and David
L. Baird, corporate secretary, effective Aug. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Steel Exports Decline
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's May steel exports dropped 22% from a year
earlier as producers continued to direct their efforts at the
robust domestic market, the Japan Iron and Steel Federation
said.
   Shipments in May slipped to 1,344,000 metric tons, with
declines in most markets. Exports were down 1.6% from April.
A metric ton is 2,204.6 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Lawton Chiles Leads All Opponents for Governor
   Of Florida With Unusual Campaign in Key Race
   ----
   By Dennis Farney
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -- The rawboned man riding in the
front seat is recalling emotions, emotions that transcended
the blues to approach despair. He is describing depression.
   Depression? "I didn't know the meaning of `depression,'"
muses Lawton Chiles. "I had `the blacks.' They got to be the
black blacks."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That depression caused Mr. Chiles to end his U.S. Senate
career in 1988 after three terms. It deepened in 1989. Then,
with medical help, it dissipated in December.
   Now Lawton Chiles is back in politics, the front-running
candidate for Florida's Democratic gubernatorial nomination.
And talking enthusiastically -- not of pain, but of
possibilities.
   "What if," he begins. "What if I could jump into the race
at the last moment, after all the smart money had already
been locked up? What if I could win without compromising with
the big-money people? Oh, it would be so exciting]"
   Lawton Chiles did enter this race at the last moment -- in
April, long after his Democratic opponent, Rep. Bill Nelson,
had locked up the smart money. And he's certainly trying to
win without compromising. In a fantastically expensive state
to campaign in, he's stubbornly limiting individual
contributions to $100. He's running, he says, against the
whole corrupting, paralyzing influence of money in politics.
   "Do I want to destroy the system?" he asked rhetorically
in a recent debate here. "I do, with every fiber and bone in
my body. . . . Help us make this an election, not an
auction."
   Mr. Chiles's sudden re-emergence has done more than
threaten the hopes of Mr. Nelson, a clean-cut congressman who
has been annointed by the state's Democratic power brokers.
It also has injected a new element of uncertainty into one of
the nation's most important gubernatorial races.
   Republican National Committee Chairman Lee Atwater has
called Florida, Texas and California "the three-megastate
anchor to our entire Sun Belt political base." All three
statehouses are held by Republicans now, and all are up for
grabs in November. All three states stand to gain
congressional seats as the result of the 1990 census and
their governors will be key to the congressional
redistricting process.
   A recent Mason-Dixon Opinion Research Inc. poll found Mr.
Chiles leading Mr. Nelson 55% to 38%, despite a recently
concluded Nelson television blitz. Mr. Chiles also led
incumbent GOP Gov. Bob Martinez 53% to 38%. If Mr. Chiles
does triumph, it will be his way -- the hard way. His
campaign amounts to an anti-campaign, a throwback to a
simpler era.
   Because of his self-imposed contribution limitations, he
has run only scattered advertisements on cable television. He
and his running mate, former Congressman Kenneth "Buddy"
MacKay, typically campaign in khakis and sport shirts. "Our
Bartles &amp; Jaymes approach," Mr. MacKay calls it. More
startling, this campaign has no formal campaign manager. So
who's steering this thing?
   "That's not clear every day," grins Mr. MacKay, who
narrowly lost the 1988 U.S. Senate race to succeed Mr.
Chiles. "But this is the way Lawton wants it, and I'm
committed to trying to make it work."
   Mr. Chiles has always campaigned unconventionally. He won
his Senate seat in 1970 as "Walkin' Lawton," the low-budget
candidate who hiked from the Florida Panhandle to the Florida
Keys. Today, Mr. Chiles is banking on his statewide name
recognition, his reputation for integrity -- and his hunch
that voters are ready to rebel against big-money politics.
   That assumption remains to be tested. Incumbent Gov.
Martinez is widely expected to spend $12 million to $15
million in his re-election campaign. Nomination opponent Bill
Nelson spent $l.7 million on his television blitz. The
normally bland Mr. Nelson also has gone on the attack.
   He has criticized Mr. Chiles as insufficiently pro-choice
on the abortion issue, challenged him to release his
income-tax returns and, in a debate here, presented him with
a pair of shower thongs to symbolize his alleged
"flip-flops." Through it all, politely but pointedly, Mr.
Nelson has tried to make depression an issue.
   ". . . In your own words, you had said you were burned
out," he reminded Mr. Chiles in an earlier debate. "Your
colleagues said you were overwhelmed by the system. You said
you couldn't control your own schedule. The question is, why
do you think the governor's job wouldn't be overwhelming?"
   Claude Kirk, a GOP ex-governor seeking his party's
nomination again, has suggested an answer. If Mr. Chiles was
depressed in Washington, Mr. Kirk said, after "he spends
about 13 minutes in the governor's chair, he may blow his
brains out."
   The polls suggest that these attacks haven't worked. Mr.
Chiles's basic reply to such jibes is that the two jobs are
different: Governors, as hands-on executives, can get things
done in a way that U.S. senators can't. On a deeper level,
his response evokes one of the recurring themes of politics
-- the collision of hope with disillusionment.
   As a senator, Mr. Chiles was an architect of the
congressional budget process. "I had such high hopes," he
says. Yet that system was unable to prevent Congress and
President Reagan from tripling the national debt. Late in his
Senate career, Mr. Chiles headed the Budget Committee
himself.
   "I guess," he reflects as his car carries him toward a
campaign stop, "the worst thing that happened to me was
getting to be chairman."
   His final, crushing disillusionment was a White House
budget summit -- not unlike yet another budget summit
unfolding today -- after the 1987 stock-market crash. "I
began to see that the president wasn't serious, the speaker
wasn't serious, the majority leader wasn't serious," he says.
"It was all a charade. I just wanted to scream, `This is a
fraud.' But I had helped create it]"
   The episode undoubtedly contributed to the depression that
followed. Will his current unorthodox campaign lead to new
disillusionment?
   Mr. Chiles is convinced the risk is worth taking. "If we
can get elected this way, literally we're free," he says. As
he put it in the debate here: "You can't kill the system by
joining it. You can't kill darkness with darkness."
   Later that day, amid the gathering twilight of an outdoor
rally here, he told his audience: "When you tell us you
really think that we can turn things around, that just makes
us grow 10 feet tall."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thursday's Markets:
   Bonds Gain
   On Demand
   At Note Sale
   ---
   Upbeat Mood Sends
   Stock Prices Higher;
   Dollar Ends Mixed
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond investors, relieved that Wednesday's
Treasury note offering met brisk demand, bid prices higher.
The upbeat mood spilled over into the stock market.
   Long-term U.S. Treasury bond prices rose half a point, or
$5 for each $1,000 of face amount, in moderately active
trading. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 16.58 points
to 2878.71, but trading was light. The dollar rose against
the West German mark and fell against the yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said Wednesday's offering of four-year Treasury
notes was so warmly received by investors because they think
action on cutting the U.S. budget deficit will bring interest
rates lower soon. On Tuesday, President Bush said the deficit
had to be cut, even if it meant raising taxes, thereby
clearing the way for potentially productive budget talks with
Congress.
   "It's a real watershed when the president and Congress can
get together on" deficit-cutting, said Peter Bass, head of
fixed-income trading for S.G. Warburg Securities.
   Buying enthusiasm continued yesterday and helped buoy the
30-year benchmark Treasury bond. Much of the early lift in
prices came from non-Japanese foreign investors, said Mr.
Bass.
   Stock prices also benefited from "window dressing" by some
money managers anxious to present good reports to clients.
"It's been a good quarter for the market," said Leo
Grohowski, head of equities trading at Marinvest, "and
portfolio managers don't want to show a lot of cash in their
end-of-the-quarter statements."
   Mr. Grohowski said another positive influence was Nike's
announcement that it would post sharply higher second-quarter
earnings -- a reassuring switch from the recent spate of
negative profit news.
   Much of what happened to the dollar was the result of
trading strategies that focused on other currencies, said
David Gilmore, senior foreign-exchange analyst at McCarthy,
Crisanti &amp; Maffei. For example, Japanese investors selling
sterling and buying yen hurt the dollar against the yen, Mr.
Gilmore said.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose on Big Board volume of 136.1 million
shares. Advancers outnumbered decliners, 911 to 559.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond eased to 8.44%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar ended mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6730 marks and 153.15 yen, compared
with 1.6645 marks and 154.45 yen Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy's Foreign Trade Account
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROME -- Italy's foreign trade account deficit widened to a
provisional, unadjusted 2.495 trillion lire ($2.05 billion)
in May from 2.139 trillion lire a year earlier and from 877
billion lire in April, the state statistical office Istat
said.
   Istat also said the trade balance in this year's first
five months showed a deficit of 12.506 trillion lire,
slightly narrower than 13.501 trillion lire a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lira value of imports in May rose 5% to 19.805
trillion lire from a year earlier, and exports rose 3.5% to
17.31 trillion lire. In the first five months, imports rose
5.6% to 93.651 trillion lire, and exports grew 7.9% to 81.145
trillion lire.
   Import value is calculated on a cost, insurance and
freight basis, and exports are accounted for on a
free-on-board basis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Ingot Output
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel ingot production totaled 287,537
metric tons in the week ended Saturday, down 1% from 290,369
tons in the preceding week but up 11% from 259,687 tons a
year earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   A metric ton is 2,204.6 pounds. So far in 1990, ingot
output is 6,986,435 metric tons, down 9.1% from 7,689,996
tons a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Leo's Industries Posts
   Profit for Fiscal Year
   On 25% Revenue Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6C
</SO>
<CO>
   LI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Leo's Industries Inc., benefiting from a
strong performance by its cellular phone unit, posted net
income for the year ended March 31 of $3.7 million, or 90
cents a share, on a 25% increase in revenue.
   Revenue rose to $82.7 million from $65.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Leo's, which also operates a chain of 40
consumer-electronics stores, had a 1989 net loss of $2.4
million, or 59 cents a share. Those results included a $2.9
million loss from the sale of an unprofitable stereo-speaker
manufacturing unit.
   The company's 20th Century Cellular Inc. unit buys
cellular service from licensed carriers and resells the
service to subscribers.
   Paul M. Cohen, Leo's chairman and chief executive officer,
said the unit, which has more than 10,000 subscribers, is
currently adding 1,650 subscribers a month. The business is
generating revenue of more than $1.3 million a month, he
said.
   For the fourth quarter, historically its poorest, the
company approximately broke even, said Mr. Cohen. He added
that those results were achieved without commissions Leo's
earned in last year's fourth quarter as an agent for a Los
Angeles cellular carrier. Now that the company is a reseller,
it no longer receives those commissions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manufacturers
   Hanover Sets
   Sizable Charge
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MHC X.TMP CCI BT CMB MIDL FFB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Manufacturers Hanover Corp. said it will take
a substantial charge against second-quarter earnings as a
result of the bank holding company's cost-cutting
reorganization plan.
   The company also said that it will place more than $150
million in loans to developer Donald Trump on nonperforming
status. Other lenders are expected to take similar action in
reclassifying a portion of their loans to Mr. Trump as
nonperforming.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such status means that the loans aren't performing
according to the original terms of the borrowers' loan
agreement. It doesn't mean the bank won't eventually be
repaid the loans.
   Manufacturers Hanover said that the one-time charge will
reduce operating earnings for the second quarter below the
$96 million, or $1.21 a share, it earned in this year's first
quarter. Although the size of the charge hasn't been
determined, it isn't expected to exceed the bank's operating
earnings for the second quarter.
   The disclosures came in a prospectus for the proposed sale
of four million shares of Manufacturers Hanover preferred.
   Manufacturers stock closed at $34.50, off 25 cents, in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Like many other large banks, Manufacturers is struggling
to reduce expenses in the face of slack corporate finance
business. It earlier announced a reorganization aimed at
slashing costs to bring them more in line with expected
revenue.
   Chemical Banking Corp., Bankers Trust New York Corp. and
Chase Manhattan Corp. all have taken or face the need to take
similar charges as a result of restructurings, industry
experts say.
   Although Manufacturers' prospectus didn't identify Mr.
Trump specifically, it said its portfolio of nonperforming
loans would increase by about 15% in the second quarter
"principally because of problems being experienced by one of
the corporation's major real estate customers." A bank
official identified the customer as Mr. Trump.
   Manufacturers' nonperforming loan portfolio, exclusive of
Third World debt, stood at $1.04 billion as of March 31.
   Bank industry sources said Mr. Trump's other major bank
lenders -- Citicorp, Bankers Trust and Chase -- would almost
certainly place the portion of their loans to Mr. Trump on
which interest payments have been deferred on nonperforming
status as well. Under a tentative agreement between Mr. Trump
and the banks this week, interest payments on some $850
million of loans have been deferred in exchange for an
additional five-year, $65 million loan that will enable Mr.
Trump to avoid defaults on debt agreements.
   A spokesman for Chase said that some portion of the bank's
loans to Mr. Trump would be placed on nonperforming status,
but not loans on which Mr. Trump continues to make interest
payments. Other banks refused to comment on their treatment
of the Trump loans.
   Additionally, two New Jersey banks with substantial loans
to Mr. Trump -- First Fidelity Bancorp. and Midlantic Corp.
-- refused to disclose how they're dealing with their loans
to Mr. Trump. However, First Fidelity earlier said it would
set aside as much as $300 million for past-due loans in the
second quarter, a portion of which is believed to be loans to
Mr. Trump.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Watch --
   Russians Urge:
   Please Don't Help
   Our Government
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- So the West wants to bail out Mikhail Gorbachev.
Germany and France have proposed a $20 billion subsidy, the
usual suspects are signing on and George Bush has sent up a
trial balloon. But what if the better Russians don't want to
be bailed out by the West?
   Wandering around this city-that-doesn't-work (Manila on
the Moscow) this week, I put the question of Western aid to a
variety of reformers. Politicians, journalists, economists --
these are the people who want to go beyond Mr. Gorbachev's
inchoate reforms to create private property and democratic
politics. They are the ones who will have to prevail if
Russia ("U.S.S.R." will soon be passe) is ever going to join
the civilized, developed world. Aid for Gorby? Every single
reformer is ambivalent at the very least, and usually
flat-out opposed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Sometimes I think the worst enemies of democracy in my
country are democrats in the West," says Ilya Zaslavsky, a
member of the reformist Interregional Group of Deputies in
the Soviet parliament. "You are always trying to help our
dictatorship." Mr. Zaslavsky is slight, has hair that is
early-Beatles and like most Russians has a well honed gift
for irony.
   But his view is hardly eccentric. I couldn't find a single
reformer, moderate or radical, who endorsed Western help to
today's Kremlin. The current system is understood as a black
hole.
   ---
   Andrei Anikin, a prominent economist, figures the
government wasted $200 billion during the oil-price boom of
the 1970s. Alexander Bogomolov, a young establishment
economist (his father, Oleg, is an adviser to Boris Yeltsin),
says the Gorbachev regime has already squandered billions in
recent loans from West Germany.
   "In the current structure, aid is useless," says Mr.
Bogomolov. "We have no economic or political mechanisms that
would let us use it effectively." The elder Bogomolov tells
my colleague Peter Gumbel he feels the same way.
   Of course, the more seductive argument is that Western aid
would somehow leverage free-market reform. Some reformers are
willing to try this, though less to assist Mr. Gorbachev than
to twist his arm. Mr. Anikin, despairing of any new Gorbachev
ideas for at least another year, wants the International
Monetary Fund or the United Nations (]) to more or less
dictate reform. Mr. Bogomolov hopes the West will treat
economic reform the way it has arms control -- negotiating
Soviet concessions. Still others agree that the Kremlin is
hopeless, but would welcome aid to the newly democratic local
governments in such cities as Leningrad and Moscow.
   But the difficulties are obvious. Do Americans really want
to take credit for raising prices for bread and rent? This is
also not a banana republic case of selling a few hundred
state enterprises; the entire country is a state enterprise.
The Soviet parliament recently spent three days deciding that
"individual" (though, strangely, not "private") property is
all right, but land must still be owned by the state. As for
aiding cities, it's hard to imagine George Bush or Helmut
Kohl telling Mr. Gorbachev they're going to write checks to
his political rivals in Leningrad.
   A visit with a budding Russian "capitalist" isn't
reassuring, either. Igor Grishenko is blond, only 31 years
old and claims to make 3,500 rubles a month (the Soviet
average is some 240). He runs a Moscow "cooperative," the
only kind of legal private enterprise. But his clients are
state ministries, he had to buy his building from city hall
and he neatly dodges a question about political payoffs. In
any case, even Mr. Grishenko says, "we can do without"
foreign subsidy.
   The reformers' best point is more political than economic,
going to the heart of what they call their 73-year-old
"insanity." Western liberals approach the Soviet Union as
just another repair job: Change the carburetor and spark
plugs and it'll be back on the road again. Reform the
currency to mop up the "ruble overhang" and everyone will be
in business.
   ---
   Russian reformers know better. Over and over again a
visitor hears from reformers that they long to live in a
"normal" society. They know their system now is abnormal,
absurd. It nurtures a culture of bribery. (Anecdote: A
five-minute phone call to the U.S. costs $50, but the hotel
operator appears in a guest's room at 5 a.m. to say it will
cost only $25 -- if you pay her then in greenbacks.) Theft is
encouraged; work is punished.
   As Yuri Shekochikhin, another reformer in the parliament,
puts it: "We have two economies -- a corrupt official one,
and a quick, efficient one that's illegal. Why don't we
legalize the black one?" He answers his own question: Because
the corrupt system exists to sustain the power of the
communist "nomenklatura". The Party still owns 95% of the
means of production. "We must change this oligarchical
system," adds Mr. Zaslavsky. "This one knows how to eat, but
not how to produce." Foreign aid in this system will do
little more than increase the velocity of the bribes.
   It's probably true that this is exactly what the Germans
intend, and they don't much care. Chancellor Kohl wants to
pay a ransom for German unification and to keep Gorby from
meddling in German elections later this year. The "dirigiste"
French also like ideas that enhance their international
influence while spending other people's money. But the U.S.
has other priorities. George Bush once said he didn't want to
jeopardize Soviet reform by "doing dumb things -- that's my
cautious approach." Here's his chance to prove it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Insurers to Form
   Computer Network
   For Linking Agents
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   FFC TIC AIG CNA LTR
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   A group of insurers and two data-management companies
formed a venture to provide a computer network designed to
expedite the processing of policies and the flow of pricing
information to independent agents.
   The venture, known as Alliance for Productive Technology,
hopes to create a standardized software system to let
insurance agents transmit and retrieve information from
several companies without having to re-enter policyholder
data several times.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But consumer groups and insurance-industry critics
expressed skepticism about the likely benefits of the planned
system. Moreover, the approach excludes the direct insurance
writers, companies such as State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co., Nationwide Insurance Co. and Allstate
Insurance Co., a unit of Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., that have
their own sales personnel, rather than working through
independent agents around the country.
   Industry studies have found that these companies are
already more efficient than the agency companies and offer
generally better pricing to consumers.
   Participating in the network venture are CNA Insurance
Cos., Fund America Cos.' Fireman's Fund Insurance unit,
Travelers Corp. and New Hampshire Insurance Co., a unit of
American International Group Inc. They will provide some of
the capital to develop the software link that agents and
companies will be using.
   The aim is to make both the agents and the insurers more
efficient. Automation in the insurance industry remains
fragmented, and no standard for linking companies and agents
exists.
   Agents need to be more productive, said Thomas Eustace,
chairman and chief executive officer of Applied Systems Inc.,
one of the data-management companies involved in the project.
He acknowledged that efficiencies envisioned by this software
system will be achieved only if many companies use it. The
other data-management firm is Agency Management Systems Inc.,
a Norwell, Mass.-based firm that is jointly owned by CNA,
Fireman's Fund and New Hampshire Insurance.
   Robert Hunter, head of the National Insurance Consumers
Organization, said the need to develop such systems is "an
admission that there are some fairly large inefficiencies" in
insurance company operations.
   He said he agrees that companies could achieve significant
savings if their back offices didn't have to re-enter
information they get from agents several times, such as
pricing, billing and claims processing. However, consumers
may not see any immediate benefit from this computer link, he
said.
   Unlike the airline reservation systems, which gives
consumers with a personal computer access to airfare listings
and schedules, this system won't be available to the public.
Consumers will still have to rely on agents to get pricing
information.
   "If the consumer isn't given good pricing information,
then (this system won't) do the consumer any good," said Mark
Cooper, an economist with the Consumer Federation of America.
   A variety of data management companies already provide
computers and software to automate insurance agents' offices.
But some of these systems are incompatible and they force
agents to re-enter the same data for such operations as
accounting and pricing. Also, many of the major insurers, who
work through independent agents, have developed their own
systems for their agents to use, often making it
time-consuming and cumbersome for agents to deal with more
than a few companies.
   "Some companies try to compete for agents based on
automation they can offer. They ought to compete on the basis
of price and service," said Patricia A. Borowski, head of
government and industry affairs for the National Association
of Professional Insurance Agents.
   The insurance industry has been trying to establish a
data-communications system between agents and insurance
companies for several years now, but success has been
minimal. "It's not a technology issue," Ms. Borowski said.
"It's a political issue of whether or not (an insurer) wants
to have its agents communicate with multiple companies or
give them a system to communicate with just one company."
   The standardized software being developed by the joint
venture will be marketed to all property-casualty companies.
Lawrence Bacon, senior vice president for data-processing at
Travelers, said the various data-management firms that
specialize in agency automation should be able to incorporate
this software in the various systems they now sell.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gentex Expects Drop
   In Auto-Mirror Sales
   To Cut Quarterly Net
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GNTX
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Gentex Corp. expects that earnings for the
second quarter will fall below year-ago levels, and could be
close to the break-even point because of slower-than-expected
sales of its automotive mirrors, executive vice president
Kenneth LaGrand said in an interview.
   The company's main business is auto mirrors, but it also
makes fire-protection products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We're struggling to do about $5 million in revenues in
this quarter, compared to $5.74 million in 1989," Mr. LaGrand
said. With quarterly revenues at the $5 million level, "we
are operating at the break-even point," Mr. LaGrand said.
Depending on the final revenue figures, Gentex could see
second-quarter earnings ranging from breaking even to four
cents a share, or about $275,000 to $300,000, Mr. LaGrand
said. In the year-ago second quarter, Gentex earned nine
cents a share, or $553,247 on $5.7 million in revenue. The
company has about 7.5 million shares outstanding compared
with 6.2 million shares outstanding a year ago.
   The major problem is a sharp drop in sales of Gentex's
older motorized mirrors, Mr. LaGrand said. The company
expects to sell about 21,000 motorized mirrors in the second
quarter, down from about 60,000 a year earlier. That drop "is
faster than we expected" and is the result of weak demand for
certain domestic car models, he said. The company is still
increasing sales of its newer, "electrochromic" mirrors,
which use a patented process to automatically cut reflected
headlight glare, he said.
   The weaker-than-expected second quarter and first-half
performance could hold earnings for the full year in a range
between 27 cents a share, or $2 million, and 33 cents a
share, or about $2.5 million, Mr. LaGrand said. Sales for the
year will likely be in a range between $25 million and $27
million, he said. In 1989, Gentex earned $2.1 million, or 31
cents a share, on sales of $23.8 million. Gentex officials
had expected to do significantly better in 1990.
   But company officials and analysts have been trimming
their earnings forecasts in recent weeks in light of slumping
Big Three car sales and output. Mr. LaGrand said analysts who
expect the company to earn between two cents and four cents a
share in the second quarter are now at the "high end" of the
likely range. Projections that full-year earnings will be as
high as 37 cents a share are also "at the high end" of the
likely range, he said.
   Mr. LaGrand said another factor in the earnings squeeze is
that Gentex hasn't cut research and development spending, or
expenses related to selling more auto makers on its new
mirror products.
   Gentex remains optimistic that sales and earnings will
rebound in the second half of this year and next year, Mr.
LaGrand said. The company expects the Big Three auto makers
to offer Gentex electrochromic mirrors as standard or
optional equipment on more models in the 1991 model year that
begins officially Oct. 1.
   "We're looking at unit {volume} increases for the Big
Three in the 30% to 35% range," he said. Gentex expects most
of that gain will come as a result of efforts by the auto
makers to market electrochromic mirrors more aggressively, he
said.
   In addition, Gentex has agreements to supply mirrors for
1991 models made by BMW AG of Germany and Rover Group Ltd. of
Britain. The company is also negotiating to supply mirrors to
a Japanese auto maker, Mr. LaGrand said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Porsche and BMW Stocks Seen Underpriced
   As Sales of Specialty Cars Move Into Overdrive
   ----
   By David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   G.POR G.BMW
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Because of Wall Street's continuing slump, far
fewer traders and investment bankers are lining up to buy
high-powered, high-priced cars such as Porsches and BMWs.
   But in the rest of the U.S. -- and in Japan and Europe --
sales of these performance cars are shifting into overdrive.
Several European auto analysts say shares of Porsche and
Bayerische Motoren Werke are underpriced, even if Americans
have to search a bit to find ways to buy those stocks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Porsche, which is much smaller than BMW and makes more
expensive cars, gets more enthusiastic reviews for its adroit
recovery from a sales slump in 1987. Porsche shares trade at
a price-earnings ratio of about 17.5, close to that of
Daimler Benz, the giant of German auto makers. Several
analysts believe Porsche will someday command a higher
multiple, however, because it's the only remaining publicly
traded specialty car maker.
   "We really do believe Porsche is the last of its kind
remaining in the world" after Ford Motor's purchase of
Britain's Jaguar, says Stephen M. Reitman, a London-based
analyst with UBS Phillips &amp; Drew.
   Though Mr. Reitman and other analysts also recommend BMW,
which trades at a significantly lower price-earnings ratio
than Porsche and Daimler Benz, they fear that BMW shares may
get stuck in neutral because of fears about increasing
Japanese competition in the lower end of the luxury-car
market.
   "I think BMW is cheap and that one should probably buy
it," says Philip Ayton, a London-based analyst with Barclays
de Zoete Wedd. But he adds that BMW's stock "has performed
badly and I'm not sure even now whether there's going to be a
change in sentiment."
   Several analysts cite Porsche's swift recovery from the
gear-grinding changes of 1987 as evidence of a management
that recognized the company's problems and acted decisively.
   Through 1986, Porsche rode the big luxury-car boom in the
U.S. and allowed U.S. sales to claim 70% of its peak
production of about 53,500 cars a year. Porsche "stepped
right into the dollar trap by getting a little too greedy and
selling too many cars in the States," says Dagmar
Bottenbruch, a European auto analyst for Credit Suisse First
Boston. "Then the currency halved and the bottom fell out of
the luxury-car market" in the U.S., she adds.
   But now, Ms. Bottenbruch says, Porsche "has its destiny
under control." Production has been cut to about 31,000 cars
a year. U.S. sales now represent only about one-third of
Porsche's total, with an equal amount in Germany and the rest
concentrated in other European countries and Japan.
   Porsche also eliminated its cheapest and least profitable
model in the U.S., the 924, which had been priced at about
$24,000, Mr. Reitman says. Now, the lowest-price Porsche sold
in the U.S. is the 944, at $43,350.
   The most profitable models for Porsche are the various
versions of its classic 911, descendants of the original
Porsche which resembled an upside-down bathtub.
   Porsche sales in the U.S. and Japan have been rising this
year, up 19% in the U.S. through May and up 62% in Japan
through April. But Mr. Reitman doesn't expect big increases
in either production or prices. Porsche "trades on having a
cache, on their rarity and desirability. They will accept
waiting lists," he believes.
   One slightly hidden asset, Mr. Reitman says, is Porsche's
research and development facility in Weissach, West Germany,
which does work for many other auto makers, including Ford,
and is run as a profit center. During the 1987-88 period the
center took on additional work that should produce more
profits in the next few years, he says.
   Porsche also has net cash of 459 million marks ($275.8
million) and no debt; analysts expect the company to be able
to continue to fund its development from cash flow.
   Porsche's fiscal year ends July 31; Mr. Reitman expects
the company to report a profit of about 70 marks ($42) a
share; Ms. Bottenbruch expects profit of 72 to 75 marks a
share. For next year, Mr. Reitman forecasts 80 marks a share
but says that could be low; Ms. Bottenbruch looks for 85
marks to 90 marks a share.
   At yesterday's closing price of 1232 marks, Porsche is
trading at about 17.5 times its expected 1990 earnings. The
Porsche shares that trade on the Frankfurt exchange are
non-voting preference shares; voting control is held by
members of the Porsche and Piech families.
   BMW, which closed yesterday at 584.50 marks, trades at
only about 10 times analysts' estimates of its 1990 earnings;
Daimler Benz is trading at about 17 times estimated 1990
earnings. That price/earnings gap, asserts Mr. Reitman, is
"totally unjustified."
   BMW can be bought in the U.S. as an American Depositary
Receipt; Porsche stock trades only in German markets.
   BMW shares have sagged on fears that new Japanese-made
luxury cars, such as Infiniti and Lexus, will steal some
market share from BMW, whose lowest priced 318is model has a
U.S. base price of $21,500. Mr. Ayton concedes that the
Japanese will grab some part of the luxury market, but says:
"I'm not convinced that it will be fully at BMW's expense or
at the expense of BMW's margins."
   There's some concern that BMW's profit may ebb next year
as it revises the models in its best-selling 3-series. Ms.
Bottenbruch, who has a neutral rating on BMW, says the shares
may get a boost once the new models are introduced. "The car
press already says this is going to be a real blockbuster,"
she notes.
   One additional issue for U.S. investors in either Porsche
or BMW is how the mark fares against the dollar. A falling
mark would diminish potential capital gains. Though many
economists expect the mark to thrive against the dollar
long-term, there is some concern that the mark will weaken
during the next few months because of the costs of German
reunification.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Not Entirely Gone
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   In regard to L. Gordon Crovitz's May 23 Rule of Law
column, "Verdict: Frantic Antitrust Ideas Are Gone With the
Wind," Mr. Crovitz properly praised both the court's "style
and substance" in U.S. v. Syufy Enterprises. The
"unforgettable" parts of Syufy are, however, not the
incidental references to obscure movie titles but, instead,
the court's instructive and entertaining analysis of an
apparently unsound government prosecution. While expressly
reminding us that market power should not be uncritically
measured by market share, Syufy also illustrates that the
state of antitrust law enforcement should not be crudely
measured by the number of prosecutions brought by antitrust
enforcement units.
   Richard E.V. Harris
</LP>
<TEXT>
   San Francisco
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE F EUROP G.DBK U.AWT AGC TX F.CEA MCD
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   American General Finance Corp. -- $150 million of
noncallable notes due July 1, 1994, priced at 99.55 to yield
9.387%. The notes were priced at 97 basis points above the
Treasury's four-year note. Rated single-A-1 by Moody's and
single-A-plus by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be
sold through underwriters led by Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Texaco Capital Corp. -- $150 million of 8 5/8% debentures
due June 30, 2010, priced at 99.85 to yield 8.682%. The
noncallable debentures may be put back to the company at par
in three years. The debentures were priced at a spread of 30
basis points above the Treasury's three-year note. Rated
single-A-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
single-A-plus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   Illinois Student Assistance Commission -- $60 million of
Illinois Opportunity Loan Program student loan revenue bonds
due Aug. 1, 1995-2003, with capital appreciation bonds due
Feb. 1, 1998-2000, tentatively priced by a Lehman Brothers
group to yield from 6.60% in 1995 to 7.38% in 2003. Current
interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.60%
in 1995 to 7.38% in 2003. Capital appreciation bonds are
priced to yield to maturity from 6.95% in 1998 to 7.10% in
2000. The capital appreciation bonds will be sold in
denominations of $1,000, according to the lead underwriter.
Interest on the bonds will be treated as a preference item in
calculating the federal alternative minimum tax. The bonds
are insured and triple-A-rated. There are no term bonds.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES

   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $500 million of
five-year non-callable debentures at par to yield 8.70%.
Interest on the debentures, which mature July 6, 1995, will
be paid semiannually on Jan. 6 and July 6 beginning Jan. 6,
1991. There is a minimum purchase of a principal amount of
$5,000, with additional increments of $5,000. The debentures
will be sold by Freddie Mac's 18-member group of securities
dealers.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Generale des Eaux (France) -- 4.5 billion French francs of
convertible bonds with equity warrants attached via Societe
Generale. A 1.5 billion tranche is an international offering.
Coupon is 6%, issue price FFr2,850. Matures Jan. 1, 1998,
with redemption at 110%. Conversion period is from Aug. 1,
1990, until maturity. Exercise price FFr3,200; two warrants
will be exercisable into one share between Aug. 1, 1990, and
June 30, 1993. Callable from Jan. 1, 1992. Fees 2 1/2.
   Ford Motor Credit Co. (U.S.) -- $200 million issue of 9%
Eurobonds due July 19, 1993, at an issue price of 100.975 and
a fixed reoffering price of 99.80 via Morgan Stanley
International Ltd. Fees 1 3/8.
   SE Banken (Sweden) -- $100 million of 9.05% Eurobonds due
Feb. 20, 1996, priced at 101.725 via Mitsubishi Trust
International Ltd. Fees 1 7/8.
   Deutsche Bank Finance (Curacao) N.V., (West German parent)
-- 100 million Canadian dollars of 11 1/2% Eurobonds due July
26, 1995, priced at 99 7/8 via Deutsche Bank Capital Markets
Ltd. Fees 1 7/8.
   Anglian Water PLC (U.K.) -- #100 million of domestic
index-linked loan stock or bonds due July 2, 2008, priced
with a 5 1/8% coupon at 101.703 via J. Henry Schroder Wagg
Ltd. Interest payments and redemption will be linked to the
U.K. retail price index. Guaranteed by Anglian Water Services
Ltd.
   McDonald's Corp. (U.S.) -- 65 million Swiss francs of 7
1/8% privately placed notes due July 17, 1993, priced at 101
1/2 via Wirtschafts &amp; Privatbank. Fees total 1.63.
   Mitsuba Electric Manufacturing Co. (Japan) -- 50 million
Swiss francs of 7 5/8% privately placed notes due July 18,
1995, at 101 via Wirtschafts &amp; Privatbank. Guarantee by Bank
of Yokohama. Fees total 1.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hollywood Park Realty Enterprises Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HTRFZ WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD PARK REALTY ENTERPRISES Inc. (Inglewood, Calif.)
-- Vernon O. Underwood Jr., president and chief executive
officer of Young's Market Co., was elected a director,
increasing board membership to eight. Mr. Underwood is the
son of the late Vernon O. Underwood Sr., former chairman and
chief executive of Hollywood Park Operating Co. Hollywood
Park Realty is a real estate investment trust that leases
racetrack operations to Hollywood Park Operating. The stocks
of both companies are paired for trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Disorder in the Court
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   On Wednesday, the Supreme Court ruled that Arizona's
death-penalty law was constitutional.
   Yesterday, the Supreme Court ruled that Arizona's
death-penalty law was unconstitutional.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This unprecedented 24-hour-long precedent is new evidence
of how manipulative the liberal minority on the Supreme Court
has become. This term had other rulings that can only serve
to confuse many people about the Constitution's meaning. The
court allowed judges to levy taxes to pay for school
desegregation and let regulators grant broadcast licenses
based on race or gender. But this two-day flip-flop takes the
cake.
   The immediate impact is that the murderer of reporter Don
Bolles will not be executed and that no one knows if the
death penalty in Arizona or similar laws in Idaho and Montana
are constitutional.
   One-day "stare decisis" is the latest outrage from the
high court in death-penalty cases. Since 1976, the court has
ruled in various cases either that there was too much
discretion by a judge or a jury to issue the death sentence
-- or not enough discretion to sentence prisoners instead to
imprisonment.
   Wednesday's ruling in Walton v. Arizona upheld a law that
gave the trial judge discretion to find aggravating
circumstances that justify the death penalty. Jeffrey Walton
had left his robbery victim blinded by a gunshot to the head
in the Arizona desert to die a death of dehydration,
starvation and pneumonia.
   The five justices who upheld the death penalty were Chief
Justice Rehnquist and Justices White, O'Connor, Scalia and
Kennedy. The four dissenters were Justices Brennan, Marshall,
Blackmun and Stevens; Justices Brennan and Marshall repeated
their extralegal view that no death penalty under any
circumstances can be constitutional despite the
Constitution's explicit support for death sentences.
   This 5-4 lineup upholding the death sentence set the stage
for the flip-flop in Lewis v. Adamson the very next day.
Harvey Adamson had been convicted and sent to death row for
the 1976 bomb killing of Mr. Bolles, an investigative
reporter for the Arizona Republic.
   The court's decision to spare Adamson came in a 4-3 vote.
What happened is that only seven justices participated in the
decision whether to review the appeals-court decision that
had invalidated the Arizona law. This was because Justice
O'Connor, a former Arizona judge, and Justice Kennedy, a
former federal appeals judge, had participated in lower-court
decisions in this case. They recused themselves. This allowed
Justices Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun and Stevens to reverse
the previous day's ruling with only three justices available
to disagree with them.
   Whatever you think of the death penalty, this was judicial
dirty pool. The four liberal justices apparently decided it
was worth junking standard judicial procedure in order to
"win" Adamson. When the Supreme Court rules in a related
case, as it did in Walton v. Arizona, the justices typically
follow what is known in court shorthand as G-V-R.
   This stands for granting the petition to review the case,
vacating the lower-court ruling and remanding the case back
to the lower court for reconsideration in light of the new
high-court ruling. The four instead short-circuited this
procedure by declaring the Arizona death penalty dead after
one day.
   Justice Scalia must have known the liberals were about to
pull this stunt when he wrote a separate opinion in
Wednesday's case upholding the death sentence. "A
jurisprudence containing the contradictory commands that
discretion to impose the death penalty must be limited but
discretion not to impose the death penalty must be virtually
unconstrained," he wrote, caused a "permanent flood-tide" of
appeals. This back and forth on the death penalty, he said,
causes "a fundamental uncertainty in the law that shows no
signs of ending or even diminishing."
   Justice Scalia's example of absurd uncertainty in the law
was the lower-court opinion in the Adamson case, which he
noted was "essentially identical" to the Walton case
upholding the death penalty. He knew then what we know now --
that the views of five justices would last only a day when
confronted with the views of four.
   The court ends the term with the liberals perhaps
understandably feeling the pressure of minority status.
Still, there can be no excuse for gamesmanship in
constitutional law. There certainly is no justice when a
murderer gets to escape the ultimate punishment simply
because he had the good fortune that two justices had to
recuse themselves from his case. The likely solution will
come only when President Bush gets the chance to replace some
of the less principled members of this court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   You Filled In the Wrong Blank Check
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Given your ideological bias, it's only natural your
editorial focused on the wrong blank check in assessing blame
for the S&amp;L mess ("History of a Blank Check," May 24).
Contrary to your editorial, deposit insurance is not the
major culprit.
   The blank check was the Reagan administration's
well-documented disdain for adequate supervision and
regulation of the savings-and-loan industry in the early
1980s. The blank check was product and services deregulation
that outran supervisory capacity, and the failure of the
Reagan administration and Congress to limit the flow of
brokered deposits to crooked and brain-dead S&amp;Ls. Yes,
increasing deposit-insurance coverage to $100,000 upped the
amounts that could be brokered, but this was controllable.
The administration and Congress just chose not to control it,
since deregulation and desupervision were in -- let the free
market roll.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Your solution to the problems confronting the S&amp;L industry
and banking is to cut back existing levels of deposit
insurance. This will only further undermine consumer
confidence in our increasingly fragile financial system and
weaken further our economic and financial system. It would
weaken healthy S&amp;Ls by driving out their depositors, which
would further escalate costs to the taxpayer. And in terms of
international competitiveness, American banks have to offer
the same product offered by their major Japanese and European
competitors. And as Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman
William Seidman recently testified, what our foreign
competitors offer is that no depositor in a major bank
anywhere in the world has lost a penny since the end of World
War II. Banks are special and they always should be -- their
coin is other people's money.
   Kenneth A. Guenther
   Executive Vice President
   Independent Bankers Association of America
   Washington
   ---
   Bravo] Better late than never.
   You correctly fix the blame for the S&amp;L mess on
deregulating the thrift industry immediately after raising
the deposit insurance to $100,000 per account, for no
apparent reason. Thus the Reagan administration set the stage
for the biggest financial scandal the world has ever seen,
beginning in 1980.
   I applaud you for your mea culpa, acknowledging somewhat
sheepishly, "we ourselves missed the importance of the
$100,000 figure, but by the time of the 1982 bill warned, `As
things stand now, deregulation under guaranteed banking will
give banks a competitive edge in attracting funds from the
public while compounding the opportunity for bank managements
to behave imprudently.'"
   Smart people at the FDIC and in Congress have known for a
long time that the current 100% insurance per deposit invites
disaster. You mention two of the most obvious cures: insuring
only 85% of the insurable limit, or whacking the limit of
insurance in half. I would prefer both.
   A scream would go up that this would discriminate against
$100,000 depositors who had put their money in relying on the
full faith and credit of the federal patsies. There is a
simple way to keep faith with them and still put in place a
system that will make sure it doesn't happen again: Keep the
current deposits insured as they now are, but put the new,
more prudent system in place for all future deposits. After
the law is passed, of course.
   I suppose there would be a flight to quality by
depositors, but in the long run that would go a very long way
to make sure it never happens again.
   Karl L. Monroe
   Retired Editor/Publisher
   The Collinsville Herald
   Collinsville, Ill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Minorco
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MNRCY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MINORCO (USA) -- Robert L. Zerga was named chairman and
chief executive officer of Independence Mining Co., a Reno,
Nev., gold-mining unit. He was also named a director of
Denver-based Minorco (USA). Mr. Zerga was executive vice
president of Meridian Minerals Co., a unit of Burlington
Resources Inc. He was previously with Newmont Gold Co., Magma
Copper Co. and Kennecott Copper Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Long-Distance
   Firms to Post
   Strong Profits
   ---
   2nd-Quarter Gains Expected
   In Range of 20% to 25%;
   Steep Costs Hurt AT&amp;T
   ----
   By Pamela J. Podger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6D
</SO>
<CO>
   GTE T USW SBC MCIC UT AIT BLS BEL NYN PAC
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   The long-distance business remained the fast-growth line
in the second quarter for the telecommunications industry.
   Except for American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. with its
steep new credit-card costs, long-distance companies are
expected to post earnings gains of 20% to 25%, matching the
pace of the last few quarters. But new rate structures and
caps on regulated profit are likely to make second-quarter
reports for the regional Bell telephone companies rather
dull.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the Baby Bells, "the quarter's a yawner," said Ned
Shadek, vice president of Putnam Cos. in Boston. Earnings
generally are expected to be only 4% to 6% higher than in the
year-earlier period.
   In many cases, the bland earnings outlook is due to new
state regulatory structures that require up-front rate cuts.
Pacific Telesis Group, for example, is feeling the pinch of a
new rate structure in California that took effect in January.
The $391 million reduction is expected to erode earnings for
at least one year at normally robust PacTel. Analysts predict
the San Francisco-based company's earnings will drop about
8.9% to about 72 cents a share, compared with 79 cents a
share in the year-earlier quarter, when the company earned
$325 million on revenue of $2.4 billion.
   "These companies are willing to take up-front earnings
dilutions with the faith that they can make profits happen in
the long run," Putnam's Mr. Shadek said.
   Meanwhile, Bell Atlantic Corp. and Nynex Corp. have room
to grow under newly determined regulatory ceilings for
earnings, said Dan Reingold, a telecommunications analyst at
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. in New York. He anticipates Bell
Atlantic earnings of 90 cents a share, up about 3% from 87
cents a share in the year-earlier quarter, and Nynex earnings
of $1.52 a share, up about 7% from $1.42.
   "But I don't see any big surprises looming in the second
quarter," Mr. Reingold said.
   GTE Corp. is expected to outperform most other local
telephone companies, with anticipated earnings of $1.11 a
share, up about 10% from the year-earlier period, said Frank
J. Governali, a telecommunications analyst at First Boston
Corp. in New York. GTE is faring better, he said, because the
company isn't experiencing any negative impact from adoption
of regulatory structures and has taken major cost-cutting
steps.
   Analysts foresee quarterly earnings for BellSouth Corp.
growing 9% to 95 cents a share in the second quarter from 87
cents a year ago. They attribute the improvement to a 3.5% to
4% increase in access-line growth and 10% growth in volume
(minutes of use). For Southwestern Bell Corp., which enjoyed
an unusually strong quarter last year with help of a regional
economic resurgence, earnings are expected to drop 4.5% to 83
cents a share from 87 cents.
   Moreover, analysts aren't worried about excessive risk in
efforts by the Bells to expand abroad. As examples of what
analysts generally consider prudent diversification, they
cited the $2.5 billion acquisition of the New Zealand
telephone system by Bell Atlantic and Ameritech, as well as
the joint venture of Bell Atlantic and U S West Inc. with the
government of Czechoslovakia to build a cellular telephone
system and a public data network in that country.
   "Those purchases stick with the principles of phone lines
and cellular. It's not like Nynex going out and buying a
{retail} computer business," Mr. Shadek said. Similarly, U S
West's expansion abroad into cable television in the United
Kingdom and Hong Kong, "are transferrable skills" if the Baby
Bells are allowed eventually to enter the U.S. cable
industry, he said.
   Analyst see U S West earnings at 77 cents a share, up 8%
from 71 cents in the year-earlier period.
   Although the regional Bells' earnings will be
"uneventful," the quarter shows steady demand growth of 3% in
access lines and 7% to 8% in call volumes, plus 50% to 60%
growth in cellular communications, said Jack B. Grubman, a
securities analyst at Paine Webber Inc. in New York. He also
considers revenue from customized calling features and data
communications to be strong.
   In Mr. Grubman's view, earning projections for
long-distance companies are "good, but not inspiring." Costs
associated with AT&amp;T's Universal credit-card business,
introduced in March, are damping earnings. On Wednesday,
analysts lowered second-quarter estimates to about 58 cents a
share from earlier expectations of about 72 cents a share.
AT&amp;T earned $699 million, or 65 cents a share, on revenue of
$9.26 billion in the year-earlier quarter.
   "AT&amp;T is incurring more start-up costs, $100 million or
so, than they thought they would. But what is happening with
AT&amp;T {the credit-card project} is outside of the overall
industry dynamics," Mr. Grubman said.
   Analysts anticipate MCI Communications Corp. will post
profit of 67 cents a share, up 20% from 56 cents a share in
the year-earlier period. Mr. Grubman said he expects 20%
revenue growth to about $1.9 billion compared with $1.59
billion in the 1989 second quarter.
   "That is strong, but down from last year's 30% clip in the
second quarter. MCI is becoming a bigger company, and it is
tough to keep the same growth," Mr. Grubman said.
   United Telecommunications Inc., the Kansas City-based
owner of US Sprint long-distance service, is expected to post
about 20% revenue growth in the second quarter. Earnings are
projected at 53 cents a share, compared with 43 cents a share
a year earlier, when the company earned $100 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Michelangelo Would Cry `Freedom]'
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   In response to Richard Grenier's June 1 editorial-page
article, "Modern Artists Forget Their History": That Mr.
Grenier was able to list artists whose work was both
extraordinary and lasting and was produced under difficult or
repressive circumstances is irrelevant to the more central
question of artistic freedom in our country.
   Our Constitution was written to afford the greatest amount
of protection to a variety of freedoms, artistic liberty
being only one of them. This is not only a gift, but a
birthright for all Americans. To imply that a man can survive
or create with less than an ideal level of nourishment or
freedom is to state the obvious. If because of those freedoms
we must occasionally endure the boring, the mediocre or even
the offensive is a small price to pay. We do not scrap our
criminal code or the underlying concept of innocent until
proved guilty just because the rare criminal escapes
incarceration due to a technical violation of his civil
rights.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That which belongs to all of us also belongs to each of
us; making exceptions or restrictions of those freedoms can
only lead to a general erosion and abandonment of all that
separates our lives from those lived under the many
totalitarian or military regimes still flourishing
world-wide. One need only turn to the recently repressed
intellectuals/artists of Eastern Europe to become
reacquainted with the importance of "total freedom." Mr.
Grenier, where have you been, or where can you go? If only
one were able to travel backward in time, how exciting a life
you might be leading, living in those past ages of "great
stylistic upheaval." It was in those times that
less-than-democratic ideals and individual liberties were the
cheesecloths through which all that upheaval filtered.
   Benno Friedman
   New York
   ---
   Mr. Grenier's quick summary of six centuries of artistic
accomplishment in the face of all the political and social
restraints that prevailed through those times seems to say
that those artists happily accepted restraints and our
contemporary artists ought to also. What Mr. Grenier ignores
is that we live in the "modern" age that -- if we still
believe in the ideals of the American Revolution -- no longer
abides that imposition of absolute and arbitrary power. Why
should artists be expected to be more complacent than the
rest of us about what we now regard as the right, rather than
the privilege, of free expression? Times change, and it is
beyond doubt that Michelangelo today would rail at any limits
as to what others deemed "acceptable" in his art.
   As far as Mr. Grenier's accusations of art today being
"empty" and "shabby," he, as a historian, ought to know much
better than most that art is a reflection of its time. If
contemporary work would not impress Pope Julius II or Lorenzo
de Medici it might be because we no longer are able to see
visions of the sublime, as they did, while suited in full
battle dress, atop a war stallion, detached from the
subservient and brutally maimed human debris all around them.
Perhaps they might have identified more with the "heroic" art
of recent Nazi and Soviet regimes since the art bred of
democracy is so obsessed with the ordinary and mundane
individuality of those who simply would have been strategic
fodder to such grand princes.
   Brian Reddy
   Little Silver, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   American Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ASB
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN SAVINGS BANK said its board voted to suspend
payment of the quarterly cash dividend on its $1.8125
cumulative convertible preferred stock, normally declared in
June for payment on Aug. 1. The thrift, which posted a
first-quarter loss of $9.4 million, cited its poor operating
results and uncertainties in the real estate market. The
preferred dividend would have been $1.3 million. A
spokeswoman could not say under what conditions American
Savings might restore the dividend. In April, citing similar
factors, American Savings suspended payment of its quarterly
cash dividend on common stock. The unpaid preferred dividend
will accumulate as an obligation of the thrift without
interest. Under its charter and New York law, the preferred
dividends in arrears must be paid before any common stock
dividends.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Initial State Jobless Claims
   Increased in June 16 Week
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Initial claims for regular state
unemployment benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 359,000
in the week ended June 16 from 356,000 in the previous week,
the Labor Department said.
   The number of people receiving regular state benefits in
the week ended June 9 was a seasonally adjusted 2,472,000, or
2.4% of those covered by unemployment insurance, up from
2,390,000 in the previous week, when the insured unemployment
rate was 2.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Counting all state and federal benefit programs, the
number of people receiving unemployment benefits in the week
ended June 9 fell to 2,253,200 from 2,269,900 a week earlier.
These figures aren't seasonally adjusted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Vision Completes
   Acquisition of Royal
   International Optical
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RIO RIOCV WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Royal International Optical Corp., an
optical-stores retailer and frame maker, said U.S. Vision
Inc. completed its acquisition of the company and named the
surviving entity Royal International Optical Inc.
   U.S. Vision, an optical retailer based in Glendora, N.J.,
paid $12.50 a share for 80% of Royal's 7.1 million shares
outstanding and gave holders of the remainder a 25% stake in
the new company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   William A. Schwartz, chairman and chief executive officer
of U.S. Vision, assumed identical posts at the new company.
Donald Gross, executive vice president of the former Royal,
was named president, the company said.
   Royal said it will operate 865 retail optical stores under
the names Royal and Wall &amp; Ochs and as a licensee of several
major department store chains.
   Mr. Schwartz said the new company, which will be traded on
the over-the-counter market under the symbol RIOC, will
divide its operations between New Jersey and Dallas. He said
the company, which he described as the U.S.'s largest
publicly held optical retailer, hasn't yet decided which city
will be its headquarters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big U.S. Auto Makers
   Planned 16% Increase
   In Weekly Output
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC NSANY J.MZD TOYOY J.MOT SBRU J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The 10 major U.S. auto makers planned to build
143,912 cars this week, a 16% increase from 124,013 built a
year ago.
   Chrysler Corp. said its Toledo, Ohio, assembly plant will
halt production for four weeks beginning July 2 "due to
vacation." During the four weeks, about 4,700 hourly workers
will be idled. The plant will resume production July 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford Motor Co. said its assembly plants will be idled the
weeks of July 2 and July 9 for the auto maker's traditional
summer break.
   All production facilities will be closed for the July
Fourth holiday.
   General Motors Corp. said it has planned daily overtime at
its assembly plant in Janesville, Wis., which builds the
Chevrolet Cavalier.
   ---
          This    Last    Yr. Ago     -Yr. to Date-      %
          Week-e  Week-r   Week       1990     1989     Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM       66,512  67,137  54,769  1,372,568 1,787,721  -  23
 Ford     34,964  35,023  29,399    763,565   962,665  -  21
 Chrysler 16,900  20,325  17,107    361,178   521,244  -  31
 Honda     8,791   8,825   7,671    224,196   198,290  +  13
 Nissan    1,570   1,569   2,502     50,052    61,685  -  19
 Nummi-f   4,100   4,071   4,289    106,979   103,550  +   3
 Mazda     3,285   4,351   3,466     90,927   119,622  -  24
 Diam.Star 2,894   3,077   1,532     72,274    26,489  + 173
 Toyota    4,398   4,379   3,278    112,280    51,517  + 118
 Sub-Isuz    498     438       0     10,249         0  + 100
 TOTAL   143,912 149,195 124,013  3,164,268 3,832,783     d
                                                                                                       

 d-Percentage change is greater than 999%. e-Estimated.
f-Includes Chevrolet Prizm and Toyota Corolla. r-Revised.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Airport Departure Taxes
   Approved by House Panel
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Public Works and Transportation
Committee approved legislation that would permit airports to
impose departure taxes to fund airport-expansion projects.
   The taxes, officially called passenger facility charges,
currently are banned by federal law. Under legislation
authored by Rep. James Oberstar (D., Minn.), chairman of the
House Aviation Subcommittee, the 71 biggest airports in the
U.S. would be permitted to impose fees of as much as $3 per
flight. For a one-way trip, a traveler would have to pay no
more than $6, regardless of how many airports were involved.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The legislation, which also authorizes $17.7 billion for
airport construction and air traffic-control modernization in
the next two years, now goes to the House floor.
Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner said yesterday's vote
in repealing the departure-tax ban was an important step in
dealing "with our serious congestion problem." The
legislation was approved 36-10.
   The outlook is uncertain in the Senate, where Democrat
Wendell Ford of Kentucky, chairman of the Senate Aviation
Subcommittee, opposes the tax. He believes that the $7
billion surplus in the federal government's aviation trust
fund should be spent before passengers are compelled to pay
additional fees, an aide said.
   In a related development, the House panel approved
legislation requiring special inspections for aging aircraft.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   NCNB Picks Lewis
   To Head Consumer,
   Commercial Banking
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NCB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- NCNB Corp. said it created a new layer
of management to oversee its commercial and consumer banking
operations. The company named Kenneth Lewis, president of
NCNB Texas, as president of the new group, called NCNB's
General Bank.
   Mr. Lewis, 43 years old, thus becomes NCNB's top executive
in charge of consumer and commercial banking, and a possible
successor to the bank-holding company's 54-year-old chairman
and chief executive officer, Hugh McColl.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This certainly puts him in a leading spot -- if not the
leading spot -- provided he doesn't commit hari-kari," said
John Mason, a banking analyst with Interstate/Johnson Lane in
Atlanta. "But that's well down the road -- at least several
years."
   Mr. Lewis, who will remain president of NCNB Texas until a
successor is named, will move from Dallas to Charlotte, and
will report directly to Mr. McColl.
   In a statement, Mr. McColl said, "Ken Lewis's broad
background, especially his consumer and commercial banking
experience in Texas and Florida, prepares him well to head
NCNB's General Bank."
   NCNB has branch-banking operations in Texas, Florida,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Maryland and
Virginia. Before becoming president of NCNB Texas in August
1988, Mr. Lewis served as president of NCNB National Bank of
Florida. He joined the company in 1969.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology and Science:
   Chemical Industry Giants May Benefit
   From Pact on Ozone-Depleting Chemicals
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6C
</SO>
<CO>
   DD G.HFA F.ATO ALD ICI J.SHD MNT RP.C
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- An expected global agreement today to phase out
many ozone-destroying chemicals will force an industry
shakeout that may ultimately benefit the world's chemical
giants.
   The pact seeks to preserve the natural layer of ozone gas
in the stratosphere that shields the planet from the sun's
harmful ultraviolet rays. A group of widely used chemicals,
chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, halons and carbon
tetrachloride, have already destroyed 3% of global ozone.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Today's agreement would commit industrialized nations to
banning the chemicals by the year 2000. Developing countries,
with only 15% of world use, have an extra decade to comply.
   But the accord is expected to cause turmoil in the
chemical business, industry officials say. In place of the $2
billion-a-year world market for CFCs and halons, a new market
for ozone-friendly substitute chemicals will emerge. And that
market will favor the chemical giants because they have the
big laboratories and bulging treasuries needed to develop the
substitutes. Global development costs may exceed $4 billion.
   "There's going to be a radical shakeout in the market,"
predicts Bridget Paterson, a product manager at Britain's
Imperial Chemical Industries PLC. "There won't be 32
suppliers anymore in the world; it will be six to 10."
   The most likely survivors in the ozone-friendly market are
the leaders today in CFC production: Du Pont Co., Wilmington,
Del., Hoechst AG of West Germany, ICI, Atochem S.A. of
France, Allied-Signal Inc., Morristown, N.J., and Japan's
Showa Denko KK. Companies with much smaller operations in the
refrigerant market, such as Italy's Montedison S.p.A. and
France's Rhone-Poulenc S.A., may have difficulty keeping up.
   Already, the chemical companies are jockeying for position
in the new markets. At this week's world ozone conference,
for instance, several European CFC makers were pushing for
language in the accord allowing them to merge their European
operations, something discouraged under an earlier
international CFC pact.
   Without such mergers, said Joachim Von Schweinichen of
Montedison's Montefluos division, the European industry would
remain fragmented and unable to compete with bigger U.S.
rivals. Not surprisingly, U.S. manufacturers were lobbying
against the change. The issue wasn't expected to be resolved
until today.
   Public relations is another important tool in the battle.
For instance, ICI and Du Pont are vying to be first to begin
commercial production of an important ozone-friendly
substitute, called hydrofluorocarbon 134a or HFC 134a.
Officials of both companies boasted they would win the race
late this year or early next year.
   The allure for the companies is the potential of bigger
profits, although nobody knows whether the ozone-friendly
products will have fatter or slimmer profit margins than
CFCs.
   By chemical industry standards, making CFCs is a simple,
low-tech business with relatively modest profit margins of
10% to 12%. But as the year 2000 deadline for phasing out
CFCs approaches, CFC prices may soar. By 2000, "it could be
like gold," says ICI's Ms. Paterson. But she says industry
costs may also be goldplated, as CFC factories run below
planned capacity. Currently, outside the U.S., where a
federal tax on CFCs boosts prices and restrains industry
profits, the most common CFC chemicals sell for #1,000
($1743) to #1,500 a metric ton.
   Profits on ozone-friendly substitutes are even more
unpredictable, industry executives say. F.A. Tony Vogelsberg
Jr., environmental manager at Du Pont's Freon products
division, says CFC substitutes could be more profitable,
although prices will be high. And costs also will be steep,
he adds, because most of the substitute chemicals require far
more complex production techniques.
   Thus, unlike the CFC business where one company's
technology has been much like another's, technology will
determine how big each company's profits are, and which
companies will survive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Quebec Libre?
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Quebec Premier Robert Bourassa and Canadian Prime Minister
Brian Mulroney are trying to persuade their trading partners,
investors and creditors that the failure of the most recent
effort to amend the Canadian Constitution -- known in Canada
as the Meech Lake accord -- will not harm the Canadian
economy. Maybe. But at the moment, there is cause for worry.
   Mr. Bourassa has said he will engage in no more
constitutional talks. He says he is reconsidering his
constitutional options, and that he will rule out no option,
including "sovereignty." He has canceled celebration of the
July 1 national holiday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even so, Mr. Bourassa probably is lagging behind his
voters. Nearly 60% of Quebeckers now say they favor
sovereignty. Almost half want outright independence. The
Conseil du Patronat, the employers' group that was the
bulwark of the anti-separation forces in the 1980 Quebec
referendum, announced Tuesday that it wouldn't be taking
sides in future debates over the province's adhesion to the
Canadian confederation.
   Quebec's drift toward autonomy apparently is being
welcomed by many English Canadians. Some, especially in
British Columbia, hope that a weakening of the Canadian
confederation would mean more self-rule for their own
province. Others simply are tired of the endless
constitutional wrangling.
   An autonomous Quebec need not be a disaster for the
country. Both of the province's major political parties are
committed to free trade and polls show that Quebeckers are
among the most pro-American of Canadians.
   Whether Quebec stays in Canada or leaves, however, matters
less than whether it can overcome the temptation to cuff
around people like Harry Schick. Mr. Schick is the owner of a
pastry store in a suburb of Montreal. According to the
Montreal Gazette, he was charged on Feb. 28 with violating
Quebec's language laws. His offense: posting a sign in his
window with the word "welcome" hand-lettered in 33 languages.
This sort of behavior hardly reflects a culture that wants to
join an increasingly liberal world trading system.
   It's not just language that evokes the Quebec government's
meddlesome instincts. It is true that the province has
enjoyed an entrepreneurial boom since the 1982 recession. And
in a recent poll for Maclean's magazine, Quebeckers put more
faith in business, and less in governments and unions, than
either English Canadians or Americans. But Quebec remains an
excessively subsidized and regulated economy. Its
corporations are disturbingly dependent on ideologically
motivated investments by the $30 billion provincial
employees' pension fund.
   When Quebec shook off its parochial and authoritarian past
in the 1960s, its economy roared forward. Even greater
opportunities are open to the province today. But the
benefits of North American economic integration come with an
important condition: They can only be seized by those who
understand that for an economy to grow, it isn't only trade
that must be free.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FCC Gives Lawyer Root
   One Week to End Practice
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Communications Commission
disbarred Thomas Root, the lawyer who gained national
attention a year ago when his small plane mysteriously
crashed into the ocean off the Bahamas and he was found with
a gunshot wound.
   The FCC gave Mr. Root until July 6 to end his FCC
practice. Mr. Root, who didn't challenge his disbarment, had
asked the FCC to allow him to continue practicing until Aug.
6, the day he is scheduled to be sentenced in federal court
on five felony counts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Root pleaded guilty June 6 to the five counts,
including defrauding clients and submitting counterfeit
documents to federal agencies. He faces up to 35 years in
prison and $1.25 million in fines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kay Jewelers Arranges
   Revolving-Credit Pact
   Granting $80 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KJI
</CO>
<LP>
   ALEXANDRIA, Va. -- Kay Jewelers Inc. said it arranged an
$80 million revolving credit agreement designed to meet
working-capital needs through next January, replacing an $86
million line of credit.
   Kay also said that three directors invested $5 million in
the company and have pledged to invest another $5 million
later in the year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kay, which spent much of the spring trying to ease its
credit crunch, said it also renewed a $90 million
letter-of-credit commitment that will support its credit-card
receivables program with NCNB National Bank.
   The new agreements leave Kay with about $15 million in
free credit and cash infusions to tide it over until the
fourth quarter. Jewelry retailers such as Kay typically have
negative cash flow for the first nine months of the year. As
of March 31, Kay had only $114,000 in cash.
   The $15 million "should be more than sufficient for our
working capital requirements" through Jan. 31, said Michael
Zarraga, Kay's treasurer. In addition to operating expenses,
Kay has a $1 million payment on its senior debt due Aug. 1.
   In connection with the latest transactions, Kay said three
directors of the company who also are major shareholders --
Jorg Bucherer, Oliver Stahel and Chairman Anthonie van Ekris
-- invested $5 million in Kay in exchange for subordinated
convertible debentures.
   Between mid-March and mid-May, four of Kay's bank lenders
pulled about $16.5 million in credit lines. Three of them
sought to withdraw $32 million more but ended up joining the
new revolving-credit accord, Mr. Zarraga said. The accord is
secured by all of Kay's inventory.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Children 2, Unions 0
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   The 1,000 low-income Milwaukee children who hope to use a
new voucher plan to attend a nonsectarian, private school of
their choice won two victories this week. The teachers'
unions that had tried to block the plan lost their bid to
have the case heard first by the Wisconsin Supreme Court. And
the anti-voucher State Superintendent of Public Instruction,
Herbert Grover, agreed to let schools join the program even
if they hadn't filled out the maze of forms he had devised to
frustrate them. Mr. Grover gave in one day before a hearing
on a request for an injunction against him by pro-voucher
forces.
   Applications for the program are pouring in by the
hundreds and there's talk of expanding it if the results are
good. That's why Mr. Grover and his union allies will still
insist on enveloping the schools in the same stifling
bureaucracy that has ruined Milwaukee's public schools. As
the opposition to the choice plan grows ever more stubborn,
we suspect that increasing numbers of parents of
schoolchildren in the inner cities will challenge the
bureaucratic status quo with teaching alternatives.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   ABC, Fox Making Gains on NBC
   In Snagging `Upfront' Ad Dollars
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB NWS GE CBS WNEWS SAA
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   As advertisers finish snapping up ad time for the fall TV
season, two onetime underdogs -- second-ranked ABC and the
fledgling Fox network -- are emerging as the big winners.
   Both Fox and ABC racked up the biggest gains in the
multibillion-dollar "upfront" market, a frenzied one-week
ritual when advertisers buy prime-time ad time for the coming
fall season. The two networks not only attracted a larger
share of dollars than ever before, but also saw the biggest
percentage gains in ad-time prices. They shone in a market,
though, that is hardly shaping up as outstanding: Industry
executives estimate advertisers spent at best about $4.3
billion on prime-time spots, a modest increase over the $4.2
billion they spent last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "People want to be in a place that's growing. ABC and Fox
are both perceived to have upside potential," says Jon
Mandel, senior vice president and director of national
broadcast for Grey Advertising. Conversely, "a lot of people
feel NBC is dropping down and will continue to fall next
year," says Lou Schultz, an executive vice president of
Lintas.
   The Capital Cities/ABC network has been steadily closing
in on the once-commanding lead of NBC in prime-time, thanks
to hits like "The Wonder Years," "Roseanne" and the weird new
"Twin Peaks." Fox, meanwhile, rolled out a surprise hit this
year in "The Simpsons," an animated series about an obnoxious
family. Both networks also have a strong hold on the younger
audiences, and those from more urban areas, that advertisers
love.
   NBC, a unit of General Electric, still remains the
advertising leader, but it attracted fewer ad dollars this
year than last. According to industry executives, NBC pulled
in $1.5 billion, down from $1.7 billion a year ago. ABC
attracted almost $1.4 billion, up from almost $1.3 billion
last year, while CBS brought in about $900 million, down from
about $1 billion. News Corp.'s Fox still lagged behind the
others, with estimates ranging from $500 million to $550
million, but that figure jumped from just $300 million last
year. A big part of the gain, though, was inevitable, since
Fox has 12 hours of prime-time programming this year, up from
eight hours last year.
   ABC also rang up the biggest price increases, which
industry executives peg at close to 14%. NBC's increases were
in the low double-digits while CBS's were even lower. Fox saw
steeper percentage increases than any of the big three
networks, but Fox's ad time is still far cheaper than that of
its larger competitors.
   Network and agency executives initially expected the total
market to be a bit more robust, with total spending reaching
$4.4 billion or better. But while movie and beverage
companies saw healthy increases in spending, several other
product categories spent less than last year. Among the
laggards: retailers and auto companies -- which had fueled
the market with $700 million in spending last year, but which
fell by as much as $100 million this year.
   "A lot of people cut back because of the uncertainty" of
the economy, says Lintas's Mr. Schultz, adding, "In many
quarters of business, it's survival time." He says that a
number of packaged-goods companies he spoke with said ad
budgets "are way down, 10% to 20%." Other ad executives,
however, said some packaged-goods companies had strong
spending increases in the upfront market.
   Some advertisers may also have been put off by the three
major networks' overhaul this season of their traditional
audience-size guarantee system. The overhaul, which in effect
reduces the guarantees the networks traditionally promise
advertisers, led to a huge outcry by advertisers. Ironically,
it also gave a big boost to Fox, the only network to keep a
traditional guarantee policy. "Fox made out because it was
the only one that gave hard guarantees. That helped it
tremendously," Mr. Mandel of Grey Advertising says.
   H. Weller "Jake" Keever, who heads up sales for ABC,
concedes the new guarantee policy may have had some marginal
chilling effect, but nothing significant. "We only had two
people who said, `I'm cutting network {spending} because of
the policy.' I think a lot of people are irritated, but it
didn't affect the business," he says.
   The meager increase is another indication, too, of the
increasing fractionalization of media. Advertisers simply
don't need to rely solely on huge mass media like the
networks anymore. "A lot of money, we suspect, went to
unwired networks, syndication and cable," says Larry Hoffner,
who heads up sales for NBC. But he says he wasn't
disappointed with the upfront market: "We set realistic
goals, and we pretty much came out where we thought."
   ---
   Geer DuBois Taps Hayes
                                                                                                       

   Geer DuBois tapped John Hayes, executive vice president at
Ammirati &amp; Puris, as its president. He succeeds Peter Geer,
who becomes chairman, a position that has been vacant in
recent years.
   In a related move, Rodney Underwood, who joined Geer
DuBois a year ago as executive vice president and creative
director, was promoted to vice chairman and executive
creative director.
   The changes reunite Messrs. Hayes and Underwood, who
worked together in two earlier stints: during the late 1970s
and early 1980s at Scali, McCabe, Sloves and more recently at
Ammirati &amp; Puris.
   Ammirati has lost several top executives recently.
President Martin Puris called Mr. Hayes's new job "a great
opportunity. We're proud that we can supply talent for the
rest of the industry."
   Mr. Puris said Mr. Hayes won't be replaced; his
responsibilities will be divided among other Ammirati
executives.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNTS: Deutsch Inc. will handle Domecq Importers'
liquor brands -- Sauza Tequila, Presidente Brandy, Salignac
Cognac and Lemon Heart Rum -- and its wines, for combined
billings of about $4 million. Keye/Donna/Pearlstein
previously had the account.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Roy Bostock, chief executive officer of D'Arcy
Masius Benton &amp; Bowles, was elected to the additional post of
chairman, as expected. He succeeds John S. Bowen, who is
retiring tomorrow and who was elected chairman emeritus. . .
. Backer Spielvogel Bates, a unit of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi PLC,
named Mathew G. Crisci executive vice president for its
Miller Brewing business. Mr. Crisci, formerly at
Chiat/Day/Mojo, fills a position left vacant by the departure
of Frank Assumma several months ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Maclean Hunter Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   T.MHP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MACLEAN HUNTER Ltd., Toronto, said it agreed to sell 150
million Canadian dollars (US$128.3 million) of 12.2%
debentures, maturing in 1995, to a group of underwriters
comprising Wood Gundy Inc., Toronto-Dominion Securities Inc.
and Burns Fry Ltd. Maclean Hunter, a publishing and
broadcasting company, said proceeds will be used to repay
short-term debt from last year's acquisition of Selkirk
Communications Ltd., a television and radio broadcaster based
in Toronto. Maclean Hunter said it expects to file a
preliminary short-form prospectus for the offering with
securities regulators shortly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Reliance Capital Units
   Add to Investments
   In Spanish TV Group
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   REL TLMD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Reliance Capital Group L.P. continues to pump
money into Telemundo Group Inc., the unprofitable Spanish
language television network it controls.
   Reliance, Telemundo's principal shareholder, and Reliance
Insurance Co. agreed to invest $37.5 million in the
broadcaster. Both investors are affiliates of Saul P.
Steinberg's Reliance Group Holdings Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reliance Capital will purchase two million shares from
Telemundo for $12.5 million; Reliance Insurance will purchase
four million shares for $25 million. The purchases will boost
ownership to about 43% for Reliance Capital and 35% for
Reliance Insurance of Telemundo's 36.9 million shares then
outstanding. The two companies own about 74% of the company.
   Telemundo will use the proceeds for working capital and
debt repayment.
   In the first quarter, Telemundo had a net loss of $14.7
million on $24.8 million of revenue, compared with a
year-earlier loss of $17.2 million on $22.5 million of
revenue. In 1989, the company had a net loss of $38.2 million
on revenue of $116.4 million.
   The two Reliance Group companies in December injected
about $42.5 million into the company through purchase of
about 8.1 million new shares.
   Despite the losses at Telemundo, a Reliance spokeswoman
said the network is "meeting management's expectations" with
revenue continuing to increase.
   In over-the-counter trading, Telemundo closed at $6.50 a
share, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former Broker Settles
   Charges of Defrauding
   Pro Football Players
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission said
a former Robinson-Humphrey Co. broker settled charges that he
violated securities laws by defrauding at least 18
professional football players.
   Without admitting or denying guilt, Oscar Ayala, now a
salesman at the Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. unit in Marietta,
Ga., consented to the entry of a permanent injunction
agreeing not to violate securities laws in the future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three weeks ago, the SEC filed a complaint against Mr.
Ayala, alleging that he defrauded football players who held
accounts at Robinson-Humphrey starting in 1988. The SEC,
which didn't identify the players, alleged that Mr. Ayala
misappropriated at least $1 million for personal use instead
of purchasing securities for his clients.
   Neither Mr. Ayala nor his attorney could be reached for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mobil Affiliate
   Set to Develop
   Nigerian Site
   ----
   By Carolyn Phillips
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC MDR MOB FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mobil Corp. said one of its affiliates completed
agreements to proceed with the $1 billion development of the
rich Oso field off Nigeria.
   The agreements, with the Nigerian government and Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp., allow Mobil to begin one of the
biggest petroleum developments ever in that West African
country.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The project is expected to yield about 100,000 barrels of
condensate a day soon after production begins in early 1993.
The oil company and the country, a member of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, have both been careful to
point out that the crude-like hydrocarbons are condensate
rather than oil. That means the production won't be counted
as part of Nigeria's OPEC quota.
   A Mobil spokesman called the Oso condensate "a good
hydrocarbon that refines easily into light products,
including gasoline." Such condensates and light crudes tend
to carry a premium on world energy markets.
   The Oso field has nearly 500 million barrels of reserves,
Mobil estimated. Mobil Producing Nigeria, the company
affiliate, owns 40% of the field and is its operator.
Nigerian National Petroleum owns the other 60%.
   The Oso field development calls for construction of eight
offshore platforms, a condensate pipeline and storage tanks
and other facilities. Mobil, a New York-based oil and energy
concern, said a $400 million construction contract for the
project was awarded to an international consortium of
companies including McDermott International Inc. of New
Orleans.
   A McDermott spokesman confirmed the contract and said the
company, which specializes in offshore energy construction
projects, was named to do "a little over half" of the
construction work, which will also include a natural
gas-gathering system. Mobil Producing Nigeria plans to inject
natural gas from Oso and from other nearby fields that Mobil
operates into the Oso project to maintain reservoir pressure.
   Financing for the project came from the World Bank and
International Financial Corp., a World Bank affiliate.
Nigeria has had occasional difficulties funding its majority
interests in such programs, at times making payments with
crude oil instead of currency. But World Bank officials said
they were backing the Oso project because of its "enormous
potential." Industry estimates put annual revenue from the
project at $600 million.
   The Oso field is 35 miles offshore from the Qua Iboe
terminal that Mobil operates. The condensate pipeline will
link the two, and the condensate storage tanks will be at the
terminal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Justice Agency Asks
   Dennison and Avery
   For Data on Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   DSN AVY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   FRAMINGHAM, Mass. -- Dennison Manufacturing Co. said it
and Avery International Corp. received requests from the
Antitrust Division of the Justice Department for additional
information on their merger.
   Pasadena, Calif.-based Avery and Dennison, based here,
agreed last month to merge in a stock swap with an indicated
value of $456 million. The merger would create one of the
largest office-products concerns in the U.S. with combined
annual sales of about $2.5 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies said the requests from the department were
anticipated and will extend the waiting period before the
merger can close.
   They said they will respond promptly to the requests and
expect to complete the merger in September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Banking Panel
   Clears Bill to Boost
   S&amp;L Enforcement
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Amid fear of voter anger over the expanding
savings-and-loan debacle, a House Banking subcommittee
approved legislation to authorize an additional $154 million
over the next two years for investigating and prosecuting
crimes involving failed thrifts.
   The bill, approved unanimously yesterday, also would make
it easier for government investigators to discover and punish
S&amp;L fraud. One provision would establish new authority for
civil regulators to use tax records in thrift investigations.
President Bush has expressed support for many of the expanded
enforcement powers in the bill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new authorization would allow S&amp;L enforcement spending
by the Justice and Treasury departments on top of the $75
million already appropriated by the full House for fiscal
1991, which begins Oct. 1.
   The legislation approved yesterday, which is thought to
have a strong chance of being enacted, would make concealing
assets from thrift regulators a federal crime. It would also
establish a new statute barring fraudulent conveyances of
assets by thrift executives and allowing enforcers to undo
such transactions even if they have been completed.
   The bill would increase wiretap authority for financial
fraud investigators and would expand the government's ability
to freeze assets before the conclusion of legal proceedings
over alleged S&amp;L-related fraud. It would also prevent S&amp;L
defendants from using state bankruptcy laws to shield their
personal assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Travelers Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   TIC
</CO>
<LP>
   TRAVELERS Corp. (Hartford, Conn.) -- Geoffrey P. Raymond,
46 years old, previously chief investment officer of Texas
Commerce Bancshares Inc., was named president, chief
executive officer and chief investment officer of the
Travelers Investment Management Co. unit of this insurer,
filling a vacancy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Confidence
   Falls, Survey Reports,
   As Job Outlook Sours
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Consumer confidence declined significantly as
the index compiled by the Conference Board fell almost five
points this month to 102.5 from May's revised 107.3.
   The monthly survey, conducted for the board by National
Family Opinion Inc. of Toledo, Ohio, found consumers less
optimistic about the immediate future, particularly on the
issue of jobs. The Conference Board is a nonprofit research
center.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Less than 24% of all survey participants felt that jobs
are "plentiful," a three point drop for the month. The survey
uses the year 1985 as an index base of 100 and covers 5,000
households throughout the U.S.
   Opinion is slightly less favorable on current business
conditions, and on expectations for the next six months.
Those who fear there will be fewer jobs now outnumber those
who expect there will be more.
   Slightly more respondents expect worse business conditions
and a personal income decrease. Plans to spend money over the
next six months on automobiles, homes, major appliances and
vacations declined slightly.
   Fabian Linden, executive director of the Conference
Board's consumer research center, said, "While the measure of
consumer confidence is now lower than it has been in more
than two and a half years, there are no indications of
impending recession."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T Cuts Prices
   An Average 2.2%,
   Beginning Sunday
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   T MCIC UT GTE
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. said it
will cut prices an average of 2.2%, or more than $300 million
annually, on interstate and international long-distance
services, starting Sunday.
   The action comes only a month after AT&amp;T, the nation's No.
1 long-distance carrier, said it would cut just its evening
rates an average of 2.5%, or $160 million annually. Under the
new plan, evening rates will drop 5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But AT&amp;T last week said it would increase the size of its
price cut, after the Federal Communications Commission
ordered local phone companies to reduce the fees they charge
AT&amp;T and other long-distance phone companies for originating
and terminating interstate phone calls.
   That FCC-ordered reduction amounts to $1.1 billion over
the next 12 months -- about $696 million more than the local
phone companies had proposed in April.
   AT&amp;T's reduction applies to basic long-distance service,
operator-handled calls, calls from the U.S. to Canada, and
the company's optional calling plan named Reach Out America.
   For example, effective Sunday, price reductions on
direct-dialed, out-of-state calls will average 5% during
evening calling periods from Sundays through Fridays, and
one-half percent during the day on weekdays. The Reach Out
America evening discount plan will drop to $7.80 a month from
$8.15. And per-minute charges for operator-assisted calls
will be cut an average of 3%.
   The decrease is AT&amp;T's 11th since the comany's breakup in
1984. Since then, longdistance prices have been reduced
almost 43%, AT&amp;T said.
   AT&amp;T's primary rivals, MCI Communications Corp. of
Washington, D.C., and the US Sprint Communications Co. unit
of United Telecommunications Inc., Kansas City, Mo., said
they will take whatever pricing action is necessary to stay
competitive with AT&amp;T's rates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Stock Markets:
   Reality Sets In,
   Ending Joy Ride
   In German Issues
   ----
   By Richard E. Rustin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- "After two, three or four
years, German reunification will come to a good end," says
Wolfgang Seidel, who manages investments totaling 5.7 billion
West German marks ($3.43 billion) for Frankfurt-Trust.
   "But in the meantime . . . ." Mr. Seidel makes a wrenching
motion with his hands, the way one would strangle a chicken
-- or a stock market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For West Germany's formerly high-flying stock market, the
wrenching has already begun. The joy ride fueled by the
collapse of the Berlin Wall in November is screeching to a
halt as sobering realities set in about the costs and
uncertainties of unifying the two Germanys.
   With the first major step toward unity set for Sunday,
when the two economies are joined, there are few near-term
bulls in Frankfurt. Many money managers and analysts expect
that at best the market will drift sideways at least through
the end of the year, when the economic picture may become
clearer.
   The market, sensing that a business miracle was at hand,
surged when the Wall fell. The DAX Index of the Frankfurt
Stock Exchange, largest of West Germany's eight exchanges,
rocketed more than 30% in the winter to a record 1968.55 on
March 30. Buyers from the U.S., Japan and Britain provided
the steam: Net foreign purchases of German equities totaled
17.56 billion marks in the fourth quarter, eclipsing the
record for an entire year -- 15.17 billion marks in 1986.
   But the foreign buying spree clearly is over, money
managers say. Net purchases by foreigners dropped to 7.46
billion marks in the first quarter, and when government
figures for April are disclosed soon, it's expected they will
show that foreigners, who historically have dominated the
West German market, became net sellers. Yesterday, despite a
recent low-volume technical rally by domestic buyers, the DAX
stood at 1895.17, down 3.7% from the record.
   "A few months ago people were saying, `Wow] Things are
really going to change,'" says Thomas R. Holmes,
institutional sales manager for Schroder Munchmeyer Hengst &amp;
Co., a money management arm of Lloyds Bank Group that caters
mainly to U.S. and British investors. "But now they're coming
to realize that Rome wasn't built in a day, and that
reunification isn't going to be free of charge."
   Mr. Holmes says he is advising clients, "If you look for
any concrete results near term, you'll be fooling yourselves.
It doesn't make much sense to overweight the German market in
portfolios -- there aren't that many bargains." He suggests
that West German equities make up 6% of portfolios of
non-U.S. investments.
   And he warns that the market is likely to be thin and
volatile in coming months. Dealer inventories are low because
high interest rates have pushed up the cost of carrying
securities, Mr. Holmes says.
   "It would be wrong to be bullish {in the} medium term and
to advise foreigners to get into the West German market,"
says Jorg Schreiweis, head of equity research at Deutsche
Bank. "I think 1720 is a fair value for the market -- that
would be a buying opportunity."
   Rolf Conen, Deutsche Bank's director of quantitative
research, says stocks currently should make up 30% of a
German investment portfolio, down from 75% Jan. 1. About half
the portfolio should be in cash, double the recommended level
seven months ago, he says, and the rest in bonds.
   At Frankfurt-Trust, a 180 million mark fund for German
equities is 27% in cash, up from 20% at year's end. "You can
see our cautious attitude," says Mr. Seidel.
   Concerns about the cost of unification center on the heavy
borrowing that West Germany will have to undertake to prop up
East Germany's infrastructure and social services. The risk
is that the borrowing will drive up already high interest
rates, or at least keep them around 9%.
   That would be more bad news for stocks. Interest rates
took off this year in anticipation of such borrowing, helping
to cool the stock market boom. "Why should I invest in
equities when I'm getting 9% in the bond market?" asks Peter
G. Schwarz, head of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.'s German capital
markets operations.
   Prospective government borrowings to support East Germany
already total about 125 billion marks into the mid-1990s.
There also are other programs that could result in borrowings
of as much as 217 billion marks more.
   Some people are concerned that even more borrowings might
be at hand. The West German postal and telegraph system's
recent announcement that it intends to borrow 30 billion
marks for improvements in the East "was disturbing to equity
investors," says Merrill Lynch's Mr. Schwarz. "The investors
are asking, `What else?' It isn't measurable what we're going
to need."
   Other factors also threaten stocks. Corporate earnings are
beginning to weaken, influenced partly by the flagging U.S.
and British economies. At Schroder Munchmeyer, analysts have
reduced 1990 earnings projections for 28% of the 70 West
German companies they follow and have raised only 12%.
   And a big rush by corporations to sell new stock and
rights into the rising market in late 1989 and early 1990
forebodes a dilution of per-share earnings. New issues from
October to March soared to almost 17 billion marks, about
equal to the total of the previous six quarters.
   While flagship stocks such as Deutsche Bank, Volkswagen,
Allianz and Siemens remain in many portfolios, retailing
stocks have been a major casualty. Once expected to benefit
handsomely from a perceived East German demand for Western
consumer goods, companies such as Karstadt, Kaufhof and
Horten are being dropped from portfolios and downgraded by
analysts.
   Says Peter Pietsch, a Commerzbank economist: "Many East
Germans are going to be quite cautious in spending money.
They know they may lose their jobs. Some plan to open their
own businesses and are going to save money for that. I'm not
convinced that you're going to see a big rush for Western
goods."
   Meanwhile, Tokyo stocks retreated Thursday on moderate
profit-taking and arbitrage selling, traders said.
   The Nikkei index of 225 issues fell 206.56 points to
32106.19. Volume on the first section was estimated at 450
million shares, down from 630 million shares Wednesday.
Losers outnumbered winners 517-440, while 167 issues were
unchanged.
   At midmorning in Tokyo Friday, the Nikkei index was up
65.79 points to 32171.98.
   On Thursday, the Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues
listed in the first section dropped 12 points, or 0.51%, to
2350.40.
   The Second Section Index rose 22.85 points, or 0.55%, to
4178.62. Volume in the section was estimated at 25 million
shares, down from 29.9 million shares.
   Traders said stocks opened weaker, pressured by small
amounts of arbitrage selling. Prices were further weighed
down by an expected amount of profit-taking midmorning, as
the Nikkei had gained more than 1200 points in the previous
two trading days, the traders said.
   But large brokerage houses tried to give the market some
support, buying some high-technology issues.
   New money from investment trust funds, along with some
dealer buying, also joined brokerage-house support for
quality issues, but the broader market remained soft, traders
said.
   High-tech shares mostly gained. Advantest rose 110 yen (71
cents) to 6,400 yen ($41.45) a share. Sony added 100 to
8,970, and TDK rose 130 to 7,450. Kyocera rose 120 to 8,750.
   Declining issues included Mitsubishi Trust, down 120 to
1,910, Seven-Eleven, down 220 to 7,560, and Shintom, down 200
to 5,800 yen.
   In London, stocks ended a lackluster session lower, as a
spate of recent profit warnings and poor corporate reports
blew away some of the market's gusto. Dealers said volume was
thin as investors awaited today's expiration of the
near-month Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 futures
contract.
   The FT-SE 100 Share Index fell 17.8 points to 2355.7, the
intraday low.
   The Financial Times 30-Share Index fell 14.8 points to
1887.8. Volume was 448.1 million shares, up from 389 million
Wednesday.
   Sentiment was damaged generally and in the stores sector
specifically, dealers said, by a profit warning late
Wednesday from retailer Burton Group. Poor results from BPB
Industries, a maker of plasterboard and building products,
hurt the house builders and construction sectors.
   Burton fell 23 pence (40 cents) to 126 pence ($2.20) a
share after the announcement of expected weak sales in 1990.
Other stocks in the sector dropped, including Marks &amp;
Spencer, down 5 to 235, Kingfisher, off 10 to 347, Great
Universal Stores, off 25 at #10.29, and Sears, down 4 to
95.5.
   BPB Industries closed unchanged at 231 after reporting a
38% slump in fiscal 1990 pretax profit. One dealer said the
stock was able to hold steady because it had slumped in
recent days in anticipation of the results.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Zurich,
Amsterdam, Stockholm, Milan and Madrid, lower in Frankfurt
and Brussels and little changed in Paris. South African gold
stocks closed higher.
   In Asian and Pacific markets, stocks ended lower in
Sydney, Singapore, Seoul, Manila and Wellington and were
mixed in Hong Kong. Taipei was closed.
   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                              Jun 27    Jun 26     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .....................  328.5     325.8   +  1.1
   Britain ..................  707.2     714.7   -  1.9
   Canada ...................  386.9     385.1   - 10.5
   Japan .................... 1318.7    1293.7   - 20.3
   France ...................  570.4     573.6   +  0.6
   Germany ..................  303.2     303.2   +  6.3
   Hong Kong ................ 2443.4    2448.7   + 16.5
   Switzerland ..............  224.4     223.9   +  1.7
   Australia ................  308.5     311.1   -  6.8
   World index ..............  517.7     511.3   -  8.8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Plane-Talking Middleman, in Selling
   His Company, Lands His Biggest Deal
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   ILFC AIG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- When International Lease Finance
Corp. announced its purchase of a then-record $4.6 billion of
Boeing Co. planes two years ago, the Seattle jet-maker's
chairman scribbled a note to the leasing company's president
that couldn't have been more appropriate: "You've come a long
way, baby."
   After all, Steven Udvar-Hazy was truly in his business
infancy when he cut his first airplane deal back in 1967.
Then 21 years old and still studying economics at the
University of California at Los Angeles, he had heard about a
Lockheed Electra that Air New Zealand was trying to unload.
He told the carrier he'd help find a buyer -- for a price.
Communicating by Telex -- "I was afraid if someone saw me,
they'd be disappointed in how young I was," he recalls -- the
precocious middleman arranged a deal that allowed him to
pocket a 5% fee, or a cool $50,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Udvar-Hazy has been peddling planes ever since,
ultimately building International Lease into one of the
world's three premier airliner lessors, along with
Ireland-based GPA Group Ltd. and Ansett Worldwide Aviation
Services, of Australia.
   This week, though, Mr. Udvar-Hazy made the most important
sale of his life: that of his own company.
   If shareholders approve the deal, International Lease will
be merged into American International Group Inc., a giant
global insurance concern, in a cash-and-stock transaction
valued at roughly $1.3 billion. Mr. Udvar-Hazy, now 44,
himself holds about 19% of International Lease.
   Generally, the marriage has been well received in the
financial community, though some analysts suggest
International Lease might have held out for more than
American International's $32.50-a-share cash price. Cai von
Rumohr, who follows aerospace for Cowen &amp; Co., figures
International Lease could have fetched closer to $40 a share.
He acknowledges, though, that the company will obtain easy
access to capital in the deal with American International,
which showed a colossal profit of $1.37 billion last year.
   That's good news for International Lease, which already
carries about $2.2 billion of debt on its books. The company
is scheduled to receive through the year 2000 nearly $14
billion of aircraft from Boeing, McDonnell Douglas Corp. and
Airbus Industrie. "They could have gone private, but this
means they don't have to go to the equity market every 12 to
24 months" to raise funds, Mr. von Rumohr explains.
   As for New York-based American International, the
International Lease purchase adds to its mature balance sheet
a company with rapidly growing revenue and earnings, and one
that will help the insurance company solidify its financial
services arm.
   It also gets one heck of a salesman in Mr. Udvar-Hazy.
   Born in Hungary, he fell in love with airplanes when he
was a boy. For fun, he used to collect airline timetables --
"I was fascinated with the movement of aircraft" -- and
remembers seeing his first DC-3 on a grassy field outside
Budapest.
   After the Soviet occupation, his family escaped to
Stockholm in 1958, and eventually settled in Los Angeles.
Through his father, Mr. Udvar-Hazy met another Hungarian
businessman, real estate developer Leslie Gonda. Together
with Mr. Gonda's son, Louis, they started in 1973 a
forerunner company, Interlease Group Inc., relying mostly on
"a lot of intuition" about the market, Mr. Udvar-Havy says.
   That, along with $150,000 and a bank loan, landed the
company its first four-engine DC-8, which it leased to Air
Mexico. Today, International Lease Finance has $3 billion in
assets and 38 customers in 20 countries.
   Mr. Udvar-Hazy, a certified commercial-jet pilot who can
relate to his customers viscerally, regularly offers insights
into the fleet configuration decisions being made by some of
his clients.
   "We're aggressive, always trying to think ahead," he says.
In recent years, for example, the company has concentrated on
building a stable of new planes, anticipating the safety
concerns surrounding aging aircraft. Its average 3.3-year-old
fleet is considered the youngest anywhere. The company tended
to order jets early in the latest buying cycle, he says, so
that airlines wanting prompt delivery would have to choose
International Lease over slower rivals. The company already
has leasing commitments for all of its planes through 1992.
   By locking in first, "we've ordered a fleet of aircraft at
great prices," Mr. Udvar-Hazy maintains. Now, with the
acquistion by American International, "we have low-cost
financing too. That is not happy news for our competitors."
   He adds that the American International buy-out "shows
that the leasing companies have arrived and are here to
stay." Actually, some critics lately have wondered how strong
the aircraft leasing business really is. A rather bearish
report in Grant's Interest Rate Observer last April noted
that aircraft orders and airline capacity are growing faster
than airline traffic. The publication also cited investors
who had assumed short positions on International Lease
Finance, betting that the stock would go down because the
aircraft-buying frenzy would subside sooner than many expect.
   Still, Mr. Udvar-Hazy is positively bullish. And although
the company hardly can be accused of scrimping -- a Renoir
adorns the conference room of its opulent offices here -- he
has kept International Lease lean by holding to a 28-person
staff. Competitors wonder whether that will change with
American International involved. International Lease has
"prided itself on independence and flexibility," says one
person in the industry. "They may have given that away."
   Mr. Udvar-Hazy counters that American International has
entrepreneurial roots similar to International Lease's.
Leslie Gonda says a bid from General Electric Co. was
rejected partly because GE was deemed too much an
institution. And American International pledges to leave Mr.
Udvar-Hazy and his troops alone. "We wouldn't be successful
if we had the characteristics of a bureaucracy or a civil
service mentality," says Maurice Greenberg, American
International chairman.
   The three founders of International Lease, each of whom
made more than $1.5 million last year, work closely together.
The elder Mr. Gonda, 70, will remain chairman and
inspirational leader of the company. "I'm just a plain
businessman," the former farmer likes to say, "not like the
big gurus and geniuses on Wall Street." Louis, his son, is
the insurance and contracting expert. And Mr. Udvar-Hazy, who
is on a first-name basis with most of the world's airline
chiefs, is the pitchman.
   The word is that his passion for airplanes sometimes gives
Mr. Udvar-Hazy an edge in leasing. And he is always looking
for a deal. Some years ago on a honeymoon down under, for
example, Mr. Udvar-Hazy put together a $100 million package
to market all of Air New Zealand's DC-10s. As for his new
bride? "She just laughed," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   D-Mark Day:
   Merging Currencies
   Of the Two Germanys
   Will Join Their Fates
   ---
   Political Union Is Months Off,
   But on Sunday the East
   Casts Lot With Capitalism
   ---
   A Great Shock to the System
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   EAST BERLIN -- At 8 a.m. Sunday, 16 million East Germans
become guinea pigs in an extraordinarily bold economic and
social experiment.
   At that moment, they can cash in their tattered Ostmarks
for West German marks, the world's No. 2 reserve currency.
More to the point, a people who have lived under nearly 60
years of dictatorship and central planning -- first in Nazi
Germany and then in East Germany -- will be thrown off their
sinking ship of socialism into the ice-cold water of
capitalism.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The East Germans' great advantage over other East
Europeans is their generous life raft. As a rich and growing
capitalist country of 62 million people, West Germany will
overnight absorb a poor and decaying one with only one-fourth
its population and one-tenth its economic might.
   Their biggest disadvantage is that the pace of German
reunification has deprived them of a chance to prepare for
the swim or take responsibility for their own futures, which
will be financed by West Germany and guided by armies of West
German advisers, businessmen and politicians.
   "I don't see any problem in financing East Germany," says
Kurt Kasch, the board member responsible for East German
lending at West Germany's largest commercial bank, Deutsche
Bank. "West Germany is booming, and sufficient capital is
available. The problem will be how to restructure the
companies and the thinking of the people. There isn't yet a
plan, but only stop-gap measures. I don't doubt there may be
a disaster along the way. Their whole economy is like that of
a company under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code."
   The Western bailout will increase the pressure here for
rapid unification as East Germans realize the impotence of
their own politicians to address inevitable problems of
unemployment, corporate bankruptcies and the threat of
another mass migration westward.
   Before unification can occur, however, East Germans must
recreate their old federal states in local elections this
September; then the states, under the West German
constitution, must vote themselves into the new union. West
Germans hope that by November the Soviet Union will remove
the last international obstacle to unification. If all goes
according to Chancellor Helmut Kohl's plans, all-German
elections on Dec. 9 or 16 will be the final step before
formal political unification, which should be completed by
Christmas.
   Yet it is this weekend that marks the point of no return.
The two Germanys may technically remain separate for a while,
but their economies and their fates will become joined.
   "The importance of July 1 is that the people of East
Germany now know they belong to the West," says Walter
Momper, West Berlin's mayor. "They know that from that point
on, the West German government is legally and economically
responsible for them." The problem, he adds, is that "in a
few months, they have to make adjustments that took us 40
years. Anyone who says he knows what will happen is lying.
None of us know."
   As D-mark day nears, the commander of the Bundesbank's
ground forces sits in symbolic discomfort, surrounded by
construction workers, in the expansive former offices of the
Communist Party's top ideologist. The Central Committee's
insignia have been stripped from the building's gray outer
walls, and its capitalist usurper has announced the
Bundesbank's arrival only on a handwritten sign on the door.
A decision-making center of communism has become the nerve
center of the transition to capitalism.
   "You might read too much into the symbolism of our
location," says Johann Wilhelm Gaddum, the 47-year-old
Bundesbank official overseeing the distribution of 600 tons
of bank notes and 500 tons of coins from 15 central-bank
offices throughout the country. "There is a more practical
reason for us to be here." The Bundesbank's headquarters
here, once the main office of the Third Reich's central bank
as well, has the largest vaults available in Europe.
   Fleets of vehicles, their routes and timetables
top-secret, have already delivered an initial installment of
25 billion West German marks, twice the amount of cash in
circulation in East Germany. Mr. Gaddum wants to be sure not
to run low on such a historic day. In coming months, when
East German companies start doing business in the new
currency, the Bundesbank will have to provide perhaps 130
billion more West German marks. West German economists expect
this action to swell their own money supply by 13.5% to 14%,
but they believe the enhanced growth from the addition of
East Germany's economy will allow them to absorb the deutsche
marks without significant inflation.
   "This is the most exciting assignment I can imagine," Mr.
Gaddum says. "For the citizen of East Germany, the D-mark
isn't a currency; it is a symbol of freedom. He can travel to
Sweden; he can buy products he's only seen on television.
Great hopes and dreams are attached to July 1."
   And great fears.
   The irony of this Sunday's monetary and currency union is
that it is forcing together a people only now learning how
far they had grown apart since Germany was divided after
World War II. Even their languages had added vocabulary the
other Germans didn't understand. Poland, Hungary and
Czechoslovakia may suffer far worse economic difficulties,
but the psychological burden will be greater here. East
Germans must discard more than four decades of history and
adjust overnight to the laws, expectations and demands of a
new society that already regards them as second-class
citizens.
   "Monetary union is the vise that is intended to hold us
together, but it isn't a very good tool for that purpose,"
says Baerbel Bohley, an abstract artist who was a leader of
the October "revolution" now leading to unification. "It will
only make our differences all the more apparent."
   She points outside the window of her office in East
Berlin's City Hall, where dozens of orange garbage trucks
have gathered and hundreds of workers mill about in bright
orange overalls. It looks more like an Orange Julius
convention than a strike, but it reeks of trouble.
   "Our luck is that we have a weapon that you can smell,"
says Guenther SvenOlaf, a 28-year-old union leader. Workers
complain that they earn half the wage of West Berlin garbage
collectors but handle twice the tonnage per person. They pass
out handbills with statistics showing that West Berlin
industrial companies pay eight times more to have their
garbage removed than East Berlins do. They say a pay raise is
necessary to avoid "garbage tourism" -- companies shipping
refuse East, to dispose of it more cheaply. "East Berlin
could become the garbage dump of Europe if we don't increase
our charges and wages," Mr. Sven-Olaf says.
   Yet East Germans are caught in a Catch-22. Workers, egged
on by West German unions, are demanding higher wages to avoid
being second-class Germans. But just such demands are what
have kept West German and other investors at bay.
   Many West German companies that at first wanted to invest
heavily in East Germany now are merely relying on unused
capacity in their existing plants to serve a new market no
larger than that of the federal state of North Rhine
Westphalia. They are reluctant to invest because of expected
wage increases, the lack of infrastructure such as
telecommunications and transportation, a weak network of
suppliers, and East German companies' debt, which isn't being
written off but is being translated into D-marks at a 2-to-1
rate. Their reluctance threatens to aggravate unemployment,
which could deepen the economic divide between East and West
Germany.
   But if wages are too low and services too skimpy in the
East, the outflow of East Germans will increase. Even with
the West German mark coming East, 1,000 East Germans a week
continue to head West.
   The game of guessing how this grand experiment will pan
out has become intense. After months of work, the German
Research Institute of West Berlin has produced a forecast of
short-term gloom, which will satisfy the doomsayers of the
left, and of medium-term optimism, which will feed the
boosterism of Chancellor Kohl's government. The institute's
economists anticipate greater problems than Bonn has
predicted for East Germany's current-account deficit (its
deficit in foreign trade in goods and services), its
unemployment and its plunging production.
   "The East Germans have the hardest road in Eastern Europe
over the very short term, but in the long-run they will do
the best," says Heiner Flassbeck, who directed the
forecasting project.
   The institute believes that East German unemployment will
hit 17% next year despite federal subsidies designed to
mitigate it. Another 13% of East Germans will be classified
as short-time workers, mostly working under subsidy programs.
So some 30% of East Germans won't be fully employed. Some
West German bankers are even gloomier.
   The unemployment forecasts reflect an even more basic
economic imbalance. East Germans' desire to buy the Western
goods so long denied them will drive up imports by a
predicted 16.5% this year and 34.5% in 1991. But their
companies' inability to produce competitive goods may cause
exports to fall 15% this year and 10% in 1991, and production
to slip 9.5% this year and 19% in 1991.
   The institute predicts an East German current-account
deficit this year of 37 billion marks and next year of 72
billion marks -- in an economy of only 270 billion marks. The
financing requirement would be nearly double that foreseen by
the West German government in its state treaty with East
Germany.
   "No other East European economy could afford that price,
but here Bonn will pick up the tab," Mr. Flassbeck says.
   The picture would be far gloomier if West Germany's
economic outlook weren't so bright. West Germany will outpace
its neighbors this year with real growth of some 4% -- partly
boosted by a doubling of exports to East Germany. The growth
in West German employment levels in the past year has been
the highest in three decades, and the inflation rate is
expected to remain under 3%. "Under the changed conditions,
growth over the next two years of nearly 10% in real terms
can be expected," the institute predicts.
   But Bonn must revamp East Germany both radically and
quickly. For if this grand experiment fails, it not only will
set off mass westward migration but also feed already-rising
left-wing and right-wing radicalism in what is now East
Germany. Success or failure, in addition, could help or
hinder reformist politicians in the Soviet Union and
elsewhere in Eastern Europe.
   The fear of the effects of mass unemployment has been so
strong that the West German government has set up an office
that will provide guaranteed loans through West German banks
to East German companies in the first three months. Some of
the companies may survive longer than they should, but the
idea is to give them money to retool quickly and pay their
workers before they make their first West German profits. The
loans are to be extended only a month at a time, and the onus
will be on the banks to identify firms whose loans are to be
renewed and firms that will be allowed to fail.
   "No company in East Germany is ready to be competitive
with West German or West European companies," says Deutsche
Bank's Mr. Kasch, who has studied 40 East German concerns. A
close inspection of one glassmaker by Roland Berger G.m.b.H.,
a consulting firm owned by the bank, discovered that once
subsidies were removed, a multimillion-dollar book profit
turned into a multimillion-dollar loss. "The percentage of
companies that can become competitive anytime soon is less
than 20%," Mr. Kasch says.
   Nevertheless, the German Economic Research Institute
predicts stabilization late next year and a turnaround in
1992. It does see some problems lingering well into the 21st
century.
   East Germany's stunned paralysis has increased in recent
weeks as West German companies and ministries move in like a
wave of capitalist missionaries selling the profit motive.
Burger King will open for business in Dresden on America's
Independence Day, July 4. Mail-order companies have already
set up kiosks on street corners. Even West German sex shops
are passing out their catalogs -- in plain brown wrappers --
to East Germans.
   In a speech in West Berlin, Guenter Grass, the novelist,
complained that he found on a trip through East Germany that
the people were engaged in a "self-destructive" practice of
allowing their own products to be forced off the shelves. In
the brewery town of Altdoebern, he said, a Munich brewery had
provided the village pub with free beer coasters, menus and
decor on condition that the owner no longer sell East German
beer. The local brewery has already shut down.
   In the Prenzlauer section of East Berlin, Kaufhalle, a
West German supermarket chain, has taken over a state-run
neighborhood store. This weekend, its workers will put out
brightly labeled containers on shelves that have been emptied
by shoppers fearing price increases and seeking to unload
East German marks. Yet even people who want the goods seem
overwhelmed by the range of choice.
   "I've always known that salt packages are white and sugar
packages are blue," says Ms. Bohley, the artist and now a
member of East Berlin's city council. "Now, we have to read
the labels of many different packages we don't recognize.
This feeds a more general uncertainty."
   That may be, but East Germans appear to be catching on
fast. All over the country, shops have hauled out onto the
sidewalks their East Bloc goods -- ranging from
Czechoslovakian beer to homemade furniture -- to sell at
price reductions of as much as 70%. A whole people appears to
be engaged in a clearance sale.
   The familiar lines for goods have been replaced by
block-long queues of East Germans putting their money into
bank accounts and applying for the amounts they want to
withdraw next week. On Sunday morning, about 10,000 exchange
centers, including bank offices, schools and other government
buildings, will start passing out the money. Security will be
tight: East German police and army units have detailed at
least 30,000 men.
   The Bundesbank will avoid chaos through some simple rules:
   -- No cash exchanges will be made. All East Germans,
including children, must first deposit their money in a
personal bank account, where they automatically will be
rebooked as West German marks at midnight, June 30. That way,
the Bundesbank's computers can spot irregularities.
   -- In the first week of July, no East German can withdraw
more than 2,000 West German marks. The purpose is to avoid a
buying mania.
   Commercial banks moving quickly into the East German
market also see the week as an opportunity to market
investments unfamiliar to East Germans. An informal survey of
East Germans, however, shows that most wouldn't withdraw much
money anyway; they aren't sure just how much prices might
rise or whether they might soon be jobless. After July 9,
they can withdraw as much money as they please.
   East Germans can deposit their old money in accounts until
next Friday. "Whoever has East German marks after that can
paper their walls with them," says the weekly magazine Der
Stern. So no one can exchange more than the limited amounts
allowed at a 1-to-1 rate, identity cards will be stamped with
indelible marking. East Germans under age 14 may exchange
2,000 East German marks at 1 to 1, those under 59 years of
age may exchange 4,000 East German marks at that rate, and
those older may exchange 6,000 East German marks. All other
money in accounts can be exchanged at 2 to 1 -- even West
Germans with East marks in accounts predating Dec. 31, 1989.
But to penalize speculation, money deposited by foreigners
after that will be exchanged at 3-to-1.
   But all this hasn't stopped speculators. The most
sophisticated ones have acted as brokers between those who
didn't have any money to put in accounts and those who wanted
to spread their money around to exchange as much as possible
at 1 to 1. The commission initially charged for this service
was 10%, but by the end of this week it reached 50%.
   The dingy corridors of East Germany's finance ministry
haven't seen so much nervous tension since Luftwaffe chief
Hermann Goering worked in the building during World War II.
State Secretary Martin Maassen has been working 18-hour days
trying to apply West German trading and tax laws to East
Germany. He is boundlessly optimistic that, despite
short-term problems, his people will get a better life. But
he concedes that his position after Sunday will be a novel
one.
   "There's seldom been a finance ministry without its own
currency," he says. Yet Mr. Maassen is glad the
nerve-wracking buildup is ending. "All the planning and worry
is over," he says. "After Sunday, we all become crisis
managers."
   ---
          Key Issues in German Monetary Unification
                                                                                                       

   -- Inflation. Despite fears of the kind of inflation that
ravaged Weimar Germany, inflation is expected to remain low.
Prices of many East German commodities, such as bread, will
rise sharply but then remain stable.
                                                                                                       

   -- Unemployment. Some experts predict East German
unemployment will rise as high as 40%, at least temporarily.
Numerous East German companies are expected to fail.
                                                                                                       

   -- Restructurings. Those East German companies that
survive will have to undertake dramatic restructurings and
modernization, financed initially by loans guaranteed by the
West German government.
                                                                                                       

   -- Compensation. East German workers need to be paid
enough to keep them from migrating west, but not so much as
to discourage Western investment in East Germany.
                                                                                                       

   -- Labor unrest. Wage inequities between workers in the
East and West and high rates of unemployment in the East
could cause labor turmoil.
                                                                                                       

   -- Financing infrastructure. East Germany needs massive
investment in its infrastructure, ranging from
telecommunications facilities to highways and airports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   High Court Agrees to Rule on Authority
   Of Bankruptcy Judges to Hold Jury Trials
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES ASH AIG
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court agreed to resolve
important questions involving the jurisdiction of federal
bankruptcy courts.
   Most significantly, the justices agreed to decide whether
federal bankruptcy judges may conduct jury trials -- when
they are legally required -- on issues arising in bankruptcy
cases, or whether such cases may be handled only by federal
district judges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In such cases, the right to a jury trial may arise from
the type of dispute, not directly from the bankruptcy filing.
Many state and federal laws, as well as the Seventh Amendment
to the Constitution, guarantee defendants a jury trial in
certain types of civil cases.
   Civil jury trials in federal court are generally conducted
by federal district judges, who are appointed by the
president and confirmed by the Senate and who have life
tenure. Bankruptcy judges are appointed by the federal
appeals courts to 14-year terms. Neither Congress, in
revising federal bankruptcy law, nor the Supreme Court, in
interpreting the law, nor the Constitution has settled the
question of whether bankruptcy judges may conduct jury trials
when the disputes arise from bankruptcy cases.
   The question of the authority of bankruptcy courts to
conduct jury trials has divided the federal appeals courts
and created uncertainty in bankruptcy cases.
   It is an issue that has important practical implications.
Bankruptcy lawyers who favor jury trials in bankruptcy courts
say they are desirable because such disputes often involve
the transfer of a company's assets that needs quick
resolution. Forcing these disputes to federal district courts
could involve long delays, they say. Some lawyers argue
against bankruptcy court jury trials, fearing that bankruptcy
judges will become overloaded with such cases and because
district judges have more experience with juries.
   The justices agreed to resolve another bankruptcy issue in
the same case. They will decide whether a dispute about
insurance coverage for the assets of a company in Chapter 11
reorganization is a "core" issue over which the bankruptcy
court has jurisdiction, or whether it is a "non-core" issue
and should be decided by a federal district court or a state
court.
   The case is a dispute between Ben Cooper Inc., a toy and
costume manufacturer that filed for protection under Chapter
11 of the Bankruptcy Code in April 1988, and Insurance
Company of the State of Pennsylvania, a unit of American
International Group Inc., which insured Cooper after the
Chapter 11 filing. The dispute is over an insurance claim by
Cooper for damage caused by a fire at one of its factories in
Georgia.
   A federal appeals court in New York ruled in February that
the insurance dispute directly affected the company's
reorganization status because the insurance coverage was
begun after the Chapter 11 filing. The appeals court said,
therefore, that the dispute was within the bankruptcy court's
"core" jurisdiction. And because such insurance fights are
normally subject to jury trials in federal court, the appeals
court said, the bankruptcy court should conduct the jury
trial.
   The high court agreed to hear the insurance company's
appeal in the next court term, which begins Oct. 1. The
announcement that the court would hear the case was contained
on a list released yesterday; the justices technically began
their summer recess Wednesday. (Insurance Co. of the State of
Pennsylvania vs. Ben Cooper Inc.)
                                                                                                       

   West Virginia Taxes
                                                                                                       

   The justices, in two unsigned orders, ruled that courts in
West Virginia improperly refused to apply retroactively a
ruling that the state's corporate taxes are unconstitutional.
The ruling will force the state to drop efforts to collect
back assessments against some companies and may require
refunds to others.
   Without hearing oral arguments, the justices ruled in
favor of Ashland Oil Inc. and National Mines Corp., a
National Steel Corp. unit. In one case, West Virginia
assessed a back levy of its business and occupation tax
against National Mines totaling $475,345 for wholesale sales
of coal mined in other states. In the other case, the state
assessed a deficiency of $181,313 against Ashland for taxes
on wholesale oil sales in West Virginia.
   In 1984, the Supreme Court ruled that West Virginia's
corporate taxes were unconstitutional because they favored
companies based in the state. But the West Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals has said that the high court's decision
isn't retroactive and doesn't apply to taxes owed prior to
1984.
   The Supreme Court said that on the basis of two rulings it
issued in other tax cases, West Virginia must consider the
taxes unconstitutional retroactively. (National Mines Corp.
vs. Caryl; Ashland Oil Inc. vs. Caryl)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Test Might Have Spotted Hubble Flaw
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GMH
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The former chief scientist of the Hubble
Space Telescope said NASA could have found the crippling
defect in the $2.5 billion spacecraft years ago if it had
performed a simple test that costs a few hundred thousand
dollars.
   At the same time, telescope scientists are pursuing
information that tests conducted on the Hubble were flawed.
Terry Facey, chief scientist for the Hughes Danbury Optical
Systems unit of General Motors Corp., which made the
telescope's mirrors, said the test equipment it used may have
been faulty. Hughes didn't check the test equipment more
rigorously, he said, because it would have "cost more and
taken longer."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The former Hubble scientist, Robert Brown, said the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration could have
uncovered the problem as early as 1980. If NASA had built a
cheap observatory on the ground and aimed the Hubble mirrors
at a star, he said, a defect of the magnitude found in orbit
would have been readily observable. "If we had done it, we
could have caught the problem," according to Mr. Brown, who
was Hubble chief scientist from 1983 through 1985 and works
now as an astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute
in Baltimore.
   Mr. Brown said he didn't know why NASA failed to perform
the test. However, he noted that the space agency cut a
number of tests early in the life of the telescope program,
because it assumed the space shuttle could pick up the
telescope and bring it back to Earth for repairs if problems
surfaced. This assumption of frequent pickups, which NASA
dropped as impractical in 1984, also gave the agency a
rationale for cutting the projected cost of the program to
win approval by Congress.
   "The basic approach was that if problems came up that
would cost more than a certain amount of money or added to
schedule, those problems weren't addressed," Mr. Brown said.
"The idea was it {the telescope} could be picked up for
servicing," he added.
   But Stephen Maran, a senior staff scientist at NASA's
Goddard Space Flight Center, disagreed. He said such a test
would have been very difficult and "would have risked the
mirror to contamination in the atmosphere."
   Meanwhile, Robert O'Dell, another former Hubble chief
scientist who now works at Rice University, said the agency
suspects that Hughes, the mirror maker, used faulty equipment
when testing the mirror. That led the testing to indicate
that the mirror was correctly formed, Mr. O'Dell said, when
it really wasn't.
   Optics experts said the test equipment, called null
optics, must be exhaustively checked. In a null test, a laser
shines through a piece of optical equipment onto the
telescope mirror in order to form a beam of light with the
same characteristics as the mirror being tested. Usually, two
different sets of null optics are used, to cross-check the
results. The equipment also could have been used on a spare
mirror that had been produced for Hubble, said an official at
an optics company, to make sure the equipment was properly
shaped.
   Mr. Facey, the Hughes scientist, acknowledged that the
null optics may have been "in error." He said Hughes,
formerly a division of Perkin-Elmer Corp., made only one copy
of the equipment and didn't use the spare mirror for testing.
"In hindsight, it would have been a great idea" to do the
additional tests, he said, but Hughes didn't consider it
"necessary."
   The search for answers came a day after NASA announced
that the space telescope had a fundamental flaw in one of its
two mirrors. The defect will prevent the craft, the most
expensive satellite ever launched, from accomplishing many of
its planned scientific observations at least until 1993.
Hubble scientists had hoped to search for such exotic
phenomena as black holes and calculate the universe's size.
   The agency said the mirror was incorrectly manufactured
and couldn't be fixed through the efforts of scientists on
the ground. Instead, NASA hopes to launch a camera by shuttle
in three years that would be attached to the telescope by an
astronaut. The camera is supposed to be able to correct the
mirror's flaws -- much like fitting the mirror with glasses.
As it is now, the orbiting telescope is terribly near sighted
and can't precisely image distant stars and galaxies.
   Already the political recriminations have begun. Sen.
Albert Gore (D., Tenn.), chairman of a science, technology
and space subcommittee, plans to hold hearings on Hubble
today. Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D., Md.), who heads the Senate
appropriations panel overseeing NASA, also plans hearings.
The telescope's troubles "have seriously hurt the credibility
of NASA," she said. "They've had so much time and enough
money to get it right."
   Edward Weiler, the Hubble program scientist, wouldn't
answer questions yesterday about the null test and about what
specifically went wrong with the telescope. He said that a
review board, led by Lew Allen, director of the agency's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory and a former military official in
charge of spy satellites, would investigate the telescope's
problems.
   Mr. Weiler also reiterated NASA's contention that it had
rejected the most complete test for evaluating telescopes,
called auto-collimation, because it would cost "several
hundred million dollars."
   In that test, a telescope's two mirrors are aligned
precisely. Then a beam of light is aimed through the
telescope onto a flat mirror outside the telescope. The flat
mirror reflects the light back into the telescope to a spot
near the original light source. The reflected image is then
compared with the original light.
   James Wyant, president of closely held Wyko Corp., a
Tucson, Ariz., maker of optical test equipment, said NASA had
overestimated the cost of this alignment test. "Their figure
is amazingly high," he said. Mr. Facey, the Hughes scientist,
also called the figure "an exaggeration." An executive at
another optics company said the test could have been done for
roughly $10 million.
   Other scientists doubt that NASA is right in blaming the
mirror manufacturing. Peter Franken, a University of Arizona
expert, said the error in the mirror is so bad -- 50 times
worse than the prescribed accuracy, he calculated -- that it
indicates the mirror was improperly designed. "They tested
the mirror to the design specs," he said.
   Roger Angel, a University of Arizona astronomer who is
designing and building a large observatory on Mt. Graham in
Arizona, said the fundamental problem is NASA management. The
agency gave knowledgeable scientists great responsibility for
overseeing work on the telescope's cameras and instruments,
he said, but not on the telescope itself. "The people with
say-so weren't experienced builders who knew in the seat of
their pants how things could go wrong," he said.
   The problems with the space telescope also raise questions
about the performance of U.S.'s newest generation of spy
satellites, because the spacecraft share much in common.
Jeffrey Richelson, who has written five books on intelligence
collection, said that Hubble and the new spy satellites,
popularly called the KH-12, are made by the same company,
Lockheed Corp. A government intelligence source said Hubble's
primary mirror was reduced in size to 2.4 meters largely to
make the mirror match those used on the spy satellites,
reducing costs to the government. However, two intelligence
sources said they aren't aware of any serious problems with
the KH-12, two of which are now believed to be in orbit.
   Hubble's problems are sure to have great impact on future
space missions. Earlier mirror problems contributed to the
spacecraft running at least $1 billion over budget and seven
years late in launching. As a result, Congress insisted that
the space agency divide its proposed $1.5 billion orbital
X-ray telescope into two contracts. Until the mirrors are
produced to exacting specifications, the space agency can't
begin work on the spacecraft itself.
   Jeffrey Mamber, executive director of the Space
Foundation, a space business group here, said he thinks
NASA's plans to spend $50 billion over 25 years to build and
operate six gigantic earth-observation satellites may also be
restructured as a result of Hubble's problems. Critics of the
program have been arguing that the project should be divided
into a large number of smaller satellites to make sure that
if one of the satellites fails, the project won't be
crippled.
   "Hubble will do for space science what Challenger did for
space transportation," said Mr. Mamber. "It will cause
Congress to rethink an approach where all your eggs are put
into one basket."
   ---
   David Rogers contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Venezuela Reaches
   Debt Settlement
   With Major Banks
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Venezuela and its major bank creditors
agreed on a debt settlement that includes provisions for new
loans and for cutting back old credits and interest payments
due on them.
   The settlement, which covers an estimated $20 billion of
medium-term and long-term foreign commercial bank debt, is
weighted more toward providing the country with new credits
than a recent similar bank-debt settlement with Mexico, the
first under the revamped U.S. debt strategy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement will be explained to Venezuela's smaller
bank creditors at meetings to be held in international
financial centers over the next several weeks.
   Under the agreement, negotiated in New York over the past
few months, the country's bank creditors will have four
options.
   First, to help provide Venezuela with new credits, banks
can purchase Venezuelan bonds to be issued over the next two
years. If they purchase these new money bonds, banks, as a
sweetener, will be able to exchange old loans for
debt-conversion bonds at a ratio of five such bonds for each
new money bond they buy. Banks often prefer to hold bonds
rather than loans because they are more easily traded.
Moreover, these conversion bonds will be eligible to be
exchanged for equity investments in Venezuela.
   The second option will allow bank creditors to exchange
their old loans for short-term collateralized notes at a 55%
discount. These 91-day notes will be collateralized by U.S.
Treasury bills. But if they use this option, banks will
receive only 45 cents for each dollar face value of debt, a
rate roughly equal to the secondary-market price for
Venezuelan government foreign-bank debt. The Venezuelans will
accept as much as $5.5 billion of loans under this option.
   The third option will allow banks to exchange loans for
30-year bonds that have their principal fully secured at
maturity by zero-coupon bonds. These new bonds either carry
fixed interest rates of 6.75% or represent a 30% discount to
the face value of the loan tendered.
   The fourth option will allow banks to swap credits for
17-year bonds that have below-market interest rates for the
first five years of their life. These bonds will be backed by
a fund that guarantees 12 months of interest payments for
their first five years of life.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ionics Inc. Expects
   Profit to Rise 30%
   In Second Quarter
   ----
   By Lawrence Ingrassia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6G
</SO>
<CO>
   ION
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WATERTOWN, Mass. -- Ionics Inc., benefiting from growing
concern about water-quality issues, is comfortable with
analysts' estimates of second-quarter earnings and sales
gains, Arthur L. Goldstein, chairman and chief executive
officer, said.
   The company, while not making a specific forecast, doesn't
quarrel with estimates of about 26 cents a share in the
second quarter, a rise of 30% from the 1989 period's net
income of $839,000, or 20 cents a share, Mr. Goldstein said
in an interview.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ionics, which makes purification systems, expects revenue
to grow "15% or a little better" from the year-earlier
period's $26 million, he said.
   Most of Ionics' businesses are posting healthy revenue
gains, but its Aqua Cool bottled water business is showing
particularly sharp growth. With revenue expected to increase
25% to 30% in the second quarter and year, Aqua Cool now
provides nearly 10% of Ionic's revenue, Mr. Goldstein said.
   Aqua Cool is purified drinking water sold mostly in
five-gallon containers for coolers in offices but also in
smaller containers in supermarkets. Originally introduced
overseas, Aqua Cool is expanding steadily in the eastern
U.S., with the newest markets being Stamford, Conn., New York
City and northern New Jersey.
   Ionics believes it is among the 20 largest companies in
the fast-growing, highly fragmented bottled-water market and
expects to improve its position as it moves toward national
distribution. "Our goal is to become a major player in this
market. . . . We hope to be in the top 10 to 15 companies in
the next couple of years," Mr. Goldstein said.
   The executive said it will be easier for Ionics to expand
geographically than for some of its competitors because
Ionics can "manufacture" Aqua Cool water anywhere with its
purification system. Thus, it won't have to transport bottled
spring water long distances or buy regional companies.
   Ionics has introduced a cooler that can dispense seltzer
water by adding carbonation. While that business is only
starting to become profitable, "by the end of this year it
will become an important profit contributor," Mr. Goldstein
said.
   Ionics also is experiencing strong growth with its
water-purification systems for companies in the
power-generating, electronics and pharmaceutical industries,
Mr. Goldstein said. This water is used in power-plant
boilers, in pharmaceutical fluids and to clean computer
chips, among other things. Demand is growing because use of
less pure water can lower operating efficiency and increase
maintenance costs, he said.
   Ionics, which also makes desalination systems, said
contracts for major systems contributed to its second-quarter
earnings and sales gains. The company's backlog, which
consists mostly of large desalination and purification
systems, is about the same as the record backlog of $64.5
million at the end of the first quarter.
   For the year, Mr. Goldstein said he isn't "uncomfortable"
with analysts' estimates of earnings of $1.10 to $1.15 a
share, or 30% to 35% higher than last year's $3.6 million, or
85 cents a share. Revenue is expected to rise at least 15%
from last year's $108.9 million, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Positives Aplenty Seen in Quarter's Profits
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Despite scattered earnings disappointments,
such as the announcements earlier this week by American
Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. and Caterpillar Inc., the overall
outlook for second-quarter profits holds more hope than
horror.
   AT&amp;T and Caterpillar shocked investors by disclosing that
earnings aren't meeting expectations. AT&amp;T said Wednesday
that its second-quarter profit probably will be below
year-earlier results, while Caterpillar said Monday that it
expects current-year earnings will be "substantially lower"
than last year's.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But analysts and money managers say there is little
evidence of earnings problems at many other large companies.
Indeed, they are counting on seeing plenty of pleasant
surprises in coming weeks, as corporations report their
second-quarter results.
   This is good news for investors who have a broadly
diversified portfolio of stocks. The flood of second-quarter
earnings reports to be released in the next few weeks isn't
likely to wash the value of these investors' shares down the
drain.
   At the same time, however, investors who are heavily
committed to a single stock that dares to disappoint Wall
Street with worse-than-expected results had better brace
themselves. They're apt to get hammered.
   That's the lesson analysts and money managers find in the
seemingly paradoxical performance of the Dow Jones Industrial
Average and AT&amp;T, a key component of the industrial average,
following Wednesday's announcement. That day, irritated
investors dumped AT&amp;T shares, driving the price down $2.125,
to $39.125, on volume of 11.5 million shares. AT&amp;T's normal
daily volume is 1.8 million shares. Yet even as AT&amp;T plunged
Wednesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average surged up 19.80
points to close at 2862.13 in light trading. Yesterday,
turnover of more than 3.7 million shares of AT&amp;T made it the
most active Big Board issue for the second consecutive
session, and the shares lost 37.5 cents, to finish at $38.75,
as the industrial average rose 16.58 points to 2878.71.
   Investors also punished Caterpillar on Monday, driving the
price down $5 a share to $58.50 on the Big Board, following
the company's earnings announcement. On Tuesday, the slide
continued, as Caterpillar shares fell $6. Then the stock
stabilized, and closed yesterday at $52.375, up 12.5 cents.
   Not everyone believes that such incidents will be the
exception. Abby Joseph Cohen, a market strategist at Barclays
de Zoete Wedd, the securities unit of Barclays Bank, says all
the earnings optimism scares her.
   Through the first quarter, she says, earnings of the S&amp;P
500 stocks amounted to $21.67 a share. For all of 1990, she
estimates earnings of the group at $22 a share, down from
$22.88 last year. "What that means is that sometime beginning
right about now and accelerating through the fall, there's
going to be an overwhelming number of earnings-estimate
revisions on the downside."
   But Ms. Cohen is clearly in the minority. The consensus
expectation among analysts calls for a 10% gain in per-share
earnings for the S&amp;P 500 to about $25.25, says Benjamin
Zacks, executive vice president of Chicago-based Zacks
Investment Research. He calls negative surprises such as AT&amp;T
and Caterpillar "isolated hand grenades."
   And John Bogle, a portfolio manager at Boston-based State
Street Bank &amp; Trust Co., contends, "We haven't seen any
dramatic shift across the entire universe" of about 1,100
stocks that the firm follows.
   At Lynch, Jones &amp; Ryan, a brokerage firm for institutions
that tracks analysts' expectations, Richard Pucci says
estimates for 1990 S&amp;P-500 earnings "bottomed out" earlier
this year. May and June have seen rises in estimates to about
$27.10 a share. "The momentum is toward improved earnings,"
he argues.
   What makes negative earnings surprises so troubling is
that they are usually announced before companies with good
news start making headlines, says Michael Sherman, chief
investment strategist at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. "Between
now and the beginning of July," he predicts, "we'll see a
number of companies going to the confessional," as they find
that the second quarter wasn't as good as they had expected.
   Then, all the companies that discovered the second quarter
was as good as, if not better than, they had expected will
begin releasing their reports, and investors will get "some
very pleasant surprises," he says. He is especially counting
on healthcare, food and technology companies to bring home
the bacon for shareholders.
   Even if investors are disappointed by a company's results,
Mr. Sherman says it is a mistake to sell in a knee-jerk
reaction. "I'm frankly amazed people can sell Telephone
{AT&amp;T} on a bad quarter when the company says it can make it
up the rest of the year," he says.
   And while investors' ire about Caterpillar is easier to
understand -- investors are running out of patience with the
company's long-term turnaround strategy -- reacting too
quickly can be a mistake. "You might decide, based on the
latest news, whether you want to be in it six months from
now, but you wouldn't want to sell on the news," Mr. Sherman
counsels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Budget Agreement Would Leave Fed
   In Charge of Staving Off Recession
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- By abandoning his no-tax pledge, President
Bush has taken a big economic gamble -- and left the Federal
Reserve System in control of the odds.
   Mr. Bush's economic advisers persuaded him to abandon the
pledge in part by arguing that a budget deal would help avoid
a recession before the 1992 election, administration
officials say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But many economists say a deficit-cutting budget deal
would have precisely the opposite effect. With the economy
already disturbingly weak, a $50 billion package of tax
increases and spending cuts could push it over the edge. "Any
serious cutback in the fiscal deficit," says Elliott Platt,
senior vice president at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette,
"increases the chances of recession."
   Who's right? The answer to that question depends largely
on how -- and when -- the Federal Reserve reacts.
   Privately, administration officials say they hope the Fed
would respond to a budget deal by cutting short-term interest
rates one to 1 1/2 percentage points. Moreover, they'd like
to see the central bank clear the way for that move now, by
easing rates slightly at next week's meeting of the Fed's
policy committee. That would help struggling sectors of the
economy, such as real estate, and offset the depressing
effects of a deficit-cutting deal.
   Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and departing Vice Chairman
Manuel Johnson both have indicated to the White House that
they would ease rates, but only after a budget deal is
completed and long-term bond markets begin to respond
favorably. By then, administration economists fear, it could
be too late.
   "In terms of timing, the Fed ought to be starting nearly
right now" to offset the effects of a deficit-cutting
package, says former Nixon administration economic adviser
Paul McCracken. "Assuming the budget decision will be made in
the current session of Congress, monetary policy ought to be
becoming a little easier now."
   Michael Boskin, chairman of President Bush's Council of
Economic Advisers, stepped up the pressure on the Fed
recently when he said in a television interview that it would
be "irresponsible" for the Fed not to ease rates in response
to a budget deal. Sen. Pete Domenici, a New Mexico Republican
who stays in close contact with the White House on budget
matters, also has been bashing the Fed.
   "If the economy of the United States were a patient," Sen.
Domenici says, "I would say it is time to get a second
opinion. The Fed is following a tight monetary policy as an
effort to cure inflation. However, the side effects of the
cure may very well be worse than the current ailment."
   Sen. Domenici also noted that the Fed's tight policy is
one reason budget-deficit estimates have increased recently.
"While it is clear that we need to get the deficit down," he
said, "the amount that can be cut without bringing on a
recession is reduced in a weak economy. And a weak economy
makes the size of the budget problem even larger. As Alice
discovered in Wonderland, it seems the faster we run to solve
the problem, the further behind we get."
   In part, the conflict arises because the government's
effort to eliminate the budget deficit over five years
coincides with a stated Fed goal of eliminating inflation
over the next five years. If the Fed eases as much as the
administration is asking, "there's a big risk of putting a
lot more inflation in the economy," says Steven Axilrod, a
former Fed staff member and vice chairman of Nikko Securities
Co. International Inc.
   To eliminate inflation and close the budget deficit at the
same time, economists say, it may be necessary to have a
recession, or at least slow the economy to the point that
unemployment rises substantially.
   Most economists agree that regardless of Fed policy,
cutting the budget deficit is good for the economy in the
long run. The deficit "is the devil's recipe for a
high-consuming society, and a low-domestic-savings,
low-capital-formation society," says Nobel-prize winning
economist Paul Samuelson. "That's the scientific truth."
   But politicians operate in the short term, and the
short-run effects of deficit-cutting are far less certain.
Mr. Samuelson said the president's advisers may have
exaggerated the dangers of the deficit over the past couple
of years "to try to scare him" into doing something.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Science:
   Lotus Development Wins Suit Charging
   Paperback Software Violated Copyright
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AAPL HWP MSFT LOTS
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Lotus Development Corp. won a closely watched
lawsuit in which it charged that Paperback Software
International had violated its copyright on its best-selling
1-2-3 program.
   Federal District Court Judge Robert Keeton ruled that
"liability for infringement" of Lotus's copyright was
established by Lotus in the three-year-old case.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Software copyrights have been a contentious issue in the
software industry since Lotus filed its suit against
Paperback, which is based in Berkeley, Calif. Paperback's VP
Planner program used different computer code than Lotus's
1-2-3, but its commands and user interface -- the screens and
keystrokes that the user sees and uses -- were so similar as
to violate Lotus's copyright, Judge Keeton ruled. He called
the copying "overwhelming and pervasive."
   Judge Keeton's 113-page ruling was issued late yesterday
afternoon in Boston. The ruling isn't likely to have much
financial impact on Lotus, which analysts say has maintained
its dominant 60% market share despite competition from
clonemakers such as Paperback and other software companies.
   However, "it's going to be a long hot summer for the
defendants in all the pending software copyright suits," said
Robert Therrien, an analyst with PaineWebber.
   Apple Computer Inc. is suing Microsoft Corp. and
Hewlett-Packard Inc. over alleged violations of its copyright
on the Macintosh computer interface. "There's a strong
probability that Apple has a good case," Mr. Therrien said.
   Many computer law experts had predicted that Lotus would
win the case, based on the growing body of software copyright
law. "This is going to re-emphasize that screen displays are
copyrightable subject matter even if the underlying code is
different in the two products," said John Yates, an Atlanta
computer law specialist who represented Digital
Communications Associates Inc., Alpharetta, Ga. in its
successful copyright-infringement suit against Softklone
Distributing Corp.
   Thomas Lemberg, Lotus's vice president and general
counsel, said the ruling "is definitive. It is a major
victory and we feel very good about it." Henry Gutman,
Lotus's outside counsel on the case, added, "It's a very
important decision."
   Mr. Lemberg said that Lotus expects to request an
injunction prohibiting Paperback from continuing to sell VP
Planner at a conference that Judge Keeton scheduled for July
19. The issue of damages in the case had been reserved for a
separate phase of the trial.
   Attorneys for Paperback couldn't be reached for comment.
   In his ruling, Judge Keeton said that he didn't find the
concept of a copyright on "look and feel" of a program to be
"significantly helpful." Many software lawyers, frustrated by
the difficulties of defining what elements make a program
creative and innovative have used the phrase "look and feel,"
which is borrowed from copyright decisions on music, plays
and novels. He said he preferred the concept of a user
interface.
   Judge Keeton said that some aspects of the user interface
weren't evidence of copyright violation. For example, what he
called the "rotated `L' " arrangement of headings for rows
and columns and the use of the slash key to start commands,
aren't copyrightable he said.
   However, he said that the menu of commands that a user can
invoke, such as copy, move, file "is capable of being
expressed in many . . . ways." He noted that other
spreadsheets, including Microsoft's Excel have very different
command menus. And he concluded that the menu is a key
element of 1-2-3's user interface, which "is the aspect that
has made 1-2-3 so popular."
   In a separate development, Lotus shifted responsibility
for some jobs among vice presidents and hired a new vice
president from Apple Computer Inc.
   Lotus named Donald P. Casey, Apple's vice president of
networking and engineering, as its new vice president of the
spreadsheet division, in charge of its key revenue source.
   The departure of Mr. Casey, however, is a blow to Apple,
whose research and development organization is still reeling
from the ouster early this year of Jean-Louis Gassee. Since
then, John Sculley, Apple's chief executive officer, has been
overseeing the company's research and development activities.
Mr. Casey directly reported to Mr. Sculley and recently was
handed responsibility for producing new products for the
company's Apple II family as well as networking products.
   Mr. Casey, 44 years old, said that the Lotus job "is a
great opportunity." He said he wasn't leaving Apple in a
dispute over strategy, but declined to comment on Apple's
outlook.
   Mr. Casey succeeds Frank Ingari who becomes vice president
of the new Emerging Markets Business Group, which will seek
markets in the home and small businesses. June Rokoff, vice
president of graphics products will become vice president of
a new group in charge of communications and information
services, including its CD-Rom products. David Roux who had
headed some of those operations becomes vice president of
business development.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Tanker Firms
   Are Dealt Blow
   By Conferees
   ---
   Group Rejects Provisions
   In Oil-Spill Legislation
   Aimed at Liability Curb
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- House and Senate conferees removed a major
hurdle to passage of oil-spill legislation by rejecting
provisions that would have provided for U.S. participation in
an international treaty limiting shippers' liability.
   Rejection of the House language favoring the protocols,
which were strongly opposed by Senate Majority Leader George
Mitchell of Maine, came as a big disappointment to the tanker
industry and many oil companies. Some major companies,
including Royal Dutch/Shell Group and A.P. Moeller, already
have curtailed shipments to U.S. ports on the ground that the
potential liability for spills is too great in the absence of
limits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Senate conferees and several environmental groups,
however, adamantly oppose the treaty, which they said would
pre-empt tough state laws and allow polluters to avoid paying
for all the damage they caused. Sen. Mitchell said in an
interview that "the action today was significant and, I hope,
now clears the way for swift approval of the legislation." He
predicted that the conference could complete action on the
bill at its next session shortly after the Independence Day
recess.
   In a statement, Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner
called the action "a wrong decision for the wrong reasons"
and said the Bush administration will try to find
"legislative solutions to minimize the damage done by the
conferees today." Supporters of the treaty have argued that
it would provide the predictable legal framework needed to
keep responsible tanker operators coming to U.S. ports,
thereby ensuring a safe and adequate supply of oil.
   The conferees approved a resolution expressing the sense
of the Congress that the U.S. should "participate in an
international oil pollution liability and compensation regime
that is at least as effective as federal and state laws in
preventing incidents and in guaranteeing full and prompt
compensation for damages resulting from incidents."
   Remaining issues before the conferees include whether to
require double hulls on oil tankers. The two houses have
narrowed their difference on this matter substantially.
   Among other provisions, the bill would raise federal
liability limits for tankers, barges and oil facilities,
although states could still enforce their own stricter
liability laws. Federal compensation, cleanup and
damage-assessment costs beyond the liability limits would be
paid out of a new $1 billion fund financed by a
five-cent-a-barrel tax on domestic and imported oil.
   The fee, collected since Jan. 1, could be tapped only if
the accident doesn't involve gross or willful negligence. The
legislation would also improve contingency planning for
spills.
   In debating the protocol question, Senate conferees
rejected a House offer that would have provided for
conditional participation in the treaty. The U.S. would have
agreed to sign on for five years while working to improve the
accords. If acceptable language couldn't be worked out, the
U.S. would renounce participation.
   Among other complaints, Senate conferees said such a
strategy would undermine the constitutional role of the
Senate in ratifying treaties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   July Economic Summit
   To Consider Soviet Aid
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush and other Western leaders
will discuss at their economic summit in Houston July 9-11
whether to provide aid and loans to the Soviet Union,
according to the Treasury's undersecretary for international
affairs, David Mulford.
   U.S. policy on the issue is still "under review," Mr.
Mulford said. France and West Germany recently have pushed
for more aid for the Soviet Union, but it's widely expected
that discussions at Houston merely will lead to an agreement
to study the issue further.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S., Britain, Canada and Japan want to see more
market-oriented reform in the Soviet Union before committing
large sums of money.
   Mr. Mulford said the leaders of the seven summit countries
-- the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and
Canada -- also will review the state of the international
economy. The Treasury expects the economies of the seven
countries to grow 3% a year in 1990 and 1991.
   The current Uruguay round of trade negotiations under the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade also will be a major
topic at Houston, said Mr. Mulford, who added that he expects
there will be discussion of an impasse over how to address
agricultural subsidies. International debt strategy and
initiatives on the environment, drug trafficking and money
laundering also will be summit items, Mr. Mulford said. He
added that relations with China will be discussed as well.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rostenkowski Introduces
   `Enterprise Zones' Measure
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- House Ways and Means Chairman Dan
Rostenkowski introduced legislation that would create tax
incentives to spur business development in 25 economically
depressed areas.
   The proposal gives new life to the Bush administration's
proposal to create such "enterprise zones," and it represents
a reversal in Mr. Rostenkowski's longstanding opposition to
the idea. Ways and Means Committee staff said the Illinois
Democrat is likely to push the plan, which would cost $1.5
billion over five years, during the White House-congressional
budget negotiations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both Mr. Rostenkowski's bill and the White House proposal
would offer tax incentives to promote employment and
investment, but there are differences.
   Mr. Rostenkowski would offer small businesses, those with
100 employees or less, that settle in the zones a tax credit
equal to 10% of both the wages paid to employees earning less
than $30,000 and the cost of providing health insurance.
   The White House wants to give a 5% tax credit to
individual workers on their first $10,500 earned. The credit
would be phased at higher wage levels.
   Mr. Rostenkowski's bill would provide for child care,
housing and health insurance in economically depressed zones.
The administration's bill has no such provisions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Metal Concerns
   See 2nd-Quarter
   Earnings Drop
   ---
   Prices of Copper, Aluminum
   Decline as Construction
   Lags, but Coal Looks Up
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6D
</SO>
<CO>
   AL AA AMX AR CYM PD MCU PCO RLM
</CO>
<IN>
ALUMINUM (ALU)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aluminum and copper companies will post generally lower
earnings for the second consecutive quarter, as sluggish
automobile and construction sectors and increased metals
production pushed metals prices lower.
   Many gold producers' earnings were also depressed by lower
gold prices. Coal companies, however, appear to be in line
for higher earnings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Aluminum use for beverage and food cans rose 6.7% in the
first quarter and continued to rise in the second quarter,
and aircraft business continued strong, said Peter Anker, an
analyst at First Boston Corp. That helped offset slower
aluminum orders for automobile and construction, he said.
   But aluminum prices in the second quarter have averaged
about 70 cents a pound, a 36% drop from 95 cents a pound in
the second quarter a year ago. Although aluminum orders are
generally flat compared with the 1989 second quarter,
inventories are substantially greater than they were a year
ago, Mr. Anker said. He expects aluminum companies to report
that earnings dropped about 40% from the second quarter a
year ago.
   Some labor problems could develop over the next few months
that will decrease demand for aluminum by automobile makers,
while other potential labor disputes would reduce aluminum
production capacity, said Thomas VanLeeuwen of Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc. Contracts at one British Columbia smelter
expire at the end of July, and a couple of Washington state
smelters' contracts expire at the end of October. Meanwhile,
auto makers will negotiate new contracts in the fourth
quarter. "People are on pins and needles wondering if there
will be a fourth-quarter strike," Mr. VanLeeuwen said.
   He estimates Reynolds Metals Co. quarterly per-share
profit at $1.70 compared with $2.55 a year ago, Alcan
Aluminium Ltd. at 55 cents compared with $1.05, Aluminum Co.
of America at $1.90 to $2 compared with $3.21 and Amax Inc.
at 70 cents compared with $1.53.
   The average price of copper for the second quarter
declined 13.5% to $1.15 a pound from $1.33 a pound a year ago
as inventories rose. In the second quarter of 1989, many
copper makers canceled vacations to boost production while
prices were high and inventories tight. But this year, a
slowdown in automobile manufacturing and a drop in
construction spending, construction contracting and new home
sales moved supply and demand into balance, said John Gross,
publisher of the Copper Journal.
   Copper companies are expected to show generally lower
earnings for the quarter as a result. R. Wayne Atwell, an
analyst at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., says he expects Asarco Inc.
to report earnings of $1.10 a share compared with $1.20 a
year ago, Cyprus Minerals Co. to show 85 cents compared with
$1.48, Phelps Dodge Corp. to post $3.15 compared with $3.50
and Magma Copper to weigh in with 45 cents compared with 42
cents.
   Mr. Atwell says copper could drop to as low as $1 a pound
through the summer doldrums and bounce back some at the end
of the year. Labor negotiations continue at Asarco, but
Kennecott Copper and Phelps Dodge have both signed new labor
agreements during the quarter, easing any concerns about
shortages.
   Good weather was both a charm and a curse for coal
companies, said Marc Cohen, an analyst at Kidder Peabody.
Mining conditions were aided by a quick end to winter and
little flooding in mining country. But the pleasant spring
also cut down on electric utilities' need for coal, he said.
   A sluggish U.S. economy weakened domestic spot coal
prices. But prices of metallurgical coal for export
increased. Altogether, "the positives more than offset the
negatives" for coal company earnings, Mr. Cohen said. Most
companies will show a slight increase in earnings over the
quarter a year ago.
   Pittston Co.'s unionized coal group has been profitable in
the second quarter, and its non-union mines "made lots of
money," Mr. Cohen said, indicating that the company has seen
the last of the earnings impacts from last year's bitter
strike. He projects the company will report earnings of 25
cents a share for the second quarter compared with a
strike-induced loss from a year ago.
   Another sign that things are improving for coal companies
was a decision in May by Westmoreland Coal Co. to declare a
quarterly dividend for the first time in two years. The
company said its program of reducing costs and closing
marginal operations improved the long-term outlook for
earnings. For 1989, earnings jumped to $11.5 million from
$1.5 million the year before. Mr. Cohen estimates the company
will earn about 35 cents a share for the second quarter after
seeing a loss a year ago.
   By late in the second quarter, gold prices had dropped
about $28 an ounce from the previous year's levels,
portending considerably lower earnings for gold companies.
Some companies have increased production, partially
offsetting the decline in price.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arkansas Regulator
   Seeks to Block Sale
   Of Thrift to Worthen
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- Worthen Banking Corp. said the
Arkansas state banking commissioner filed a motion in federal
court seeking to block the Resolution Trust Corp. from
selling a thrift to Worthen, arguing that the move would
violate state bank branching law.
   The move by Commissioner Bill Ford is the latest round in
a battle being waged between several state banking
commissions and the RTC, which argues that it has the power
to override state laws to facilitate the sale of failed
thrifts to banks. A federal judge in Santa Fe, N.M., ruled in
the RTC's favor in a similar dispute earlier this month, and
a federal judge in Colorado has also been asked to rule on
the policy's legality.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Worthen said the Arkansas controversy arose after the RTC
agreed to sell the holding company's Little Rock bank certain
assets and liabilities of Independence Federal Bank FSB,
Batesville, Ark. Under Arkansas law, banks are prohibited
from acquiring and operating branches located outside the
bank's home county.
   Neither the RTC nor the Arkansas banking commission could
immediately be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Topps Is Suing the NFL,
   Charging Trade Restraint
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TOPPC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Topps Co., which sells trading cards, flipped
a lawsuit at the National Football League, charging restraint
of trade.
   The suit in federal court by the Brooklyn-based company
accused the league of an "unlawful attempt to block Topps"
from selling its 1990 series of professional football player
cards. The suit alleges that the league and NFL Properties
Inc., its licensing arm, seek "to eliminate Topps as a
competitor to Pro Set Inc."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dallas-based Pro Set, also licensed by the NFL and NFL
Properties, introduced its first cards under the trademark
"NFL Pro Set" and "The Official NFL Card" prior to the 1989
season, and according to Topps, "were the top-selling
football cards in 1989."
   Topps's suit charges that the NFL, its teams and licensing
arm conspired to restrain competition in the football-card
market. The suit charges the NFL with trying to monopolize
the market, in violation of U.S. and state antitrust laws.
   The Topps suit "lacks any merit," said John Flood,
executive vice president and general counsel for NFL
Properties, which is also a defendant. Topps officials
declined to comment.
   Topps asked the court to rule in a so-called declaratory
judgment that its 1990 football cards, which are licensed by
the NFL Players' Association, do not infringe upon any
trademark rights of the NFL or its member clubs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LAB NOTES
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   Lefties Are More Likely
   To Have Older Mothers
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   LEFT-HANDED BABIES are more likely to be born to older
women than to younger women, a University of British Columbia
survey finds.
   Health officials at the university in Vancouver determined
the handedness of 2,228 freshmen as part of a medical and
demographic questionnaire. They also figured out how old the
students' mothers were when they gave birth. A subsequent
analysis found that women over 40 years old were more than
twice as likely to bear a left-handed child as women under
25. Women aged 30 to 34 had a 25% higher chance of having a
left-handed child than those under 25.
   Earlier studies had found that left-handedness is linked
to such birth-related stresses as prolonged labor, low birth
weight, prematurity, blood incompatibilities, multiple births
and "breech births."
   These problems occur more often in births by older women
than by younger women. Thus, the link of left-handiness with
the age of the mother is "consistent with the supposition
that older mothers have more stressful deliveries and
gestational periods" than younger women, University of
British Columbia psychologist Stanley Coren reports in a
letter to the Lancet, a British medical journal.
                                                                                                       

   Batteries So Skinny
   They Come in Sheets
                                                                                                       

   PAPER-THIN rechargeable lithium batteries are the hope of
the Hopes.
   Henry F. Hope and his son, Stephen, who control Hope
Technologies Inc. in Willow Grove, Pa., say they've perfected
a high-energy rechargeable battery that can be made in sheets
only 0.015 inch thick. More important, they claim their
battery can store 220 watts of power per kilogram of weight,
at least four times the power density of conventional
lead-acid auto batteries. The latter claim would mean that a
stack of the battery sheets would run four times as long on a
single charge as a conventional lead-acid battery of the same
weight.
   The Hopes's main business is making machinery for
automated processing of photographic and Xray films. A few
years ago, they were trying to invent a new photographic film
by coating a layer of dye-filled microspheres with a thin
layer of lithium. They suddenly realized that the lithium
could serve as the positive terminal of a battery.
   After a thousand experiments, they say, they developed a
battery in which a still-secret ion-conducting polymer
electrolyte is sandwiched between a film of lithium for the
anode and a film of vanadium oxide for the cathode.
   The two inventors, using their experience in building
film-processing machinery, plan to make and sell sheets of
their battery to manufacturers who would cut or stack the
sheets into the shapes needed for any of a variety of uses.
Possibilities, the Hopes say, include a skin-thin implantable
battery for heart pacemakers, slim battery packs for
soldiers, light-weight batteries for laptop computers and an
auto battery that would be part of the car's body.
                                                                                                       

   Badly Polluted Lakes
   Can Revive on Their Own
                                                                                                       

   THE LEECHES and crayfish in Whitepine Lake near Sudbury,
Ontario, are raising hopes that once-polluted lakes won't
have to undergo expensive treatment before marine life
returns to normal.
   The 165-acre lake lies 55 miles north of a huge smelter
that used to pour 2.2 million tons of sulfur dioxide into the
air each year. The resulting high acidity of Whitepine Lake
caused trout, burbot, white suckers and other acid-sensitive
life almost to disappear, while acid-tolerant yellow perch
thrived.
   In the past dozen years, however, the smelter's emissions
have been cut sharply to 718,000 tons of sulfur dioxide in
1988.
   Biologists with the Ontario government now report that
acidity of the lake has dropped sharply, and that much of its
life is rapidly recovering. Young lake trout were first
spotted in 1982. By 1987, trout born naturally in the lake
outnumbered marked hatchery fish that had been dumped in. The
perch, which are prey to the trout, are declining. The number
of leeches, crayfish and bottom-dwelling Iowa darter fish are
rising steadily as the water acidity drops, the Ontario
biologists report in a recent issue of the British journal
Nature.
   Unfortunately, the burbot and white-sucker populations
were too decimated to recover. Nevertheless, the scientists
report, it appears that acidified lakes can recover simply as
a result of a reduction in industrial emissions of pollutants
and without any additional treatment.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   AN AUTO dashboard light that flashes when a rear-end
microphone picks up a horn blast is an award-winning
invention for hearing-impaired drivers by Brian Berlinski, a
deaf fourth-grader in Clifton, N.J. . . . Scientists at
Battelle Pacific Northwest Laboratories in Richland, Wash.,
are analyzing glass from picture frames that nonsmoking women
have had for more than 20 years to see if the glass reveals
long-term exposure to indoor radon gas. It's part of a study
to see if there's a link between radon and lung cancer in
housewives. . . . A new instrument that can quickly and
cheaply tell whether high-priced, "all-natural" foods contain
cheap synthetic flavorings has been developed by U.S.
Department of Agriculture researchers in Albany, Calif. . . .
Swimmers and runners went faster in late afternoon races than
in early morning races in an experiment described by Edward
R. Eichner, a University of Oklahoma sports medicine
specialist, in the journal Internal Medicine for the
Specialist.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- JSB Financial Inc.:
   New York Concern Becomes
   Federal Stock Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JSBF
</CO>
<LP>
   JSB Financial Inc., the holding company for Jamaica
Savings Bank, said it converted to a federally chartered
stock savings bank from a federally chartered mutual savings
bank.
   The New York bank raised $160 million, offering shares of
common to employees, eligible account holders, the general
public and others at $10 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   JSB Financial's common stock, which trades on the NASDAQ
National Market System under the symbol JSBF, closed
yesterday at $12.50, down 25 cents.
   Jamaica Savings Bank had assets of $1.46 billion, deposits
of $1.23 billion and retained earnings of $197.1 million at
Dec. 31, 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Small Investors' Appetite
   For Stock Funds Easing
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The small investors' renewed hunger for stock
funds may already be waning. While stock funds pulled in $4.4
billion more than they surrendered to departing shareholders
in May, fund executives say the pace of sales slowed
significantly in June.
   "May was a fabulous month for us," says Daniel Carper, a
partner at Lord Abbett &amp; Co. "June is going to be off some
from May. The decrease has come on the equity side."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to data released yesterday by the Investment
Company Institute, the trade group for the mutual fund
industry, the net inflow into stock funds in May was $4.4
billion -- the best showing by stock funds since April 1987.
   But fund groups report much slower inflows in June. Much
of this sales slowdown seems to have come during the past two
weeks, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average slid back after
hitting a new high of 2935.89 on June 15.
   "Overall, our cash flow was stronger in the first half of
the month than in the second half," says Gavin Quill, a
marketing research analyst with Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark.
   June's sluggish sales followed four months of huge
stock-fund inflows. So far this year, stock funds have posted
net inflows of $12.1 billion, versus $5.8 billion for all of
1989, according to ICI data. (These figures include sales
less redemptions, plus the net effect of switches between
stock funds and other funds. Reinvested dividends are
excluded.)
   The outlook for stock fund inflows in the months ahead
isn't nearly as promising, however. A recent survey by the
University of Michigan Survey Research Center, conducted for
Fidelity Investments, found that only 19% of mutual fund
owners plan to invest in stock funds during the next three
months, down from 37% in April.
   Reversing a yearlong trend, stock fund managers turned
slightly more bullish in May, cutting back their cash
holdings to 11.3% of assets, down from 12.5% in April. Before
May, cash positions had risen almost continuously since March
1989.
   It seems stock fund managers didn't stay bullish for long,
according to statistics for the 57 stock funds tracked by
Indata, a service of Gordon, Haskett &amp; Co. The cash position
at these 57 stock funds gradually shrank from 12.5% of assets
at the end of March to 9.1% on June 15. But since then, cash
holdings have rebounded to 9.8%.
   Both broker-sold fund groups and direct marketers report
strong sales of new funds. T. Rowe Price's European Stock
Fund, launched March 1, is already up to $90 million. Lord
Abbett raised $87 million in May for its new Lord Abbett
Equity Fund, which guarantees return of investors' principal
after 10 years. The fund is now closed to new investors.
Prudential-Bache Multi-Sector Fund, an aggressive growth
fund, has raised $145 million since its launch in late May.
Vanguard's International Equity Index Fund, which was opened
in mid-May, has now pulled in $60 million.
   Both Dreyfus Corp. and Fidelity are now heavily
advertising their new Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index funds, but
it seems that all index funds are benefiting from the
publicity.
   Vanguard Group says its top selling stock fund this month
has been its S&amp;P 500 index fund, and both Colonial Group and
Rushmore Group report a surge of interest in their index
funds.
   Among older funds, international stock funds have been
this year's bestsellers, with net inflows of $3.2 billion.
Growth and income funds have been the second most popular
type of fund in 1990, pulling in almost $3.1 billion.
   Balanced funds, which hold both stocks and bonds, have
become big money magnets for some fund groups. The
top-selling stock fund this month at Franklin Resources was
its Franklin Income Fund. Massachusetts Financial Services
reports keen interest in its Total Return Trust, and Vanguard
says its three balanced funds all had healthy cash inflows in
June.
   After 10 months of hemorrhaging assets, junk-bond funds
posted net inflows of $57 million in May, and fund companies
such as Franklin, T. Rowe Price, Prudential-Bache and
Vanguard say cash continued to roll in during June.
   In May, bond and income fund sales rebounded from April,
when rising interest rates caused nervous investors to sell.
In May, bond funds -- excluding junk -- pulled in almost $2
billion of net new money, up from $229 million in April.
   But while junk inflows have turned positive,
municipal-bond funds are the current hot bond fund product.
   "Tax-exempts are continuing to increase their share of the
fund industry," says A. Michael Lipper, president of Lipper
Analytical Services. "I think people may be reading
somebody's lips. At least at the state level, taxes seem
likely to go up. There's also a seasonable impact, as people
react after paying their taxes."
   Investors seem wary of longer-maturity bond funds. New
England Securities' best-selling bond fund in June was its
Investment Trust of Boston Premium Income Portfolio, which
holds bonds with an average duration of less than four years.
"I think that shows there's still a heck of a lot of
uncertainty in the market," says Henry Schmelzer, an
executive vice president with New England Securities.
   The outlook for bond fund sales in the months ahead is
more promising. Michigan University found that 25% of
mutual-fund investors surveyed in June plan to invest in bond
funds over the next three months, up slightly from April. A
growing number of investors also think interest rates will go
down over the next year. "That augers well for all
fixed-income investments," says Michael Hines, a Fidelity
marketing vice president.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   CBS to Revamp
   Lineup of Shows
   In Late-Night Spots
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- The CBS network, attempting to get a
foothold in the lucrative late-night programming arena, plans
to offer a lineup of action and adventure shows aimed at
luring a younger, male audience.
   CBS Inc. is struggling to make a comeback from its failed
"Pat Sajak Show," which it canceled in April after 14 months
of dismal ratings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At stake is a share of the $429 million in advertising
revenue earned by the three major broadcast networks in the
11:30 p.m. to 2 a.m. period. Last year, CBS's share was only
$104 million, compared with $264 million for rival National
Broadcasting Co., a unit of General Electric Co. Capital
Cities/ABC Inc. took in only $61 million, but the network
only provides a half hour of late-night programming.
   CBS, staying clear of talk shows, will air original
episodes of five action series, beginning in January 1991.
   The new shows are "Judgment Night," about a judge who
plays by the rules by day, but goes by his own rules at night
in handing out justice; "Paris Steele," about an American
military officer who becomes an overseas operative for the
U.S. government; "Sweating Bullets," about a former agent for
the Drug Enforcement Agency who becomes a private detective;
"Slick," which centers on a jet pilot/jungle mercenary; and
"Scene of the Crime," an anthology mystery series.
   A new half-hour series by veteran producer Norman Lear,
"Jody Gordon and the News," will air at 12:40 a.m., beginning
in October.
   "We're attempting to reach young adults, who increasingly
tend to watch late-night television," said Rod Perth, vice
president of late-night programming.
   Advertisers, however, are skeptical that so-called
checkerboard programming -- airing a different show in the
same time period on consecutive nights -- will work in
late-night. "It's going to be very tough," said Betsy Frank,
a senior vice-president at Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Advertising Inc.
"Viewers in late-night are used to consistency. . . ."
   Mr. Perth said that the shows were "compatible" and had
cross-promotional opportunities, although he declined to be
specific. "CBS was successful with movies years ago and
that's the ultimate checkerboarding," he said.
   CBS also faces another challenge: getting affiliates to
actually broadcast its shows. Since the demise of the Sajak
show, CBS's late-night shows at 11:30 p.m. are aired on only
80% of the 200-plus affiliates. Currently, CBS airs repeats
of "Wiseguy" and "21 Jump Street." At 12:30 a.m., that number
plummets to approximately 65%. And 12 of CBS's top 50
affiliates currently don't air any CBS late-night show.
   In comparison, 99% of NBC's affiliates air "The Tonight
Show Starring Johnny Carson" and "Late Night With David
Letterman."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Met-Coil Systems Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   METS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MET-COIL SYSTEMS Inc. (Cedar Rapids, Iowa) -- Martin J.
Huebschman, 43-year-old president and chief executive officer
of this maker of metal-working machinery and automated
equipment, resigned to pursue other interests. Until the
board names a successor, his responsibilities will be assumed
by Chairman Raymond H. Blakeman, 66.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   International Consumer Brands Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ICBI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   INTERNATIONAL CONSUMER BRANDS Inc. (Trumbull, Conn.) --
Robert P. Freeman, who held the posts of president and chief
operating officer for seven months, has left the company.
Bruce A. Hahn, chairman and chief executive officer, who was
succeeded as president by Mr. Freeman, said Mr. Freeman's
departure "results from a combination of streamlining and
cost-cutting modes the company has adopted along with Mr.
Freeman's desire to pursue other interests." The company said
Mr. Freeman's duties will be assumed by Mr. Hahn and by the
chief financial officer. Mr. Freeman was unavailable for
comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Newmont Mining Holders Vote
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   NEM HAN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Newmont Mining Corp. said holders approved the
sale of the company's 55% stake in Peabody Holding Co. to
Hanson PLC for $725.6 million.
   Newmont, a gold mining concern, said the sale was approved
by holders of more than 80% of the common stock outstanding.
Hanson, which has interests in tobacco, specialty chemicals,
building products and mining, currently owns 49% of Newmont
Mining and 45% of Peabody, a large U.S. coal producer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kemper Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KEM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   KEMPER Corp. (Long Grove, Ill.) -- Jay B. Walters,
corporate finance director at the Blunt Ellis &amp; Loewi Inc.
unit of this insurance and investment services concern, was
named chairman and chief executive officer of the unit, a
Milwaukee-based regional brokerage firm, succeeding Thomas S.
Franke, who resigned in May to pursue other interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Ends Higher as Technology
   Shares Spur Solid Gains; Apple Up 1 1/2
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTC stocks overpowered those listed on the New York Stock
Exchange and posted sharp gains.
   Technology stocks gave the OTC market its muscle, traders
say. But the vitality failed to spread to bank and thrift
shares, which eased on the day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 3.49, or 0.76%, to 460.38,
while the Big Board's composite index added only 0.68%. The
Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 0.58%.
   OTC advancers led decliners, 1,088 to 841, while volume
totaled 148.8 million shares, up from 137.5 million shares.
   Gains by Apple Computer helped draw interest to the OTC
market's technology issues after Cowen &amp; Co. recommended the
stock. Apple opened at 42 3/4 and ended at 43, up 1 1/2
points from Wednesday's close. The stock led the most-active
list with volume of more than 2.2 million shares.
   Christine Callies, market analyst at Cowen &amp; Co., says the
strength in the technology sector may mean that the group has
a couple more quarters of gains ahead.
   She claims that the recent strong performance by the group
is due to institutions rebuilding their positions in the
stocks after having neglected the sector for much of the past
two years.
   Large shareholder bases generally produce very large price
moves, Ms. Callies says, and the technology sector may
already be taking such a ride.
   "Bases of that significance generally fuel rallies
sustainable over nine months to a year, as opposed to just
nine weeks," she says. The stocks can continue the bulk of
their advance on relatively low volume for some time because
so much stock has been taken out of circulation, she adds.
   "The only way to bring new stock into the market is to
keep raising prices," she says.
   Ms. Callies estimates that the group has about six more
months of gains ahead before prices begin to show some
serious weakness.
   Others worry that falling corporate profits in the
quarters ahead could hurt the stocks.
   Ray Hirsch, senior portfolio manager at IDS Financial
Services, says earnings gains are going to be more and more
difficult to come by.
   Export markets overseas have fueled much of the growth
that has made technology stocks popular this year, Mr. Hirsch
says. Now those markets are slowing down, following the U.S.
economy's lead, he warns.
   "The U.S. entered a period of slowing growth earlier than
Japan or Europe," he says, adding that now it's their turn.
   That should stall much of the growth in growth companies,
leaving stock prices moving in a range about 5% above or
below their current levels, he says.
   Cowen's Ms. Callies believes earnings are "troughing,"
however, and that the worst of weakening profits is past.
   "What is behind isn't as important as what's ahead," she
says, adding that the second-quarter earnings reports -- due
late in July -- are history. Ms. Callies looks for the
technology-dominated Nasdaq Composite Index to reach 500 or a
little more before the end of the year.
   Ms. Callies concedes that technology stocks are
"exceptionally market sensitive," and says a major downturn
in the overall market environment could sap the sector's
strength.
   But many market watchers have high hopes that lower
interest rates will save stocks from a serious tumble.
   Frank Cappiello, president of McCullough Andrews &amp;
Cappiello, believes that the Federal Reserve will ease rates
as early as this summer, saving the over-leveraged economy
from the massacre of a recession.
   That means those with the moxie to buy stocks now will
make money later on.
   "They are going to have to give by at least 50 basis
points," Mr. Cappiello says. "That's what it will take to
avoid a recession."
   Among technology stocks gaining, Conner Peripherals surged
2 5/8 to 28 5/8, Intel added 1/4 to 46 1/8, Microsoft rose
1/4 to 76 1/2, and Medar gained 3/8 to 2 1/4.
   Nike leaped 4 1/4 to 77 1/2 on volume of nearly 1.3
million shares. The company said this morning that it expects
to report profit for the fourth quarter ended May 31 to total
between $1.70 to $1.75 a share. The outlook is well ahead of
previous estimates of $1.50 to $1.60 a share for the quarter.
The improved outlook is largely due to a lower-than-expected
tax rate and a revision in the company's LIFO inventory
reserves, Nike said.
   Medical Imaging Centers made the most-active list with a
1/2 point gain to 12 3/4, following a secondary offering of
2.45 million shares of its stock at 12 1/8.
   Acxiom fell for the second day, losing 2 to 18 after
dropping 2 1/4 Wednesday. Several analysts lowered their
first-quarter and full-year earnings estimates after talking
with management yesterday, according to Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report.
   Octel Communications lost 7/8 to 23 1/4. Montgomery
Securities downgraded its investment rating on Octel to a
"hold" from "buy" and lowered its earnings estimate for the
company's 1991 fiscal year, according to DJPIR.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sudbury Inc. to Post Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   SUDS
</CO>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Sudbury Inc., maker of industrial products,
said it expects to report fiscal 1990 net income of about $2
million, including profit of $10.3 million from a joint
venture.
   Sudbury, whose year ended May 31, posted a net loss of
$15.6 million in 1989, including a loss of $4.7 million from
continuing operations, on sales of $510.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ampal-American Gets
   Offer by Main Holder
   To Buy Israeli Units
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AISA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Ampal-American Israel Corp. said its principal
shareholder, Bank Hapoalim B.M., has offered to acquire the
industrial loan portfolios of Ampal's three banking
subsidiaries in Israel.
   Under terms of the offer, Bank Hapoalim, Israel's largest
commercial bank, would acquire the loan portfolios for $875
million, their book value at Dec. 31. The bank would pay $53
million in cash, all of which would be deposited at Bank
Hapoalim and used over the next 15 years to pay off
Ampal-American debentures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank also would assume $822 million in liabilities.
About $547 million of those liabilities are Bank Hapoalim
funds deposited at the Ampal-American units.
   The banking units of Ampal-American, which also has
interests in Israeli industrial and agricultural projects,
real estate, hotels and tourism, stopped making new loans in
1989. It said it could not compete with the rates of domestic
Israeli lenders, which have benefited from changes in Israeli
banking and currency regulations.
   The sale of the units would "eliminate a lot of
uncertainty for us," says Lawrence Lefkowitz,
Ampal-American's secretary.
   The offer, which expires Aug. 15, must be approved by
committees made up of Ampal directors unaffiliated with Bank
Hapoalim. Three of Bank Hapoalim's officers sit on
Ampal-American's board. Ampal-American's president and chief
executive, Michael Arnon, until April 1990 was a co-chairman
of a Bank Hapoalim subsidiary. The bank owns 34% of
Ampal-American's Class A stock and 87% of its common stock.
The company's common is not publicly traded.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   MIKA JAVA LAB TXU TSQM
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Failure Group Inc., initial offering of 2.3 million common
shares, of which 1.5 million will be sold by the company and
800,000 by holders, via Prudential-Bache Capital Funding and
Hambrecht &amp; Quist Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Gerrity Oil &amp; Gas Corp., proposed offering of two million
shares of common stock, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. and
Boettcher &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   KfW International Inc., a subsidiary of Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau, shelf offering of up to $600 million of debt
securities.
                                                                                                       

   The Latin America Investment Fund Inc., initial public
offering of a minimum of five million shares (or $75
million), via Salomon Brothers Inc., Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette and Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Medical Imaging Centers of America Inc., offering of 2.45
million shares of common stock, of which 1,961,429 shares are
being sold by the company and 488,571 by holders, via Smith
Barney.
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Coffee Inc., offering of 762,577 common shares.
                                                                                                       

   Murex Clinical Technologies Corp., proposed offering of up
to C$24 million, or about US$20,474,000, of units, each
consisting of one common share and one common share purchase
warrant, with two warrants entitling the holder to acquire
one common share, via Deacon Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd.
                                                                                                       

   Nichols Institute, offering of 1,767,032 common shares, of
which 850,000 are being offered by the company and 917,032
shares by holders, via Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. and William
Blair &amp; Co.

   Texas Utilities Electric Co., a unit of Texas Utilities
Co., shelf offering of $400 million of first mortgage and
collateral trust bonds.
                                                                                                       

   T2 Medical Inc., proposed offering of 2.2 million common
shares, of which 600,000 will be sold by the company and the
balance by holders, via Kidder Peabody and Robinson-Humphrey
Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fifth Third Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   FITB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (Cincinnati) -- P. Michael Brumm,
senior vice president and trust officer, was named chief
financial officer of this bank holding company, succeeding N.
Beverley Tucker Jr., who quit to do agricultural consulting.
Robert J. King, executive vice president, was named president
and chief operating officer of the Fifth Third Bank of
Toledo; as president, he succeeds Charles L. McKelvy Jr., who
remains chief executive officer and was named to the added,
new post of chairman of the Toledo bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Psychiatrist Pleads Guilty
   In Insider-Trading Case
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A psychiatrist pleaded guilty to trading stock
on inside information he obtained during sessions with the
wife of financier Sanford I. Weill.
   Robert Howard Willis, accused of buying BankAmerica Corp.
stock based on information he received from a patient during
therapy, pleaded guilty to two counts of securities fraud in
federal court in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dr. Willis admitted that he purchased BankAmerica stock
when he learned that Mr. Weill, former chief executive
officer of Shearson Loeb Rhodes, was seeking to become chief
executive of BankAmerica, according to a statement released
by the U.S. attorney's office in New York. In an opinion last
month, the judge in the case revealed that the patient who
allegedly disclosed the information to Dr. Willis was Mr.
Weill's wife. Mr. Weill is chairman of Primerica Corp.
   The case is believed to be the first to charge a doctor
with trading on confidential information received from a
patient.
   The two counts to which Dr. Willis pleaded guilty involved
the purchase of 400 shares of BankAmerica stock, according to
his lawyer, Edward Brodsky.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bristol-Myers Buys Company
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   BMY G.BEI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. said it agreed to
acquire S+G Implants G.m.b.H from Beiersdorf AG. As part of
the agreement, Bristol-Myers will sell its Jobst Institute
Inc. unit to Beiersdorf.
   Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Bristol-Myers spokeswoman said S+G Implants, a Lubeck,
West Germany, maker of hip and knee implants with annual
sales equivalent to $12 million, will complement the implant
operations of Bristol-Myers's Zimmer division.
   She said Jobst Institute, a Toledo, Ohio, maker of
specialty medical products with $50 million in annual sales,
no longer fit into the company's long-term growth plans.
Jobst has been a Bristol-Myers subsidiary since 1983.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oshkosh Truck Corp. Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   OTRKB FMC VAR
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Oshkosh Truck Corp. was given a $70 million
Army contract for 363 tactical trucks.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   FMC Corp. won a $22.5 million Navy contract for
missile-launching systems.
                                                                                                       

   Varian Associates Inc. got a $15 million Army contract for
aviator night-vision goggles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publishing:
   Disney Aims to Become Big
   In Books for Little People
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- See Walt Disney Co. start a children's book
publishing company.
   Watch the competition quake.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Just as Disney started its own record label from scratch
last year rather than buy into the high-priced market, the
Burbank, Calif., company is gearing up to be a major player
in children's books. Its impact could be tremendous.
Children's books have been a booming market in recent years,
and rather than just continue to license other publishers to
produce hundreds of books based on its famous characters,
Disney has decided to build its own franchise.
   "We expect this to be a very sizable publishing entity and
very competitive," says Charles Wickham, group vice president
for Disney Publishing, part of Disney's fast-growing consumer
products division. Under the direction of Chairman Michael
Eisner, Disney is vastly expanding its licensing activities
and tightening its control over the images of Disney
characters in licensed products.
   The first books won't come out until next year, but Disney
has already hired two respected juvenile-book veterans,
rented office space in New York and begun plans for three
separate publishing divisions. In addition to starting Disney
Press, which will publish books based on Disney characters
and movies, the company will expand Muppet Press, to be
acquired as part of Henson Associates Inc., which until now
has mainly licensed books to other publishers. A third
imprint, still unnamed, will publish high-quality juvenile
books without a Disney or Muppet connection.
   Already, publishers of children's books are apprehensive
about the intrusion of such a powerful rival in a genteel but
increasingly competitive industry.
   "We're agog over what they might do," says Brenda Bowen,
editor in chief of juvenile books for Henry Holt &amp; Co. "Our
fear is that Disney money will lure away top artists and
writers. Maybe they'll promise to make their books into
movies. Already, this business has gotten so competitive."
   To head its children's publishing operations, Disney hired
Elizabeth Gordon, who spent 16 years at News Corp.'s Harper &amp;
Row, long a highly regarded publisher of children's books.
Lauren Wohl, a librarian before she spent years running
marketing departments for children's book imprints, including
Harper's, was named director of marketing. Editors and art
directors have yet to be hired. The two executives say they
will sign up unknown new authors, as well as lure established
authors from other houses.
   Ms. Gordon says Disney Books will come out with about 24
books in the spring of 1991, when the Muppet Press will
publish about the same number of titles. The new, unnamed
imprint won't start publishing titles until the fall of 1991.
   Disney already hauls in millions of dollars in fees from
licenses it sells to other publishers, and those licenses
won't automatically be taken back by Disney when they expire,
says Ms. Gordon. Nor will the Muppet licenses.
   Many of the existing books with Disney characters are
mass-market paperbacks or less expensive hard-covers, mostly
sold in the remainder market or on sale tables. "Very few
Disney books are now sold in the part of the store that sells
children's classics," Ms. Wohl says. "We want to make fancier
Disney books so that when a child is born, they will
automatically get one of ours, along with staples like `Pat
the Bunny.'"
   Ms. Wohl says Disney also will go after libraries and the
school market, where it has no presence now, and will design
new formats. "Why couldn't Mickey Mouse be part of a new
reading textbook?" she asks.
   Many of the established children's book publishers are
owned by powerful parent companies, such as News Corp. and
MCA Inc., which owns Putnam Berkley. And all the major
publishers have aggressively expanded their number of
juvenile titles, copies published and marketing budgets in
recent years.
   But it's hard to find anybody in the book business with
more marketing muscle or greater name recognition with kids
and parents than Disney. The Disney books will be sold not
only at Disney theme parks, but at the expanding chain of
Disney stores (there are about 56 stores in 25 states so far)
springing up in tonier shopping malls.
   In addition, Disney may choose to promote its books in its
new Disney Adventures magazine for children, which will be
sold in supermarket checkout lines starting in October, or in
its comic books, which it started publishing again this
spring for the first time in 50 years. The new magazine will
be promoted this summer on the back of 33 million boxes of
Kellogg's corn flakes, a massive splash that could be copied
someday for Disney's children's books.
   Still, the biggest money in children's books comes from
established companies whose well-written, attractive volumes
become classics and sell generation after generation. Disney
has a long way to go to prove itself in that category, some
publishers say.
   "They've got qualified people and great name recognition,"
says Stephen Roxburgh, publisher of juvenile books for
Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux. But "you can't just add water to be
a major player in this business. The market is so competitive
between heavy players already that we may be reaching a
plateau {in sales of kids books}. The bottom line is the
books, and Disney has got to get quality material to earn
their credibility."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Morrison Knudsen Corp.:
   GM Gives Firm Contract
   For Renovation of Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MRN GM
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Morrison Knudsen Corp., Boise, Idaho, said it was chosen
to manage construction of a $219 million plant renovation for
General Motors Corp.
   The auto maker's truck and bus group awarded the contract
to the construction and engineering company to manage a
retrofitting and retooling of GM's Shreveport, La., assembly
plant. A new model of light pickup truck is to be produced
there for the 1993 model year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Production will involve three assembly complexes and two
metal fabricating plants. Preconstruction services are set to
begin immediately in Shreveport, with the bulk of the
construction and tooling installation taking place over the
next two years, Morrison Knudsen said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM's Pontiac Unit
   Recalls Entire Line
   Of Troubled Fieros
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   PONTIAC, Mich. -- General Motors Corp's. Pontiac division
is widening a recall of the troubled Fiero to include all
these sporty cars that GM ever built.
   The recall, which initially covered 244,000 Fieros
equipped with four-cylinder engines, now includes all the
six-cylinder models, boosting to 308,000 the total units
affected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The recall is the second for the troubled subcompacts,
which GM stopped building in 1988. In 1987, GM recalled all
1984-model Fieros with four-cylinder engines, because of
defects that have caused engine fires and injuries.
   As part of the latest action, Pontiac said it is offering
a special $750 cash rebate to Fiero owners who purchase
another new Pontiac model by year end.
   GM wouldn't disclose how much the rebate will cost.
   The Pontiac spokesman said the division hasn't considered
extending the special $750 rebate past year end or making it
an outright grant. "We're acknowledging the car has been a
problem, but we still want to keep (owners) in the Pontiac
family," he said.
   GM will begin notifying owners of the recall next week.
But because of the complexity of the repairs and the number
of cars involved, GM is stretching out the notification
period until October. Any owner of a Fiero with problems such
as a smoking engine or engine-related vibrations should take
the car to a dealer now, the Pontiac spokesman said.
   GM wouldn't disclose how much the recall will cost.
   In January, the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration said GM agreed to a second recall because
incidents of Fiero engine fires were continuing, despite
earlier repairs. It wasn't known then that Fieros with
six-cylinder engines would be included in the recall, and GM
didn't explain how it planned to fix the problem.
   When GM began building the Fiero in 1983, the plastic-body
two-seater was hailed as a manufacturing and technological
breakthrough for GM, and sales were strong.
   But engine fires caused by oil leaks ultimately became a
persistent problem for the cars, largely because of the
engine's design. In the first recall, GM adapted the engine,
but in January, the safety agency said this didn't
"completely" eliminate engine fires. GM said yesterday it has
been told of 1,451 fires related to these problems.
   GM agreed to the second recall after negotiating for
months with agency officials. "This is one of the more
complex and extensive fixes, and one of the more extensive
problems, as well," said Michael Brownlee, director of the
federal highway safety agency's defect-investigation office.
The propensity of the Fiero engine to catch afire has been
under investigation by the agency for more than three years.
   GM will make its latest attempt to fix the cars by
installing several new parts, including a new manifold on
older models, and a sheet-metal shield over the manifold on
all models. Dealers also will check Fiero engines, including
the cooling system. Any parts damaged by problems related to
engine fires will be replaced for free, GM said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Approves
   More Domestic,
   Science Outlays
   ---
   Bill for $83.6 Billion in 1991
   Would Curb Allocations
   For Mars Exploration
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BEC
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House approved an $83.6 billion
appropriations bill that would increase spending for major
domestic and science programs by $12.3 billion in fiscal 1991
and restructure President Bush's space budget by cutting
funds for exploration of Mars.
   The final 355-48 roll call came after the chamber rejected
successive efforts to pare back costs across-the-board.
Despite Bush administration protests at the increased
spending, 46 Republicans joined the Appropriations Committee
leadership in rejecting a 2% cut by a 235-172 margin.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Veterans, housing, and environmental programs account for
the bulk of the domestic spending increases, but the measure
taps into a cross-section of liberal and conservative
interests because of the public investment in space and
science.
   National Science Foundation research funding would grow
almost 9% to $1.85 billion, while almost $14.3 billion is
allocated to the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, a 17% increase from the current year and
almost two-thirds more than was spent in fiscal 1988.
   However large, the proposed NASA budget is $828.8 million
less than the administration's request, and more than $300
million associated with the president's Moon and Mars
initiative would be eliminated entirely. Funding for the
space station and high-speed space plane is preserved --
though below the administration request -- and the House
endorsed a pattern of more generous funding for the ambitious
Earth-observing system, or EOS, to study climate and
atmospheric ozone.
   An estimated $108 million in new funding would be provided
for the EOS instrument program, and another $35 million is
allocated to the continuing total ozone mapping spectrometer,
whose principal contractor is Beckman Instruments Inc. in
California.
   The emphasis on the EOS reflects the priorities of New
York Rep. Bill Green, the longtime ranking Republican on the
appropriations subcommittee that oversees NASA. But a second
factor helping the EOS is that the Jet Propulsion Laboratory
at the California Institute of Technology stands to benefit
from the House decision to add $10 million for work on
synthetic aperture radar. That radar is to measure terrain
and give a more complete picture of global temperature
changes.
   Amid the new money for NASA, little was said of the
discovery this week of flaws in the Hubble Space Telescope,
but the history of the multibillion-dollar instrument is sure
to haunt the administration's efforts to resurrect its Mars
initiative.
   As the senior Republican on the committee, Mr. Green has
stressed NASA's immediate priorities of addressing problems
in the ongoing shuttle and space station programs, and
younger conservatives were frustrated in their efforts to
focus attention on what they see as a high-profile initiative
to give an orientation to their party in the future.
   "I think it's in real trouble," Rep. Robert Walker, the
GOP deputy whip and a member of the House Science, Space, and
Technology Committee, said of the Mars initiative. "We could
very well end up with nothing."
   The Pennsylvania conservative blamed NASA for not
supporting the Mars project more aggressively, but he watched
with evident dismay as members of his own party ridiculed and
killed a relatively modest $6 million appropriation to
continue a decade-long program using radio telescopes to
listen for signs of extraterrestrial intelligence.
   The administration had sought more than $12 million for
the project, which involves the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto
Rico as well as a network of telescopes around the world.
These ambitious plans may well have been its undoing, as more
members saw a vulnerable target to make themselves look tough
on spending.
   The net spending increase of $12.3 billion in the bill
understates the true growth in discretionary appropriations
for the same accounts, but almost half of these funds can be
attributed to required adjustments in existing housing
programs. Thousands of 15-year leases under the so-called
Section 8 housing program for low-income families are coming
due in the next few years, and though the annual expenditures
won't change so drastically, huge appropriations are required
up front to simply renew the existing contracts with
landlords.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Moore Asks to Withdraw
   Guilty Plea on 5 Felonies
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<LP>
   CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Former West Virginia Gov. Arch A.
Moore Jr. is seeking permission to withdraw his guilty plea
on five felonies relating to a scheme to extort money from a
coal operator and to buy votes.
   In a federal court filing, attorneys for the three-term
Republican governor maintain that his plea was "the result of
a hasty decision forced by a deadline imposed by the
government." The filing seeks permission to plead not guilty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Moore pled guilty to charges of extortion, fraud, tax
evasion and obstruction of justice. Those charges carried a
maximum 36-year prison sentence and $1.2 million in fines.
   The filing says Mr. Moore was given one day to decide to
plead guilty or face an indictment on 28 counts, including a
federal racketeering charge.
   Moreover, the filing said Mr. Moore was strongly advised
by his counsel, William G. Hundley, to plead guilty after the
government presented Mr. Hundley with recorded tapes relating
to the obstruction charge. The filing said the government
played the tapes and then required a signed plea agreement
within one day to avoid the 28-count indictment.
   Michael Carey, a U.S. attorney, said he would file a
memorandum refuting Mr. Moore's claim and request the court
to proceed with sentencing July 10.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Danish Shipping Company
   Ending U.S. Oil Shipments
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   A.P. Moeller, a big Danish shipping company, said it would
no longer carry crude oil to the U.S. because the potential
liabilities for spills have become "unbearable."
   The decision by Moeller, which operates the Maersk
shipping line and owns one of the world's largest independent
oil-tanker fleets, is expected to increase pressure on
Congress to ratify international protocols that would limit
the liability of a shipowner involved in an oil spill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Disagreement over whether the U.S. should participate in
the protocols is a major factor holding up congressional
approval of oil spill legislation.
   Some industry officials have warned that unlimited
liability could drive away the more responsible shipping
lines, leaving less-scrupulous owners to deliver crude to the
U.S. and thus increasing the danger of spills.
   Moeller's statement came two weeks after Royal Dutch/Shell
Group said it would restrict U.S. oil shipments in vessels it
owns or manages because of the liability problem. Societe
Nationale Elf Aquitaine, the French state-owned oil company
which owns just one tanker, said recently that it would stop
using the ship to carry crude to the U.S. And a spokesman for
Petrofina S.A. said the Belgian oil company was "seriously"
considering such a halt for its fleet.
   The shipowners' concern grew in the wake of last year's
Exxon Valdez accident off the coast of Alaska and executives
say that their legal liabilities are unlimited in some U.S.
states and that the risk is uninsurable.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   SBA Puts 90-Day Freeze
   To Investing-Firm Licenses
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Small Business Administration put a
90-day moratorium on approving new licenses for Small
Business Investment Companies, beginning today.
   SBICs are privately organized venture capital firms that
invest in small businesses. The SBA licenses and regulates
these firms, and then makes loans to them. The companies then
use those funds to invest in other concerns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sen. Dale Bumpers, (D., Ark), chairman of the Senate Small
Business Committee, recently called for a license moratorium.
The committee has been investigating SBICs since last spring
when a Virginia-based SBIC went bankrupt, owing the
government about $32 million. At a Senate hearing last week,
SBA Inspector General Charles Gillum said his most recent
review of the program shows government losses could exceed
$800 million, up from a previously estimated $563 million.
   SBA Administrator Susan Engeleiter said the moratorium
includes SBIC license applications already in hand at the
agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Social Security
   Is on the Table
   In Budget Talks
   ---
   Cuts or Delays in Increases
   Are Under Consideration
   In Effort to Trim Deficit
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Social Security, the one program that
politicians have been afraid to touch for years, is on the
table at the bipartisan budget talks.
   Congressional and administration negotiators are talking
increasingly about raising taxes on Social Security benefits.
They also are discussing the politically risky option of
delaying or otherwise reducing cost-of-living adjustments for
Social Security and other government benefit programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Negotiators caution that many proposals being discussed
eventually will be discarded. "We're going to leave a lot of
things on the table," said Rep. Bill Frenzel (R., Minn.).
   Nevertheless, participants acknowledge that deliberations
over the past two days indicate that negotiators are more
willing to consider Social Security cuts than they have been
in the past. Social Security accounts for 20% of all federal
spending.
   The budget talks also focused on the Pentagon budget, with
House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta (D., Calif.)
suggesting that projected defense outlays be cut $16 billion
next year. That would leave next year's defense spending
about 3% below this year's level. Rep. Panetta's plan would
cut projected outlays $275 billion over five years.
   The Bush administration, in contrast, proposes reducing
projected defense outlays by just $6 billion next year and
$109 billion over five years. The Bush plan would push
defense expenditures higher than this year's level.
   Since President Bush declared Tuesday that tax increases
are needed to shrink the deficit, negotiators have moved from
partisan posturing to examining specific ways to reduce red
ink. House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.) said
negotiators will start assembling a deficit-reduction package
after Congress returns from its weeklong Fourth of July
break.
   One deficit-reduction option being considered is to
increase taxes on Social Security benefits. Couples earning
more than $32,000 a year, and individuals earning more than
$25,000, currently pay federal income taxes on 50% of those
benefits. Rep. Panetta's list of options includes the idea of
taxing 85% of the benefits paid to couples earning more than
$18,000, according to participants in the budget talks. For
individuals, the threshold would be $12,000. The change would
raise an estimated $3.1 billion in revenues next year and $54
billion over five years.
   Negotiators also have discussed a three-month delay in
cost-of-living adjustments for all government benefit
programs. This would save more than $3 billion in the first
year and more than $17 billion over five years, according to
congressional estimates.
   But some negotiators said such a plan won't be part of any
final compromise. "There are some people talking about that,
but that's not going to happen, in my judgment," said Senate
Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser (D., Tenn.).
   The political risks of cutting Social Security benefits
are obvious to all the negotiators. Asked if anyone flinched
when cost-of-living adjustments were raised in the budget
negotiations, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas) said, "Everyone
flinched."
   Negotiators say that their willingness to contemplate
cutting or taxing Social Security benefits reflects a
consensus that the elderly -- at least those who aren't
poormust share the pain of cutting the deficit. "You can't
hurt one group and leave another untouched, particularly one
that is rather affluent by comparison," Rep. Frenzel said.
   But some negotiators prefer that the elderly's
contribution toward deficit reduction come out of the
fast-growing Medicare program, another subject of discussion,
Rep. Panetta said.
   Separately, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady notified
Congress that the government will default unless Congress
raises the federal debt ceiling before it leaves for its
August vacation. The current ceiling is $3.12 trillion.
   Congress inevitably acts before the Treasury defaults, but
the debt-ceiling measure is always politically troublesome to
lawmakers, and it usually attracts a number of unrelated,
controversial amendments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sumitomo Bank to Issue
   Debt in U.S. and Europe
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   J.STB
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   In a highly unusual debt offering, Japan's giant Sumitomo
Bank Ltd. said it plans to issue $1 billion of subordinated
debt in the U.S. and Europe.
   Through underwriters led by Goldman Sachs &amp; Co., which is
12.5%-owned by Sumitomo, the Japanese banking concern will
issue $500 million in so-called Yankee bonds, which are
dollar-denominated bonds issued by foreign companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is the first time anybody has ever brought a
Japanese bank to the subordinated debt market," said Jon
Winkelried, vice president in charge of new issues at Goldman
Sachs.
   At the same time, Sumitomo will offer $500 million of
floating-rate notes in European markets. Sumitomo Finance
International is expected to be the lead manager for the
European issue.
   Sumitomo Bank will be permitted to use the $1 billion to
boost its capital base. Under capital standards agreed to by
the Bank for International Settlements, which is owned by the
central banks of 11 major industrial nations, banks involved
in international business must achieve a capital-to-assets
ratio of 8% by 1993.
   Bankers said there is concern in the market that U.S.
banks, which could also need to boost their capital bases
with subordinated debt, might be crowded out by the appetites
of Japan's huge institutions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   East Germany to Allow
   Free Flow of EC Goods
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   East Germany said that it will allow a free flow of goods
from nations in the European Community beginning July 1.
   The Economics Ministry in East Berlin said the country
also will adopt EC trading and customs rules following this
Sunday's economic and monetary union with West Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There had been some question whether East Germany would
apply special restrictive measures such as high tariffs
against goods from abroad to protect its fragile economy.
   But that apparently won't be the case, now that the East
German cabinet has decided the country's tariff structure
should be aligned to that of the EC as a whole.
   The ministry said that East Germany will honor all
existing trade agreements with East Bloc countries and that
trade with them will remain free of tariffs until the end of
1990.
   East and West Germany are expected to merge fully into one
country by the end of this year or in 1991. The ministry
didn't mention how it would treat the import of goods from
other non-EC countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   SEC Charges Lawyer With Insider Trading
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen and James P. Miller
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   NC LABOR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Securities and Exchange Commission charged a partner
in a New York law firm with trading on inside information
obtained from a client.
   In a civil complaint in federal court in Manhattan, the
SEC charged Henry A. Singer with buying 6,600 shares of
WearEver-Proctor-Silex Inc. stock at a time when the company
was discussing a management leveraged buy-out. Mr. Singer, 52
years old, is a partner in Morrison Cohen Singer &amp; Weinstein.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Singer, through his attorney, Robert G. Morvillo,
called the SEC charges "factually inaccurate and legally
deficient" and said he intends to fight them. Mr. Morvillo
said that there is "substantial documentary evidence and
corroborative testimony of several other witnesses which
confirm that Mr. Singer did not purchase WearEver stock based
on inside information."
   According to the SEC complaint, Mr. Singer bought 5,000
shares of WearEver's stock Aug. 19, 1987, at $13.25 a share,
based on information he allegedly obtained from Lawrence A.
McLernon, a member of the company's board, concerning the
proposed leveraged buy-out. The SEC said that Mr. Singer, a
corporate lawyer specializing in mergers and acquisitions,
represented Mr. McLernon and that the two were friends.
   The SEC alleged that Mr. Singer bought another 1,600
shares Nov. 2, 1987 at $9.50 each, two months after he was
retained by a special committee of WearEver's board that
included Mr. McLernon. The complaint alleges that at the time
of Mr. Singer's second purchase, he possessed nonpublic
information that indicated that there were potential
third-party bidders for WearEver that were likely to bid more
than the $18 a share that WearEver's management had offered.
   Nacco Industries Inc. acquired WearEver for $17.50 a share
in April 1988. The SEC said that after learning of the
purchase, Mr. Singer sold his stock, earning $34,050 on the
sale.
   In his statement, Mr. Singer said that he had cooperated
with the SEC's inquiry and that the SEC had chosen "either to
ignore or misconstrue all of the evidence presented to it."
Mr. Singer's law firm issued a statement saying it "stands
behind Mr. Singer."
   ---
   AN ILLINOIS CONTRACTOR is indicted on unusual charges.
   A federal grand jury in Milwaukee indicted contractor S.A.
Healy Co. for allegedly violating federal workplace-safety
laws in connection with a 1988 explosion that killed three
Healy workers at an underground work-site.
   It is unusual for federal prosecutors to bring criminal
charges for breach of the occupational safety and health
statutes, although the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration often imposes civil penalties.
   The 12-count indictment alleges that Healy willfully
failed to properly vent a tunnel or properly instruct workers
in underground safety precautions, and failed to cut the
electricity in the tunnel after dangerous levels of methane
gas had been detected. All the counts are misdemeanors
because federal law doesn't permit prosecution of OSHA law
violations as felonies.
   "The feds are bringing the biggest guns they have against
Healy, and we appreciate and applaud" the move, says Joseph
Kinney, executive director of the Chicago-based National Safe
Workplace Institute. But, he adds, "it's ridiculous {they}
can't do more."
   Each of the 12 misdemeanor counts in the indictment
brought against Healy, based in McCook, Ill., carries a
maximum fine of $500,000.
   An attorney for Healy said the company "regrets the tragic
accident, but doesn't believe that any of its management
employees committed reckless acts." The company believes
management "will be vindicated," he says.
   Milwaukee County District Attorney E. Michael McCann,
using state law, also this week filed two charges of reckless
homicide against Healy. But he says the state's
$10,000-a-count maximum fine on such charges "is not enough."
   ---
   MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE upheld for New York Supreme Court
justices.
   A federal appeals court in New York reversed a lower-court
decision that had prohibited the state of New York from
forcing a state judge to retire at age 76. The federal Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission had filed the suit on
behalf of Justice Isaac Rubin, who is 77.
   The appeals court ruled that the federal age
discrimination law, under which the suit was brought, does
not apply to New York Supreme Court justices because they are
elected. The law states that it does not apply to "any person
elected to public office."
   Justice Rubin and the attorneys for the state of New York
and the EEOC declined to comment.
   ---
   THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT'S criminal division may get a new
chief.
   President Bush nominated Robert Mueller, a personal aide
to Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, assistant attorney
general in charge of criminal matters.
   If confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Mueller would succeed
Edward Dennis, who said he will resign Aug. 31. The change
comes shortly after a shake-up of the department's senior
staff. But Justice Department officials, including Mr.
Dennis, stressed that his departure is voluntary and
amicable.
   Mr. Mueller, a special assistant to Mr. Thornburgh on
criminal issues, previously served as a federal prosecutor in
Massachusetts and California.
   A career prosecutor, Mr. Dennis said he would return to
his hometown of Philadelphia to join the law firm of Morgan,
Lewis &amp; Bockius as a partner.
   ---
   Edward Felsenthal contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Moves Ahead
   On Listing Options
   In Multiple Markets
   ---
   By Kevin G. Salwen and Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Securities and Exchange Commission appears ready to
press ahead on a proposal by four exchanges that would allow
more than one exchange to list options on a single stock.
   The plan -- submitted by the Chicago Board Options
Exchange and the New York, American and Pacific stock
exchanges -- would create electronic links of options
trading, allowing options to be bought and sold at the best
price on any exchange, much like stocks. The plan is likely
to keep the SEC on schedule for its target of January for a
new options-trading system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In January, the SEC ordered the exchanges to come up with
a plan by tomorrow to link the markets and allow freer
options trading. Currently, most options are allocated by a
lottery system to a single exchange and can be traded only
through that market. That provides lucrative exclusive
franchises for the exchanges.
   The SEC has contended that those monopolies don't benefit
the consumer. But the exchanges fought the plan for years,
arguing that allowing several exchanges to list the same
options would reduce liquidity in the market. Moreover, the
smaller exchanges worried that linking the markets would put
them at a competitive disadvantage.
   "We're very encouraged," said SEC Chairman Richard
Breeden. "We have concluded that it is unquestionably
feasible. The next step now is moving toward implementation."
   The four exchanges submitted their plan, called Public
Investors Privileged Express, or PIPE, which now appears to
be the front-runner. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange,
however, offered a different plan, called Auction Intermarket
System, or AIMS.
   The SEC said the plans are under review. But the next step
is likely to be an attempt by agency staffers to bridge the
differences between the two plans. If that doesn't work, the
agency has statutory authority to approve any proposal -- or
write its own. Staffers appear to be leaning toward accepting
the PIPE plan. "We see an ability for the type of linkage
proposed by the four exchanges," said Richard Ketchum, SEC
market regulation director.
   The agency would then ask the exchanges to file a joint
rule proposal, which would then be released for public
comment. After the comment period, the SEC could grant final
approval for the plan.
   Options give a holder the right, but not the obligation,
to trade a security at a predetermined price within a set
period.
   In January, the SEC permitted any options exchange to
trade options on any exchange-traded stock as long as no
other market was trading options on the stock and it met
certain requirements in net income, number of shareholders
and price. More than one exchange can trade stocks options on
any over-the-counter stock that meets regulatory rules.
   The SEC could decide by tomorrow to phase in another
interim step, allowing an exchange to trade options on a
maximum of 10 issues that have options trading elsewhere.
However, the SEC has set a target of Jan. 21, 1991, to
eliminate all exclusive trading privileges.
   Some industry observers expect that to lead to exchanges
leaving the options business or merging. "There is not enough
business to go around for five options exchanges," said
Richard Donsky, Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.'s director of
options. "I guarantee that one year after multiple listing is
fully adopted there won't be five exchanges."
   The PIPE and AIMS proposals are identical on many points
but differ in one key area -- time priority. This feature
only comes into play when more than one exchange is showing
the same price for an option. Under the Philadelphia plan,
the order would automatically go to the exchange that had
posted that price first. Under the PIPE plan, however, the
exchange where the order was first directed would have a
chance to improve its quote and fill the order.
   Nicholas Giordano, president of the Philadelphia Stock
Exchange, says AIMS provides an incentive for market makers
to show their best price early. "That's clearly the best for
the public investor," he said.
   But CBOE President Charles Henry said PIPE will allow
brokerage firms to route their orders to a selected exchange.
"They will select an exchange based on price, liquidity and
the charges imposed by the exchanges for filling the order,"
he said.
   Mr. Giordano said he offered a compromise in a recent
letter to the SEC. He said that the Philadelphia exchange
would be willing to accept a system that doesn't incorporate
time priority as long as the SEC makes clear that the system
would be only an evolutionary step toward one that does. In
addition, he wants the system to be used to trade newly
listed options only. Advocates for both plans say that 18
months will be needed to create an operational system.
   Andrew Schwarz, senior partner in a specialist firm on the
Amex, said he thinks the SEC will accept the compromise that
the Philadelphia exchange has offered because it is the path
of least resistance. "Everybody is unhappy and happy with
parts of the proposal," he said. "That tells me it is
probably the right one."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST LATAM EUROP N.SMI G.COP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SALVAGING A SOVIET SUB
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A consortium of five Dutch companies led by the salvage
group Smit Internationale N.V. has been named by the Soviet
Design Bureau of Maritime Engineering to raise the sunken
Soviet nuclear submarine Komsomolets.
   The Komsomolets sank in April after a fire broke out on
the vessel while it was 125 miles north of the coast of
Norway in the Barents Sea. The wreck of the sub lies on the
ocean floor at a depth of 5,600 feet.
   "We will simply raise it and hand it over to the Soviets,"
said D.C. Kaakebeen, a spokesman for Smit. He noted that no
ship has ever been raised from a depth greater than 660 feet.
   The first phase of the operation, a viability study, is
scheduled to begin about the end of 1990, and Mr. Kaakebeen
said the group hopes to raise the sub sometime in the summer
of 1992.
                                                                                                       

   SETBACK TO BRAZIL PLAN
                                                                                                       

   Brazil's Supreme Court ruled 9-2 that President Fernando
Collor de Mello can't reduce the salaries of thousands of
government employees as part of a plan to cut spending. Mr.
Collor had said he would fire more than 300,000 of the
government's 1.4 million employees in a bid to trim a budget
deficit estimated at $31 billion. The court said Brazil must
continue to pay the civil servants in full until the court
issues a final ruling on the matter in a few months.
                                                                                                       

   FAILURE OF A TV BUSINESS CHANNEL
                                                                                                       

   The first European television business channel said this
would be its last week on the air. "Intense negotiations with
Swiss and foreign interests to provide more capital have
failed," Swiss-based European Business Channel, or EBC, said.
The channel, carried by satellite and cable, transmitted a
half-hour of business news in both English and German at
breakfast time and repeated the transmission later in the
day. The program began in November 1988 but failed to attract
enough advertising to cover costs. Most of EBC's 100
employees are based in Zurich.
                                                                                                       

   CHINESE NOVELTY: A ROUND TRIP
                                                                                                       

   China's national airline will begin selling round-trip
tickets on July 1, the official Xinhua News Agency said.
Until now, air travelers in China had to get to their
destination before buying tickets for their return. Often
this meant having to extend a stay because tickets were
unavailable on the desired day of departure. Xinhua said
booking offices for the Civil Aviation Administration of
China in 16 Chinese and 30 foreign cities would begin selling
return tickets. Round-trip tickets still won't be available
for train travel.
                                                                                                       

   FRENCH COMPUTATIONS
                                                                                                       

   The French government neither gained nor lost money as a
result of the nationalizations and subsequent privatizations
of French companies during the 1980s, said the nation's
accounting agency. While the state's net outcome varied from
sector to sector, profits made from the sale of stock during
privatizations between 1986 and 1988 "more or less
compensated for" expenses incurred during the round of
nationalizations performed by the Mitterrand administration
in 1982, the agency said.
                                                                                                       

   A FIRST FOR THE GERMANYS
                                                                                                       

   Co op AG, the troubled West German retailing group, said
it has agreed to sell its stores in West Berlin to the East
German Association of Consumer Cooperatives, the first major
financial investment by an East German group in West Germany.
Co op said additional divestitures would reduce its annual
sales volume to about four billion marks ($2.4 billion) from
11 billion marks in 1989. The East German Association, which
operates a chain of cooperative food retailers in East
Germany, will acquire the 120 Co op stores in West Berlin,
including administration, warehouses, and its motor pool.
Financial terms weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   A BRITISH DEFEAT
                                                                                                       

   Britain's Common Cold Research Center is closing tomorrow,
44 years after opening its doors in a hospital near
Salisbury, England.
   "Going back in time, we used to think there was only one
cold virus. Now we know there are nearly 200, so there is no
chance of finding a vaccine," said Administrator Arthur Amos.
"We've been trying to find a compound that acts on a family
of viruses, but we've had no luck."
   Volunteers, who were bombarded with viruses, learned of
the project through newspaper advertisements and
word-of-mouth. They ranged in age from 18 to 50, and some
were repeat participants. One couple met there and returned
the following year for their honeymoon.
   One man went through the 10-day quarantine program 26
times. Mr. Amos's opinion of that man: "a rather odd sort of
person."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   China's legislature passed the nation's first flag law,
with stipulations demanding punishment for those damaging the
national emblem. The law also forbids the use of the flag in
ads or as a trademark. . . . Cuba's President Fidel Castro
donated blood for injured survivors of the Iranian earthquake
following a nationwide appeal by Cuba's Health Ministry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Falls Against Yen as Agreement
   On Trade Boosts Japanese Currency
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Backed by the successful completion of trade
negotiations between Japan and the U.S., the yen rose,
diverting the market's attention from German monetary union,
at least for a day.
   The across-the-board yen purchases depressed the dollar by
more than a yen on the day but lifted the U.S. currency
against its European counterparts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late in New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 153.15
yen, below 154.45 yen late Wednesday in New York. The U.S.
currency also was changing hands at 1.6730 marks, up from
1.6645 marks. Sterling was trading at $1.7381, down from
$1.7428.
   At midmorning in Tokyo Friday, the dollar was trading at
153.08 yen; it closed Thursday in Tokyo at 154.42 yen.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.6738
marks, up from Thursday's Tokyo close of 1.6627 marks.
   On Thursday, foreign-exchange traders said that for the
first time in a long time, prices moved on fundamental rather
than technical factors. They said the outcome of the
U.S.-Japanese Structural Impediments Initiative talks will
probably mean the narrowing of the differential between
Japanese interest rates and the higher U.S. rates.
   To help trim its $49 billion trade surplus with the U.S.,
Japanese officials agreed to spend 430 trillion yen ($2.78
trillion) on public works projects over the next 10 years.
The U.S. had asked for such a commitment in hopes that it
would soak up some of the private savings that provide
Japanese companies with cheaper capital than their U.S.
competitors.
   The Japanese government's spending is expected to increase
price pressures, encouraging the Bank of Japan to head off
inflation by tightening credit. Earlier yesterday, the
central bank asked Japanese commercial banks to slow the
growth of their lending.
   U.S. interest rates, meanwhile, can only go down, said
Tomi Kilgore, assistant treasurer for Toyo Trust &amp; Banking
Co. in New York. The softening of President Bush's "no new
taxes" pledge was seen as opening the door for an easier U.S.
credit policy.
   A combined one-point swing in U.S. and Japanese interest
rates would push the yield advantage from dollar to yen
instruments, encouraging investors to purchase yen.
Currently, Eurodollar bonds pay 8 3/8%, compared with 7
11/16% for Euroyen debt securities.
   The prospect of higher Japanese interest rates also helped
the yen against European currencies. West German rates are
just about the same as U.S. rates, and Swiss rates are a
little higher. The yen scored fewer gains against high-yield
currencies such as the Australian and Canadian dollars and
the pound.
   Michael Rosenberg, an international foreign exchange
economist for Merrill Lynch, said implementing the trade
accord will push Japan into an economic policy similar to
that pursued by West Germany. An expansive fiscal policy
combined with a tight monetary policy is invariably bullish
for a nation's currency, he said.
   Conversely, the U.S. is "moving to more fiscal restraint,
and there is expectation of lower interest rates," Mr.
Rosenberg said.
   He cautioned that higher Japanese and German interest
rates, because of the fluidity of world debt markets, could
eventually force U.S. rates higher.
   Also moving the market was a dollar breakthrough against
the Swiss franc. According to Robert Ryan, foreign exchange
manager for Bank of New York, the dollar's move past 1.4140
Swiss francs around noon in New York "put a little bit of
squeeze" on people who had shorted, or oversold, dollars
against European currencies in recent days.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $352.10 an ounce, up 70 cents. Estimated
volume was a light 2.3 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong early Friday, gold was quoted at $351.65 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Union Texas Petroleum Holdings:
   Offshore Platform Planned
   For Oil and Gas Production
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6G
</SO>
<CO>
   UTH I.AGI ALD
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Union Texas Petroleum Holdings Inc. said it will construct
a $74 million platform with processing facilities to produce
oil and natural gas discovered on two properties it holds in
the Gulf of Mexico.
   The Houston-based company said production from the
platform, to be located about 150 miles south of Lafayette,
La., is scheduled to begin in 1992, at a rate of 60 million
cubic feet of gas and 3,000 barrels of oil a day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Union Texas is the operator of Vermilion blocks 412 and
404, with a 50% interest in each. AGIP Petroleum Co., a unit
of AGIP S.p.A. ENI Group, holds the remaining 50% interests
in both properties.
   Union Texas, 40%-owned by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.
and 40%-owned by Allied-Signal Inc., recently said it was
putting itself up for sale and hired an investment banker to
assist it in the potential sale.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Manatron Inc.:
   Higher Profit to Be Posted
   For Fiscal '90, 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MANA
</CO>
<LP>
   Manatron Inc., Kalamazoo, Mich., said it will report
operating earnings of $225,000 to $275,000, or 11 cents to 13
cents a share, before the positive impact of its pension-fund
adjustment, for the year ended April 30.
   With the pension-fund adjustment of approximately $250,000
to be recorded in the fourth quarter, Manatron will report
net income of $475,000 to $525,000, or 23 cents to 25 cents a
share, the company said. In its previous year, Manatron had
net of $101,713, or five cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the fourth quarter, Manatron expects to post operating
earnings of between $75,000 and $125,000, or between four
cents and six cents a share. In the year-earlier quarter,
Manatron had net of $39,119, or two cents a share.
   Allen F. Peat, chairman, said the software and
computer-services company will report earnings in mid-July.
For the nine months ended Jan. 31, Manatron posted net of
$150,465, or seven cents a share, compared with $62,594, or
three cents a share, the year before.
   In a recent interview, Mr. Peat said he expected year-end
revenue of $8.5 million to $8.7 million, compared with $7.7
million in fiscal 1989.
   The higher revenue and earnings result from increased
software sales, Mr. Peat said. Manatron reaped higher
software sales from its movement to expand its personal
computer-based based software and through the service
contracts to maintain the computer systems.
   "As we add new customers, the layer of service revenue
continues to grow," Mr. Peat said, noting that nine of 10 new
customers elect to purchase service contracts as well.
   Manatron's complement of 30 major computer systems that it
markets to governments is mostly complete, Mr. Peat said, and
the company isn't planning to "expend a dramatic effort on
increasing that." he added. Instead, the company will
increase its product offerings on a selective basis, Mr. Peat
said.
   Manatron has customers nationwide, but its core of
customers is in Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and Missouri. The
company's basic customer is a midsized county. Manatron's
computer systems automate functions such as bill collecting
and property deed record keeping.
   Industrywide sales of software to local governments
reaches over $1 billion annually, and there is no
identifiable industry leader, Mr. Peat said. Manatron's
approach has been to develop software for a wide range of
government processing and record keeping functions.
   Manatron hopes to boost sales and earnings 20% annually in
the future, Mr. Peat said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cyprus Minerals Co.:
   Concern Plans Write-Down
   For Coal-Mining Operation
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   CYM
</CO>
<LP>
   Cyprus Minerals Co., a Denver-based mining company, said
it will write down about $27.5 million of its investment in
the Kanawha Coal Mine in West Virginia in the second quarter,
and may spend about $7 million in development costs at the
mine during the second half of the year.
   In the 1989 second quarter, Cyprus reported net income of
$61.7 million, or $1.48 a share, on revenue of $453.5
million. Net income included a net charge of $4.7 million and
a net special, one-time gain of $21.4 million. Analysts had
projected Cyprus's second-quarter 1990 earnings at about 85
cents to 90 cents a share. That was in the ballpark before
the write-down, a company spokesman said, but now that
estimate is too high.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cyprus, which acquired the property for $20 million in
March of 1989, attributed problems at the mine to
lower-than-anticipated reserves from the mountain-top mining
area, higher-than-expected reclamation costs and poor
performance of its highwall mining machines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   International Business Machines Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<LP>
   INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES Corp. (Armonk, N.Y.) --
Lucie J. Fjeldstad and Ralph W. Clark were appointed
presidents of two new divisions. Ms. Fjeldstad, a corporate
vice president, will head the Multimedia and Education
division, which will develop and market multimedia and
educational products. Mr. Clark, also a corporate vice
president, will run the General and Public Sector division,
which will develop and market products and services for the
transportation, public sector, health, utilities,
communications, media and business services industries.
Separately, William W.K. Rich and Nobuo Mii were elected vice
presidents, and John E. Hickey was elected corporate
secretary. Mr. Rich also was named president of the Services
Sector division. He succeeds Marvin L. Mann, who will be on
special assignment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Los Angeles County Agrees
   To Settle Pollution Claim
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Commerce Department said Los Angeles
County sanitation districts agreed to pay about $12 million
to settle a pollution claim and help clean up Los Angeles
Harbor.
   Last month, the department's National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration sued eight corporations for
allegedly polluting the coastal waters off Los Angeles and
Long Beach, Calif. NOAA previously informed the county
sanitation districts that it might also sue them for
operating the sewers that carry pollutants, primarily the
pesticide DDT and hazardous chemicals known as
polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In announcing the settlement, NOAA said the sanitation
districts agreed to pay $1 million to help prepare cases
against the eight corporations, $2 million to help determine
the cause and extent of environmental damage in Los Angeles
Harbor, $2 million to analyze what kind of restoration should
take place, $2 million for a pilot restoration project and $5
million for other restoration projects.
   NOAA said any money it collects from the eight companies
will be used to restore waters and habitats. Such efforts
could include treating underwater sediments, restocking fish
and installing artificial reefs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Holderbank Financiere Glaris Ltd.:
   Holnam of U.S. to Purchase
   Unit of Texas Industries
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HLN Z.HOL TXI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Holnam Inc., a Dundee, Mich.-based unit of Holderbank
Financiere Glaris Ltd. of Switzerland, said it preliminarily
agreed to purchase the United Cement Co. subsidiary of Texas
Industries Inc., Dallas, for $61 million.
   United Cement consists of one cement plant in Mississippi
-- the only cement plant in the state -- and seven
distribution centers. Holnam, which makes cement and other
related products, said it expects to complete the purchase
later this summer. Holnam is the former Dundee Cement Co.,
which merged with Ideal Basic Industries in March, boosting
its annual sales to $1 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Circle Express Founder
   Gets Three-Year Term
   On Conspiracy Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CEXX
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   INDIANAPOLIS -- The founder and former chief executive of
Circle Express Inc. was sentenced to three years in prison
and fined $250,000 after pleading guilty to conspiring to
provide false statements to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
   Arthur L. Belford, who left the trucking concern in 1989,
also agreed to surrender the Circle Express shares held by
him and his family and to make some restitution to
bondholders and shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Belford was the subject of a probe by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. He was accused of using a company
condominium and airplane for personal purposes and of
agreeing to misrepresent the company's financial condition in
annual and quarterly reports.
   The trucking concern is under new management.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Government Report Indicates Soybean Farmers
   Have Planted Smallest Number of Acres Since '76
   ----
   By Scott Kilman and Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   An Agriculture Department report indicated that the
rain-delayed planting season might have forced U.S. soybean
farmers to plant the smallest number of acres since 1976.
   Some analysts expect soybean prices to climb today in the
wake of the department's surprising decision to reduce its
estimate of how much land was planted with soybeans this
season by about 1.4 million acres to 58 million acres.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most crop analysts had expected the government to raise
its three-month-old estimate. They reasoned that the
unusually wet spring delayed the planting of corn for so long
that by early June many farmers had switched to planting
soybeans. Although soybeans are less profitable to grow, that
crop can be planted later in the spring than corn.
   What private analysts apparently didn't gauge was that the
rain is even slowing the planting of soybeans. Another factor
might be that soybean farmers backed away from earlier
intentions because of relatively weak prices through the
spring.
   It is difficult to guess how much the soybean harvest will
drop this year because of small acreage. Some analysts are
reasoning that the soybeans that have been planted might do
well this year because the rains are replenishing soil
exhausted by the 1988 drought. Others, however, are concerned
that hot weather in the Southwest might be edging closer to
the Midwest growing region.
   Concern about the weather might ease today in the wake of
a National Weather Service forecast late yesterday for normal
precipitation and temperatures in July in the Midwest.
   The department didn't cut its estimate of corn planting as
much as expected by grain traders. After the close of trading
yesterday, the department reduced its estimate to 74.6
million acres from the 74.8 million acres it predicted in
March.
   Based on the late planting season, most analysts had
expected the department to lower its estimate by about
900,000 acres.
   The corn acreage forecast might ease pressure on corn
prices, which rose sharply yesterday before the report was
released, in part because corn stockpiles are shrinking
rapidly.
   In trading at the Chicago Board of Trade, the July corn
contract set a new contract high before easing slightly to
settle at $2.9525 a bushel, up 8.25 cents.
   Soybean prices settled mixed, while wheat prices settled
lower.
   According to traders, corn prices jumped because there is
a tight supply of corn in the Chicago and Toledo, Ohio,
storage facilities that traders can use to fulfill
obligations to deliver grain against contracts they've sold
at the CBOT.
   Corn stockpiles are tight across the country. The U.S.
also reported that the supply of corn June 1 was 2.84 billion
bushels, down about 17% from a year ago.
   Somewhat surprising was the department's estimate of wheat
stockpiles: 535 million bushels. That was down 24% from June
1, 1989, but as recently as two weeks ago, department
analysts had estimated 452 million bushels. They were at a
loss yesterday to explain the increase.
   Even at 535 million bushels, wheat carry-over stocks are
still at their lowest level since 1975. After two years of
drought in wheat-producing areas, the department is counting
on a bumper harvest this year, currently projected at 2.7
billion bushels, to rebuild stockpiles to at least 800
million bushels by June 1, 1991.
   The government estimated soybean stockpiles at 596 million
bushels, up 28% from June 1, 1989.
   The department said there has been substantial shrinkage
in the amount of land planted this year with feed grains.
Grain sorghum was estimated at 9.4 million acres, down 15%
from 1989; barley at 8.3 million acres, down 10%, and oats at
10.4 million acres, down 14%.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Even as traders continued voicing gloom and
despair over the apparent glut of crude oil, petroleum
futures prices rose on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Most
market players pointed to technical factors to explain the
47-cents-a-barrel rise in the August contract, which closed
at $17.15 a barrel. Similarly, analysts said gasoline futures
prices benefited from the buying that resulted once prices
fell below 60 cents a gallon. Gasoline for July delivery
gained 1.44 cents a gallon to end the session at 60.93 cents.
Confusion spread to refiners, who a day after cutting posted
prices for West Texas Intermediate crude started raising them
again.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Prices rose sharply, with the July contract
closing at $1.1430 a pound, up 4.30 cents. Gains for
September copper were even stronger; the contract settled at
$1.1330 a pound, up 5.30 cents. Michael Frawley, a metals
trader at PaineWebber Inc., said support for copper prices
was coming in part from purchases by Far Eastern trade
houses. Analysts said September's gains probably were
stronger than those for July because today is the first
notice day for the July contract. Many speculators feel
uncomfortable holding positions during the notice period,
when they could get a notice to actually receive copper.
Bernard Savaiko, senior commodities analyst at PaineWebber,
said that once July copper exceeded $1.1250, a level the
market had failed to penetrate on other recent occasions, it
gained technical strength. He said the next resistance level
for July is between $1.1520 and $1.1540. If the contract
moves above that, Mr. Savaiko said, its high of $1.1925 might
be topped.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Prices closed sharply higher, but analysts
attributed most of the gains to technical factors. The
September contract closed at $1.7060, up its daily limit of
five cents a pound. The July contract, which has a 10-cent
daily limit on its price moves, settled at $1.8790 a pound,
up 5.70 cents. William Adams, orange juice analyst for
PaineWebber in Orlando, Fla., said one of the forces driving
the market was short-sellers "buying the spread" between the
July and September contracts. To buy the spread,
short-sellers buy the July contract to cover their short
positions and reestablish them by selling the September
contract. The spread traded above 17 cents a pound, an
unusually large gap for a commodity in which there is no
physical shortage. Many traders also want to get out of the
July contract because Monday is the first notice day for July
juice, when holders of long positions can be given an
intention to deliver the physical commodity by holders of
short positions. Many traders don't like to hold positions
during the delivery period. Celeste Georgakis, orange juice
specialist at Cargill Investors Services Inc. in New York,
said there is still an unusually large open interest in the
July contract, considering that it is going into the delivery
period. She said some traders who bought July juice when the
price dropped below $1.70 recently are holding their long
positions and are prepared to take delivery of juice.
"Because they bought so cheaply, they can afford to spend a
little bit on upgrading delivered juice, if necessary," she
said. She points out that such juice would still be below the
cash juice price.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Avon Products Inc.:
   Amendment to Poison Pill
   Held Invalid by U.S. Court
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   AVP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Avon Products Inc., New York, said a U.S. appeals court
upheld a judge's ruling that invalidated an amendment to its
"poison pill" shareholder rights plan.
   The Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed federal Judge
Pierre Leval's ruling in April that Avon couldn't lower the
so-called trigger level for the poison pill. Currently, if
any buyer acquires more than 20% of the cosmetics company's
shares outstanding, other holders would receive the right to
buy another share at half-price for each share held.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Avon had sought to amend the rights plan by reducing the
trigger level to 12.5%, in an effort to prevent Chartwell
Associates L.P., the biggest Avon holder, from acquiring more
stock at market prices without bidding for the entire company
at an expected premium. Chartwell, which challenged the
amendment, held 12.4% of Avon's shares at the time.
   Avon said in a statement that all other aspects of its
shareholder rights plan remain in effect. Avon shares rose $1
yesterday to close at $36.25 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Rise 16.58 as Investors
   Buy Firms With Proven Earnings
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors' confidence in earnings was boosted
a bit yesterday as some companies reported improved quarterly
results, while a flight to shares of companies with proven
earnings records continued to buoy the broad market.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 16.58 points
higher at 2878.71. Many traders expect a rally today as big
institutions continue to load up on the year's topperforming
stocks on the last trading day of the second quarter. The
industrial average would have to add more than 57 points to
finish the quarter with a new record.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though several stocks moved up sharply yesterday, New York
Stock Exchange volume was light at 136,120,000 shares.
Advancing issues outpaced decliners, 911 to 559.
   Food stocks attracted buyers as quarterly earnings reports
from General Mills and ConAgra were well received, while the
drug and consumer products groups also were standouts.
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph topped the Big Board's list
of most-active issues for the second consecutive session. The
stock fell 3/8 to 38 3/4 on volume of 3,753,100; the company
Wednesday said it expects to post lower second-quarter
earnings compared with a year earlier.
   But among the Dow industrials, the setback in AT&amp;T was
offset by rallies among the safe-haven consumer stocks. Merck
gained 1 7/8 to 86 1/8, Procter &amp; Gamble climbed 2 to 85 3/4
and McDonald's rose 1 1/4 to 35 7/8.
   "Investors are hiding in about 30 stocks" because they are
afraid of negative second-quarter earnings surprises, said
Thomas Gallagher, head of equity trading at Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
   Although International Business Machines eased 3/8 to 117
5/8, other technology issues helped lead the market's latest
advance. Digital Equipment rose 3 1/8 to 85 1/4, Compaq
Computer added 3 3/8 to 122 3/4 and Hewlett-Packard rose 1
1/8 to 47 3/8.
   Broader averages also advanced. Standard &amp; Poor's
500-stock index gained 2.49 to 357.63; the New York Stock
Exchange Composite index rose 1.31 to 195.18, and the Dow
Jones Equity Market Index rose 2.34 to 332.63.
   General Mills, which reported a 31% increase in earnings
from continuing operations for the fiscal quarter ended May
27, rose 3 7/8 to 90 1/4, a 52-week high. The latest results
were stronger than most analysts had expected; after the
report, Morgan Stanley analyst Kurt Feuerman increased his
earnings estimates for fiscal 1991 and 1992 by five cents a
share to $5.30 and $6.20, respectively, according to Dow
Jones Professional Investor Report.
   ConAgra added 1 3/4 to 35. Its earnings for the same
period went up 13% from the year-earlier level and were on
target with analysts' estimates.
   Other food stocks to draw buyers included Gerber Products,
which went up 2 1/8 to 54 7/8; CPC International, up 1 3/4 to
80; Kellogg, up 1 7/8 to 66 1/2, and Ralston Purina, up 1 5/8
to 93.
   Conversely, Olin's forecast that earnings for the second
quarter would be down 15% to 20% from a year earlier sent the
stock down 1 7/8 to 49 3/4 before a trading halt late in the
session.
   Another victim of earnings-related selling was Sotheby's
Holdings, which dropped 1 1/8 to 15 5/8. Salomon Brothers
downgraded the stock's investment rating and cut its 1990
earnings estimate to a range of $2 to $2.10 a share from
$2.25.
   Pennzoil, which is canceling plans to register 3,690,000
common shares issued earlier this year in an acquisition,
climbed 3 1/2 to 76 3/8. The decision means that the holders
of those shares won't be able to sell them publicly.
   Avon Products rose 7/8 to 36 1/4 after Smith Barney,
Harris Upham added the stock to the firm's list of
recommended issues.
   Polaroid added 7/8 to 40 5/8. The company agreed to
produce instant cameras for Japan's Minolta to market in the
U.S. under the Minolta brand name.
   Manufacturers Hanover lost 1/4 to 34 1/2 after disclosing
that its second-quarter results would include an
as-yet-undetermined charge for restructuring.
   SunTrust Banks gained 1/2 to 20 7/8 after outlining plans
for a pretax addition of about $65 million to loan-loss
reserves in the second quarter. The company said it doesn't
expect an examination by the comptroller of the currency,
which resulted in the charge, to have a "significant adverse
effect" on the period's earnings.
   American Savings Bank, which suspended dividends on a
preferred-stock issue, fell 3/8 to 2 3/8. The company said it
expects a slowing economy and weakness in the commercial real
estate market in the Northeast to depress its second-quarter
results.
   Bally Manufacturing was unchanged at 9 1/2. The company
extended until July 11 an offer to exchange common stock for
a $135 million issue of junk bonds; holders had tendered only
about $20 million of the issue as of Wednesday, the original
deadline.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 1.52
to 358.57. Volume totaled 12,990,000 shares.
   Energy Service dropped 1/4 to 4 1/4 in trading highlighted
by a block of 1.5 million shares, which changed hands at 4
1/8 during the afternoon. The trade accounted for most of the
1.7 million shares to change hands in composite dealings.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   OLIN Corp. expects changes in its mix of businesses and
certain other factors to contribute to strong second-half
earnings that should result in full-year profit at the lower
end of the company's per-share target range of $6 to $6.40.
Friday's edition reported Olin's expectation that
second-quarter earnings would decline 15% to 20% from the
1989 period's record level, but didn't mention the outlook
for the second half and full year.
   (WSJ July 2, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Pickens Storms Out
   Of Koito's Meeting
   Without Board Seats
   ---
   Owner of 26% Stake Claims
   Japanese `Stonewalled'
   Because He's American
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KOI
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- T. Boone Pickens Jr. and his entourage of U.S.
shareholders stormed out of Koito Manufacturing Co.'s annual
meeting yesterday in frustration over their inability to get
seats on the auto-parts maker's board.
   "It was a sham, an absolute farce," declared Mr. Pickens,
who through his Dallas-based Boone Co. owns a 26% stake in
the Japanese concern. Mr. Pickens complained that Koito's
management didn't respond fully to his and other
shareholders' questions about the company's finances, and he
fumed that his requests for representation on the board were
"stonewalled" because he's an American.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Koito's president, Takao Matsuura, said he "regretted"
that Mr. Pickens and his group left the shareholder's meeting
early. He called the move a "staged event" typical of Mr.
Pickens's publicity-seeking tactics. "We responded to
shareholders' questions the best we know how, and to the
greatest extent possible," Mr. Matsuura said at a news
conference following the annual meeting at a Tokyo hotel.
   Other observers suggested that Mr. Pickens's actions were
designed as a face-saving move to allow him to justify an
exit from Koito. He has owned stock in the company since
March 1989 but has been unable to gain seats on its board or
any role in the company's management. Mr. Pickens said he
left the meeting, but "I'm not walking out of this fight."
   At the meeting, Mr. Pickens and 32 Americans for whom he
paid travel expenses were cordoned off from Japanese
shareholders. Worried about possible violence, Koito said it
hired 25 guards, in addition to the 20 security men provided
by the hotel, to protect Mr. Pickens and his group from other
angry shareholders. Koito officials say Mr. Pickens and his
group agreed to this seating.
   Nevertheless, Mr. Pickens said he was disgusted by the way
the meeting was conducted. "For three hours, we endured the
shouting of Japanese hecklers which went unchecked by
management or security," Mr. Pickens said. Although the
hecklers didn't have microphones and were difficult to hear
from a distance, according to one U.S. shareholder in their
midst, some yelled, "Yankee go home," and "we won the
economic war."
   At the news conference, Mr. Matsuura said it was
unfortunate that some of the "sokaiya", or gangster-backed
hecklers, who attended the meeting shouted insulting remarks
at the Americans. Yet he insisted that such remarks were
beyond the control of Koito and reflected the opinions of
other shareholders, not the company.
   Mr. Pickens became involved with Koito 16 months ago,
purchasing a 20% stake in the firm from Kitaro Watanabe, one
of Japan's wealthiest men and a notorious greenmailer. Since
then, Mr. Pickens has increased his stake to 26%, and he
vowed this week to boost his stake to 30%. He has repeatedly
demanded representation on Koito's board, insisting he is a
long-term investor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- BASF AG:
   West German Firm Says
   First-Half Sales Declined
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BAS
</CO>
<LP>
   BASF AG, a West German chemical company, said its
world-wide first-half sales decreased an indicated 4% from a
year earlier to 23.6 billion marks ($14.18 billion), marking
the first decline for that period since 1987, when sales fell
6%.
   In the 1989 first half, BASF sales rose 13% to 24.46
billion marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BASF and other West German chemical makers' earnings and
sales have been hurt this year by the negative effect of the
strong mark against other currencies. Some of the company's
product sectors also have been under downward price pressure
because of fierce market competition. BASF's first-quarter
sales were little changed at 11.89 billion marks, compared
with a year earlier, but pretax profit slid 6.6% to 845
million marks.
   Chairman Hans Albers, in prepared remarks for the annual
meeting, nonetheless reiterated he is confident BASF will
come close to matching last year's earnings. In 1989, BASF
profit rose 43% to 2.02 billion marks from 1988, and pretax
profit was up 18% at 4.39 billion marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- TSB Group PLC:
   British Bank's Pretax Profit
   For Fiscal Half Rose 6.7%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TSB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TSB Group PLC, one of Britain's biggest banks, reported
pretax profit for the six months ended April 30 rose 6.7% to
#175 million ($305.2 million) from #164 million a year
earlier, as firm returns from retail banking and financial
services offset depressed returns in corporate banking.
   Per-share earnings fell 2.7% to 7.2 pence from 7.4 pence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The fiscal first-half pretax results were weaker than most
market forecasts but a modest improvement from a year
earlier, when TSB's pretax profit slid 22%. TSB, which also
moved late last year to curb operating costs, doesn't
disclose results by unit or specify loan-loss provisions. But
it said pretax profit was held back by increased
mortgage-exposure provisions of its retail banking division
and advances by its corporate banking division to the
property, construction and retailing sectors.
   Retail banking, the largest contributor to TSB profit,
rose to #117 million from #89.1 million, though TSB said the
year-earlier figure isn't directly comparable, citing the
continuing restructuring.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pantera's Corp.:
   Firm Says Judge Approves
   Statement on Reorganization
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   PANQE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pantera's Corp. said a U.S. bankruptcy court judge
approved a disclosure statement for a plan of reorganization
that would merge the company into its Pizza Inn Inc.
subsidiary and reconstitute it primarily as a franchise
service firm.
   Pantera's, a Dallas-based owner and franchiser of Pizza
Inn restaurants, would assume the name Pizza Inn Inc. under
the plan and sell most of its 100 company-owned restaurants
to existing or new franchisees. It would then concentrate on
improved marketing and operations support for franchise
restaurants, which currently number over 300, the company
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pantera's said the plan would give current shareholders a
5% stake in the reorganized company, while giving unsecured
creditors a 62.5% stake. Management would receive 32.5% over
several years. Secured creditors would be repaid over a
period of five years, the company said.
   Pantera's said the plan has the support of secured and
unsecured creditors and of franchisees, and will be put to a
vote by creditors and holders prior to July 18.
   Jeff Rogers, president of Pizza Inn, said the company has
been experiencing "new record average unit sales" recently,
adding that "interest in international locations is
increasing dramatically."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Meridian Bancorp:
   Unit Reaches Pact to Buy
   Part of Travelers Operation
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MRDN TIC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Meridian Bancorp, Reading, Pa., said its Meridian Mortgage
Corp. unit agreed in principle to acquire the retail
production operations of Travelers Corp.'s mortgage services
unit.
   Terms weren't disclosed. But Meridian said the deal will
create a combined retail mortgage-origination business with
an annual loan volume of about $3 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Included in the transaction are 16 branch offices in
Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Maryland and Virginia, plus a customer service office and
some administrative support operations. Meridian Mortgage
won't acquire the Travelers operations in the New England
region, however.
   Meridian Mortgage said the proposed acquisition is
consistent with the company's strategy to develop significant
production outside its banks' geographic markets.
   The pact follows the sale of the other part of Travelers
mortgage-services business, including relocation services and
mortgage-wholesale operations, to GE Capital Corp. Travelers
had planned to sell the entire mortgage services unit to a
management and investor group nearly a year ago, but the sale
fell through.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BRT WNEWS MHP SNE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAXWELL: Media executive Robert Maxwell signed an
agreement with West Germany's Gruner &amp; Jahr AG to acquire
Berliner Verlag, East Germany's largest newspaper and
magazine publisher. Mr. Maxwell's Mirror Group Newspapers
would operate the publisher in a joint venture with Gruner &amp;
Jahr, a unit of Bertlesmann AG. Terms weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   MAGAZINES: McGraw-Hill Inc. acquired Southwest Contractor
magazine from Akers-Runbeck Publishing Co., Phoenix, Ariz.,
and Louisiana Contractor magazine from Rhodes Publishing Co.,
Baton Rouge, La. The prices weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Advance Publications named Simon Master
executive vice president, international, of its Random House
Inc. subsidiary. He remains deputy chairman of Random Century
Group in London while assuming responsibility for all
international operations. . . . Sony Corp.'s Columbia
Pictures Entertainment Co. subsidiary named Steven Mendelson
senior vice president of comedy development at Columbia
Pictures Television. He was vice president of comedy
development.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toyota Plans to buy
   U.S.-Supplied Chips
   Over Next 3 Years
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY MOT INTC NSM IRF TXN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Toyota group announced plans to purchase
as much as $94 million in U.S.-supplied semiconductors for
use in its world-wide car production over the next three
years.
   Hironobu Ono, a Toyota Motor Corp. electronics engineering
manager, announced these purchasing plans after assuring U.S.
trade officials that Toyota and its family of suppliers are
doing their part in increasing U.S. access to the Japanese
semiconductor market. Mr. Ono said that U.S. suppliers likely
will increase their share of the group's semiconductor
business to 10.9% in 1992 from 2.1% in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Toyota announced that, in addition to its purchases of
U.S. standard chips, it has chosen five U.S. semiconductor
makers to deliver as many as 23 types of custom-made devices
for controlling transmission, suspension, engine, audio and
other automotive functions. The U.S. vendors are Motorola
Inc., Intel Corp., National Semiconductor Corp.,
International Rectifier Corp. and Texas Instruments Inc.
   Mr. Ono said these U.S. devices could cost a little more
than the Japanese ones that they are intended to replace, but
are comparable in quality.
   A Motorola spokesman said plans by Toyota and other
Japanese carmakers to expand their purchases of U.S.
semiconductors could push the U.S. closer to its goal of
capturing 20% of the Japanese semiconductor market. The U.S.
share currently is 11%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Altos Computer Systems Inc.:
   Talks on Possible Purchase
   By Taiwan Firm Disclosed
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ALTO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Altos Computer Systems Inc., a San Jose, Calif., maker of
multiuser computer networks, said it is engaged in talks with
the Acer Group regarding possible acquisition of Altos at a
proposed cash purchase price of $8.35 a share, or about $90
million.
   Altos said material terms remain to be negotiated with
Acer Group, a Taiwan-based maker of clones of personal
computers made by International Business Machine Corp. The
price now under discussion would represent a 60% premium over
Altos's stock price, which recently had languished at about
$5.3758 following several quarters of troubled performance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the takeover prospects weren't formally announced
until yesterday, Altos's stock took an anticipatory jump on
Wednesday to close at $7.375 in national over-the-counter
trading. Yesterday, Altos closed at $7.625, up 25 cents.
   Altos has suffered recent losses and stock-price erosion
due to inventory problems and new product start-up costs. In
its fiscal third quarter ended March 14, Altos posted a loss
of $1.7 million or 16 cents a share, on sales of $32.6
million.
   Altos President Ron Conway said he hopes negotiations will
be concluded "imminently." However, Altos cautioned in a
press release that there can be no assurance that the two
companies will reach a definitive agreement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enfield Share Consolidation
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.ENF
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Enfield Corp. holders voted at the annual
meeting to approve a 1-for-5 share consolidation and to
change the holding company's name to Consolidated Enfield
Corp.
   In trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday,
Enfield closed unchanged at C$2.45 ($2.10).
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Cumberland Federal Bancorp.:
   Pretax Charge of $8 Million
   Is Set by Kentucky Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMBK
</CO>
<LP>
   Cumberland Federal Bancorp. said it will take an $8
million pretax charge in the second quarter to boost its
loan-loss reserve.
   The Louisville, Ky., savings bank said the move reflects
"uncertainties about the value of various projects and
loans." The company said it believes its reserves after the
charge will be adequate to address known and potential loan
losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said after the charge it will have in excess
of $60 million in capital, a book value of approximately $24
a share and will remain in compliance with all regulatory
capital requirements.
   Cumberland also said it expects to report net earnings for
1990. In the year-ago second quarter, Cumberland earned $1.7
million, or 70 cents a share. In 1989, it earned $5 million,
or $2.02 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wichita River Oil Study
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WRO
</CO>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Wichita River Oil Corp. said it appointed a
special committee of its board to consider ways to maximize
shareholder value.
   The oil production company said the committee, which is
composed of outside directors, hopes to finish the study
"within a matter of weeks."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite trading on the American Stock Exchange
yesterday the company's shares closed at $4.25, up 37.5
cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Great American Management &amp; Investment Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GAMI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GREAT AMERICAN MANAGEMENT &amp; INVESTMENT Inc. (Chicago) --
Samuel Zell, 48-year-old chairman and chief executive officer
of this financial services concern, was named to the
additional post of president, succeeding Robert H. Lurie, who
died recently.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Ronald G. Shafer
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES EUROP CANDA FORGN FREST AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
</GV>
<LP>
   FED EASING isn't likely, despite the plunge in gold
prices.
   Some private analysts argue that the Fed should ease money
policies at next week's meeting because a 20% drop in gold's
price since February means inflation fears are receding. But
Fed officials see other reasons for the fall: The Soviets
have been selling gold to help their lagging economy, and
Mideast traders have been dumping gold in anticipation of
further Soviet sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even the Fed's leading gold bug, Wayne Angell, has said
gold would have to drop below $350 an ounce before he'd get
concerned; it's currently floating just above that level.
Bush officials look to new Fed member David Mullins to lead
the way to lower interest rates. But he is said to be
concerned about establishing credibility at the Fed before
becoming active.
   The White House hopes its new tax stand, which raises
hopes for cutting the deficit, will encourage the Fed to
ease.
                                                                                                       

   FARM SUBSIDIES shape up as a divisive issue at the
economic summit.
   Officials of the seven nations that will meet in Houston
next month fail so far to forge a compromise framework for
settling disputes over agriculture. Without some movement, it
will be up to Bush and the other leaders to resolve the
impasse with the European Community. The issue threatens to
stymie the whole round of international trade liberalization
talks.
   The Europeans want to lump together different kinds of
support for agriculture, such as export and production
subsidies, and reduce that total. But the U.S. and Canada,
along with other food exporters, want to focus on specific
subsidies. Otherwise, they fear, the EC won't adequately
address its $9 billion a year in farm export subsidies.
                                                                                                       

   BUSH BACKS a major revamping of NATO, but resists some
changes.
   Alliance leaders will map strategy changes when they meet
in London next week. A key revision will be to reduce
frontline defenses in Germany and put the forces under
officers from several NATO countries. The challenge is "to be
sure NATO is seen by Western publics to adapt" to the changes
in Europe, one senior Bush aide says.
   The underlying political goal: to get Moscow to accept a
united Germany inside the Western alliance. But the U.S.
wants to put off discussion of withdrawing short-range
nuclear arms from Europe until next year's talks with the
Soviets. And Bush aides rule out declaring that the West
would never be first to use nuclear weapons.
   Britain and France fear that talk of "de-nuclearizing"
Germany would generate public pressure to dismantle their own
nuclear arsenals.
                                                                                                       

   NO NEW -- WHOOPS] Republicans are undercut by Bush's tax
turnabout. GOP Rep. Gingrich had just mailed a fund-raising
plea for the National Tax Limitation Committee attacking
pro-tax "liberal elites" and vowing "to fight them to the
finish on this make-or-break issue."
                                                                                                       

   GRUMBLING GROWS that former quarterback Kemp is becoming a
lonesome end. A message sent to administration officials to
keep quiet about Bush's statement accepting new taxes was
largely aimed at Kemp, who had spoken against such action.
Kemp's criticism of the GOP candidate for New York governor,
economist Pierre Rinfret, also rankles Republicans.
                                                                                                       

   MANDELA HOPES his good reception in the U.S. will help him
persuade Thatcher to weaken her opposition to South Africa
sanctions when he meets with her. His aides say the recent
decision by the EC to maintain sanctions also strengthens his
arguments to the British leader.
                                                                                                       

   WIVES AND AUTHORS: Michigan Republicans hoping for
pre-election bombshells in a book by Democratic Gov. James
Blanchard's former wife will be disappointed. So says Paula
Blanchard, who even plans to vote for her ex-husband. The
former wife of the GOP candidate, John Engler, also has
written a book but hasn't found a publisher.
                                                                                                       

   DEMOCRATS COMPETE with one another in the scramble for
election funds.
   Party leaders hope to pump at least $5 million into Harvey
Gantt's strong bid to upset North Carolina Sen. Helms, who
may raise $16 million. Ann Richards needs at least $8 million
for her Texas gubernatorial race against Clayton Williams,
who may spend $20 million. Dianne Feinstein hopscotches
California to raise $500,000 this week for her governorship
fight against the well-funded Pete Wilson.
   Some Democrats grumble that "big foot" candidates who
don't need money soak up donations. New Jersey Sen. Bradley,
who faces minimal opposition, has raised more than $5
million; he even had a fund-raiser in North Carolina last
year, but doesn't plan to donate to Gantt. Sens. Cranston,
Daschle and Sanford troll for money even though they don't
run until 1992.
   The 118 Senate candidates from both parties for 1990 have
already raised over $83 million and spent $47 million.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: No coattails: Bush's favorite clothing store,
Arthur Adler, is going out of business. . . . Name-dropping
delay: An invitation to hear Harvard law professor Laurence
Tribe discuss his new book apologizes that the date had to be
changed "due to Professor Tribe's commitment to meet with
Nelson Mandela." . . . What about Spooky Anderson? Baseball
Commissioner Fay Vincent and Baltimore Orioles manager Frank
Robinson speak at the CIA on "the art, science and philosophy
of baseball."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Broken Hill Proprietary Co.:
   Firm Sells 30% Shareholding
   In Australian Oil Company
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   BHP A.WPL RD SC BCS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Australia's biggest company,
said it has sold a 30% stake in Woodside Petroleum Ltd. to
Barclays de Zoete Wedd Australia Ltd. for 2.62 Australian
dollars ($2.06) a share, or a total of A$525 million ($413.6
million).
   BHP said in January it was considering selling its stake
in Woodside, an Australian concern that is one of six equal
partners in a huge liquefied natural gas project offshore
Western Australia state.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BHP said Barclays de Zoete Wedd, 51%-owned by Barclays
Bank Australia Ltd., will sell the Woodside shares to
institutional investors in Australia and overseas. BHP will
retain a 10% stake in Woodside.
   The North-West Shelf liquefied natural gas project started
shipping gas to Japan in July. Peak LNG production of up to
six million metric tons a year is scheduled to be reached in
1993. A metric ton equals 2,204.6 pounds.
   Shell Australia Ltd., a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group,
holds 34.3% of Woodside directly and 5.8% indirectly. In a
separate statement, Shell Australia said it "has no intention
of increasing or reducing" its shareholding in Woodside.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Top Baptist Press
   Officials Are Under
   Pressure to Resign
   ---
   News Agency Director, Editor
   Say Fundamentalists Seek
   Control Over Information
   ----
   By R. Gustav Niebuhr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The top officers of Baptist Press, a prominent religious
news service used by nearly 500 newspapers and magazines
nationwide, are being forced out of their jobs, apparently as
a result of a bitter factional fight within the Southern
Baptist Convention, which owns the news service.
   Al Shackleford, 58 years old, director of Baptist Press,
based in Nashville, Tenn., said he and editor Dan Martin, 51,
were told to resign by Sept. 30 or they would "be dealt with
harshly." Mr. Shackleford said the decision to force them out
was made by the denomination's executive committee, which
offered no explanation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Neither Harold Bennett, the executive committee's
president, nor Sam Pace, its chairman, could be reached for
comment.
   Mr. Martin said he believed that fundamentalists, who
dominate both the executive committee and the denomination,
"want their own minister of information" in charge of
Southern Baptist news. Fundamentalists believe the Bible is
literally correct in matters of religion, science and
history.
   Mr. Martin added that the executive committee frequently
complained about news stories but "never offered us any
direction."
   Mr. Shackleford and Mr. Martin said they were told that if
they resigned quietly they could receive up to six months'
severance pay -- but only if they told the editors of Baptist
newspapers across the country not to come to their defense.
Mr. Shackleford said he has no plans to resign; Mr. Martin
said he hasn't decided what to do.
   Founded in 1947, Baptist Press provides about a dozen
pages of news stories about the Southern Baptist Convention,
the nation's largest Protestant denomination, to 480
newspapers, magazines and other institutions on weekdays. The
news service maintains bureaus in Washington, Atlanta,
Dallas, Nashville and Richmond, Va. Its stories are reprinted
in 39 state Baptist newspapers, whose combined circulation is
more than 1.6 million.
   For much of the past decade, Baptist Press has been under
increasing pressure as a result of turmoil within the
Southern Baptist Convention. Fundamentalists, who recently
wrested control of the denomination from a more moderate
faction, have charged that the news service has aggravated
the schism by frequently reporting on the split and that
Baptist Press stories have portrayed fundamentalists in a
negative light.
   In the mid-1980s, the Baptist Press Association asked
three journalism professors to examine the news service's
standards. The trio issued a report clearing Baptist Press of
charges of bias. One of the three, John Demott, a professor
at Memphis State University, praised Baptist Press as "a
model for denominational news services," but said that it now
risks becoming a "propaganda arm" of the fundamentalist
faction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Clears
   Two Loans to India
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The World Bank approved two loans totaling
$583 million to India to help finance electric power
facilities.
   The bank also cleared $275 million in loans to Nigeria to
upgrade the country's telecommunications network and help
finance urban development projects.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The International Development Association, a bank
affiliate, approved a $50 million credit to Mauritania to
restructure some public enterprises and close down others.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   JAPAN AND THE U.S. completed a broad accord designed to
reduce their trade imbalance. Japan promised to spend more on
public works, toughen antitrust policies and streamline its
distribution system. The U.S. pledged to balance its budget,
improve worker training and boost research spending. The pact
got a cool reaction from some legislators, economists and
business people.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Polaroid is letting Minolta sell a Polaroid instant camera
to U.S. customers under a Minolta brand name. The highly
unusual marketing move reflects Polaroid's sluggish sales.
   ---
   Crude oil inventories are at an eight-year high, raising
the prospect of tumbling petroleum prices if OPEC doesn't
rein in production soon. Persian Gulf producers have been
cutting their third-quarter contract prices.
   ---
   Budget negotiators are talking increasingly about raising
taxes on Social Security benefits or reducing the program's
cost-of-living raises.
   ---
   The earnings outlook for the second quarter is largely
positive, despite some recent negative surprises, analysts
and money managers say. This is good news for investors with
broadly diversified stock portfolios.
   ---
   Lotus's copyright on the 1-2-3 program was infringed by
Paperback Software International in its VP Planner, a federal
judge ruled. The decision could foreshadow similar verdicts
in other software disputes.
   ---
   Apple Computer has dropped plans for an initial public
offering by its Claris software unit and intends to fold the
business back into the parent firm, industry executives say.
   ---
   A Mobil affiliate won clearance from the Nigerian
government to proceed with the $1 billion development of a
rich offshore petroleum field.
   ---
   Bond prices rose as investors reacted to brisk demand for
the latest Treasury note offering. The stock market also
gained, boosting the Dow Jones Industrial Average 16.58
points to 2878.71. The dollar was mixed.
   ---
   Venezuela reached an agreement with its major bank
creditors that includes provisions for new loans and for
cutting back old credits and the interest payments due on
them.
   ---
   Pathe's $1.31 billion bid to buy MGM/UA appeared in
jeopardy after Pathe said it reached an impasse with Time
Warner over financing. Pathe said it will seek other sources
of funding, and continue talking to Time.
   ---
   Manufacturers Hanover plans to take a substantial
second-quarter charge linked to its cost-cutting plan. The
banking concern also is placing more than $150 million of
loans to Trump on nonperforming status.
   ---
   AT&amp;T will cut long-distance prices an average of 2.2%, or
more than $300 million a year, starting Sunday.
   ---
   Soybean planting covered 58 million acres this year, the
government estimated, cutting its previous figure by 1.4
million acres. Some analysts expect soybean prices to climb
today.
   ---
   A group of insurers is developing a computer network to
improve communications with independent agents. Critics are
skeptical about the system's benefit to consumers.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 136,120,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2878.71, up 16.58; transportation 1142.70, up 1.82; utilities
208.63, unchanged.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3438.13, up
14.09.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 131.81, up 0.64; spot
index 131.81, up 0.43.
   Dollar: 153.15 yen, off 1.30; 1.6730 marks, up 0.0085.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- NS Group Inc.:
   Steelmaker Plans to Acquire
   Two Pennsylvania Properties
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   NSS MDR
</CO>
<IN>
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NS Group Inc. said it entered a into a letter of intent
with Ambridge Tube Corp., Houston, to acquire the Koppel
Steel Works and Ambridge Rolling Mills facilities. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   The Newport, Ky., steelmaker said the facilities were
formerly operated by the Tubular Products Division of Babcock
&amp; Wilcox, an operating unit of McDermott International Inc.
In January, Babcock &amp; Wilcox entered into a definitive
agreement to sell the facilities to Ambridge Tube.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Koppel facility, located in Koppel, Pa., contains a
melt shop installed in 1985 and has the capacity to produce
400,000 tons of steel products annually. The Ambridge
facility, located in nearby Ambridge, Pa., contains a
tube-making facility installed in 1976 designed to make
specialty tubing including bearing, mechanical, pressure and
oil country tubing. Both facilities were idled in 1988.
   The acquisition would allow NS to expand its tubular and
bar markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Telecredit Inc.:
   Los Angeles Firm Reports
   11% Rise in Quarter Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TCRD
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Telecredit Inc., which agreed last week to be acquired by
Equifax Inc., posted an 11% rise in fiscal fourth-quarter net
income to $6.6 million, or 59 cents a share, on a small
revenue increase.
   In the same quarter a year ago, Telecredit posted net of
$6 million, or 54 cents a share. Revenue in the quarter ended
April 30 inched up to $38.4 million from $38.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Telecredit, based in Los Angeles, guarantees personal
checks for retailers and other merchants and processes credit
cards for credit unions and small and medium-sized financial
institutions.
   Lee A. Ault III, chairman, said the company is "looking
forward to revenue and net earnings gains in the second half
of fiscal 1991 following a relatively flat first half" due to
the loss of a major credit-union customer in October.
   Atlanta-based Equifax, a major provider of credit reports
and similar information for retailers, banks and insurers,
has agreed in principle to acquire Telecredit in a stock swap
valued at about $580 million. Telecredit said it expects a
definitive agreement to be completed by July 10.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Winnebago Industries Inc.:
   Industrywide Slump Fueled
   $4 Million Quarterly Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WGO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Winnebago Industries Inc., battered by an industrywide
slump in motor home sales, reported a loss for its third
quarter on a 21% decline in revenue.
   For the quarter, ended May 26, the maker of motor homes
had a loss of $4 million, or 17 cents a share, on revenue of
$89.7 million. A year earlier, Winnebago earned $301,000, or
two cents a share, on revenue of $112.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company, based in Forest City, Iowa, said results were
hurt by lower demand for motor homes, a shift to lower-priced
motor homes, start-up costs for its commercial vehicle
division, and a loss by its Cycle-Sat subsidiary.
   For the nine months, Winnebago had a loss of $14 million,
or 57 cents a share, compared with net income of $6.6
million, or 27 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell
28% to $249.2 million from $348 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Security Pacific Corp.:
   Seattle Unit Will Assume
   Certain Gibraltar Deposits
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SPC GFC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Security Pacific Bancorp. Northwest, Seattle, said it will
assume the core deposits and certain assets of Gibraltar
Savings Bank of Washington from the Resolution Trust Corp.
   The transaction gives the Security Pacific Corp. unit
about $228 million in Gibraltar's core deposits plus
Gibraltar's six branches in King County, Wash. For 15 months,
Gibraltar of Washington has been held in receivership by the
RTC, the federal agency that takes custody of ailing thrifts.
Full details of the consolidation haven't been determined.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The action follows Wednesday's parallel announcement by
the bank and thrift's larger affiliates. Security Pacific
National Bank of Los Angeles, a unit of Los Angeles-based
Security Pacific Corp., was the successful bidder for
Gibraltar Savings of Beverly Hills, a unit of Gibraltar
Financial Corp., assuming approximately $3.9 billion in core
deposits of the thrift and $2.7 billion of its residential
loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First Federal Bancorp:
   Michigan Bank Says Group
   Withdrew Offer of Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6F
</SO>
<CO>
   FFS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   First Federal Bancorp, Pontiac, Mich., said the investor
group that recently offered to infuse the bank with $40
million has withdrawn its offer.
   According to First Federal, the investor group said its
decision was based on conversations with its adviser
regarding the ability to attain the group's objectives in a
non-assisted transaction. First Federal announced the offer
last month, when it identified the group only as current
shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At that time First Federal also disclosed that the Office
of Thrift Supervision had limited the operations of two of
its subsidiaries, First Federal Savings Bank &amp; Trust, and
Citizens Federal Savings Bank. The federal regulators took
that action because the subsidiaries failed to meet new
federal capital requirements.
   Leo D. Ottoni, First Federal chief executive officer, said
the bank holding company will continue its attempts to comply
with the tougher capital requirements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- VSB Bancorp Inc.:
   Savings Bank Parent Sees
   $2.5 Million 3rd-Period Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6E
</SO>
<CO>
   VSBC
</CO>
<LP>
   VSB Bancorp Inc. said it expects to report a loss of $2.5
million for its third quarter as a result of the falling
value of its real estate investments in New Jersey.
   VSB, a Closter, N.J., holding company for Valley Savings
Bank, said it plans to add $2.8 million to its loan-loss
reserves for the quarter ending tomorrow. VSB said $1.7
million of the addition will fully cover equity investments
in a townhouse development in central New Jersey and a
single-family home project in Morris County, N.J. The
projects represent the bank's largest real estate investment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank said it will reduce the value of its real estate
held for investment to $9.4 million from $12.9 million.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   VSB BANCORP Inc. expects to report a third-quarter pretax
loss of $2.5 million, which will result in "several hundred
thousand dollars" of savings on an after-tax basis, according
to a spokesman. Friday's edition failed to note the $2.5
million loss was before taxes.
   (WSJ July 2, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BRUSH FIRES RAGED across Southern California, destroying
hundreds of homes.
   The wildfires, which authorities attributed to arson in
some cases, ravaged 500 homes and other buildings in Santa
Barbara County and at least 80 homes elsewhere. Hot winds
fanned the flames, which scorched 14,000 acres of brush in
four counties north, east and south of Los Angeles. As
thousands were evacuated, California Gov. Deukmejian declared
a state of emergency in Santa Barbara. He planned to make a
similar announcement in Glendale. Firefighters controlled
blazes in Utah and at Yellowstone National Park in Montana,
but fires spread unchecked in Arizona and Colorado.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One fire official described the Southwest U.S. as "a
powder keg waiting to explode" because of a four-year drought
and this week's crippling heat wave.
   ---
   A Senate panel voted to end funding for a program of
covert aid to non-communist forces in Cambodia, sources said.
The committee chairman declined to comment, but the sources
said the action reflected concern about the direction of U.S.
policy in Cambodia and a desire to invite more public debate
on the issue.
   ---
   Lithuania's legislators debated a freeze of their
independence declaration, and some questioned whether Soviet
President Gorbachev has the staying power to stick to a
compromise for ending Moscow's economic blockade of the
republic. Premier Prunskiene backed a resolution imposing a
three-month moratorium on the declaration.
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet Communist Party proposed reorganizing its
leadership and scrapping the Politburo and the once
all-powerful post of general secretary. The draft statutes
were published ahead of next week's crucial party congress in
Moscow, where hardliners are expected to clash with moderates
over Gorbachev's restructuring policies.
   ---
   Jurors in Barry's trial watched a videotape that shows the
Washington mayor smoking crack cocaine the night of his
arrest in an FBI sting operation. In the videotape, Barry is
seen inhaling twice from a pipe, and a few moments later, FBI
agents burst into the room and arrest him.
   ---
   House and Senate conferees removed a major hurdle to
passage of oil-spill legislation by rejecting provisions that
would have provided for U.S. participation in an
international treaty limiting shippers' liability. Rejection
of House language favoring the international protocols is a
big blow to the tanker industry.
   ---
   A scientist said NASA could have found the crippling
defect in the $2.5 billion Hubble Space Telescope years ago
by performing a test costing a few hundred thousand dollars.
Robert Brown, former Hubble chief scientist, spoke as
telescope scientists pursued information that tests conducted
on Hubble were flawed.
   ---
   The House approved an $83.6 billion appropriations bill
that would boost spending for domestic and science programs
by $12.3 billion in fiscal 1991 and restructure Bush's space
budget by cutting funds for exploration of Mars. The 355-48
roll call came after the chamber rejected efforts to trim
costs across the board.
   ---
   Shamir told Bush in a letter his new government supported
Jewish settlement in occupied Arab lands and would never give
the PLO a role in peace talks, according to Israeli
officials. Secretary of State Baker said Washington needed
time to study the Israeli premier's letter, adding that it
wasn't a definitive rejection of U.S. proposals.
   ---
   Cheering auto workers welcomed Mandela to Detroit after
Cuban-American politicians in Miami snubbed the South African
black nationalist leader because of his support for Castro.
In Florida, Mandela made an appeal for support from labor
unions.
   ---
   A federal jury in New York began deliberating whether
former Philippine first lady Imelda Marcos looted her nation
of $222 million and secretly invested the money with the help
of Saudi financier Khashoggi.
   ---
   Bush hinted that NATO leaders at next week's summit in
London will draw up proposals for a nonaggression declaration
with the Warsaw Pact. The president said he believed the
declaration would go some way to ease Moscow's worries about
a 16-nation alliance that included a united Germany.
   ---
   The Senate revived an omnibus anti-crime bill and defeated
a conservative attempt to kill a three-year prohibition on
nine types of semiautomatic assault weapons. The Senate voted
50-48 in favor of keeping the curbs on the military-style
guns. The lawmakers also added tougher mandatory sentences
for firearms offenses to the bill.
   ---
   The Supreme Court blocked permanently the execution of a
convicted Arizona killer, a day after upholding the
death-penalty law under which he had been sentenced. The
confusing turn of events came about because two justices who
voted with the majority in the decision upholding the state
law didn't take part in the second action.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Stone Container Corp.:
   Paper Mill in Connecticut
   Expands Recycling Capacity
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6D
</SO>
<CO>
   STO
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Stone Container Corp., Chicago, said it opened an expanded
operation costing $24 million at the paper and packaging
company's paper mill in Uncasville, Conn.
   It said the operation will recycle 144,000 tons annually
of used corrugated boxes to be collected from the New York
City and other metropolitan areas in five Northeastern
states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the expansion, part of a $200 million program to
increase Stone's recycling capacity, the plant will make
recycled paper for new boxes. Stone said 16 of its 24 mills
world-wide purchase and recycle about two million tons of
used corrugated boxes and newspapers annually, and an
official said that "by 1992, we'll be consuming three million
tons" a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Panel Votes to End Covert Aid
   To Non-Communist Forces in Cambodia
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Intelligence Committee voted to
cut off funding for a program of U.S. covert assistance to
the non-communist forces in Cambodia, according to
individuals familiar with the panel's actions.
   Committee Chairman David Boren (D., Okla.) declined to
comment on the committee's deliberation. But separately,
those individuals said it reflected increased concern about
the direction of U.S. policy in Cambodia as well as a desire
to invite more public debate on the issue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decision follows a House vote Wednesday to continue an
overt program of non-lethal assistance to the forces. In
recent years, intelligence committees in both chambers have
expressed growing concern over the wisdom of using covert
operations to sustain secret aid programs long after their
existence is known publicly.
   In the past decade, the Central Intelligence Agency has
been used to provide covert U.S. aid to forces fighting in
regional conflicts in Angola, Afghanistan and Nicaragua, for
example, and critics argue that the result is often the
suppression of debate on Washington's policy.
   In the case of Cambodia, the continuing assistance from
the U.S. has drawn criticism because of the brutal history of
the Khmer Rouge when it took over Cambodia in the 1970s.
Although restrictions prohibit any assistance to the Khmer
Rouge, the forces backed by the U.S. are part of a political
coalition with the Pol Pot guerrillas against the government
installed by the Vietnamese.
   This sensitivity was underscored in the House debate this
week. To win support for the $7 million in overt aid,
proponents specified that all assistance would be nonlethal,
and new restrictions were imposed in response to criticism
that the insurgents are mounting operations in cooperation
with the Khmer Rouge.
   Intelligence sources said the non-communist forces are
less military than political, and proponents of the program
argue that the U.S. therefore has an interest in sustaining
the forces as an alternative between the Khmer Rouge and the
Hanoi-backed government. By the same token, this goal might
be better accomplished through overt assistance, and the
House debate this week indicated that intelligence members
there appeared more comfortable with an open program than the
one under their jurisdiction.
   The covert aid, believed to have begun in the early 1980s,
is said to have included logistical support and military
training. For a time, the program was operated through the
government of Thailand.
   The Senate committee action came as part of closed-door
deliberations on the fiscal 1991 authorization bill covering
the CIA's budget. A House panel isn't expected to begin work
on its version of the bill until after the July Fourth
recess.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Chief Accuses
   CFTC of Distortion
   In Mini-Crash Probe
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Richard Breeden intensified the agency's battle with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, accusing the
commodities regulator of trying to "disguise facts" and
"distort" information.
   Mr. Breeden also said action is needed "to eliminate the
unsafe practices and rampant speculation in the futures
market." That comment is likely to strike fear into the
commodities exchanges, which may fall partly under SEC
oversight if a Bush administration-sponsored bill passes
Congress.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The statements show Mr. Breeden abandoning the
more-conciliatory tone he had recently taken toward the
futures exchanges. In recent weeks, he has suggested that he
simply wanted to offer more protection to exchange customers
and to make sure those markets maintained sufficiently high
margins, or the good faith money needed to trade.
   In a rebuke to CFTC Chairman Wendy Gramm, an obviously
angered Mr. Breeden vehemently supported his agency's May
report about the stock-market mini-crash last Oct. 13.
Earlier this week, Mrs. Gramm offered her own scathing
critique of the SEC report, accusing the SEC of "selectively
misleading" the public about the cause of the plunge.
   Mr. Breeden said the SEC "stands by the report and every
word in it." He went on to blast the CFTC's separate report
on the 6.9% drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
   While the SEC focused on the 80-minute period of the day
when the average fell most of its 190.58 points, Mr. Breeden
said that the CFTC averaged activity over the full day.
"That's a little bit like saying that except for a period of
time from 7 a.m. to noon, Pearl Harbor Day was a good day and
on average there weren't many problems," he fumed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Where They Lie Down
   At Night Is Their Home
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   David Frum missed the point on his journey of bewilderment
into Penn Station ("Why Would Anyone Live in Penn Station?"
editorial page, May 30).
   Why, indeed, would anyone sleep in Penn Station, if he
could go home to a nice warm bed, with a down comforter and a
four-poster all around? These people are home. Operating in
the same economic system as Mr. Frum, they wound up at the
bottom. At that level, few boots have large enough straps for
self-elevation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I doubt if many of them would choose to remain there, if
given the opportunity to live in a condo, or house, and wake
up to a good-paying, interesting job each day. But I get the
impression from his article that Mr. Frum believes they do
have better accommodations elsewhere, with good jobs begging
them anon. And, simply to vex him and his fellow travelers,
they choose not to work, and then have the effrontery to
spend their nights at Penn Station, sleeping off the results
of their drunken celebrations at having beaten off the cursed
evils of that demon called work for yet another day.
   Capitalism and free enterprise have created great rewards
and wealth for the majority of Americans, and will continue
to do so. But they are competitive systems, and while winners
do very well, the also-rans sometimes do not. Mr. Frum seems
to believe that only the winners count, and appears to ask,
somewhat bewildered, why everyone isn't a winner like
himself.
   The homeless and the jobless are the other face of the
modern economic coin. Although somewhere along the way they
lost their place in line for a share of the American dream,
they, like Mr. Frum, still need to sleep somewhere, if only
to dream.
   Stephen Katzman
   Boston
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Crude Oil Inventories Hit 8-Year High,
   Pressuring OPEC to Curb Production
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Crude oil inventories have hit their highest level in
eight years, raising the possibility of tumbling world
petroleum prices if OPEC doesn't soon rein in production.
   Persian Gulf heavyweights, who dominate policy-making
within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, so
far have averted a price war, but have recently been cutting
their third-quarter contract prices in an effort to protect
their market shares. Price reductions by Saudi Arabia on
crude for delivery during July were quickly followed by
similar moves from Iran. Kuwait, which just completed its
negotiations for July, has undercut Saudi pricing slightly on
certain types of crude, oil experts said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even before those moves, oil prices had declined by more
than $8 a barrel since the beginning of the year, reflecting
mushrooming global stocks, which have risen by as much as 250
million barrels. Not since the end of 1982 has so much oil
been on hand. Terminals in Europe and the Caribbean, a
crucial storage area for U.S. markets, are mostly full. More
than half of the oil tankers currently under charter are
being used for storage rather than shipping.
   Despite the glut, futures prices of oil traded at the New
York Mercantile Exchange rose on talk by Saddam Hussein of
Iraq of the potential for war in the Middle East. In
addition, the threat of a strike in the Norwegian North Sea
oil fields as early as Monday has made some sellers more
reluctant. "If a strike materializes, it could bolster
prices," said Lawrence Goldstein, president of Petroleum
Industry Research Foundation.
   But these worries don't eliminate the hard fact that there
is a huge surplus of crude in the market, experts say. And as
prices for some lesser grades of crude have slipped below $15
a barrel, OPEC strategists have wondered whether they are
about to see a rerun of the 1986 price collapse. While a boon
for some oil consumers, that plunge rocked the oil industry
and played havoc with some national and regional economies as
well as with the banks that underwrote billions of dollars of
oil-collateralized debt.
   Oil ministers from OPEC's Persian Gulf nations are
expected to gather some time next month in Taif, Saudi
Arabia, to begin working on a strategy that would head off
any similar price decline. The meeting would be in advance of
OPEC's full ministerial meeting on July 25 in Geneva, which
would be attended by all members.
   Meantime, OPEC's acting president Sadek Boussena has been
on a whirlwind tour of Persian Gulf oil producers, trying to
find a way to reduce output and prop up prices. Some OPEC
members are also jawboning Kuwait and the United Arab
Emirates, the cartel's two notorious overproducers, which
have almost single-handedly caused this year's price decline.
   Kuwait's new oil minister, Rashid Salem Al-Omari, met with
Saudi minister Hisham Nazer to discuss the oversupply
problem. And during the last month, Iraq has attempted to
pressure Kuwait into reducing output through editorials in
Iraqi newspapers. Iraq accuses Kuwait of purposely
overproducing to keep oil prices low, which in turn would
deny Iraq the revenue it needs to rebuild its war-torn
economy -- and its already-feared military machine.
   In the latest step in Iraq's campaign, President Hussein
recently sent his deputy oil minister to Kuwait with a
message warning the sheikdom to restrain output because it
was harming Iraq and other OPEC producers by exceeding its
OPEC-assigned quota.
   Even as OPEC members haggle among themselves in efforts to
strike yet another production-limiting bargain, the
credibility of any agreement that might be reached is under
suspicion. "We now factor OPEC cheating into all of our
short-term pricing forecasts," claims William Hermann, chief
economist for Chevron Corp.
   By not adhering to the daily output ceiling of 22 million
barrels it agreed upon in April, OPEC flooded the market with
crude during the weakest demand period of the year. OPEC
output since April has ballooned at times as high as 23.9
million barrels a day, according to some estimates. Daily
production during June has eased back to between 23 million
and 23.2 million barrels.
   But OPEC is going to have to pump a lot less crude than
that if it expects to return oil prices to the $18-a-barrel
level it has been aiming for. Estimates currently put the
price for the OPEC basket of crudes at less than $13.75 a
barrel.
   Until yesterday, even the strike threatened for early next
week in the North Sea hadn't provided any psychological
strength to the market, although it is already shy of North
Sea barrels. Because of maintenance programs, only 18 cargoes
of North Sea Brent are available for purchase during July,
down from 32 in April. A strike in Norway's North Sea fields
would cut off 1.6 million barrels of daily production. The
shortfall of North Sea crude has failed to prop up prices,
says Peter Gignoux, who runs the energy desk for Shearson
Lehman Hutton in London.
   If OPEC can reduce its production to below 23 million
barrels a day, prices should begin to strengthen as winter
demand for oil starts to materialize. Demand for OPEC crude
during the third quarter is pegged by industry analysts at
about 22.5 million barrels a day, rising during the fourth
quarter to 23 million.
   Market participants say they aren't going to settle for
mere OPEC rhetoric this time. They want to see action. "At
the April meeting, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia said they would
cut back and the market bought it," said Ed Krapels of Energy
Security Analysis Inc. "But then the truth came out -- only
the Saudis cut. Sheik Ali (former Kuwait oil minister) didn't
abide by the agreement. OPEC isn't going to be able to talk
this market up again."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bell Atlantic, Bank
   In U.S. to Take Stake
   In Argentine Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM MHC BEL I.SFT TEF
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Argentina accepted a proposal under which
Manufacturers Hanover Corp., a Bell Atlantic Corp. subsidiary
and a group of Argentine companies would take a total 60%
stake in half of the state telephone company, Empresa
Nacional de Telecomunicaciones.
   The companies will invest $100 million in the state phone
company, known as Entel. And Manufacturers, the big
bank-holding company here, is arranging a syndicate of
financial institutions that want to swap a total of $2.3
billion of their Argentine debt for equity in Entel. Bell
Atlantic is the Philadelphia-based regional Bell phone
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bid for part of Entel is part of the Argentine
government's drive to privatize a number of businesses. Under
the government's plan, Entel is to be broken into two
companies, one covering the northern half of Argentina and
one the southern half. Each of the two new phone entities
also will be assigned half of the capital, Buenos Aires,
where almost two-thirds of the country's 3.2 million phone
lines are installed.
   The Manufacturers/Bell Atlantic group bid against two
other companies, Telefonica S.A. of Spain and STET of Italy,
for the northern zone. The group didn't bid for the southern
zone; the government stipulated that no one bidder could win
both zones.
   The other 40% of the northern zone will be sold 25% to the
public in stock offerings, 10% to Entel employees, and 5% to
local telephone cooperatives.
   A spokesman for Manufacturers said the bank expected to
end up with a total stake of about 16% in the company
covering the northern zone. In the transaction, the bank
expects to swap a "material portion" of its Argentine debt,
which totaled $700 million at year end 1989, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S., Japan Set
   Pact They See
   Easing Tension
   ---
   Trade Imbalance to Shrink,
   Both Say, but Skeptics
   Of Year's Work Remain
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The U.S. and Japan completed a wide-ranging
economic pact that both sides proclaimed would ease tensions
by reducing their $49 billion trade imbalance and making
Japan's economy "more harmonious" with the rest of the world.
   But the first full report of the so-called Structural
Impediments Initiative drew a cool response from several
congressmen, economists and business executives, many of whom
have ridiculed the process since it began a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two nations promised each other a laundry list of
large-scale and small-scale changes, with Japan vowing to
open up more to outsiders and to use more of its capital
domestically. Its proposals include spending more on public
works, toughening its antitrust policies and streamlining its
distribution system. The U.S. pledged to shape up its economy
by, among other things, balancing its budget, boosting worker
training and increasing research and development spending.
   Negotiators also agreed to keep the SII process alive
indefinitely, with regular meetings and annual reports for at
least the next three years, and, according to U.S. officials,
the flexibility to bring up new issues within the current
general framework.
   President Bush, in a statement released in Washington
after the four-day Tokyo talks concluded, said: "We expect
that the structural policy actions to be taken will have a
positive effect on our economies, encouraging open and
competitive markets, promoting sustained world economic
growth, contributing to a reduction in global payments
imbalances, and enhancing the quality of life in both Japan
and the United States. Although our efforts on SII are
bilateral, the effects will be beneficial for the entire
world."
   The amicable agreement also follows three months of
generally friendly trade talks between the two nations in
many sectors, and some officials declared a new era of
reduced economic tensions. "Continuing success on SII can
help us move away from trade disputes," Mr. Bush added, "thus
allowing us to focus our efforts on more positive activities
as we continue to develop a global partnership between our
two countries."
   Mr. Bush took an active role in the talks, summoning Prime
Minister Toshiki Kaifu to California in March to spur Japan
to action, and talking with Mr. Kaifu by phone Wednesday
night to help conclude an agreement. The two leaders pushed
to complete the pact before the summit meeting of the seven
leading industrial democracies in Houston begins in early
July.
   But not everyone is convinced of SII's significance. "I
really think SII is irrelevant," James C. Abegglen, a Japan
scholar and Tokyo-based business consultant, said earlier
this week. "People would just like to be rid of it."
Different critics have different reasons, from disappointment
with earlier promising-sounding U.S.-Japan trade agreements,
to questions about the pact's economic assumptions, to
suspicion about whether the two governments really have the
will to follow through on policies they have endorsed many
times before.
   Even enthusiastic backers of the process worry that it
won't accomplish one of its major goals: easing mounting
anti-Japanese pressure in the U.S. Congress. John B. Taylor,
a member of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers,
said at a news conference in Tokyo that it could take from
three to five years for the SII measures to help reduce the
trade imbalance. Meanwhile, many economists say that Japan's
trade surplus with the U.S is likely to escalate in the next
few months, as the yen stays weak against the dollar. And
several potentially vicious trade spats loom in the next few
months, such as battles for access to Japan's rice and
semiconductor markets.
   Sen. Max Baucus (D., Mon.), who heads the international
trade subcommittee of the Senate Finance Committee, called
the report "a disappointment." While acknowledging that the
agreement "does demonstrate progress in some areas," Sen.
Baucus said that "even with the SII report, Japan will likely
remain the most closed developed country market." House
Majority Leader Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.), another frequent
advocate of a tougher Japan trade policy said: "Today's
announcement reminds me of a good-news, bad-news joke. The
good news is that we've reached an agreement. The bad news is
that the agreement will do little or nothing to address the
size of the trade deficit or the systematic targeting of key
U.S. industries. Unfortunately the joke is being played on
American farmers, workers and businesses."
   The two nations created the SII process in July as a way
of addressing the increasingly politically touchy trade
situation in a comprehensive manner, rather than relying
simply on market-specific feuds. They produced an interim
report in April that provided the framework for this week's
agreement.
   The SII discussions have transformed many policies
traditionally considered purely domestic matters into
international trade issues. Indeed, Mr. Kaifu, in a statement
praising the SII report, stressed the domestic benefits of
the changes: "I am confident that the SII will greatly
contribute to improving the Japanese standard of living."
   But Japan has at times complained of U.S. "interference."
And while both countries are supposed to make major changes,
most of the pressure during the talks fell on Japan.
   The 57-page section on Japan's policies includes: reducing
the average length required to obtain a patent to two years
from three years; encouraging more criminal prosecutions of
alleged antitrust violations, as well as more private
antitrust lawsuits; government scrutiny and restrictions on
tight business relationships among Japan's business groupings
known as "keiretsu"; changes in laws that discourage foreign
investment; reforming land policies to bring down land
prices; and encouraging imports by setting up a special
import advisory board under the prime minister.
   The main disagreement during the last week of talks, which
stretched on two days more than scheduled, was over Japan's
level of public investment. The U.S. argued that Japan should
significantly increase its public works as a way of shifting
more of its resources to its own economy, while the Japanese
said too much spending could fuel inflation.
   Japan ultimately outlined a detailed 430 trillion yen
($2.78 trillion) 10-year public works program, down to
numerical goals for increasing sidewalks, sewers and
seashore. That total is more than Japan originally pledged,
but below the U.S. request of 500 trillion yen.
   Japan also reaffirmed its commitment to cut its current
account surplus. A month ago, some Japanese government
officials infuriated the U.S. by arguing that Japan should
preserve its surplus to export capital to needy nations.
   The U.S. only released a summary of its package. But
officials said the most important part was the statement
issued by President Bush earlier in the week that the
administration was ready to increase tax revenues to cut the
budget deficit. S. Linn Williams, deputy U.S. trade
representative, hinted that the SII talks may have helped
influence the timing of Mr. Bush's announcement.
   Many of the provisions still require legislative approval
in both nations before they become policy. The Japanese
cabinet endorsed its half of the program at a brief 10 p.m.
cabinet meeting Thursday night.
   Although the two nations will issue annual progress
reports, it isn't clear what power, if any, one nation has to
influence the behavior of the other if it isn't satisfied
with the results.
   ---
   Peter Truell in Washington contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900629-0188
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900629-0188.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
06/28/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   FDO LINZ QFCI BMET LA HUN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Family Dollar Strs    $ .28    ...      $ .21  (3)   33.33
  Linsay Mfg              .90    ...        .82  (4)    9.76
  Quality Food Cntrs      .37    ...        .34  (6)    8.82
  Biomet                  .31    ...        .29  (6)    6.90
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  L.A. Gear             $ .51  $ .55 (4) $  .55  (5)    7.27
  Hunt Mfg                .15    ...        .30  (4)   50.00
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
