<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.K. Retail Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Retail sales volume fell a revised 1.8% in March
from February and was up 0.2% from March 1989, the U.K.
Central Statistical Office said.
   In the three months ended in March, retail sales volume
was up 0.75% from the previous three months and up 1.5% from
a year earlier, unchanged from the provisional estimate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Cost-of-Living Index
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BERN -- Switzerland's cost-of-living index rose 0.2% in
April from March, and increased 4.6% from a year earlier, the
government said.
   The April figures represented a slowdown from the March
rises of 0.3% month to month and 5.0% year to year. In the
year-earlier April, the month-to-month increase was 0.5%,
while the year-to-year increase was 2.6%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toronto City Council
   Delays Its Decision
   On Commercial Land
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA CP T.MRE
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- The city council delayed its decision on a
motion that would downgrade commercial zoning of prime
undeveloped land near the city's financial core, including 35
acres held by Canadian Pacific Ltd.'s real estate unit,
Marathon Realty Co.
   The council instead referred the matter to the city's
commissioner of planning, who is to report back in three
weeks on whether a 1985 zoning agreement on the land should
be reviewed. As previously reported, the council was to
consider a resolution that would greatly reduce the amount of
commercial development allowed on the 200 acres of
properties, and increase the amount of housing permitted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts have said the motion, if approved, would lower
the value of Marathon's holdings in the block and could hurt
Marathon's stock price when it begins trading on the Toronto
Stock Exchange. An Ontario court is expected to resume its
hearing today or tomorrow regarding approval of the
distribution of 80% of Marathon to Canadian Pacific
shareholders. If approval is obtained as expected, trading of
Marathon shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange would begin on
the date of distribution. It is expected that Marathon will
have 99 million shares outstanding. Canadian Pacific will
retain a 20% interest in the real estate concern.
   A spokesman for the Toronto city councilor who formulated
the downgrading motion said political battles on the issue
could drag on for a year. "There will be 50 different moves
in 25 different directions before this thing is put to bed,"
he said. Toronto's mayor is opposed to the motion.
   John Beales, Marathon's senior vice president, buildings,
said the company was relieved that council didn't decide to
renegotiate the zoning agreement. The continuing debate,
however, could delay development of Marathon's holdings, he
said.
   The properties in question, including Marathon's parcel,
are considered to be prime undeveloped land. Analysts said a
3/4 acre piece of land adjacent to the Marathon property
recently was sold for about 240 million Canadian dollars
(US$206.3 million).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Charles Knapp
   Said to Be Focus
   Of FBI Inquiry
   ---
   Financier's Insurance Role
   Also Is Reported to Be
   Under Regulatory Probe
   ----
   By Stephen J. Sansweet
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Financier Charles W. Knapp, who was ousted
five years ago as head of the nation's largest thrift, is
under federal investigation for his activities in trying to
build his Trafalgar Holdings Ltd. into a personal financial
empire, several people with knowledge of the investigation
said.
   In addition, insurance regulators in several jurisdictions
have been looking into Mr. Knapp's recent activities in
setting up or purportedly funding insurance companies, a
person familiar with those actions said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. attorney's office in Los Angeles has been looking
into Mr. Knapp's financial affairs for several months, and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted surprise raids
on Mr. Knapp's home and at least one of his offices earlier
this year, people familiar with the investigations said.
   While the warrants and federal affidavit that were issued
to support the raids are still sealed, a clerk at the U.S.
District Court office here indirectly confirmed that warrants
had been issued to seize documents at Mr. Knapp's condominium
home in the Century City section of Los Angeles and at an
office he leases in Beverly Hills, Calif.
   Mr. Knapp didn't respond directly to a request for
comment. But Donald Reynolds, a longtime friend and former
business associate who shares an office suite with Mr. Knapp,
said that when asked about the investigation, Mr. Knapp had
said, "I have no comment."
   An FBI spokesman said he couldn't respond to any inquiries
regarding a possible investigation of Mr. Knapp.
   But it was learned that FBI agents already have
interviewed a number of former Trafalgar employees and
executives, questioning them about the activities of the
closely held company, which was formed in late 1984.
   While the full scope of the investigation couldn't
immediately be determined and it isn't clear whether a
federal grand jury has yet heard any evidence in the case,
people with knowledge of the situation said a major part of
the investigation involves an unsecured $15 million loan made
to Mr. Knapp's mortgage-brokerage concern, Trafalgar Capital
Corp., by Western Savings &amp; Loan Association of Phoenix. The
thrift later became insolvent and was taken over by federal
regulators.
   That loan, and Trafalgar Capital's failure to repay it
when it came due March 31, 1989, was part of a front-page
story in The Wall Street Journal last year that detailed Mr.
Knapp's attempt to build Trafalgar Holdings into a major
financial-services company. A lengthy investigation by this
newspaper concluded that of the billions of dollars of deals
that Mr. Knapp claimed to have done, practically none of
substance were actually carried out.
   There were several indications in 1988 that Mr. Knapp was
having financial troubles when he persuaded Western Savings
to lend $15 million to Trafalgar Capital. The loan apparently
was based on a balance sheet that indicated Trafalgar Capital
had assets of $100 million. But nearly all of that was built
up out of swaps of Trafalgar Capital securities for
securities in other hard-to-value, closely held entities.
   The largest single value was the $71.6 million assigned to
a half-interest in the Circle C Ranch, a residential
development near Austin, Texas. But the purported Circle C
stake has been the subject of litigation in federal court in
Austin over who controls the asset.
   Mr. Knapp lately has been trying his hand at insurance,
with a number of subsidiaries including one called Trafalgar
Insurance. But last fall, Insurance Commissioner David N.
Levinson of Delaware, where the unit was incorporated, issued
an order that the company cease and desist from the deceptive
use of the word insurance in its name since the company
hadn't been licensed in Delaware or elsewhere to act as an
insurance company.
   It was also learned that the Ministry of Finance of the
Bahamas has been looking into the activities of an offshore
insurance company purportedly funded largely by entities
controlled by Mr. Knapp.
   Mr. Knapp has other problems. He faces a state court
hearing in Los Angeles on a contempt-of-court charge for
failing to make payments of more than $415,000 under a
divorce settlement with his second wife, N. Brooke Knapp. Mr.
Knapp has sought to stay any final action by seeking to have
the judge in the case ousted because of alleged prejudice
against him and by filing a civil suit in state court in Los
Angeles seeking to overturn the settlement agreement.
   In his civil suit, Mr. Knapp claimed that when he signed
the settlement agreement in August 1986, he was "suffering
from a severe personality disorder and depression which
caused him to be exceedingly self-destructive and which
rendered him unable to understand and comprehend the nature
of the agreement and its consequences."
   That suit was thrown out a few months ago, with the court
calling it "a transparently obvious attempt" to delay
prosecution on the contempt charges. The court also dismissed
the motion to disqualify the judge.
   The contempt hearing was scheduled for April 19, but court
records show it was postponed for four months. Mrs. Knapp's
lawyer declined to comment, saying that the reason for the
delay was discussed in the judge's chambers. A lawyer for Mr.
Knapp said that the two sides were trying to work out a
mutually agreeable financial settlement. But two other people
with knowledge of the proceeding said that another reason for
the delay was the FBI's seizure of Mr. Knapp's personal
financial records.
   Mr. Knapp formed Trafalgar several months after regulators
forced out the maverick executive as chairman of Financial
Corp. of America, the parent of American Savings &amp; Loan
Association, then the nation's largest thrift. Mr. Knapp set
up a brokerage firm that later failed, but his main business
was purportedly lining up several billion dollars in
financing to help corporate raiders make unfriendly
takeovers. But The Wall Street Journal found that while
Trafalgar collected millions of dollars in up-front fees, it
backed away nearly every time it actually was called upon to
turn over promised funds. Mr. Knapp in the past has denied
any improprieties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Motor Wins
   Partial Victory
   In Wiper Case
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Ford Motor Co. won a partial victory in its
battle with inventor Robert W. Kearns when a federal jury
ruled that the auto maker didn't willfully infringe his
patents for an intermittent windshield wiper system.
   The jury is scheduled to continue deliberations today to
decide how much money, if any, Mr. Kearns should collect from
Ford.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Attorneys for Mr. Kearns argued during the two-week
penalty phase of the trial that Ford should pay the Maryland
inventor as much as $325 million. The attorneys also
contended that Ford engineers and executives didn't "care one
way or the other" about Mr. Kearns's patent claims.
   Had the jury agreed that Ford's infringement was willful,
U.S. District Court Judge Avern Cohn could have doubled or
tripled any financial award.
   Any payments awarded to Mr. Kearns would be compensation
for Ford's use over 17 years of three windshield wiper
systems that infringed on at least three of Mr. Kearns's
patents, according to his attorneys.
   A Ford spokesman declined comment yesterday, citing a gag
order imposed by the judge in the case. Lawyers for Mr.
Kearns also declined to comment.
   Ford argued in an earlier phase of the trial that while
its wiper systems were similar to those patented by Mr.
Kearns, those patents were invalid and thus there was no
infringement. But the jury ruled in January that Mr. Kearns's
patents were valid, and in effect said Ford had infringed the
Kearns patents.
   But the jurors apparently agreed with Ford lawyers who
argued that company officials acted in good faith and "didn't
believe they had stolen" Mr. Kearns's ideas. Moreover, Ford
lawyers argued that company officials acted responsibly
during negotiations with Mr. Kearns and his lawyers that
dragged on for nearly seven years.
   Mr. Kearns sued Ford in 1978, charging the auto maker with
infringing his patents for an electronically controlled,
intermittent windshield wiper system. He subsequently filed
similar suits against nearly every other major auto maker in
the world. The Ford case is the first to go to trial.
Intermittent windshield wipers are offered as a standard or
optional feature on millions of cars.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Century Telephone Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CTL
</CO>
<LP>
   MONROE, La. -- Century Telephone Enterprises Inc. said it
expects to report a $2.2 million second-quarter gain from the
sale of the remainder of its investment in Telecom USA. The
company said the gain is equal to about seven cents a share.
   In the year-ago quarter, Century had net income of $5.3
million, or 18 cents a share, on revenue of $49.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The telecommunications concern reported first-quarter net
of $6.8 million, or 22 cents a share, including a $354,000,
or one-cent-a-share, gain from the sale of a portion of its
Telecom stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ship Orders for South Korea
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korean shipyards for the first
four months of this year received orders for 60 new ships
totaling 3.8 million gross tons, more than triple a year ago,
the Trade and Industry Ministry said.
   All but one ship was for export.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials said the orders, already close to an annual
record tonnage of four million tons in 1983, were valued at
$3.13 billion, more than double a year ago.
   They said South Korean shipyards completed 761,000 tons of
ships in the past four months and are expected to complete
about 3.6 million tons of ships this year if workers end
their strike soon at the Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.
shipyard in Ulsan, the world's largest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Loose Cannons:
   Arms Dealers in Israel
   Operate Quite Openly
   On the Fringe of Law
   ---
   Yair Klein Is Unprosecuted
   In Colombia Drug Case
   Despite Latest Evidence
   ---
   A History of Latin Intrigue
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST AFRIC LATAM FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   TEL AVIV -- At 5 Luntz St., it's business as usual for
Yair Klein, wanted in Colombia on charges of running a
training school for cocaine-cartel hitmen and facing
prosecution at home for breaking Israeli law on exporting
defense know-how.
   In the nine months since this situation surfaced, Mr.
Klein has continued to run what he brags is "the best team in
Israel for small wars, anti-terror units and commando
operations." An official inquiry in Israel hasn't led to a
prosecution, and now new evidence implicates him in the sale
of weapons discovered at the ranch of one of Colombia's most
infamous drug barons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   How does Mr. Klein, a swashbuckling lieutenant-colonel in
the Israeli army reserves, manage to keep operating? Mr.
Klein is part of a world-wide trade in military arms and
expertise that brings Israel big money, along with
innumerable scandals. The nation needs international sales to
prop up its arms industry, and prosecuting him could open a
window that Israel prefers to keep shut. Israel has shown
willingness to do business with just about any government,
and tolerance of shadowy dealers such as Mr. Klein.
   A powerfully built veteran of the Lebanon war, the
46-year-old Mr. Klein says the Colombians he trained were
ranchers rather than drug lords, and he denies selling any
arms to cocaine dealers.
   Arms are big business in Israel. At least one out of every
10 workers is involved in the arms trade, from
cottage-industry consultancies such as Mr. Klein's, operated
out of a seedy Tel Aviv apartment, to industrial giants such
as Israel Aircraft Industries Ltd., the state's largest
exporter, whose foreign military sales last year exceeded
$800 million.
   According to official figures, military sales to more than
60 countries brought Israel $1.4 billion last year, putting
the tiny nation of 4.4 million people among the world's
largest arms exporters. And those figures don't include rogue
operations such as Mr. Klein's training school, which wasn't
approved by the Ministry of Defense. Some 40% of Israel's
sales go to the U.S. and Europe. But even a partial list of
other past and current clients reveals the bizarre nature and
the global reach of Israel's arms trade.
   Murky dealings in Latin America long predate Mr. Klein's
adventures. Israel has supplied arms and training to the
military juntas of Chile, Guatemala and Argentina. It aided
Nicaragua's Anastasio Somoza until his fall, then aided the
Contra rebels. A top adviser to Panama's Manuel Noriega,
Michael Harari, was former head of clandestine operations for
Mossad, Israel's intelligence service.
   In Africa, Israel recently re-established military links
with Ethiopia's Marxist president, Mengistu Haile Miriam.
Israeli military advisers helped Idi Amin to power in Uganda
in 1971. Zaire's dictator, Mobuto Sese Seko, trained as a
paratrooper in Israel, had an ex-Mossad agent as a top
adviser, and currently is host to eight Israeli officers as
trainers for his army. Despite international sanctions,
Israel has conducted many joint military programs with South
Africa, perhaps even collaborating on nuclear arms.
   The late Ayatollah Khomeini got Israeli arms at least
until 1985. And a 1988 prosecution of an Israeli middle man
in Hong Kong finally exposed the details of a long-denied
arms-supply relationship with China.
   A few Israelis deplore their state's links with such
regimes. "What enemy is Israel fighting through these sales?"
asks Benjamin Beit-Hallahmi, a professor of psychology and a
specialist in the arms trade at Haifa University. In most
cases, he says, "it is the population of the Third World,
which can't be allowed to win its revolution." Israelis, he
argues, tend to identify leftist guerrilla movements with the
struggle of the Palestinians. "The confrontation doesn't
start in Zaire, it starts right here. When Israelis look at
the people of the Third World, they see the Arabs of Gaza."
   But few Israelis share Mr. Beit-Hallahmi's views. Hard
economics drives the arms business, says David Ivry,
director-general of the Israeli Defense Ministry. "Foreign
policy is one reason to approve a contract, but no one is
even asking permission if it isn't economically wise." There
is, however, a strong correlation between arms clients and
regimes that have large or vulnerable Jewish communities,
such as Ethiopia, Chile, Argentina, Morocco and South Africa.
   Surrounded by enemies, Israel has always needed arms. An
early embargo by Britain, France and the U.S. forced the tiny
state to produce its own. For it to make the industry
economically viable, exports became essential. And as the
Israeli forces attained remarkable victories, the demand for
their battle-tested equipment soared.
   Now, with the easing of tensions everywhere from NATO to
Soweto, the industry is threatened with the loss of its
biggest clients and competition from a flood of low-priced
surplus.
   Yet with enemies such as Iraq continuing to expand their
arsenals, Israel can't afford to significantly reduce its own
production, and must somehow find new markets.
   Israel isn't alone in supplying arms to unsavory regimes.
Just last month, France delivered Mirage jets to Libya's Col.
Moammar Gadhafi in return for hostages. The Swiss sold
military planes to Idi Amin in 1977, and the Iran-Contra
scandal showed that the U.S. wasn't above dealing even with
its arch-foe for a perceived political gain.
   Israeli weapons sales occasionally have been undertaken as
U.S. dirty work, to funnel military aid to domestically
unpalatable regimes, but others fly in the face of U.S.
foreign policy. As a result, the Israelis "tend to be
close-handed about their deals," says a U.S. Defense
Department official who works closely with the Israelis.
Because the U.S. is the source of much of Israel's most
sophisticated weapons technology, it theoretically controls
its re-export. "We can put a lot of pressure on them," says
the official, "but Israel isn't a parrot."
   In Ethiopia, Mr. Mengistu's brutal regime is tottering,
with insurrections by its starving people flaring in several
regions. Signs are that the Soviets, long the main arms
supplier, are withdrawing support, but Israel is stepping
into the breach. In December, aid workers say, teams of
Israelis were flying daily from Addis Ababa to the airport in
Asmara, an Ethiopian base of operations against Eritrean
guerrillas.
   The Israeli government denies sending any military
instructors. "We are sending almost nothing to Ethiopia -- a
very low amount of assistance," says a senior Israeli
government official.
   Israel wants freedom of emigration for the estimated
17,000 Jews in Ethiopia, and several hundred have arrived in
Israel since diplomatic ties resumed last year after a
16-year break. As well, Ethiopia has pardoned Jews sentenced
to prison for trying to emigrate illegally.
   "Whatever we did with Ethiopia lately was to get out those
Jews," says Benjamin Peled, former head of the Israeli air
force. Even if Mr. Mengistu falls, Israel still can benefit,
Mr. Peled argues, because relationships formed among the
military endure from regime to regime. "Down at working
levels in those countries there probably is sympathy, because
the people we sent are good people," he says.
   Like many retired Israeli officers, Mr. Peled, a
major-general in the reserves, last year founded his own
company, Crossbow Ltd., to develop and market arms. A
confidential private-placement memorandum details the
company's aim to produce products "for use by military and
paramilitary combat units at the low tactical echelons," or,
as Mr. Peled puts it, to get some of the "glitter" of
high-tech weaponry into the hands of ordinary fighters.
   Mr. Peled's decision to turn his distinguished military
career to use in business isn't unusual in Israel, where army
service is universal. "You take a guy who grows up on a farm
and goes into the army," says Aharon Klieman, a professor of
politics at Tel Aviv University. "When he comes out, he knows
two things, how to grow tomatoes and how to make war. And
there's a lot more money in war."
   Israel has an estimated 100,000 reserve officers and some
800 licensed military consultancies. Many of them advertise
their skills in a weighty tome titled "Israel Defense Sales
Directory," issued annually by the Defense Ministry's
arms-sales office. Some of the hardware advertised in its
glossy, full-color pages: a "low-cost terminal guidance kit
for general-purpose bombs"; "an ear in the right place" bugs
for telephone, telex and computer monitoring; and "the unique
High-tech riot control vehicles" with "colored tear gas jet."
   There also are ads for consultancies such as Iscal Group,
which features a photograph of eight unnamed men with a
caption bragging that "each of these executives has an
impressive personal CV in certain military fields of
activity," and offering their services to help develop ground
and air forces.
   Yair Klein's firm, Hod Hahanit, or Spearhead, advertised
in the Spanish-language edition of the directory in 1988, a
year before Mr. Klein was accused of training Colombian drug
warriors.
   Hod Hahanit was established in 1983. Mr. Klein had served
12 years in the army and, as a reservist, fought as a deputy
brigade commander in the Lebanon war. His company's first
client was a contact from that conflict, the Phalange
Christian militia, the group responsible for the massacre of
Palestinians in the Sabra and Shatilla refugee camps. The
Phalange wanted "belts, helmets, personal gear," Mr. Klein
says, and he arranged for their supply.
   Between that contract and the Colombia training job, Mr.
Klein says he worked for about 100 international clients. Mr.
Klein, with a deep tan and a dazzling smile, says much of the
work was driven by his own personal crusade against the
spread of communism in the Third World. "Today's left isn't
the same left," he says, "but two or three years ago, leftist
guerrillas were a source of evil in the world."
   Mr. Klein said in an April interview that he initially
applied to the Israel Ministry of Defense for a permit to
train members of a Colombian government security agency. That
permit was denied. He says that when ranchers approached him
soon after, worried about guerrilla attacks and seeking
anti-insurgent training, he didn't ask the Defense Ministry's
permission. Technically, Israel requires consultants to
obtain a permit even to begin negotiations on a military
deal. But "in practice," Mr. Klein said, such rules weren't
observed. "Many people were working with private bodies"
without official sanction, he says.
   The first scandal broke last August, when NBC aired a film
of Mr. Klein conducting one of his classes. Mr. Klein
acknowledges that some of the ranchers he trained may have
been involved in the drug trade, but he says he didn't have
any knowledge of it. "Anyone who deals with drugs should be
executed," he says.
   Last December, however, Colombian police ambushed and
killed Jose Gonzalo Rodriguez Gacha, a major drug trafficker.
A search of his ranch found a cache of arms which was traced
to an Israeli shipment that supposedly had been destined for
Antigua. Baruch Binah, a spokesman for the Israeli Foreign
Ministry, says Israel approved a shipment of Uzis and other
light arms to the small security force of the eastern
Carribbean island with the stipulation that it wouldn't be
passed on to any other nation. Antiguan officials have told
the Israelis they didn't order the arms and have launched an
inquiry into how the shipment ordered in their name passed to
Colombia.
   Mr. Klein, named by Antiguans as an intermediary in the
newly disclosed deal, has denied he sold anything to Mr.
Gacha. A report in the Jerusalem Post quotes Mr. Klein as
saying he arranged the arms for Panamanian insurgents who
wanted to topple Gen. Noriega. Mr. Klein couldn't be
contacted for comment on that report, and his lawyer, Yigal
Shapira, wouldn't elaborate, saying that "it isn't the time
to tell the full story."
   The Israeli government says it still is investigating Mr.
Klein's Colombian activities. But that hasn't stopped him
from getting lucrative contracts to provide anti-terrorist
training to bus drivers of "the Egged," a cooperative
subsidized and regulated by the government, and to railway
workers. Mr. Klein says he also was employed to train
security officers of the Interior Ministry, although a
spokeswoman for the ministry couldn't immediately confirm
this.
   Mr. Klein says he prefers to work abroad "because the
money is better, and clients are willing to listen." He adds,
"In Israel everybody thinks they know better than you." But
now, he says, "because of all the noise" over Colombia, he is
working only in Israel. He even has diversified from the
security field into a new business -- supplying Jordan River
water in crucifix-shaped bottles to Christian tourists. His
business card for that enterprise bears the name Yair Gal.
   Why his case remains unresolved was hinted at by Rafael
Eitan, a member of the Israeli parliament and a former army
chief of staff.
   "Someday, perhaps, if it's decided that the stories can be
told, you'll see that the state has been involved in acts
which are a thousand times more dirty than anything going on
in Colombia," he told the Jerusalem Post last September.
"These things were decided by the government, in cabinet
meetings. As long as the government decides to do something,
something that the national interest demanded, then it is
legitimate."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Transportation:
   Push for Long Trucks Hits Bumpy Road
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
TRUCKING (TRK)
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<LP>
   Move over, Casey Jones. Here come the truck-trains.
   The trucking industry plans to begin campaigning soon for
approval to use larger truck sizes and weights, including
100-foot triple-trailer rigs that conjure up images of small
trains rolling on the nation's highways.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "They'll have to put on a caboose and a rear brakeman,"
jokes James Bartley, executive director of the National
Industrial Transportation League, a shippers' group.
   Truckers, promising shippers big productivity gains, say
the larger vehicles will help counter higher taxes and other
rising costs by reducing the number of cabs and drivers
needed. "You can be damn sure that the question of larger and
more efficient trucks is high on our productivity hit
parade," says Thomas J. Donohue, president of American
Trucking Associations, Alexandria, Va.
   Truckers see an opportunity to push for super trucks when
Congress, which could prod states to ease barriers, fashions
a new highway bill in the next 18 months. Meanwhile, they
await the release in coming months of studies expected to
show that the long truck combinations can operate safely and
save shippers money.
   But the prospect of trailers strung together in truck
trains is already generating loud complaints. The American
Automobile Association vows to fight the bigger trucks, which
"would put the average automobile driver at increased risk,"
says George Viverette, the AAA's director of highway
transportation. "I don't see why our members should have to
share the roads with these big trucks."
   Others argue that it defies common sense to squeeze larger
trucks onto increasingly congested highways. And they
question the wisdom of making trucks so much more efficient
that they attract more freight to the highways from
railroads.
   "The trucking strategy is 180 degrees opposite of what we
think the nation's transportation policy should be," says
Brent Blackwelder, vice president for policy of Friends of
the Earth. He argues that railroads use less energy and
create less pollution than trucks to carry comparable loads,
without adding to highway congestion and deterioration.
   Some state highway officials aren't enthusiastic about
trucks getting bigger and heavier. "Truckers aren't paying
their full share of the damage they now do to the roads,"
says Howard Yerusalim, Pennsylvania's transportation
secretary. A spokesman for the Illinois Transportation
Department says the state "doesn't have the financial
resources to deal with the additional damage that would be
caused by heavier trucks."
   Railroads, whose freight business already is dwarfed by
the trucking industry's, are banding together to block the
super trucks. They are striking alliances with environmental
and road-safety groups, arguing that consumers will be the
losers if the big trucks roll.
   Railroad officials worry that the bigger trucks will
derail their recent success at winning some freight business
from the highways. By stacking two containers in special
low-slung cars, railroads have cut costs enough to capture
more than $100 million a year in freight shipments from
trucks along the nation's busiest long-distance freight
routes.
   "The playing field has tipped substantially in favor of
the railroads in long-haul, high-density, east-west freight
lanes," says John Larkin, an analyst at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons,
Baltimore. But longer rigs, Mr. Larkin adds, would tip the
playing field back in the other direction.
   Not every railroad executive is worried about bigger
trucks. "I don't think that will make or break us," says Drew
Lewis, chief executive officer of Union Pacific Corp., adding
that railroad service improvements and cost-cutting measures
will mean more to rail freight levels.
   Truckers want to operate triple 28-foot trailers and
double 48-foot trailers on interstate and other major
highways nationwide. Some Western states and Eastern
turnpikes now allow the longer rigs, but truckers generally
are limited to double 28-foot trailers and single 48-foot
trailers.
   Truckers say the bigger rigs will reduce their costs by
one-third. The ATA says one soon-to-be-released study will
show that use of the longer trucks on major roads around the
country will cut U.S. transportation costs about $4.4 billion
a year.
   Such savings are important to truckers, who face the
prospect of higher federal fuel taxes for road repairs when
Congress crafts highway legislation next year. In addition,
trucking companies are looking for productivity gains to
offset state tax increases and the costs of meeting new
emission standards.
   Mr. Donohue, the ATA president, says the longer rigs also
have environmental benefits: Because they lower the number of
trucks on the roads, they reduce energy use, air pollution
and highway congestion. More axles to carry the load also
would mean less road wear, he says.
   Mr. Donohue denies that heavy trucks aren't paying their
fair share for the damage they cause to highways, and he
bristles at railroad lobbying efforts to drive up truck taxes
and block increases in truck size. "If I find them walking on
our lawn all the time, I will turn on the sprinklers," says
Mr. Donuhue, who threatens to lobby for an end to various
federal subsidies that benefit the freight railroads.
   The trucking industry is lining up its allies. Max Klotz,
manager of permits of the Oregon Transportation Department,
says Oregon has permitted triple 28-foot trailers on major
highways for the past 20 years. "Their safety record is very
good," he says. Gordon Kinch, team leader of legislative
affairs at James River Corp., a paper company, says he favors
allowing longer rigs to cut shipper costs and hold down
prices to consumers.
   But not everyone is sure the economic benefits outweigh
the possible social costs. "When I put my economist hat on, I
say let's opt for larger trucks," says Bernard La Londe, a
transportation and logistics professor at Ohio State
University. But he admits having different thoughts when a
speeding 18-wheeler cut him off on the interstate. "The
trucker is often a bully," says Mr. La Londe. "I would be
hesitant to give truckers an opportunity to be twice as big a
bully."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Montana Power Doubles Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MTP
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUTTE, Montana -- Montana Power Co. said it amended its
articles of incorporation to double the number of shares of
common stock authorized to 120 million.
   The company said the change reflects a 2-for-1 stock split
that took effect Feb. 1, and the possible need for additional
common shares should rights become exercisable under a
shareholder protection rights plan established in June 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mesaba Aviation Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ATCC NWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Mesaba Aviation Inc., a unit of AirTran
Corp., said its April traffic rose 29% to 14.3 million
revenue passenger miles from 11.1 million a year earlier.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The carrier, which operates as Northwest Airlink, said its
load factor, or the percentage of available seats filled,
fell to 46.6% from 52.2%. The regional carrier operates under
a marketing agreement with Northwest Airlines, a unit of NWA
Inc., and provides service to 35 airports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Read This Story and Pass It On
   To Five of Your Friends -- or Else
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Most folks who receive chain letters toss them out,
ignoring threats of bad luck for those who break the "chain."
   Not in Hollywood. In recent months, hundreds of hot-shot
executives in Los Angeles have received copies of a chain
letter, complete with stapled notes from scads of others who
have already passed it along. "Do not keep this letter," it
says, warning of bad luck for the recipient who doesn't send
the letter on to five others.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The gimmick has worked. The chain "packet" has now jumped
coasts and is making its way through media circles in New
York. It has reached such big names as film producer Steve
Tisch; Christopher Whittle, chairman of Whittle
Communications; and Arthur O. Sulzberger Jr., deputy
publisher of the New York Times.
   "The timing was terrible," says Harris Katleman, president
and chief executive officer of Fox Inc.'s TV-production unit,
who received the letter late last year. "I would've chucked
it, but the letter came just as we were getting our pilots
ready for the fall {TV season of 1990}. Let's just say I'm
superstitious."
   Mr. Katleman sent the packet to a few pals, including Kim
LeMasters, who shortly thereafter lost his job as
entertainment chief at CBS. Another recipient, Edward
Gradinger, who was chief of New World Entertainment, also
lost his job. "Maybe they didn't respond," muses Mr.
Katleman. (Mr. LeMasters declined to comment; Mr. Gradinger
did send the letter on.)
   In attached notes, executives have apologized for passing
on the curse. "Sorry] But I've got my family to think of,"
wrote Eric Carlson, an agent at Creative Artists Agency in
Beverly Hills, Calif. "I'm not superstitious] (But I feel a
lot better playing it safe)," apologized Rob Kenneally,
senior vice president at Fox Broadcasting. Amy Introcaso
Davis, casting director at CBS Entertainment, wrote, "I hope
my unborn child forgives me for this]"
   Puzzled participants say they have no idea who started the
chain. In any event, it has kept secretaries on both coasts
busy; the packet -- which now runs about 50 pages -- has to
be photocopied four times.
   Ms. Davis, however, says she's getting a little tired of
the chain, having received the packet three different times.
"I sent the thing out twice, but I thought the third one
itself was bad luck," she says. Still, "you sort of feel like
you have to send it on."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AMR Corp.'s American Airlines
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- American Airlines, a unit of AMR
Corp., said April traffic rose 5.9%, to 6.17 billion revenue
passenger miles, from 5.82 billion revenue passenger miles in
the earlier period.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Load factor, or the percentage of available seats filled,
fell to 62.1%, from 62.3% a year ago.
   For the year to date, American said it flew 23.6 billion
revenue passenger miles, up 7.4%, from 22.0 billion revenue
passenger miles in the year-ago period. Load factor was
60.4%, down from 60.5%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hewlett-Packard Co.:
   Entry-Level Minicomputer
   Added to Unix-Based Line
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HWP
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif., expanded its HP
9000 family of Unix-based minicomputers with the introduction
of a new entry-level machine, the Model 822S.
   The new computer will be priced at $27,900 and is
scheduled to become available in June.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Model 822S, like others in the 9000 family, uses
reduced instruction set computing, or RISC, technology, and
is designed to serve the client-server and laboratory
environment.
   A server is a computer within a network that offers
services to other so-called clients, including personal
computers and workstations, to free them to perform other
tasks.
   The introduction of the new model, which brings the 9000
family to 13 minicomputers, is designed to offer
"minicomputer functionality at the price of a multi-user PC,"
said Bernard Guyidon, general manager of Hewlett-Packard's
general systems division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Westmoreland Coal
   Declares Dividend,
   Its First Since 1988
   ----
   By Jill M. Bullock
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   WMOR
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Westmoreland Coal Co., aided by a
sustained effort to cut costs and boost productivity,
declared a quarterly dividend of eight cents a share, its
first payout in almost two years.
   Westmoreland suspended its quarterly dividend of 15 cents
a share in mid-1988 as it stepped up a program to streamline
all aspects of its business. Marginal assets and operations
were sold, hundreds of hourly wage jobs and 140 management
positions were eliminated and such executive perks as
company-paid health benefits were reduced.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The restructuring is behind us," said Pemberton
Hutchinson, Westmoreland's president and chief executive
officer. "Now we will see the benefits." The dividend is
payable June 11 to stock of record May 18.
   He cited lower administrative costs, reduced debt, more
efficient mining equipment and an improved safety record. For
1989, Westmoreland reported net income jumped to $11.5
million from $1.5 million the year before as revenue rose to
$600 million from $593 million.
   Mr. Hutchinson predicted that 1990 per-share earnings will
exceed last year's level of $1.39, but he didn't make a
specific forecast. "I can't be more enthusiastic about 1990,"
he told the annual meeting.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday,
Westmoreland closed at $22.25, up 75 cents.
   This year, Westmoreland is working with new customers in
West Germany that will be able to take delivery for the first
time of U.S.-produced coal because of the company's new
shipping and off-loading capabilities in Europe. Mr.
Hutchinson also said Westmoreland plans to increase its
ownership stake in Dominion Terminal Associates, a
rail-to-ship loading terminal in Newport News, Va.
Westmoreland now owns 17.5% of the facility and will acquire
an additional 2.5% interest without taking on any new debt,
he said.
   In addition, Mr. Hutchinson predicted that Westmoreland
will benefit from pending clean-air legislation because the
company produces low-sulfur coal. Demand for low-sulfur coal
is expected to increase as utilities move to comply with
stricter federal pollution rules. In the 1990 first quarter,
Westmoreland sold 4.6 million tons of coal, compared with 4.4
million tons in the year-earlier period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OPEC Wellhead Crude Oil
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Wellhead crude-oil production by the 13 member
countries of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries in April totaled 23.5 million barrels a day, down
from a revised 24 million barrels a day in March, the
International Energy Agency reported.
   The Paris-based agency said in its monthly "Oil Market
Report" that OPEC countries also produced 1.9 million barrels
a day of natural-gas liquids and condensates in April,
unchanged from March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agency said its preliminary figures put world oil
supply in April at 54.2 million barrels a day, down from 54.6
million barrels a day in March, but in line with an average
54.2 million barrels a day for the first quarter. April's
decline was "due almost entirely to a decrease in OPEC
production," the IEA said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy's 1st-Period Debt Narrows
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MILAN -- Italy's public-sector deficit narrowed to a
provisional 25.318 trillion lire ($20.85 billion) in the
first quarter of the year from a revised deficit of 30.307
trillion lire in the first three months of 1989, the Treasury
announced yesterday.
   The government deficit for the first quarter of 1989 was
revised upward from an original estimate of 29.746 trillion
lire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Treasury said that tax revenue amounted to 70.955
trillion lire. Public sector spending totaled 79.037 trillion
lire, while Treasury operations resulted in a deficit of
17.236 trillion lire.
   The deficit was covered with the issuing of medium-term
and long-term government securities totaling 9.833 trillion
lire, debt issues placed abroad resulting in net revenue of
397 billion lire and other kinds of government debt totaling
15.088 trillion lire.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comerica Headquarters Site
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMCA
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Comerica Inc. said it will build a $200 million
headquarters office in downtown Detroit on a site now
occupied by a concert hall named for Henry and Edsel Ford.
   The banking company said it is still working out financing
for the project, but expects to receive about $18 million in
loans for the project from the City of Detroit Downtown
Development Authority.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Comerica will maintain an equity interest in the completed
development. The agreement also contains provisions that will
allow the development authority to receive a portion of the
building's cash-flow and sales proceeds revenue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Bad Real Estate Market or Not,
   Banks Chase Home-Equity Loans
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bad real estate loans may be a mounting problem for many
of the nation's banks, and fears of a worsening credit crunch
may be growing, but banks are still chasing home-equity
loans.
   Indeed, even in markets such as New York and New England,
where real estate prices are soft, affluent borrowers with
solid credit records are still in big demand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We want to do more, not less" home-equity lending, says
Alec Smythe, marketing director for consumer-banking products
at Citibank, which has $3.8 billion of home-equity credit
outstanding. "Both in terms of advertising and pricing, we're
tending to be more competitive."
   True, some home-equity lenders are becoming more selective
-- paying greater and greater attention to borrowers' credit
histories, tightening loan-to-value and debt-service ratios
and becoming more stringent in their real-estate appraisals.
   But lenders are competing as hotly as ever for borrowers
who qualify. Many are waiving up-front "points" and other
fees that borrowers usually pay to close home-equity credits.
In some markets, Citibank and others are offering to lend as
much as 100% of a home's equity value (the market value minus
the existing mortgage debt outstanding) for upscale borrowers
willing to pay a higher interest rate.
   Says Kenneth Wohst, senior vice president in charge of
consumer loans at Chemical Bank: "Our strategy is that
{home-equity loans} are the featured way to borrow and the
linchpin of our consumer loan products going forward."
   Home-equity credits come in two basic flavors: loans and
credit lines. The loans -- which are a lot like normal
mortgages, with regular monthly paydowns of interest and
principal -- tend to appeal to the most conservative
borrowers. The lines are revolving credit arrangements that
charge interest only on amounts drawn down, making them more
like credit-card debt.
   Interest on home-equity lines is variable, usually
floating at 1.5 to 2 percentage points over the prime rate,
with monthly or quarterly adjustments. But the pricing is
becoming increasingly competitive. For instance, a Federal
Reserve survey of major banks' pricing on such lines in
February showed that more than 8% had trimmed the average
"spread" over their base rates since last autumn, while only
4% said they had raised it.
   "The pricing has clearly moved down since these products
started out, and my judgment is that the price will continue
to drop somewhat," says Walter Blass, chairman of Shearson
Lehman Hutton Mortgage Corp. Shearson offers home-equity
lines priced at the prime rate, but with a stiff 2.5
percentage points of origination fees up front to initiate
the line.
   Banks like home-equity lending because the credits are
collateralized by people's homes, providing greater security
and lower default rates than other types of consumer loans.
Numerous market surveys also show that home-equity credit
tends to appeal to the kind of upscale, educated consumers
that banks favor most.
   Borrowers like home-equity credit for the tax advantages:
Interest paid on as much as $100,000 of home-equity
borrowings is still fully deductible, no matter what the
proceeds are used for. And borrowers can deduct an even
greater amount, as long as the proceeds go to finance home
improvement.
   With deductions on all other consumer debt destined to be
phased out entirely by next year, it is no wonder the
popularity of home-equity debt -- to finance everything from
new cars to college tuition -- has soared. Total home-equity
credits outstanding amounted to $230 billion in 1989, an $80
billion rise from 1985, according to SMR Research Corp., a
financial-services research firm. Most of that growth was in
home-equity lines, which ballooned to $95 billion from just
$18 billion.
   But the danger for borrowers -- and a growing worry for
regulators -- is the prospect of falling home prices, which
could erode the equity backing these loans, and in extreme
cases cause individuals to lose their homes. Recently, a
senior examiner for the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency reportedly warned a group of bankers in Washington
that "underwriting standards are not as tough as they should
be" in granting such loans.
   That's the kind of concern prompting lenders to become
more discriminating. The Fed survey in February found that
25% of the 48 respondents said they're "more conservative"
than they were six months ago in the appraisals used to
calculate maximum credit lines.
   "We're being more disciplined in making appraisals," says
Denison Gallaudet, executive director of retail banking at
Bank of Boston. "In Maine, we used to rely on tax rolls, and
in Connecticut we did drive-bys; now we get full appraisals."
   The Fed survey also found that some 19% of respondents had
lowered loan-to-value ratios, while 12.5% had tightened
debt-to-income ratios.
   Typically, lenders don't grant home-equity credits equal
to more than 80% of the equity value of the property. Now, in
specific problem areas, such as Connecticut, Boston and the
New York co-op market, some lenders are lowering their
loan-to-value maximums to 70% to 75%.
   That probably won't cramp many borrowers, however. "Even
when we set ratios at 80%, the typical borrower never wants
the maximum," says Derrald Johnson, marketing director for
direct consumer loans at Bank of America, which has $7
billion of home equity loans and credit lines outstanding. In
fact, most lenders say actual loan-to-value ratios average
only 60% to 65%.
   Meanwhile, to ensure the borrower's ability to repay, most
banks refuse to lend if the borrower's total debt servicing
costs -- including first mortgage, home equity loan and other
consumer credit -- exceed 36% to 40% of gross income.
   "There's no indication that there's a reason to tighten
for any lenders who handled this product properly," says Mr.
Johnson.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Plant Investment
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Investment in plant and equipment by Japanese
corporations will increase 6.7% in fiscal 1990, which began
in April, from the previous fiscal year because of healthy
economic growth led by domestic demand, according to a survey
by the Economic Planning Agency.
   The survey of 4,207 companies conducted March 1 also
showed that Japan's corporate executives are becoming
increasingly cautious about the future of their business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On equipment investment, the survey said manufacturers
plan to spend 10.7% more than they did in the previous fiscal
year, while non-manufacturers show 4.1% growth.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Imported Vehicles Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN G.VOW G.DAI HMC G.AUD
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Sales of imported cars, trucks and buses in Japan
totaled 20,142 units in April, up 26% from a year earlier,
the Japan Automobile Importers' Association said. The rise
reflects continuing strength in consumer demand for luxury
goods and the narrowing price gap between domestic and
imported vehicles.
   The upward trend of imported vehicle sales amid Japan's
continuing economic expansion was further boosted in April,
when a heavy commodity tax on imports was replaced by a lower
consumption tax, lowering sticker prices of foreign cars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales of passenger cars rose 26% to 19,894 units. Among
these, medium-size cars totaled 10,074, up 20%, while
small-size cars totaled 9,820, up 32%. A total of 242
imported trucks, most of them U.S.-made, were sold, up 105%.
   Volkswagen-Audi Group had the largest market share among
all imported vehicles, selling 4,574 units, up 22%. The
second-best seller was Mercedes-Benz, up 9.3% to 3,501.
   Sales of U.S.-made vehicles grew 59% to 3,188 units. The
strong overall increase was supported by that of small-size
cars made by Honda USA, the Japanese maker's U.S. subsidiary.
It sold 1,057 units, up 128%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Merchandise-Trade Data
   Showed German Surplus
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Buoyed by record-high exports,
the West German merchandise-trade surplus in March surged to
13.40 billion marks ($8.09 billion) from 10.63 billion marks
in February, according to the Federal Statistics Office.
   The March surplus exceeded economists' expectations of
11.5 billion marks for the month and surpassed the 12.8
billion mark surplus recorded by the Statistics Office for
March 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   West Germany's current-account surplus also widened in
March to a preliminary 10.1 billion marks from a revised 8.1
billion marks the previous month, the Statistics Office said.
The February total was adjusted from the originally reported
8.3 billion marks.
   The current-account balance includes trade in goods, as
well as in services, plus certain transfers.
   West German merchandise exports totaled 60.95 billion
marks in March, up 17% from 52.02 billion marks in February.
The March figure surpassed the record of 60.8 billion marks
posted for June 1989.
   But March imports also rose, gaining 15% to 47.545 billion
marks from February's 41.39 billion marks.
   Meantime, in the first quarter of 1990, the West German
merchandise-trade surplus grew 2.5% to the equivalent of 36.9
billion marks from 36 billion marks in the year-ago quarter,
while the current-account surplus shrank 9.1% to 28.5 billion
marks from 31.1 billion marks in the first quarter of 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bass Family Gives Yale
   $20 Million for Studies
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW HAVEN, Conn. -- Yale University received a $20 million
gift from the Bass family of Fort Worth, Texas, to establish
an Institute of Biospheric Studies, dedicated to research and
teaching on the global environment.
   The gift, the largest to the school in more than 20 years,
was presented by the third Bass brother, Edward P. Bass. Mr.
Bass graduated from Yale with a Bachelor of Science degree in
1968 and did graduate work in architecture there from 1968 to
1970. Over the years, the Bass family has given a number of
gifts to the school.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bass, who is chairman and chief executive officer of
the investment firm Fine Line Inc., is involved with a number
of environmental organizations and causes. He holds positions
as a director of the World Wildlife Fund, a member of the
board of managers of the New York Botanical Garden, and a
director of the Council of African Wildlife Foundation, among
others.
   Yale's faculty in biology, geology and geophysics,
forestry and environmental studies will provide the
institute's core academic resources, the school said.
   The gift will allow Yale to renovate academic facilities,
endow senior and junior academic positions and provide a $2
million endowment for the directorship of the Institute of
Yale's Peabody Museum of Natural History.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Several Executives
   Resign Posts at Tosco
   As Firm Plans to Move
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TOS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SANTA MONICA, Calif. -- Tosco Corp. said James M. Cleary,
senior vice president of refining, will become president of
the Tosco Refining Co. division effective June 30. He
succeeds John G. Drosdick, who is resigning.
   Peter A. Sutton, a vice president, was promoted to senior
vice president, succeeding William Floyd, who resigned.
Wilkes McClave, assistant general counsel and secretary, was
appointed senior vice president and general counsel,
succeeding Eric Schwartz, who resigned. Mr. McClave continues
as corporate secretary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The resignations coincide with the company's announcement
that it plans to move its corporate offices to the East Bay
area of San Francisco during the fourth quarter.
   Tosco, an independent oil refiner engaged in refining and
marketing wholesale petroleum products, makes and distributes
phosphate-based fertilizer products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Arkansas Campus
   To Receive Patent
   On Superconductor
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   The University of Arkansas said it was notified by the
U.S. Patent Office that it will be issued a patent for
thallium-based superconductors discovered two years ago by
scientists at the school.
   A spokesman for the school in Fayetteville said the patent
is expected to broadly cover the thallium compounds, which
show superconductivity at the highest temperature known for
the phenomenon. Last year, International Business Machines
Corp. received the first patent covering certain thallium
superconductors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The IBM patent surprised experts in the field, for the
Arkansas scientists, Zhengzhi Sheng and Allen Hermann, were
widely regarded as the discoverers of thallium-based
superconductors. IBM's patent, however, covers only a narrow
range of thallium superconductor compositions.
   The expected broader Arkansas patent may set the stage for
a patent dispute between the school and IBM. The school
declined to comment on that possibility, and IBM executives
weren't immediately available for comment. Mr. Hermann, who
is now at the University of Colorado but stands to receive
part of the proceeds from commercialization of the patent,
said, "Now we have something to sell."
   A different high-temperature superconductor compound based
on the element yttrium earlier spawned a patent office
"interference" proceeding between IBM and three other
organizations claiming rights to the compound. Such disputes
involve sizable stakes -- Du Pont Co. in 1988 bought rights
to the University of Houston's patent applications on the
yttrium compound for $4.5 million.
   Controlling patent rights to the new compounds could
someday be worth far more than that. Superconductors conduct
electricity without resistance when cooled and promise
breakthroughs in electronics, power generation and other
technologies. Several of the new "high-temperature"
superconductors, which work when cooled with easily obtained
liquid nitrogen, have been discovered during the past four
years. A version of the thallium superconductor works at
minus 234 degrees Fahrenheit, which is the record for the
phenomenon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP WNEWS FREST PEP KO
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
BANKS (BNK)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   JAPANESE CONSUMERS `CAUTIOUS'
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japanese consumers are becoming more cautious about the
future, Japan's Economic Planning Agency said.
   The agency said its quarterly survey conducted in March
showed that the index of consumer confidence, seasonally
adjusted, declined 1.8% from December.
   In compiling its data, the agency asked consumers whether
their standards of living improved, remained the same or
deteriorated over the three-month period and how they'll
change in the future. The results of the latest survey of
5,021 households showed that consumers are becoming more
cautious because of heavier interest burdens and declining
confidence in the country's economy.
   On a brighter note, the survey said consumers'
satisfaction with current incomes was greater than in the
last survey.
                                                                                                       

   A FIRING IN POLAND
                                                                                                       

   The Polish Ministry of Industry dismissed the director of
the state-run oil monopoly for contributing to havoc in
gas-station supplies, a ministry spokesman said. Jerzy
Szewczyk was fired for failing to predict a need to increase
crude-oil imports, said the spokesman. He said Mr. Szewczyk
had kept a relatively low supply of gas in Poland and hadn't
anticipated increased purchases last week as a result of two
holidays. Also, some Soviet gasoline bound for Poland is
refined in Lithuania, where Moscow's confrontation with the
independence-minded republic has interrupted exports.
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRALIAN BREAKTHROUGH

   An Australian company that makes air-conditioning systems
said it has made a major breakthrough in the fight against
the killer Legionnaires' disease. John Dunshea, managing
director of the Melbourne-based Dynamag Pty, said the company
had developed equipment that prevented air-conditioning
systems from harboring dangerous levels of the bacteria that
cause the disease. He was quoted by the Australian Associated
Press as saying that the system, involving a magneto process,
was far more effective in killing the bacteria than any
current chemical treatment.
                                                                                                       

   REPAIRING A DANISH LANDMARK
                                                                                                       

   Copenhagen's City Council ordered urgent repairs to the
Danish capital's best-known tourist attraction: the bronze
statue of the Little Mermaid. Danish police said that a
seven-inch incision in the statue's throat, probably made by
a saw several weeks ago, was recently noticed by a passer-by
who reported it. The bronze harbor-side statue, inspired by a
Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale, has suffered much at the
hands of vandals. Her head was cut off in 1964, she lost an
arm 20 years later and has been splattered with paint and
covered in graffiti.
                                                                                                       

   YUGOSLAVIA AND THE EC
                                                                                                       

   The president of Yugoslavia said his country's political
and economic reforms made it ready to join all major European
organizations, including the European Community. Janez
Drnovsek, addressing the parliamentary assembly of the
Council of Europe in Strasbourg, said Yugoslavia was prepared
for full membership in the 23-nation Council of Europe, the
12-nation EC, the six-nation European Free Trade Association
and the 24-nation Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development.
                                                                                                       

   ENLARGING SEOUL'S SUBWAY
                                                                                                       

   South Korea will borrow $500 million from Japan to finance
subway construction in Seoul, the official news agency said.
Japan agreed to lend the money at 4% annual interest for a
repayment period of 17 years, including a grace period of
seven years, according to Yonhap, the national news agency.
Yonhap quoted an unidentified official as saying the loan
from Japan's Overseas Development Association would be made
on condition that it be used to buy rolling stock and signal
equipment by international bids.
                                                                                                       

   MANILA GETS A BANK
                                                                                                       

   A California bank that allegedly was used by the late
Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos and his wife to launder
stolen funds has been turned over to the Philippine
government.
   The transfer of all shares in the California Overseas Bank
of Los Angeles to the Manila government was part of a
plea-bargain agreement in U.S. District Court where Imelda
Marcos is on trial.
   The bank, estimated by a defense lawyer to be worth $20
million to $30 million, had pleaded guilty to one count of
wire fraud. Other counts involving federal bank-insurance
fraud and racketeering were dropped as part of the deal.
   The bank was owned by Robert S. Benedicto, a onetime
Marcos ally who was charged with conspiring to help the
former president shift stolen money to secret Swiss accounts.
Mr. Benedicto, also indicted by the U.S. District Court, was
dropped from the case as part of the plea-bargain
arrangement.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Officials investigating mysterious tremors that have been
shaking houses in the Japanese city of Kawasaki found the
cause wasn't earthquakes but rock fans jumping up and down at
a local nightclub. The local environment office ordered the
club to thicken its floors with concrete. . . . A boycott of
Pepsi-Cola and Coca-Cola to protest a doubling of the soft
drinks' prices is spreading throughout Turkey. The increases
are attributed to Turkish inflation, which currently runs at
an annual rate of around 65%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Resolution Trust Corp. to Slash Prices
   Of Hard-to-Sell Realty From Sick S&amp;Ls
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Resolution Trust Corp., trying to speed
the sale of real estate amassed from sick savings and loan
associations, said it will reduce prices on hard-to-sell
properties by as much as 20%.
   The S&amp;L bailout agency also announced a plan to sell about
$300 million in properties through a televised auction this
summer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new policy allows the agency to reduce a property's
price by 15% after six months from the sales price originally
set by an independent appraiser. If the property still
doesn't sell after three more months, the price could be
trimmed another 5%. For residential property, the first
markdown could occur after four months.
   "We have become convinced that holding on to the property
is too expensive for the taxpayer," said William Seidman,
chairman of the RTC.
   The new policy is proof that the RTC hasn't roiled real
estate markets as earlier feared by dumping property at
below-market prices. Instead, Congress and the real estate
industry fret more about the so-called property "overhang"
that exists from the slow sales. "We originally said they
should be careful because they are going to hurt distressed
markets," said a spokeswoman for the National Association of
Realtors. "Now the thing has gone on for so long, we are just
glad to finally see something moving."
   The thrift-bailout law bars the agency from selling
property at below 95% of the market value in economically
depressed areas, mostly in the Southwest. The new approach
assumes that the market value is whatever price attracts
buyers -- not necessarily the value as determined by an
appraiser.
   The real estate -- the property held by savings and loans
that have been seized by the RTC -- currently totals about
$18 billion, or 10% of the RTC's total assets. The agency has
already sold between $2 billion and $3 billion of real estate
since last August. The rest of the RTC's asset inventory is
mostly mortgages, commercial loans, and securities. Its total
real estate portfolio could eventually surpass $100 billion
by the time it seizes the assets of all sick savings and
loans, the agency says.
   The sales policy is slightly different from what was
proposed two weeks ago when Robert Clarke, comptroller of the
currency, said he was concerned that slashing the property
prices would drive down the value of real estate held by
healthy financial institutions. The new policy calls for the
agency to monitor sales efforts by the independent brokers it
retains, before allowing the price to be reduced.
   The approach won't apply to residential property set aside
exclusively to be sold for low-income housing.
   The RTC also said it has retained Auction Company of
America, Miami, to hold its first real estate auction later
this summer, probably in Kansas City, Mo. Between $200
million and $300 million in property will be auctioned, with
each property valued at more than $1 million. It plans to
televise the auction to remote locations so that buyers from
around the country may bid.
   Property may be sold at the auctions for no less than 70%
of its appraised value. But the final price may be adjusted
to account for the savings to the government that would come
from selling the property and reducing its carrying costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Corn, Olive Oils Help Lower Cholesterol
   At Similar Rates, Diet Study Shows
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CPC
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   A new diet study concluded it makes little difference
whether people trying to lower their blood cholesterol levels
use olive oil or corn oil in a low-fat diet.
   The study challenged earlier findings that oils rich in
monounsaturated fats, such as olive oil, are preferable in
"heart healthy" diets to oils rich in polyunsaturated fats,
such as corn oil. But a nutrition scientist who conducted
some of the earlier experiments said good reasons still exist
to opt for the olive oil-types of fats in "heart healthy"
diets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The terms, monounsaturated and polyunsaturated, refer to
the fats' chemistry, specifically to whether the carbon atoms
in the fats are saturated with hydrogen atoms. Fully
saturated fat, such as that in meat and dairy products, is
believed to raise blood cholesterol levels and increase the
risk of coronary heart disease and heart attacks. Cutting
back on total fat in the diet and substituting unsaturated
fats found in vegetable oils for the saturated animal fats
lowers blood cholesterol levels and reduces heart-disease
risk.
   The study, reported in this week's Journal of the American
Medical Association, was designed to find out whether there
is any difference between monounsaturated fats and
polyunsaturated fats on blood cholesterol levels. The
experiment particularly aimed at finding out whether the
monounsaturated fats have a more favorable effect than the
polyunsaturated fats on the levels of HDL cholesterol, the
"good" form believed to protect against coronary heart
disease.
   Funding for the study was largely from federal grants but
included a gift from the Best Foods division of CPC
International Inc., maker of Mazola corn oil. Researchers
said the "no-strings-attached" Best Foods gift was sought
only after the experiment had been designed and was getting
under way.
   The experiment was carried out jointly by researchers at
the Stanford University medical school in Palo Alto, Calif.,
and the University of California's Lawrence Berkeley
Laboratories in Berkeley, Calif.
   The research team asked each of 39 men and women from a
Mormon community near San Francisco to spend 24 weeks eating
a diet in which only 30% of the calories came from fats, as
recommended by the American Heart Association. The Mormons
were picked because they abstain from smoking, coffee and
alcohol, all of which can affect cholesterol levels.
   During one 12-week period, the volunteers prepared and ate
at home a diet in which only 10% of the calories came from
saturated fat and 20% of calories came from safflower-oil and
corn-oil products that are rich in polyunsaturated fats. The
volunteers then switched to a diet in which olive and peanut
oil products, which are rich in monounsaturated fats, were
substituted for the safflower-oil and corn-oil products.
   Nutritionist Darlene M. Dreon and her colleagues said they
found no significant differences in the effects of the two
types of diets on cholesterol levels. They particularly noted
that there was no difference in the levels of the "good" HDL
form of cholesterol. Thus, they concluded, there didn't seem
to be any advantage in using monounsaturated fats instead of
polyunsaturated fats in low-fat diets, at least not for
Americans who shop at grocery stores and eat at home instead
of consuming special fat-modified foods in a nutrition
laboratory.
   But in Dallas, Scott M. Grundy, the University of Texas
nutrition scientist whose experiments have boosted the case
for monounsaturated fats, said the California experiment
wasn't as much of a challenge to monounsaturated fats as it
appeared.
   Dr. Grundy explained that past experiments have indicated
that if the low-fat diet includes a large proportion of the
polyunsaturated fats there will be a worrisome drop in the
levels of the "good" HDL cholesterol. Such an unfavorable
drop isn't seen when the diet includes a large proportion of
monounsaturated fats instead, he said. This is one reason
heart researchers have been backing off from earlier
recommendations that Americans switch to the polyunsaturated
fats found in corn and safflower oils.
   The Texas scientist said the differences in the fat
content of the two diets in the California experiment weren't
large enough to produce a detectable effect on the
HDL-cholesterol level. He added there are other reasons to
advocate monounsaturated fats over polyunsaturated fats,
including hints that the polyunsaturated fats may encourage
the development of gallstones.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Polaroid Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PRD WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   POLAROID Corp. (Cambridge, Mass.) -- Sheldon A. Buckler, a
member of Polaroid's office of the chief executive, was named
to the additional post of vice chairman, a new position at
this instant-photography concern. Mr. Buckler, 58 years old,
was also named to the company's executive committee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commercial-Paper Rates
   Decline in Citicorp Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate fell to 8.27% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.451% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $415 million were submitted. All accepted
bids were at 8.27%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said that the average rate fell to 8.2968%
at its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper, down
from 8.49% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $390 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.28% to 8.30%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Scott Paper Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SPP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SCOTT PAPER Co. (Philadelphia) -- Stephen J. Conway was
named to the newly created position of senior vice president
for environmental affairs at the paper-products concern. Mr.
Conway, 51 years old, was formerly senior vice president of
the Northeast region of Scott Worldwide, the company's
personal-care and cleaning-products unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Calling Ed Norton
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Too bad Jackie Gleason didn't live long enough to work
this one into "The Honeymooners." The Sacramento, Calif.,
Public Works Department has held a contest to rename manhole
covers. It was supposed to be just for fun and entries have
poured in from everywhere. The winner will be announced
tonight. Sacramento's mayor says the sewer department is
"keeping up with contemporary standards." Fine. We always
thought "manhole" was demeaning to men.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   `The Importance of Cultural Pluralism'
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Following is a press release from the University of
Northern Colorado, announcing it was withdrawing its
invitation to Linda Chavez to speak at commencement. A
related editorial appears today {see: "REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK
(Editorial): The Ivory Censor" -- WSJ May 9, 1990}.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   After a day of discussion with students, faculty and
staff, University of Northern Colorado President Robert C.
Dickeson announced Thursday afternoon that the institution
will rescind its invitation to Linda Chavez to speak at its
undergraduate commencement ceremonies May 12.
   The selection of Chavez, a former Reagan administration
official viewed by many as an official English advocate, has
drawn criticism from Hispanic groups, UNC's Faculty Senate,
and the UNC student government. All three groups have asked
Dickeson to rescind the invitation.
   Dickeson spent more than seven hours at UNC's University
Center Thursday to discuss the matter with members of the
university community. In all, 95 people shared opinions with
Dickeson.
   In issuing the decision to rescind the invitation,
Dickeson made five statements:
   1) The intent of the University in inviting Linda Chavez
to be the commencement speaker was to be sensitive to
cultural diversity and the committee making the decision
intended to communicate the importance of cultural pluralism.
It is clear that the decision was both uninformed and gave
the appearance of being grossly insensitive.
   2) The decision to invite Linda Chavez to be the
commencement speaker is rescinded.
   3) Because the university strongly believes in free
exchange of ideas, Linda Chavez is invited to an open forum
on the UNC campus for the same fee, which can be scheduled
during the 1990-91 academic year. Such a forum will allow for
an interactive discussion of issues rather than a unilateral
presentation which a commencement speech implies.
   4) In order for the University to make an even stronger
statement of its commitment to diversity, the vice chairman
of the UNC Board of Trustees, Edmundo Gonzalez of Denver,
will deliver a charge to the graduates at the May 12 ceremony
in place of a commencement speaker.
   5) The university needs to improve its procedures for the
selection of commencement speakers. The commencement
committee needs to be augmented to assure student and
minority representation. The Faculty Senate and the Student
Representative Council will be asked to recommend specific
ways in which this can be accomplished for the future.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CPC International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CPC INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.) -- The
responsibilities of two of this food company's executives
were expanded. Konrad Schlatter, 54 years old, vice president
for financial planning, reporting and control, was named
senior vice president of finance. Angelo Abdela, 48,
corporate treasurer, adds the title of vice president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- State and Local Spotlight:
   Small Business Monitors Statehouses, Lobbies Harder
   ----
   By Timothy D. Schellhardt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   SPECIAL SESSIONS loom in more state legislatures than
usual.
   And the small-business community, its lobbyists say,
expects to be monitoring most of them; many sessions will
focus on fiscal and tax issues. Eight states -- Arizona,
California, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Texas, Washington, West
Virginia and Wisconsin -- already have had at least one
special session this year, some of which carried over from
1989. Texas is in its second special session this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials of the National Conference of State Legislatures
say a dozen or more other states are likely to hold special
sessions. Particularly thorny issues trigger them, such as
Mississippi's struggle over how to pay for increased
education spending. Workers' compensation may spark special
sessions in West Virginia and elsewhere.
   Small-business lobbyists say special sessions often
require them to stay especially alert for tax and other
measures that hurt their constituents.
   ---
   STATE AND LOCAL issues prompt small businesses to step up
lobbying efforts.
   Grass-roots lobbying "has intensified this year as never
before" as more legislatures consider issues the
small-business community traditionally opposes, says Don L.
Robinson, associate director of the National Federation of
Independent Business, the largest small-business
organization.
   The catalyst: A growing number of measures first
considered in Congress that are filtering down to the states
-- from mandated benefits in health plans and parental leave
for employees to raising state minimum wage levels and
certain environmental issues. Threatened increases in
capital-gains and other taxes also spur small businesses.
"There's a lot more concern this year and our members are
getting madder," says Lewis Shattuck, president of the
Smaller Business Association of New England.
   The NFIB and other small-business groups are sending out
legislative alerts through mailings and telephone networks to
notify their members. Small businesses in Florida, Illinois,
Minnesota and Pennsylvania have had especially busy years.
"Small-business owners respond best to pocketbook issues,"
says Mr. Robinson. One primary issue is sharply rising
workers-compensation insurance rates.
   The small-business lobby in some states got busy even
before legislative sessions began by holding breakfasts to
discuss issues and strategies. "We're not waiting until the
gavel falls," says one small-business activist.
   ---
   WESTERN STATES have the highest concentration of small
businesses.
   Unpublished Labor Department data show that businesses
with fewer than 10 workers account for at least 80% of all
the businesses in four states: Wyoming, South Dakota, Montana
and North Dakota. One reason is that those states have a
dearth of large employers.
   Overall, three of four U.S. businesses have fewer than 10
workers. Several of the states with the lowest percentage of
small businesses are major industrial states, such as
Indiana, Illinois, Pennsylvania and Michigan.
   But the fourth-lowest state, surprisingly, is Utah, which
has a number of medium-sized companies with 10 to 100
workers.
   ---
   RIVERBOAT GAMBLING is picking up steam in several states
that border the Mississippi River. The return of 19th
century-style gaming riverboats has been allowed in
Mississippi since April 1 and will take effect next year in
Illinois and Iowa. There is gambling talk in Missouri and
Wisconsin as well. Small businesses along the river think the
gambling boats will spur tourists -- and business. In Iowa,
one study commissioned by gambling supporters said one
riverboat could generate $50 million in annual tourist
revenue and create 2,800 jobs in the Quad Cities area.
   ---
   FAMILY-OWNED manufacturing businesses in Seattle can get
help on succession plans. The Seattle Worker Center helps
develop succession plans that will be in place when an owner
retires. County officials worry that without such help, many
family-run factories will close. A survey finds that at 369
manufacturing firms in King County, the owner is at least 50
years old, and one in five owners hasn't any plans to
transfer ownership or business and management
responsibilities. Among other things, the Worker Center's
Business Succession Project encourages succession planning
and employee ownership.
   ---
   EXPORT HOTLINE for small businesses begins operating.
   The toll-free service was started by the Small Business
Foundation of America, Boston, which focuses on
small-business issues. John C. Rennie, president, says the
hotline seeks to become a "one-stop shop" for the beginning
exporter rather than simply a referral service.
   The hotline, which has been getting several dozen calls a
week since it began March 26, provides information about
export financing, documentation, licensing and insurance,
product distribution, and sources of further assistance. Much
of the information is made available by Export Network of
Bethesda, Md., which maintains more than a dozen data bases.
The hotline also provides a calendar of trade events in the
New England region.
   For callers outside Massachusetts, the number is
800-243-7232; for calls within the Bay State, 800-244-7232.
Two foundation employees staff the line from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
EDT weekdays.
   ---
          Where Small Businesses Are Most Dominant
                                                                                                       

   Percentage of businesses with fewer than 10 workers
                                                                                                       

                           10 Highest
                                                                                                       

                 1  Wyo.               83.0
                 2  S.D.               82.1
                 3  Mont.              81.4
                 4  N.D.               80.5
                 5  Alaska             79.0
                 6  Calif.             78.9
                    N.Y.               78.9
                    Okla.              78.9
                 9  Vt.                78.4
                    Colo.              78.4
                                                                                                       

                 U.S. Average          76.2
                                                                                                       

                            10 Lowest
                                                                                                       

                 1  Ind.               72.1
                 2  Va.                73.1
                    Wis.               73.1
                 4  Utah               73.3
                 5  Ill.               73.6
                 6  N.C.               73.8
                 7  Tenn.              74.1
                    Mo.                74.1
                    Pa.                74.2
                 9  Pa.                74.2
                    Mich.              74.2
                    Minn.              74.2
                                                                                                       

   Source: Unpublished data, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Overpopulation Plagues the Thriving World of Funds
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- At first blush, the $1 trillion mutual fund
industry seems healthier than ever. Investors have continued
to pour money into stock and bond mutual funds despite
recently shaky securities prices, and the industry's assets
are now at an all-time high.
   But the champagne is unlikely to flow this week when 1,200
fund-industry executives gather in Washington, D.C., for
their annual shindig, the Investment Company Institute
general membership meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For although fund shareholders have remained tenacious in
their investing, it seems fund executives have been even more
bullish -- and now are starting to pay for their excesses.
   The problem is simple enough: The fund industry is
bringing out new funds faster than money is rolling in. That,
plus the recent slump in stock and bond prices, has meant
declining assets per mutual fund and hence lower profits for
the industry.
   Today, the average bond and income fund is 8% smaller than
it was at the end of 1985, and the average stock fund is only
11% larger. Money-market funds have made healthy gains in
assets, but these funds often aren't as profitable for the
fund-management companies.
   "In 1987 and 1988, we continued to see the introduction of
new funds," and they attracted healthy dollops of assets,
says Edward Mahoney, president of AMEV Advisers. "In 1989, we
still saw new funds, but they didn't get the assets that they
expected."
   Launching new funds is proving harder than ever, forcing
fund executives to advertise heavily, cut prices and merge
uneconomical funds. Once the dust settles, the big loser may
well turn out to be smaller fund groups that cannot afford to
compete. Fund investors stand to be the big winners,
benefiting from lower expense ratios and lower mutual fund
sales commissions.
   The motto among some large fund groups seems to be: Grab
assets at almost any price. In the no-load fund arena, the
most visible combatants are Dreyfus Corp. and Fidelity
Investments, which have been temporarily absorbing expenses
on some funds in an effort to get greater market share.
   After butting heads last year over money-market funds,
Dreyfus and Fidelity are at it once again, this time with
funds that seek to track the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 stock
market index. Dreyfus's Peoples Index Fund is absorbing all
expenses for the moment, while Fidelity's Spartan Market
Index Fund is holding down its expenses to 0.28% of assets
annually.
   Dreyfus has promised to absorb expenses until year end or
until the fund hits $100 million in assets, whichever comes
first. Fidelity says it will hold down expenses through May
1991.
   One potential loser in this price-cutting war is Vanguard
Group, which has long relied on its low expense ratios as its
principal marketing tool. "On the money-market side, it's
clear they have slowed our perennial gains in market share,"
says Vanguard Chairman John Bogle. He recently made a
much-publicized complaint to the Securities and Exchange
Commission, arguing that the 12-month yields being advertised
on some money funds were artificially high because expenses
were being absorbed and could be imposed at any time.
   As no-load funds absorb expenses to pump up returns,
broker-sold funds have been cutting commissions to pull in
new customers, and today few funds still charge the maximum
8.5% sales commission. Over the past year, large fund groups
such as American Funds Group, Putnam Financial Services and
Primerica Corp.'s majority-owned subsidiary, American Capital
Management &amp; Research Inc. have cut the loads on their equity
funds to 5.75%, at the same time introducing an annual "12b1"
marketing fee of 0.25%.
   The fight for assets is starting to punish profits. T.
Rowe Price Associates Inc., Colonial Group Inc. and American
Capital all reported stagnant earnings for the most recent
quarter compared with a year earlier, and Dreyfus's earnings
were down slightly.
   While price-cutting and ballooning advertising costs have
hurt profits at some large fund groups, they have also helped
these companies nab greater market share. According to a
recent research report from Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co., the
10 largest independent fund groups now manage 38% of the
industry's assets, up from 35% four years ago. The report
predicts that the market share of these 10 fund groups could
be as high as 45% by 1994.
   Some smaller players are finding they just can't afford to
compete. After 13 years of managing mutual funds, Bull &amp; Bear
Group Inc. put its fund business up for sale this past
January. "The giants of the business provide serious
competition, and we decided that we weren't well enough
capitalized to compete," says Chairman Bassett Winmill. The
fund group has received 280 inquiries from groups interested
in buying the $345 million, 10-fund family.
   Ivy Group has talked to some would-be suitors, though
Chairman Michael Peers says the firm has never actively
looked for a merger partner. Still, Ivy has clearly had
trouble pulling in new assets. In February, it closed down
its government bond fund, which had just $2 million in
assets. "It just hadn't taken off," says Mr. Peers. "We set
it up three years ago, and it just didn't go anywhere."
   Ivy's four remaining no-load funds -- three stock funds
and a money-market -- have fared only slightly better,
pulling in just $293 million despite producing excellent
returns for investors. "It could be competition, or it could
be that we're just not great marketers," says Mr. Peers. "I
look at these fund groups with records much poorer than ours,
and they're the ones pulling in the money."
   Because the mutual fund industry has historically enjoyed
such fat profit margins, the recent step-up in competition is
unlikely to force many fund groups to abandon the industry
altogether. "At the time of the '87 crash, mutual fund sales
dropped off and a lot of people were calling for mass
consolidation," recalls one analyst. "But even some of the
small mutual fund companies are still doing relatively well.
The margins are still pretty generous."
   Instead, analysts predict that fund groups will streamline
by merging small, unprofitable funds into larger, more
economical units or scrapping small funds altogether.
National Securities &amp; Research Corp. now is shrinking to 13
funds from 16, American Capital is in the process of merging
four funds and Boston Co. recently abandoned a yearlong
effort to sell four index funds.
   Fund mergers have an added advantage: They often provide a
way of burying pitiful performance records. At the end of
March, American Capital merged $39 million American Capital
Over-The-Counter Securities into $198 million American
Capital Venture. American Capital Venture had returned 49%
over the preceding five years; American Capital OTC had
returned just 5%.
   Expunging a bad record "is not the motivation for this
particular merger," says Don Powell, American Capital's
chairman. "We're merging smaller, high-expense-ratio funds
into larger funds."
   He adds, "I think {mergers} are a plus for shareholders.
They generally result in higher yields and lower expense
ratios."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Stock Prices Rise
   On Successful Sale
   Of 3-Year Notes
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The successful sale of $10.5 billion in three-year
Treasury notes touched off a last-minute rally that helped
stock prices rack up a seventh consecutive gain.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 11.94 to 2733.56 in
light trading. The gains came in a last-minute flurry of
activity after news that the Treasury auction went better
than some analysts had expected. The dollar was mixed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nervousness about the auction kept stock prices confined
to a narrow range in sluggish trading through much of the
day. But investors had been encouraged by one sign that
interest rates may have peaked: steadily declining estimates
over the past week of the yield that would attract investors
to the Treasury's $30.5 billion of notes and bonds during the
three-day auction. The average yield on the $10.5 billion of
three-year notes sold yesterday was 8.74%, at the low end of
most estimates.
   Despite the relative success of yesterday's auction, stock
investors remain wary about the outcome of the remaining
sales. The Treasury will auction $10 billion in 10-year notes
today and $10 billion of 30-year bonds tomorrow. The bond
sale has the most potential to disrupt financial markets as
it is regarded as the best barometer of inflation
expectations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Phrase Craze
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In this era of euphemisms
   We can start anticipating
   That what was once a "fail" will be called
   "A reverse achievement rating."
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Fair Play
                                                                                                       

   Athletic fans,
   By millions reckoned,
   Each season relearn
   Someone has to be second.
   -- Robert Gordon.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Bread-and-water diet: gluten for punishment.
   -- Richard M. Strohm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stone Container Paper Bag
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STO
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Stone Container Corp. said it successfully
tested a paper bag product containing 20% old newsprint.
   The company, a supplier of recycled newsprint, said it
completed full-scale production testing in the past 10 days
at a Jacksonville, Fla., plant. Production plans call for
recycling 60 million pounds of old newspapers for use in the
bag.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stone Container, with $5.3 billion in 1989 sales, said it
expects to be able to make the bag at several of its mills
within a few months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Robert Fine Jr. Gets
   Prison Term for Fraud
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A federal court judge here sentenced Robert
Fine Jr. to four years and two months in prison for a loan
scheme in which he fraudulently assumed property owners'
identities and used their property as loan collateral.
   Mr. Fine, a 33-year-old Los Angeles resident, pleaded
guilty in February on one count of mail fraud and one count
of using a fictitious name. Mr. Fine served time in prison
after his conviction in November 1987 on similar loan-fraud
charges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His latest conviction was for bilking two home-loan
companies out of $613,000. Mr. Fine scouted for vacant,
unencumbered properties in real-estate records and used the
data to obtain credit reports on the owners. With the credit
reports, he applied for loans using the owners' identities.
   Mr. Fine was also sentenced to three years of probation,
fined $6,820 and ordered to pay $57,173 in restitution to one
of the defrauded lenders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Moody's Lowers
   Two Big Banks'
   Debt Ratings
   ----
   By Robert Guenther and David Stipp
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CHL FNG
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. lowered its credit ratings
on long-term debt and preferred stock of Chemical Banking
Corp. and certain subsidiaries and on Fleet/Norstar Financial
Group Inc.'s senior debt.
   In Chemical's case, the Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp. unit cited
"concerns regarding the outlook for profitability in view of
the prospective need for additional reserve building in
relation to {Chemical's} modest underlying earnings
capacity."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York, Joseph G. Sponholz, Chemical's chief
financial officer, said in a statement: "We strongly disagree
with Moody's action. We find it especially incomprehensible
since it comes at a time when Chemical continues to
demonstrate strength" in its levels of past-due loans and
first-quarter earnings.
   Moody's downgraded the parent corporation's senior debt to
Baa-3 from Baa-2, its subordinated debt to Ba-2 from Ba-1 and
preferred stock to Ba-2 from Ba-1. Ratings on long-term
deposits and letters of credit of its flagship Chemical Bank
fell to Baa-1 from A-3 and to Baa-2 from Baa-1, respectively.
   For Chemical Bank (Delaware), ratings were reduced on
long-term deposits to Baa-1 from single-A-3 and on its
letters of credit to Baa-2 from Baa-1. Senior and
subordinated obligations of its Chemical Bank N.V. fell to
Baa-3 from Baa-2 and Ba-2 from Ba-1, respectively.
   Moody's reaffirmed the short-term ratings of the parent
and the flagship as well as long and short-term obligations
of its Texas Commerce Bancshares and Texas Commerce Bank.
   Moody's said its downgrade of Fleet/Norstar ratings was
prompted by the company's announcement last week that
increased nonperforming assets and write-downs resulted in a
first-quarter loss. Moody's added that, on March 30, it had
downgraded Fleet/Norstar's senior debt rating because of the
deteriorating New England economy.
   The latest downgrade, Moody's said, reflected a
first-quarter "level of asset quality deterioration somewhat
larger" than earlier projected.
   Moody's, however, said Fleet/Norstar's capital base is
stronger than most of its Northeastern peers.
   About $2.4 billion of securities were affected by the
change, in which Moody's also lowered its rating of the
long-term deposits of the bank holding company's Fleet
National Bank unit to single-A-2 from single-A-1.
   In Providence, R.I., Jack Flynn, Fleet's vice president,
finance, said: "We're disappointed {by the downgrade} but
pleased that our rating continues to be above almost all of
our Northeastern peers."
   Fleet/Norstar's first-quarter loss, stemming from a rise
in troubled assets, totaled $98.1 million, or 92 cents a
share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REAL ESTATE
   ----
   By William Celis III
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   More S&amp;Ls Are Forced To
   Sell Their Own Land
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   REASSURED by the thrift rescue bill, savings and loans are
selling off their own real estate holdings in what one
executive called a "fire sale" environment.
   The bill forces S&amp;Ls to set aside increasing amounts of
capital over five years through 1994, so they can protect
themselves from losses on their own property development. By
1994, capital will have to equal 100% of assets.
   But many thrifts complain that the capital requirement
makes it prohibitive for them to directly own real estate,
and as a result, many healthy S&amp;Ls involved in development
are selling their holdings now in the first full year of the
bill. The sale of S&amp;L-owned real estate even by healthy
thrifts is a new twist in the thrift dilemma. Previous sales
by S&amp;Ls have involved mostly properties taken back through
foreclosure.
   Landmark Land Co., a Carmel, Calif., development firm,
said the bill forced it to put up for sale $967 million of
its golf course developments and other real estate owned by
its Oak Tree Savings Bank unit. CrossLand Savings, New York,
said it is exploring the divestiture of its interests in
joint-venture projects. And earlier this year, Great American
Bank, a San Diego S&amp;L, put its entire, profitable real estate
development unit on the block.
   "The legislation makes you dispose of property sooner than
later," says Jere A. Young, president and chief executive of
Hansen Bancorp, a Harsham, Pa., thrift owned by Hansen Group,
a real estate concern.
   "What it does is put a fire sale sign around your neck,"
says Gerald Barton, Landmark's president. Mr. Barton is
certain that Landmark would get a higher price for the
property if it could keep the real estate a little longer. As
it is, the company has to sell in a market flooded with
foreclosed property being sold by S&amp;Ls and regulators.
                                                                                                       

   Builders Lobby to Break
   Choke Hold on Credit
                                                                                                       

   HOMEBUILDERS, after a 3 1/2-month effort, successfully
lobbied to have federal legislation introduced that would
ease tightened lending limits imposed on S&amp;Ls. But the bill
faces a tough sell.
   The legislation, introduced by Rep. Peter Hoagland (D.,
Neb.), would ease thrift lending requirements that were
tightened under last year's S&amp;L bailout bill. Thrifts were
forced to reduce credit to one borrower to an amount equal to
15% of their unimpaired capital, or capital minus intangible
assets like good will.
   Facing tighter credit, builders are trimming production.
The National Association of Home Builders cut its 1990
housing starts projection to 1.35 million from 1.38 million
earlier this year, and says it may lower it again, to 1.30
million.
   The Hoagland bill would phase in lending limits gradually,
starting at 60% in the first year of the law, 30% the second
and 15% the third. "This would soften the blow," says Floyd
Williams, the builder group's legislative counsel. But, he
adds, "we don't pretend {the bill's} going to be an easy
thing to get through."
   Washington officials, who blame the S&amp;L industry's losses
partly on excessive lending, have dragged their feet in
addressing the loan problem, believing that any allowances
for builders will only enrich already wealthy developers.
                                                                                                       

   Trade, Social Scenarios
   Deter Japanese Buyers
                                                                                                       

   OVERBUILDING, trade friction and backlash from the
American public are helping to cool Japanese investment in
U.S. property.
   The conclusions, in a study by Price Waterhouse Real
Estate Consulting Group, supported findings of another survey
by Kenneth Laventhol &amp; Co., a Los Angeles-based accounting
firm. Last month, it reported Japanese purchases dropped 11%
last year to $14.8 billion from $16.5 billion.
   The Price Waterhouse survey, based on 10 days of talks
with about 20 of Japan's largest bankers and real estate
investors, uncovered worries about overbuilding.
   "They are definitely concerned about lower yields and
higher financing costs" because of oversupplies, says David
A. Eisner, managing partner of Price Waterhouse's real estate
group.
   U.S. backlash has worried some Japanese even more. Last
year, some states considered legislation banning foreign
investment as Japanese started snapping up farm acreage and
beef and produce processing plants. The Japanese, Mr. Eisner
says, "are sensitive about the American public's view toward
them."

   Houston Finally Decides
   To Zero In on Zoning
                                                                                                       

   HOUSTON, the biggest experiment in unregulated
development, may put its houses in order.
   The absence of a zoning code has created pockets of
pell-mell growth in the nation's fourth-largest city, with
auto-repair shops next to single-family homes, next to bars.
The issue was pushed to the forefront last year when Rosie
Walker, though unsuccessful in her mayoral bid, helped force
the city to appoint a committee to study zoning.
   "The `Z' word is coming to Houston," said Zoning News, a
publication of the American Planning Association, a Chicago
trade group.
   A recent survey by Rice University indicated that people
have had enough: 67% of those polled believe it's time the
city manage its growth better, up from 59% four years ago.
   Why now? Some zoning proponents believe residents have
grown alarmed about how haphazard development affects
property values. Others, awaiting the city's rebound, want to
keep growth in check.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   MCA Puts Final Touches on Studio Tour
   It Hopes Will Take a Bite Out of Disney
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS MCA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   ORLANDO, Fla. -- Standing on a pier in a replica of a New
England coastal village that until recently was a swamp, Jay
Stein points out a submerged mass of metal known as the blood
and meat machine.
   The executive behind MCA Inc.'s entry into the theme park
wars of Central Florida describes how this part of the "Jaws"
attraction spews realistic shark body parts and blood into a
large lagoon, then gathers up the debris within 40 seconds to
be ready for the next boatload of tourists. A short way
upstream, he explains, the shark will devour a boat and its
passengers. Rising to the surface amid the flotsam: A set of
mouse ears.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Like MCA's soon-to-open Universal Studios Florida, Mr.
Stein projects an in-your-face aggressiveness that's striking
in this world so dominated by the soft contours of Mickey
Mouse. He's plainly obsessed: The project that he has dreamed
about for 20 years is finally materializing, with 2,000
construction workers swarming over 200 acres in three shifts
for 24 hours.
   The floating ears are a clear reminder that the fierce
competition between MCA and Walt Disney Co. is about to play
itself out in yet another arena. The stakes are high for MCA,
not least because it and a partner have spent $630 million to
compete with the multibillion-dollar Walt Disney World just
minutes down the interstate. The success of Universal
Florida, MCA's first theme-park foray outside California,
will be the acid test for MCA's plans to build as many as
four more parks.
   MCA can't seriously pretend to compete with Disney World
as a whole, which sells an estimated 30 million tickets a
year and serves as a mecca for what sometimes seems like a
national religion. MCA is taking on one part of that empire,
the popular Disney-MGM Studios tour, whose opening was
heavily promoted last year by Disney and in advertisements
for Chevrolet Lumina cars.
   Some early visitors to Universal Florida are bullish.
Harold L. Vogel, the senior entertainment analyst at Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co., predicts that the new MCA park will slow down
the growth in attendance at Disney World. Visitors just might
take one day out of their Disney stay to visit the new
neighbor. "I think you'll be surprised how many people
staying on the Disney property will visit Universal," says
Mr. Vogel, who toured the park last week.
   One possible concern: If it turns out that Disney's secret
all along has been its credo of letting visitors "discover
the child within themselves," Universal Florida could be in
trouble. Instead of shouts of "How cute," the cries here may
be bloodcurdling. Instead of excursions with cuddly Mickey,
Donald and Kermit, visitors will encounter Kongfrontation,
Earthquake and the shower scene from "Psycho."
   The push now is to get the word out about Universal
Florida. MCA doesn't have Disney's marketing budget, which
Mr. Stein estimates at $100 million for Disney-MGM before it
opened, a figure that Disney won't confirm. MCA will spend
about $50 million before the June 7 opening and $110 million
by the end of the year, including cross-promotions with
sponsors such as PepsiCo Inc., Hertz Corp., Arby's Inc. and
American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., which are providing more
than half the budget.
   As a result, MCA's strategy is heavily geared toward
billboards and other media in Florida to grab folks already
here, not toward national television buys. MCA is also
charging a slightly lower price: Adult admission is $29,
compared with $31 a day at each of Disney's three parks.
   Disney has already responded to the threat from MCA by
doing a hard sell for the mushrooming number of hotels on its
own 28,000-acre property and by eliminating the former
two-day and three-day park passes for four-day and five-day
passes when it opened its studio tour. It also reversed an
age-old policy of refusing to allow travel agents to take
commissions on ticket packages to Disney World, and it's
telling visitors staying there that renting a car "usually"
isn't necessary.
   MCA executives acknowledge that they plan to feed off
Disney customers, who have made this area the nation's
biggest tourist destination. But they're also bent on forging
an identity for Universal Florida.
   "No one's had the courage to compare us with Disney,"
complains Mr. Stein, president of MCA's Recreational Services
division. The comparison that he'd like people to make is
that the Universal tour is bigger than Disney-MGM, even
though it cost about the same to build, that characters such
as E.T. and the ghouls from Ghostbusters are at least as
compelling to young children as Minnie and Goofy, that the
food will be better, and that the rides are more thrilling.
In the Kongfrontation ride, for instance, a 13,000-pound
gorilla hurls a passenger-filled aerial tram 30 feet in
apparent free fall.
   To Mr. Stein, Universal Florida is more than a mere
amusement park. Pointing to an artist's rendering of it, he
says, "The last thing you'd call that is a theme park. It's
not a theme park, it's a factory."
   That remark goes to the heart of MCA's struggle to carve
its niche. Universal Florida, executives chant repeatedly, is
a real working studio, where film makers actually shoot
movies and TV shows; their not-so-subtle corollary is that
Disney's production facilities are mere window dressing.
   Disney has three smallish sound stages (30,000 square
feet) plunked in the middle of its studio tour, home to a
game show and a series for the Disney Channel. While Disney
says it will expand its production facilities, Universal
already has six stages (more than 100,000 square feet) that
will be the headquarters for Viacom Inc.'s Nickelodeon cable
network and other projects. "Parenthood" was made here, and
Mr. Stein says he'll rope off sections of the park any time
that a film maker wants to shoot a movie.
   Universal Florida does indeed look like a studio lot, with
industrial-looking buildings looming by a New York set, San
Francisco's waterfront, the New England town of Amity, and a
1930s-style Hollywood. Mr. Stein estimates that the lot takes
two days to really explore. Disney-MGM takes a day at most.
   Walt Disney Attractions President Richard A. Nunis is
unconcerned about the larger production facilities. "We'll
wait and see how they'll do the first year. Our stages are
full, our guests are very happy and we have additional stages
in design," he says.
   MCA recently started opening the park to selected guests.
Analyst Richard Simon of Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. says he thinks
MCA's attraction will be "exceedingly competitive" with
Disney's studio tour, with a chance of reaching six million
visitors a year; Disney-MGM has been host to an estimated
eight million in the past year. "MCA has rethought the studio
tour business. What they've built is fundamentally different
from Disney, and it could pull attendance away," Mr. Simon
says.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Stein stalks the still unfinished park: "I
go crazy over the details." As he passes a rickety boathouse
being hauled by a huge truck to the edge of the lagoon, a
design specialist explains that when stuntmen blow it up, the
flames will shoot 40 feet into the sky. "It'll be 70 feet or
I'll kill someone," Mr. Stein confides later. "I want it
twice as high as the one down the street," he adds, referring
to Disney-MGM's explosion-filled Indiana Jones stunt show.
   MCA's Florida attraction is nothing like its 25-year-old
Hollywood studio tour. Built on hilly terrain around an
existing movie studio, Universal Hollywood has to transport
visitors in trams, for example. Mr. Stein hates trams because
people can't spend money when they're captive riders. He
chortles that Disney installed a tram tour as part of
Disney-MGM, something he thinks shows that Disney rushed
pellmell to open its movie park by copying even the bad parts
of Universal Hollywood. "It's as if you gave someone a
Persian rug and told them to reproduce it, and they did,
cigarette burns and all," he says. "We thought trams were the
way to go," retorts Disney's Mr. Nunis.
   Clearly, MCA hasn't gotten over the Jaws vs. Mickey
"feud," in which MCA accused Disney of stealing the plans for
Universal Florida and then getting a year's jump on MCA by
building its own movie-based theme park -- a charge that
Disney calls absurd, saying that Walt Disney himself planned
a studio tour in the early 1950s. Pumping up the feud may
suit MCA's purposes: It makes people discuss the two
companies in the same breath.
   MCA has a lot riding on being treated as a serious player
in the theme park business, especially now that other major
studios are dipping their toes in the water, such as Time
Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros., which acquired a stake in the Six
Flags amusement park chain last month.
   MCA is close to a decision about building a new theme park
in England or France with its Florida partner, Rank
Organisation PLC. It has a deal with Nippon Steel Corp. for a
park in Japan. Mr. Stein also discloses that there are plans
for a separately ticketed park next to the Orlando
attraction, then a copy of it somewhere in Southern
California, but he declines to be more specific.
   For now, anyone who's ever had a kitchen remodeled can see
that construction at Universal Florida won't be finished when
the public starts filing in. But given his long odyssey, Mr.
Stein doesn't fret that for the first few weeks, burly guys
in hardhats may be mingling with visitors.
   "I see it," he says brazenly, "as a picture-taking
opportunity."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Isuzu Motors Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.IZM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN ISUZU MOTORS Inc. (Los Angeles) -- E.F. "Fritz"
Kern, 50 years old, was named senior vice president and
general manager for the U.S. sales arm of Isuzu Motors Ltd.
of Japan. Mr. Kern, who will report to American Isuzu
president Kozo Sakaino, succeeds John E. Reilly, 64, who was
named to a new position as chairman of American Isuzu Motors.
In that capacity, Mr. Reilly will act as a "senior adviser"
to executives at Isuzu's American operations and a "senior
consultant" to the parent company in Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CPT Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPTC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CPT Corp. (Eden Prairie, Minn.) -- President and chief
executive officer of 12 months, David Clinton, resigned but
will work as a part-time consultant as the
office-automation-equipment concern continues a restructuring
aimed at restoring profitability, the company said. It also
said its board appointed an executive committee of four
directors to oversee turnaround efforts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Seven Oaks International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   QPON WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SEVEN OAKS INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Memphis, Tenn.) -- Sam A.
Sarno Sr. and Sam A. Sarno Jr. both resigned as directors of
the retail-coupon clearinghouse, citing "other commitments
which prevented them from continuing in service to Seven
Oaks." The elder Mr. Sarno had been a director of the company
since its founding in 1971, and had served as chairman and
chief executive officer until his retirement from the posts
in 1987. The younger Mr. Sarno had been a director since 1980
and had served as president and chief operating officer until
he resigned both posts last year. Following the resignations,
the company's board voted to reduce its number to seven from
nine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   One of Soviet History's Last Blanks
   ----
   By Verne W. Newton
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   Kremlin archives now confirmed that the NKVD, acting under
Josef Stalin's orders, executed 15,000 Polish officers in the
spring of 1940. Now, what about the rest of this story? Did
Stalin also order the death of Gen. Wladyslaw Sikorski, the
commander-in-chief and prime minister of the Polish
government in exile?
   Sikorski, who had defeated the Red Army during the
Russo-Polish war of 1920, was the only person with the
stature needed to unite the badly fragmented Poles. Churchill
and Roosevelt held him in great esteem. Even Stalin had to
treat him with respect.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After the mass graves of Polish officers had been
discovered at Katyn, Sikorski immediately called for the Red
Cross to investigate. The Germans promised cooperation. This
was the opportunity Stalin had been waiting for. "The
Polish-German proposal," he bellowed to Churchill and
Roosevelt, proved that Sikorski was colluding in "an
anti-Soviet slander campaign launched by the German
fascists." The Soviet ruler immediately terminated
recognition of the London Poles and installed a puppet
government in Soviet-occupied Poland.
   Only weeks later, a Royal Air Force Liberator with
Sikorski and a traveling party of 10 including his daughter,
lifted off the runway at Gibraltar. Then the plane stalled
and crashed into the Mediterranean. Sikorski's body was
eventually pulled from the black water; his daughter's
remains were never found.
   A British Court of Inquiry dutifully concluded, "the cause
of the accident was due to the aircraft becoming
uncontrollable for reasons which cannot be established."
Since the inquiry's unofficial mandate, much like the Warren
Commission's some twenty years later, was to rule out the
possibility of conspiracy or sabotage, it left many stones
unturned.
   For instance, Ivan Maisky, the Soviet ambassador in
London, suddenly informed the Foreign Office that he had been
urgently summoned back to Moscow. It would be necessary for
him to make a refueling stop at Gibraltar -- at exactly the
same time that Sikorski did. The NKVD could easily have
included an experienced saboteur in Maisky's travel party.
   In its rush to judgment, the inquiry chose to ignore
evidence that, in violation of all regulations, mailbags had
been jammed into the Liberator's nosecone which housed vital
gears and cables. It wouldn't have taken more than a few
seconds to stuff the pouches into the nosecone -- or even to
cut a cable -- so that operations would have seemed normal
until the plane tried to climb.
   Years later Maisky acknowledged that there had been many
opportunities to sabotage Sikorski's plane -- and that he was
sure that is what the Germans had done. But it was Stalin who
most feared Sikorski. When the two men had met in the Kremlin
in December 1941, Sikorski demanded to know what had become
of his missing Polish officers, many of whom he had known
personally. Stalin insisted he had released them. Sikorski
responded by practically calling him a liar. Stalin did not
want so indomitable a man leading Poland.
   After Sikorski's plane went down, several Poles standing
on the runway began to sob "this is the end of Poland, this
is the end of Poland]" And indeed it was. No one else could
pull the various Polish factions together, command such
respect in Western capitals or go eyeball to eyeball with
Stalin.
   President Gorbachev has promised to fill in Soviet
history's "blank spots." Owning up to the Katyn Forrest
Massacre was a good start. Now, Mr. President, please finish
the job.
   ---
   Mr. Newton's book, "The Butcher's Embrace: The American
Side of the Philby, Burgess and Maclean Story," is scheduled
for publication in early 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Continental Reports
   17% Rise in Net, Sets
   New Tire Acquisitions
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FIA I.GIL G.CGU
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- West German tire maker Continental AG
reported higher earnings and, in a move that underlines the
growing concentration of the world tire industry, announced
the acquisition of a Fiat S.p.A. tire subsidiary and a 49%
stake in a Swedish tire company.
   Continental said its earnings rose 17% to 227.8 million
marks ($136.6 million) in 1989 from 194.8 million marks a
year earlier, while sales rose 6% to 8.38 billion marks from
7.91 billion marks in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Continental also announced it has reached principle
agreement to acquire the industrial rubber activities of
Gilardini S.p.A., a subsidiary of Italian auto maker Fiat,
for an undisclosed amount.
   The Fiat unit, called AGES, makes rubber parts for the
automobile industry. The AGES activities will be integrated
into ContiTech, Continental's fast-growing
industrial-products division, which posted a strong rise in
earnings last year.
   In the past two years, ContiTech has acquired companies
and plants in France, Spain, and Turkey. ContiTech and AGES
had been cooperating since 1986 through a licensing
agreement.
   Continental has also agreed to acquire 49% of Nivis Tyre
AB, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kooperativa Foerbundet
Industri AB of Sweden. Financial terms weren't disclosed.
   Within KFI, Nivis acts as a holding company for several
Scandinavian tire activities. The alliance with Nivis will
make Continental the leader in the Scandinavian tire markets
and will permit the Swedish group to survive the growing
competitive pressures in the global tire market, Continental
said.
   In February, Continental bought National Tyre Service PLC,
a British tire retailing company, from Generale des
Etablissements Michelin for 400 million marks, following the
purchase of a 13.1% stake in Kwik-Fit Holding PLC, another
British tire retailer. Last summer, the company took over the
tire operations of Marbor S.A. of Portugal, and in 1987,
Continental bought U.S. tire maker General Tire &amp; Rubber Co.
from GenCorp Inc. for $650 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Levee, Not Levy
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   In the first line of the March 28 Leisure &amp; Arts piece
"Dark Days for Duck," author Michael Pearce says, "I had
stood alone on the levy . . ."
   May I offer the following correction. Levy: the imposition
or collection of an assessment. Levee: an embankment for
preventing flooding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When in doubt, remember the lines from that old song,
"Waitin' on the levee, Waitin' for the Robert E. Lee."
   R.R. Regnier
   Phoenix, Ariz.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Landmark Land's
   $967 Million Deal
   Runs Into Hurdle
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   LML
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   When Landmark Land Co. announced plans last month to sell
a substantial portion of its real estate for $967 million, it
seemed to some real-estate analysts that the deal was too
good to be true. They may have been right.
   Carmel, Calif.-based Landmark said the Office of Thrift
Supervision objected to the financing for the sale of its
resort and real-estate properties to California developer
Barry G. Hon. Landmark said it would try to propose a new
deal, which could include Mr. Hon acquiring new partners or
additional lenders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Real-estate analysts were skeptical the deal could be put
together again at the same price, however.
   "Landmark was trying to show a real big gain by boosting
its capital position," said Bert Ely, an Alexandria,
Va.-based financial institutions consultant. "Now, if they
have to go to a third party to sell, they won't be able to
show nearly the gain."
   The sticking point for the OTS was that the sale, 75% of
which was to be financed by Landmark's Oak Tree Savings unit,
would have committed about 20% of Oak Tree's assets to one
borrower. It wasn't clear how Mr. Hon, a Southern California
developer, would finance what remained of the acquisition.
   The Landmark sale was triggered by the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989,
which increased the amount of capital that savings and loan
associations needed to stay in the real-estate business. As a
result of the act, a number of S&amp;Ls have sold their real
estate at deflated prices.
   Landmark's real-estate holdings are owned through Oak
Tree, which is based in New Orleans. In April, Landmark said
it would realize a pretax profit of $470 million if the
entire transaction were completed.
   Landmark, a thinly traded land and golf-course development
company, is 28%-owned by Gerald G. Barton and 24% owned by
Toronto-based Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd., which is
controlled by the Reichmann brothers.
   Landmark officials say they believe the deal will be
salvaged. "There are several things Mr. Hon can do," said Mr.
Barton, Landmark's chairman. "He can find partners, raise
more equity or have one of his own banks finance part of it.
I feel pretty confident he will do one of those things."
   Bruce Tester, an attorney for Mr. Hon, said Landmark would
soon discuss the matter with OTS officials and try to
reconfigure the sale.
   While Mr. Barton said he was surprised by the OTS finding,
Wall Street apparently was already skeptical that the deal
would be completed. The day the proposed transaction with Mr.
Hon was announced, the stock opened at $17.50 a share, and
has fallen steadily ever since. In American Stock Exchange
Trading yesterday, Landmark stock dropped $1.875 to $10.375.
   "The stock price is telling us this deal has long odds of
happening," said Kenneth Campbell, president of Audit
Investments Inc., a Montvale, N.J., advisory concern that
follows real-estate companies. "In today's real-estate
market, it was always a very speculative deal."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Pickens Violates Japan's Keiretsu
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   T. Boone Pickens faces real difficulties in attempting to
deal with the Japanese, but his comments on the "keiretsu"
system ("Secrets Koito Hoped to Hide by Keeping Me Off Its
Board," editorial page, March 28) are off the mark.
   Doing business in Japan is no piece of cake. Embedded in
the intricacies of Japanese culture, keiretsu present
formidable hurdles. The links among distributors, in
particular, are so involved and inefficient as to defy
ordinary logic. But keiretsu are not, as Mr. Pickens
grandiosely asserts, "the root of the world's trade problems
with Japan," including his own snafu with Koito Manufacturing
Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The keiretsu is a system of lifetime business
relationships built more on trust than on signed contracts.
To break such a relationship just because someone else --
Japanese or foreign -- offers a cheaper product or service is
for the Japanese a violation of trust and the worst kind of
dirty dealing.
   Keeping Mr. Pickens off the Koito board therefore is not,
as he claims, a question of Koito hiding "secrets." Those are
all public knowledge anyway. What Mr. Pickens fails to grasp
is that his approach -- assault by press release and lawsuit
-- has fulfilled every Japanese stereotype of the gun-toting
Westerner and made him an outsider to the friendship and
trust that run through business relationships in Japan. He
has made no effort to develop a proper relationship with
Koito. So it can't trust him.
   Even Americans find it difficult to trust Mr. Pickens. Can
the Japanese be blamed for keeping him at arm's length?
   Mr. Pickens's recent actions have only fanned Koito's
mistrust. He gave the company five business days to produce
10 years of financial records, then filed a lawsuit when
Koito asked for more time. His financial relationship with a
Japanese greenmailer, Kitaro Watanabe, makes his denials of
greenmail intentions unconvincing. He blithely suggested that
Koito adopt a binding resolution banning the special
repurchase of stock, ignoring the deep-seated Japanese
suspicion of anything that smacks of legal action.
   Mr. Pickens will succeed in Japan -- as the Japanese have
succeeded here -- only to the extent that he adjusts to a
strange language, culture, and economic and legal systems.
The key issue is not the keiretsu but Mr. Pickens's refusal
even to consider modifying his approach to fit Japanese
business practices.
   Instead, Mr. Pickens, in a display of cultural arrogance,
demands that Japan abandon keiretsu. So fundamental are
keiretsu to Japan that to abandon them would be to rip up
Japanese culture and identity. Who is Mr. Pickens, or anybody
else for that matter, to exact such an outrageous demand?
   It is also hypocritical, because Mr. Pickens could be
charged with attempting to form his own keiretsu. In 1988 he
locked horns with KNEnergy, seeking election to the board and
control of KN's pipeline system to secure higher prices for
his own Mesa Co.'s gas. KN CEO J. Robert Wilson unmasked Mr.
Pickens's intentions in a March 4, 1988, letter to
shareholders, accusing him of "continuing efforts to obtain
control of KN for the benefit of Mesa." That sounds
astonishingly like Mr. Pickens's unsubstantiated charges
today that Toyota, as part of the keiretsu, pressures Koito
for favorable pricing of auto parts.
   Perhaps Mr. Pickens knows even more about cartels than the
Japanese do.
   John K. Gillespie
   Intercultural Specialist and Consultant on Japan
   Clarke Consulting Group
   Redwood City, Calif.
   ---
   Mr. Pickens mistakenly identifies Japanese corporate
cross-holdings with "old-fashioned cartels." While the
tuition at leading business schools is high, it is a bargain
compared with the "tuition" Mr. Pickens and his associates
are paying in connection with their large shareholding in
Koito. Any investor would be well-advised to learn about a
foreign culture and system of corporate governance before
investing a billion dollars in that country. It appears that
Mr. Pickens invested first, and now complains as he finally
comes to understand what he owns. Perhaps he should reread
Ben Graham.
   Jack McDonald
   IBJ Professor of Finance
   Stanford Business School
   Stanford University
   Stanford, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   L.B. Foster Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FSTRA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   L.B. FOSTER Co. (Pittsburgh) -- Lee B. Foster, formerly
executive vice president of this maker of steel and tubular
products, was named president and chief executive officer. He
succeeds Joseph H. Dugan, 64 years old, who resigned. Mr.
Foster, 43, is the grandson of L.B. Foster, who founded the
company in 1902.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Role
   In Futures
   Supported
   ---
   Stock-Index Futures
   Would Be Shifted
   From CFTC Control
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury Department, ending months of
uncertainty, told Congress it would offer a plan this week to
shift regulation of stock-index futures to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
   The move, announced by Treasury Undersecretary Robert
Glauber at a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing, is likely
to reignite the debate over where and how to regulate the
products. Currently, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
oversees stock-index futures, traded on the Chicago commodity
exchanges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock-index futures, used mostly by large institutions to
hedge risk, allow investors to bet on the movement of a
basket of stocks without owning the actual shares. They are
controversial because they are used in program trading and
have been cited as accelerating the stock-market crashes of
1987 and 1989.
   The idea of switching jurisdiction has gained support in
recent months among lawmakers on securities committees. But
the commodity exchanges, the CFTC and most members of the
Agriculture Committees argue that futures products are used
differently from stocks and should be overseen by the CFTC,
which they contend better understands the products. Moreover,
they say, the CFTC has been more encouraging in allowing
commodity markets to introduce innovative new products than
the SEC has been with the stock markets.
   That view is disputed by the administration and the
securities industry, which counter that legal battles by the
commodity exchanges have prohibited new products from being
introduced on the stock exchanges. And they assert that the
same agency should oversee stocks, options and stock-index
futures.
   The Bush administration's plan is expected to substitute
for an amendment that Sen. Slade Gorton (R., Wash.) has
proposed to attach to a bill that would beef up the CFTC. The
bill, unanimously passed by the agriculture panel in
November, is sponsored by committee Chairman Patrick Leahy
(D., Vt.), who vehemently opposes any shift of jurisdiction
to the SEC. The amendment, which offers a simpler method for
switching jurisdiction over index futures to the SEC, has
hamstrung the bill.
   Still, Sen. Leahy said he would urge the Senate leadership
to allow the administration's amendment to be debated on the
floor soon to "vote 'em up or vote 'em down."
   Mr. Glauber said the administration also will propose
giving the SEC oversight over futures margins, although the
exchanges would retain primary responsibility for setting
margin levels. Margins are the good-faith money needed to
trade. Currently, the exchanges basically have free rein over
margin setting, with the CFTC allowed to change them only in
specific emergency situations.
   Margins on stock-index futures are important because they
also have been cited as helping exacerbate the crashes. Both
the Treasury and the SEC repeatedly have argued that when
futures margins are allowed to slip too low, it puts the
stock market at risk by encouraging speculation in
stock-index futures, which "washes back" into the stock
market through program trades.
   Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board,
said he supports placing authority for futures and stock
margins with the same regulator, preferably the SEC.
Currently, the Fed regulates securities margins.
   "We must recognize that what we now have is a single
market with uncoordinated and even conflicting regulation,"
Mr. Glauber said. "We need more unified regulation as the
umbrella under which specific intermarket issues can be much
more easily resolved."
   Most senators on the panel, as well as CFTC Chairman Wendy
Gramm, vigorously disputed Mr. Glauber's proposal. Many
stridently criticized the SEC for starting an interagency
scrap. "This turf war better not become one where the SEC
tries to make the CFTC look bad," warned Rudy Boschwitz (R.,
Minn.). "This senator is going to very carefully, very
carefully watch what you do."
   Added Bob Kerrey (D., Neb.): "I do find an absence of a
compelling case that we need to do something here." He called
the jurisdictional fight "an unfortunate public display."
   Mrs. Gramm said a switch of index futures to the SEC
doesn't "withstand objective scrutiny. The CFTC is concerned
that the proposed changes would damage the world leadership
position of the United States futures markets."
   SEC Chairman Richard Breeden argued that the SEC wouldn't
overregulate stock-index futures, and he asked that they
remain subject to the Commodity Exchange Act. "It depends on
the mandate we would be given by Congress," he said. "But we
are perfectly comfortable taking as a starting point the
existing {commodities} regulations."
   But clearly, some of the commodity practices would test
the SEC. For example, the stock exchanges have a so-called
uptick rule in which investors can't sell a stock short -- a
bet that it will decline -- on a downtick, meaning that the
last price change was downward. Futures markets have no
similar rule.
   Moreover, Mr. Breeden said he would oppose "dual trading,"
which gives a trader the right to trade for his own account
and for customers. But stock-exchange specialists are allowed
to dual trade, Mr. Breeden conceded under stiff questioning
from Sen. Leahy.
   Sen. Leahy said he would submit a series of technical
questions to Mr. Breeden so that the SEC chairman could
disclose the specifics of how the securities agency would
monitor stock-index futures.
   Chicago Board of Trade Chairman Karsten Mahlmann called
the Treasury proposal a "power grab" by the SEC. The Board of
Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange strongly oppose the
proposed shift of regulatory jurisdiction. Both say they
favor a comprehensive, rather than piecemeal, approach to
reviewing market regulation.
   Critics of the exchanges say they have adopted this
posture as a stalling tactic to head off action on the
stock-index futures issue during this congressional session.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's Good
   For America
   Is Good for Bonds
   ----
   By Lawrence A. Kudlow
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Bond traders, please stop hyperventilating over additional
economic growth and prosperity. Try to get a grip on
yourselves. Take long deep breathes through the nose,
exhaling slowly. Then you'll realize that you should be
buying bonds, not selling them.
   Yes, the economy has avoided recession, for the eighth
straight year. And we know you don't like jobs, except
presumably your own. But the rest of the nation fervently
believes that employment is better than unemployment. And the
rest of the nation understands that when human resources are
productively employed, the increase in output, investment and
productivity does not cause inflation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Inflation is caused by bad money, not growth. When the Fed
creates too many dollars, or when the Treasury deliberately
devalues the dollar on foreign-exchange markets, inflation
results. But Alan Greenspan and Co. are protecting the value
of our money. Mr. Greenspan has made it clear to Nicholas
Brady and the Treasury that the Fed will not endorse or
accommodate any more Keynesian easy money dollar-bashing
schemes. They realize that the dollar depreciation and bank
reserve stimulus policy in last year's fourth-quarter went
too far. And you bond traders were entirely justified then in
temporarily raising long-term yields from 7.8% to 8.5%, and
investing in gold, which jumped to $425 from $360.
   But fellas, 9% is going too far. You are flagellating the
Fed -- and the rest of the economy -- much too much for a
minor policy error. The Fed has, after all, publicly
delivered its mea culpa. We know this from the widely
reported Greenspan-Brady conversation on the plane to last
month's G-7 meeting in Paris. It may be the most important
plane ride of the year.
   Mr. Greenspan insisted on defending the dollar. He
explained to Mr. Brady the concept of purchasing power
parity, which means that if U.S. inflation is to converge
with Japan and Germany's lower rate, the dollar cannot be
depreciated and probably must strengthen, especially against
the mark.
   We also know from commodity price rulers Wayne Angell and
Manley Johnson that the Fed has shed its bad fourth-quarter
ways. Mr. Angell actually dissented from the December Fed
easing move. Vice chairman Johnson was not so courageous in
December, but he has since recanted in important speeches
delivered in London and Washington.
   This is one key reason why gold prices have nose-dived
from $425 back to under $370. The gold market has
historically been a very good indicator of monetary value,
future inflation and interest rates. Remember last year in
the winter of 1989, when all you bond traders were moaning
about the Consumer Price Index and capacity utilization? If
you had paid more careful attention to the steadily dropping
gold price and the improving dollar, you would have made even
more money by buying bonds at 9.5%, instead of waiting until
8.5%, when the consensus finally turned bullish. The gold
signal would have permitted you to accumulate even greater
wealth, to buy more Park Avenue co-ops, summer houses and
British shirts and ties. Heaven knows the real estate markets
and the Brits could use a shot in the arm.
   $370 gold at the present time is a vote in favor of bonds,
not only because of what the Fed is publicly saying, but it
also confirms what the Fed is actually doing. Since January
the Fed has created dollars at a much slower pace. We know
this by watching the U.S. monetary base, which is the best
proxy for the amount of dollars created by the Fed.
   The base measures the entire balance sheet of the Federal
Reserve, which of course by U.S. law is our monopolistic
creator of dollars. All the assets of the Fed are included in
the base: Treasury securities, loans to member banks, float
and foreign currency purchases. Any high-powered dollar
reserve expansion will be reflected in an expansion of the
Fed's balance sheet, and duly noted in the accounting of the
monetary base.
   After the Fed's fourth-quarter excesses, the three-month
growth of the base jumped up to nearly 12% in January. But
since then base growth has been damped to 6%. Actually, over
the past two years the Fed has limited base growth to only
5%. Now, while there's no magical precise growth rate for the
base -- price stability depends in large part on money demand
-- 5% is surely a moderate noninflationary pace. Back in
1986, when James Baker's Treasury was intent on devaluing the
dollar, Paul Volcker at the Fed cooperated by letting the
monetary base grow at a 10% rate. This of course led directly
to the collapse of the stock and bonds markets in 1987, and a
gold price of more than $450.
   But today gold is nearly $100 lower and the base is
growing only half as fast. These are very positive signs that
the value of our money is improving and inflation is
declining. Not just the price of gold, but the prices of oil,
copper, silver and platinum also suggest that global
investment portfolios would rather own money than
commodities. Indeed, since gold and commodity prices are
declining when measured not just in dollars but in all the
major currencies, this suggests that international inflation
fears are exaggerated and all G-7 long-term interest rates
are too high.
   Overseas, it may well turn out that freedom and democracy
and currency union in Central Europe are not inflationary.
Nor are declining tax rates and the 1992 deregulation in
Western Europe. Nor is the resilience of the U.S. economy.
   Indeed, once again in the new decade we may relearn the
lesson of the '80s: that economic growth never creates
inflation so long as monetary value and purchasing power are
defended. Governments everywhere are pursuing growth on the
supply side, while central banks are relinking money to gold.
It's exactly the right combination. So, come on bond traders,
get with the drill.
   ---
   Mr. Kudlow is chief economist of Bear, Stearns in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Reinoso &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   REINOSO &amp; Co. (New York) -- The investment firm named
Stephen Kovacs to the new post of senior managing director.
Mr. Kovacs, 65 years old, formerly was chairman and president
of the securities firm L.F. Rothschild, Unterberg, Towbin.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                    MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   City and County of Denver -- $700 million of airport
system revenue bonds, Series 1990 A, due Nov. 15, 1995-2002,
2007, 2012, 2023 and 2025, with capital appreciation bonds
due 2003-2005, were tentatively priced by a Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co. group to yield from 7.60% in 1995 to 8.67% in 2023.
Current interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 7.60%
in 1995 to 8.35% in 2002. There are 8 1/2% term bonds priced
at 99.55 to yield 8.55% in 2007. There are 8 1/4% term bonds
priced at 96.59 to yield 8.60% in 2012. There are 8 1/2% term
bonds priced at 98 1/8 to yield 8.67% in 2023. There are 8%
term bonds priced at 93.37 to yield 8.60% in 2025. Capital
appreciation bonds are priced to yield to maturity from 8.50%
in 2003 to 8.55% in 2004 and 2005. The bonds are rated
conditional Baa-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
triple-B by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. The bonds also are rated
triple-B by Fitch Investors Service Inc. Interest on the
bonds will be treated as a preference item in calculating the
federal alternative minimum tax that may be imposed on
certain investors.
   Pennsylvania -- $185 million of general obligation bonds,
due May 1, 1991-2010, apparently were won by a Chase
Securities Inc. group with a bid setting the true interest
cost at 7.064%. The bonds, rated single-A-1 by Moody's and
double-A-minus by S&amp;P, were priced for reoffering to yield
from 6.15% in 1991 to 7.25% in 2008-2010. There are no term
bonds.
   Board of Regents of the University of Houston System --
$56.1 million of consolidated revenue refunding bonds, 1990
Series A due Feb. 15, 1999-2007 and Series B due Feb. 15,
1991-1999, and 2009, were tentatively priced by a Lovett
Underwood Neuhaus &amp; Webb Inc. group to yield from 6.30% in
1991 to 7.52% in 2009. Series A consists of current interest
serial bonds priced to yield from 7.10% in 1999 to 7.50% in
2006 and 2007. Series B consists of current interest serial
bonds priced at par to yield from 6.30% in 1991 to 7.10% in
1999. There are $13.8 million of 7 3/8% term bonds priced at
98 1/2 to yield 7.52% in 2009. The bonds are insured and
rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Cleveland County, N.C. -- $55.5 million of unlimited tax
bonds, due June 1, 1991-2010, apparently were won by a
Wachovia Bank &amp; Trust Co. group with a bid setting the net
interest cost at 7.138%. The bonds were priced for reoffering
to yield from 5.85% in 1991 to 7.20% in 2009 and 2010. The
bonds are insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                      EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Guaranteed Export Finance Corp. (United Kingdom) -- #250
million ($417.6 million) of 12 7/8% bonds due Sept. 29, 2002,
priced at 99.406 via lead manager Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd.
   Kingdom of Belgium (sovereign) -- 300 million marks ($181
million) of floating-rate notes at the six-month London
interbank offered rate less 1/8 point, priced at 100.10 and
due May 1995, via Commerzbank AG. First Libor fixing May 29.
   European Coal &amp; Steel Community (agency) -- 200 billion
lire ($164.5 million) of 12 1/8% bonds due May 31, 1995,
priced at 101.30 via Banco di Roma.
   Ford Credit Canada (U.S. parent) -- 100 million Canadian
dollars (US$85.9 million) of 13 1/8% bonds due June 7, 1995,
priced at 101.70 to yield 13.17% less fees, via Wood Gundy.
Guaranteed by Ford Motor Credit Co. Fees 1 7/8.
   Export Development Corp. of Canada -- 300 million Finnish
markka ($76.4 million) of 13 1/4% bonds due June 7, 1993,
priced at 101 1/8 via Postipankki.
   PKbanken (Sweden) -- 10 billion yen ($63.4 million) of 6
3/4% bonds due Aug. 24, 1992, priced at 100 3/8 via Mitsui
Trust International.
   Societe Generale Australia Ltd. -- 50 million New Zealand
dollars (US$28.7 million) of 13 3/4% bonds due June 12, 1992,
priced at 101.95 to yield 13.33% less fees, via Hambros Bank
Ltd. Guaranteed by Societe Generale. Fees 1 1/4.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Time Warner's Munro Resigns Posts;
   Holder Discontent Expressed at Meeting
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- J. Richard Munro, presiding over the first and
sometimes contentious annual shareholders meeting of the
merged Time Warner Inc., stepped down as co-chairman and
co-chief executive officer, as expected.
   Mr. Munro announced his move at the start of the long
meeting in which many shareholders expressed support for Time
Inc.'s debt-laden $14 billion acquisition of Warner
Communications Inc., while a few others sternly criticized
it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The level of discontent -- stemming from Time Warner's
$10.8 billion debt load, its more than $400 million in losses
for the past two quarters, and a stock price that has plunged
to half of its 52-week peak -- showed up in surprisingly
large shareholder votes against measures involving executive
stock plans.
   Some 25% of the shares that were voted weighed in against
the proposed 1989 stock incentive plan, which passed
nonetheless with a 70% vote in its favor. In voting on
changes to a restricted stock plan for outside directors,
just over 21% of the ballots cast were against the plan,
which won approval with 75% in favor.
   "That's surprising. That's great," said Nell Minow,
general counsel of Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.,
which advises institutional holders in proxy matters. "I
haven't seen that level of opposition to a stock plan before.
It shows shareholders are wising up."
   In addition, 43% of the shares that were voted for the
annual meeting were registered in favor of a proposal that
Time Warner had urged holders to vote against. The proposal
would have rescinded a "poison pill" plan that makes Time
Warner a tougher takeover target or would have required
shareholder approval of the plan.
   "I think it's because of the bad break" in the stock
price, said Steven J. Ross in explaining the 43% vote in
favor of the poison-pill measure that Time Warner had
opposed. Mr. Ross, the longtime chairman of Warner
Communications, now reigns as the merged company's sole
chairman and its co-chief executive officer.
   But Ms. Minow of Institutional Shareholder Services said
many institutional investors vote in favor of outside
proposals for putting "poison pills" up for shareholder
approval, regardless of the company involved.
   Time Warner executives had come under fire for reaping
millions in personal profits on the merger even as the price
of Time Inc. stock, which was driven to as high as $182.75 by
what Time contended was a bogus takeover offer by Paramount
Communications Inc., fell to the $90-plus range.
   But Mr. Ross blames the loss of more than $2.5 billion in
the company's market value on the specter of re-regulation of
local cable systems now gaining sway in Washington. Cable
systems are Time Warner's "single biggest asset today," he
said after the meeting. Once the cable industry makes its
case against regulation, "I think that cloud will pass," Mr.
Ross said.
   Mr. Munro, 59 years old, becomes chairman of the board's
executive committee and remains on the company payroll. He
had joined Time Inc. in 1957, rising to publisher of Sports
Illustrated and then moving through corporate posts to become
chief executive in 1980 and chairman in 1986.
   His co-chief executive title will be assumed today by
Nicholas J. Nicholas, Mr. Munro's longtime No. 2 at Time Inc.
and the president of the merged concern. Mr. Nicholas, age
50, remains president and will share chief executive duties
with Mr. Ross until the latter steps aside in mid-1994.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greyhound Head
   Holds Secret Talks
   With Union Group
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Just hours after Greyhound Lines Inc. declared a
strike by the Amalgamated Transit Union irrelevant, company
Chairman Fred Currey met secretly with union leaders in his
Dallas office.
   The hour-and-a-half bargaining session, held at the
request of ATU officials, marked Mr. Currey's first direct
involvement in negotiations since the start of the
often-violent strike on March 2, by 9,400 employees of
Greyhound, a unit of GLI Holding Co. But the meeting
apparently drove the two sides farther apart and may have
marked an end to bargaining for the forseeable future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We left it that we are not going to get back together,"
said P. Anthony Lannie, Greyhound executive vice president
and chief labor negotiator. "There are no future meetings and
there are no plans for any future meetings. Our position is
that until they are willing to talk about what the company
can afford, bargaining is fruitless."
   In a news conference Monday, Mr. Currey said he had
effectively defeated the ATU strike because as a result of
strike defections and newly hired replacement drivers, he had
nearly enough employees to operate the Greyhound system.
   In addition to Mr. Currey, Mr. Lannie and a federal
mediator, also present were ATU vice president James Hayes
and Edward Strait, president of the Amalgamated Council of
Greyhound Local Unions, the ATU's bargaining unit.
   Mr. Strait, who flew to Dallas from Washington, D.C., said
he requested the meeting with Mr. Currey because he didn't
want to "leave any stone unturned."
   According to participants in Monday's session, neither
side made any new economic proposals or offered substantial
modifications from previously announced positions.
   Last weekend, after announcing $55.8 million in
strike-related losses in the first quarter, the company
sharply reduced its original contract offer and proposed a
six-year pact with a four-year pay freeze.
   Union officials have called the company's offer an
"insult" and say they are standing by their previous demand
for a contract that would raise drivers' base pay 20% over
three years. Company officials complain that the union
proposal would cost the company more than $140 million and is
unrealistic in light of the bus company's deteriorated
financial picture.
   "They don't care what we can afford," said Mr. Lannie.
"They want what they want."
   Mr. Strait said that in Monday's meeting, company
officials refused to discuss the idea of laying off the
replacement drivers or reducing their seniority so that
strikers could go back to work.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Care Enterprises Posts '89 Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TUSTIN, Calif. -- Care Enterprises Inc., a nursing home
company that has been operating under bankruptcy-law
protection for two years, reported a 1989 net loss of $46.7
million, or $4.14 a share.
   In 1988, the company had a net loss of $29 million, or
$2.57 a share. Revenue rose 4% to $257 million from $247.8
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Care said its 1988 and 1989 losses include "substantial
charges" related to the establishment of reserves for
discontinued operations and to a reorganization plan, which
recently received court approval.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Push Into Europe
   Planned by Power
   Corp. of Canada
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.POW EUROP Z.PAR B.GBL F.CFP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Power Corp. of Canada is poised for a major
push into Europe through its new alliance with Belgian
financier Albert Frere, according to Power Corp. officials.
   With slightly more than one billion Canadian dollars
(US$859.8 million) in ready cash and the ability to borrow
much more, Power Corp.'s investment plans have been a
favorite topic of discussion in Canadian business circles for
more than a year. While Power Corp. doesn't plan to go on an
immediate spending spree, company officials said they are
ready to forge ahead in Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In February, Paul Desmarais, chairman and controlling
shareholder of Power Corp., and Mr. Frere, chairman of Frere
Bourgeois S.A. of Brussels, took control of Pargesa Holding
S.A., a Geneva holding company. Pargesa in turn holds big
stakes in Groupe Bruxelles Lambert S.A., Belgium's
second-largest holding company, and Petrofina S.A., the big
Belgian oil company. Mr. Frere was named chairman of
Petrofina last week.
   Late last month, Pargesa and Cie. Financiere de Paribas, a
French banking concern, announced a complex transaction that
bolstered Pargesa'a control of Groupe Bruxelles. At the same
time, Mr. Frere and Mr. Desmarais announced they control
nearly 10% of Paribas.
   In their first public comments on Power Corp.'s recent
moves in Europe, company officials stressed the importance of
the new alliance with Mr. Frere.
   Control with Mr. Frere "gives us now a vehicle in Europe"
for Power Corp.'s investments there, said Paul Desmarais Jr.,
son of Mr. Desmarais and chairman of a Power Corp. unit.
Aside from a 50.1% stake in a British investment-management
firm, in Europe "everything {Power Corp. does} will be
through Pargesa," the younger Mr. Desmarais said.
   But he wouldn't signal where Power Corp.'s European
investments will flow. He did say Pargesa won't increase
three major holdings for the time being.
   Because the Frere-Desmarais tandem "for all intents holds
control" of Groupe Bruxelles, the partners don't have
immediate plans to raise their stake, he said. The same goes
for Petrofina, where Pargesa holds about 20% and a Frere
family company has 5%.
   The younger Mr. Desmarais said the partners don't intend
to buy more Paribas shares. "We consider ourselves a friendly
and stable" shareholder in Paribas, he said. But he said the
Frere-Desmarais team's 9% to 10% stake in Paribas "puts us in
a position of pre-eminance" among the bank's shareholders,
and Mr. Frere and the elder Mr. Desmarais are being treated
accordingly. He didn't elaborate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Top 100 Concerns
   Owned by Blacks
   Had '89 Sales Fall
   ----
   By Leon E. Wynter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   Sales of the top 100 black-owned industrial and service
companies fell 3.8% in 1989, according to the annual ranking
by Black Enterprise magazine.
   The list continued to be dominated by TLC Beatrice
International Holdings Inc., formed as the result of a 1987
leveraged buy-out by entrepreneur Reginald Lewis. TLC's 1989
sales fell 23% to $1.51 billion after the company sold some
of its operations. But TLC still had 35% of the total revenue
of the 100 concerns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 18th annual list, featured in the June issue of the
black-business magazine, has become the annual yardstick for
measuring and ranking black business, despite the fact that
it uses self-reported sales figures and doesn't estimate
profits. Only one concern on the list, Johnson Products Co.,
Chicago, is publicly traded. It was ranked 24th on the list.
   "If it's privately held it becomes a little tricky as to
how profitable they were," said Black Enterprise Publisher
Earl G. Graves. "There's a tendency in the black {business}
community to want to stay fairly close to your chest about
what you're doing and how you do it."
   Mr. Graves said the companies had setbacks in profits and
sales because of a sluggish economy, especially in the
construction field. Some companies dependent on government
contracts have been hurt by the slowdown in defense spending
and the pall cast over government set-aside programs for
minorities, which have been threatened by recent court
decisions.
   J. Bruce Llewellyn, who owns Philadelphia Coca-Cola
Bottling Co., No. 3 on the list, and Queen City Broadcasting
Inc., No. 34, said the list proves there is a growing cadre
of black businesses that couldn't have been assembled 20
years ago. But he added that he was skeptical of the some of
figures, because the annual ranking is the object of
competition among some black-business leaders.
   Mr. Llewellyn said he was surprised that another of his
firms, Garden State Cable, wasn't on the list. With sales of
$70 million, Garden State would be No. 8 on the list, but a
Black Enterprise spokesman said according to the magazine's
research it isn't 51% black-owned. Mr. Llewellyn said the
Federal Communications Commission certified Garden State's
minority status when he purchased it from New York Times Co.
last year.
   Mr. Graves said that increasingly this list (a separate
list is compiled for the biggest black car dealers) includes
companies that have expanded in a short time through
acquisitions. Eight of the top 20 companies were founded
since 1980. Mr. Graves, whose own Earl G. Graves Ltd. slipped
to number 50 from number 34 on the list this year, said his
company expected to close on a substantial acquisition -- the
first such move in its 20 year history -- within the next
month that could raise its standing.
   W. Don Cornwell, 41, president of Granite Broadcasting
Corp., New York, began by purchasing four network-affiliated
television stations in late 1988. The firm made its debut at
No. 18 on the list this year. The former Goldman Sachs
investment banker noted there are two distinct types of firms
on the list, classic entrepreneurial startups and takeover
situations.
   "There are people like Bruce Llewellyn and myself who
through astute financial dealings have acquired fairly mature
and established businesses," he said.
   While the debt market has soured on supporting leveraged
buy-out activities, Mr. Cornwell said he expects to see more
black businesses built by acquisition on the Black Enterprise
list in years to come.
   Despite the overall flat sales, the minimum sales figure
required to make the list rose to $7.2 million from $5.5
million a year ago. When the list began in 1972 it was $1
million. "When you start looking at where we are, the
progress we've made is not insignificant, given what we've
had to overcome," Mr. Graves said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lockheed Corp.
   Will Abandon
   Major Facility
   ---
   Defense Contractor to Pull
   All Aircraft Operations
   Out of Burbank, Calif.
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LK LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURBANK, Calif. -- Faced with a dearth of Pentagon work
and a need to cut costs, Lockheed Corp. decided to pull all
aircraft operations out of this city, where its founder began
building six-passenger plywood transports 62 years ago.
   The news, which shocked union representatives and Burbank
officials, was painted by the big defense contractor as
another sign of troubled times for the industry. A year ago,
Lockheed announced it planned eventually to stop assembling
planes here, but the new moves also call for clearing out
administrative and engineering staffs and discontinuing
testing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Our work base has been falling off faster than our
ability" to shrink, Lockheed Chairman Daniel Tellep said.
   With the exodus from Burbank, the company's entire
aircraft business would be in Marietta, Ga., and Palmdale,
Calif., a 45-minute drive north of here in the high desert.
Vacated and put on the market would be all 320 acres of
Burbank land, which could fetch $1 million an acre or more.
Most Burbank property will be emptied by 1991, Mr. Tellep
said. The company already had planned to sell 225 of the
acres here and move its supersecret Skunk Works operation,
creator of the U-2 and SR-71 spyplanes, to Palmdale by 1994.
Before any land can be sold, Lockheed must settle certain
environmental issues with the city; Mr. Tellep said those
matters should be resolved by early next year.
   "It's a sad day because it really all began in Burbank for
Lockheed," said William Schoneberger, a local aviation
historian and author of "California Wings."
   Lockheed can't say how deeply employment will be cut until
there is a clearer picture of what future Pentagon work it
will perform. The company spearheads a team competing to
build the Air Force's next-generation jet fighter, and is
working out with the Navy a production schedule for the P-7
anti-submarine aircraft. Both those projects face
considerable delays, and with the improvement in superpower
relations, Lockheed will have a hard time finding products to
replace the C-5B cargo plane, P-3 sub hunter, TR-1
reconnaissance plane and F-117A Stealth fighter.
   Currently, about 10,500 people work for Lockheed in
Burbank, a third of whom are Machinists members. Lockheed,
which in 1986 moved its headquarters to the outlying Los
Angeles suburb of Calabasas from here, employs a total of
81,000. The company indicated that it would relocate
thousands in Palmdale, and several hundred in Georgia, over
the next few years.
   But plenty of pink slips could be handed out. Late last
month, Lockheed said it would lay off 2,750 at its
aircraft-making unit by the end of June, and the move from
Burbank may mean more cutting. "Given the current
environment, it would be difficult for any company to say
that this is the end of trimming the work force," Mr. Tellep
said. Job losses elsewhere have been rampant, with General
Electric Co. announcing elimination of 4,200 aerospace posts
and General Dynamics Corp. saying it could slash rolls by
7,000 at its Texas fighter plant by the mid-1990s.
   In Burbank, Machinists leaders were taken aback. "We're
going to fight this action, either by legal means or with the
help of some of our political friends," said Don Nakamoto,
spokesman for District Lodge 727. Added Burbank Mayor Thomas
Flavin: "We will do everything we can to encourage them to
stay, but, frankly, I don't know what we can offer."
   Mr. Tellep said that "to ease the sting," Lockheed will
give veteran employees extra benefits if they retire early.
Leaving Burbank, he said, is ultimately "the way to preserve
the most for the most people."
   The chairman predicted that the change will drive down
operating costs by more than $50 million a year, while paring
$75 million from capital spending through 1994. In addition,
he said, some overhead expenses will evaporate as Lockheed
leaves behind 2.3 million square feet of Burbank factory, on
top of the 3.3 million it already is trying to shed.
   Under a new arrangement Lockheed's board approved
yesterday, aircraft operations will now break into two
distinct operating companies, each reporting financial
results independently to Mr. Tellep. The companies together
will still be known as the Aeronautical Systems Group, but
headquarters will be in Marietta. In fact, the departure from
Burbank is sure to be a boon for the Atlanta suburb, where
Lockheed employment has dwindled to about 10,000 from 20,000
over the past 2 1/2 years. Lockheed's work on the Air Force's
Advanced Tactical Fighter, as part of a team with General
Dynamics and Boeing Co., also will move there.
   When the lights go out at the vast Burbank facilities,
leaving Lockheed with only two small, non-aircraft units
here, an important chapter in aviation history will end. The
company's founder, Allan Loughead -- who later changed his
name to Lockheed to match its pronunciation -- moved here in
1928 to give him and partner Jack Northrop more room to churn
out their plywood Vega plane. Since then, nearly 35,000
aircraft have been built in Burbank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Rep. Jim Bates (D., Calif.), speaking about dolphins to a
group of environmentalists, as reported in the San Diego
Union on April 15:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   These animals are probably more intelligent than humans,
and they should be spared.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Union
   Sets Contract Talks
   At Stone Container
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   STO LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- The Canadian Paperworkers Union picked three
Quebec mills owned by Stone Container Corp. for contract
negotiations that will set the pattern for most of the
forest-products industry in Eastern Canada, which is a major
supplier of newsprint to U.S. publishers.
   The choice of Stone Container wasn't expected by many
industry observers, including Roger Stone, chairman,
president and chief executive officer of the Chicago paper
products concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We have somewhat of a reputation as a hard bargainer. I'm
surprised," Mr. Stone said.
   The union represents about 30,000 workers at mills in
Eastern Canada, which is a producer of newsprint, pulp, and
other paper products. As a rule, the union negotiates a
contract with one company or group of mills and that
settlement is then adopted by the rest of the industry.
   Analysts said the union may have picked Stone Container
because the union believes the company isn't prepared to
endure a strike. "If that's true they've misjudged the
situation," Mr. Stone said.
   Don Holder, union president, said that "we believe we can
get a settlement without a strike." The union is seeking an
8% wage increase in each year of a two-year contract and an
automatic cost-of-living increase. But Mr. Holder conceded
that "it would be a little naive to expect to come out with
8%." The base wage rate at the Stone Container mills is
currently 15.37 Canadian dollars (US$13.22) an hour.
Contracts at most Eastern Canadian mills expired April 30.
   The contract negotiations will be watched closely by
newsprint buyers. Most major newsprint producers have
announced a June 1 price increase of US$35 a metric ton to
US$685 a ton on the East Coast, and a similar increase in the
West, where the price scale is slightly different.
Transaction prices, the actual prices paid by buyers, are
much lower with 20% discounts widespread. Industry executives
said they expect that an increase in the list price would
lift transaction prices from about US$520 a ton to about
US$550.
   Initially, many publishers didn't expect the price
increase to go through, but now opinion is mixed. An extended
strike at the three Stone mills, one of which produces
standard newsprint, could help producers push through the
price increase. The newsprint market is highly sensitive to
minor shifts in supply and demand.
   "A strike is probably the only chance" for a price boost,
said J. William Cox, senior vice president at the Dallas
Morning News.
   The increase is "a contrived non-market driven farce,"
said Homer Taylor, vice president of supply at Knight-Ridder
Inc. in Miami. While a strike could temporarily lift
newsprint prices, once production returned to normal, prices
would fall back to current levels, Mr. Taylor said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ingersoll-Rand Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   INGERSOLL-RAND CO. (Woodcliff Lake, N.J.) -- Daniel E.
Kletter, 52 years old, Larry H. Pitsch, 49, J. Frank Travis,
54, and R. Barry Uber, 45, were elected vice presidents of
the parent industrial-machinery manufacturer. Messrs.
Kletter, Pitsch, Travis and Uber retain their titles as
president of the Construction Equipment, Industrial Process
Machinery, Air Compressor, and Production Equipment groups,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   BNHI CCR CARS
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bancorp. Hawaii Inc., offering of 1.5 million shares of
common stock, via Montgomery Securities and Salomon Brothers
Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Countrywide Credit Industries Inc., offering of 1.6
million shares of depositary convertible preferred stock, via
Salomon Brothers.
                                                                                                       

   Fleer Corp., an initial offering of 1.7 million shares of
common stock, via Smith Barney, Upham Harris &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Urcarco Inc., offering of five million common shares, via
Alex. Brown, Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and Cazenove Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Cashless Society
   May Be Inching
   Toward Reality
   ----
   By Michael Allen and Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR KM J.NOM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The fabled cashless society may have inched closer to
reality with an agreement by MasterCard International Inc.
and Visa U.S.A. Inc. to abandon their national debit-card
joint venture.
   The agreement -- part of a settlement of an antitrust
lawsuit filed by the attorneys general of 14 states -- calls
for the two credit-card companies to scuttle plans for a
joint, nationwide card that would have allowed consumers to
instantaneously deduct amounts from their bank-account
balances to purchase products. The suit alleged that the
companies violated antitrust laws in an effort to control the
debit-card market; the companies denied it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Several people familiar with the industry predict that,
with the lawsuit behind them, both MasterCard and Visa will
move quickly to introduce their own versions of the national
card. Competitive pressures, they argue, will force them to
resolve major hurdles that have impeded the development of
electronic point-of-sale payment systems, such as who will
pay for them and who will convince consumers that they really
want them.
   "This is the first important step in establishing a more
competitive environment in the nation's electronic payment
systems," said New York Attorney General Robert Abrams.
   Denny D. Dumler, executive vice president of Rocky
Mountain BankCard System Inc., a Denver credit-card issuer,
agreed, noting: "When you only have one choice, you can wait
around and decide later whether to do it or not."
   Under the settlement, filed yesterday in federal court in
New York, MasterCard and Visa agreed to notify hundreds of
financial institutions that joined the program, called
Entree, that it will end Oct. 1. However, the program hadn't
been launched with retailers, so no consumers were actually
using the cards.
   A spokesman for New York-based MasterCard declined to say
how much money the two companies spent developing Entree
since the joint venture began in 1987, but said it was a
"significant amount," running into millions of dollars.
   "The American consumer is the real victim here. Even
though we feel that Entree would have prevailed in the
courts, the threat of long-term litigation caused banks to
lose interest in the program," said a spokesman for San
Mateo, Calif.-based Visa.
   Both companies said they plan to continue marketing their
separate debit products, MasterDebit and Visa Debit Card.
These have been available for several years but aren't
on-line systems. Merchants process these cards as if they
were credit cards, turn in their slips to the banks and later
receive their payments after the banks deduct the amounts
from consumers' bank accounts. Twenty million Visa Debit
Cards have been issued world-wide, including 6.8 million in
the U.S. MasterCard said it issued 1.3 million cards in the
U.S., according to figures compiled at the end of 1989.
   But the cards have several drawbacks. Banks that peddle
off-line cards risk overdrawn accounts, since the plastic
functions much like a check. For that reason, they typically
give the cards only to upscale customers. And they can't be
used in grocery stores, where consumers spend much of their
cash, because the stores' thin profit margins make
credit-card terminals uneconomical.
   In contrast, the Entree program would have provided direct
"on-line" access to a consumer's funds at the time of a sale.
Under the plan, for example, a Floridian vacationing in
California would eventually be able to use his automatic
teller card to purchase groceries or gasoline.
   And neither type of debit card provides a one-month grace
period before a payment is required, as credit cards do.
   Industry observers agree it will take a strong marketing
push from retailers and banks to prod the public into using
debit cards of any sort. In many ways, proponents face a
classic chicken-or-egg problem: Merchants won't install
costly hardware if there aren't many consumers with the
necessary plastic, and banks won't push the plastic if there
aren't many merchants accepting it.
   As for the buying public, "There isn't anywhere in the
country where consumers are running around with neon signs
saying, `I've gotta have on-line point-of-sale' debit cards,"
says Thomas Bennion, chairman of Florida Interchange Group
Inc., Orlando, Fla., which runs the Honor ATM network in
Florida.
   Just 4% of the nation's supermarkets accept debit cards,
according to Progressive Grocer, an industry magazine, up
slightly from 3% in 1988.
   Most on-line debit-card use is confined to regional
pockets. Although the cards have been modestly successful in
places such as California -- where Lucky Stores Inc., Dublin,
Calif., among others, markets them heavily -- they are
unknown in much of the country.
   Both Visa and MasterCard said they haven't made any final
decisions on creating their own "on-line" systems comparable
to Entree.
   The suit had alleged that the companies sought a
stranglehold on the national debit-card market -- without
actually putting the system in operation -- in order to
protect their own well-established credit cards from
competition. The states contended the companies would offer
their programs to retailers only if other companies tried to
break into the national market and threatened to cut into
credit-card purchases.
   The suit also charged that to prevent the entry of any
other competitors, Visa acquired control of Plus Systems
Inc., a national network of automated teller machines, and
Interlink Network, the nation's largest regional debit-card
network, and MasterCard acquired Cirrus System Inc., a
national automated-teller network. The suit sought to compel
the divestiture of Cirrus, Plus and Interlink.
   The states agreed to drop their opposition to those
acquisitions as part of the settlement. But if either company
acquires another automated teller or debit-card network, the
states would consider filing suit to seek divestiture, said
Lloyd Constantine, chief of the antitrust bureau in the New
York attorney general's office.
   As part of the settlement, the companies also agreed to
provide advance notice to the 14 states regarding any future
joint ventures into the debit-card industry or separate
debit-card programs that would permit a bank to be a member
of both MasterCard and Visa, among other circumstances. These
requirements are designed to give the states time to
determine whether antitrust suits should be filed.
   The states have also formed a Payment Systems Task Force
to oversee compliance with the agreement. Mr. Abrams said
concern about possible price-fixing in the credit-card
industry had emerged during the states' investigation and
that the committee will explore why interest rates and fees
charged to consumers for use of the cards are uniformly high.
   The American Bankers Association said the demise of Entree
was a setback for the debit-card industry. But in a written
statement, Entree Management Committee Chairman Douglas
Freeman said the program had helped create operation
guidelines that would aid the industry.
   ---
   RULING COMPELLING FIRMS to give business to lawyers gets
angry response.
   Employer groups are lobbying to override the Missouri
Supreme Court's recent decision requiring corporations to
hire attorneys in administrative appeals of
unemployment-compensation cases. In its ruling, the court
said individuals may act as their own legal counsel in such
appeals but corporations may not.
   "The law allows an individual to bear the risk that
representation without an attorney may entail," the court
said. But it added that corporations are creatures of statute
and, thus, are subject to various restrictions. "One such
restriction in Missouri is that a corporation may not
represent itself in legal matters but must act solely through
licensed attorneys," the court declared in an opinion by
Judge William H. Billings.
   The decision stems from a dispute between K mart Corp. and
Marjorie Reed, who was discharged by the company and filed
for unemployment benefits with the Missouri Division of
Employment Security. A division deputy upheld her claim,
prompting an administrative appeal by the company that was
handled by K mart's unemployment-compensation manager, who
isn't an attorney. The case wound up in the Missouri Supreme
Court, whose decision reversed a longstanding practice of
permitting non-lawyers to handle administrative appeals of
such matters.
   "It is axiomatic that a corporation must act through an
attorney in all legal matters," the court declared.
   While some lawyers contend the court simply is trying to
protect the public, business groups, such as the Missouri
Merchants and Manufacturers Association, contend the ruling
creates unneeded legal costs that will especially burden
small businesses. As a result of the ruling, the Missouri
Legislature is considering two proposals that would eliminate
the need for corporations to retain lawyers in administrative
cases.
   "It all boils down to economics," says a spokesman for
state Sen. Jim Mathewson, who introduced one proposal.
   The Missouri Bar Association opposed the legislative
moves, contending they infringe on the state Supreme Court's
right to decide what constitutes illegal law practice.
However, the association appointed a committee to review
current rules on when non-lawyers can appear in
administrative proceedings.
   ---
   MULHEREN'S LAWYERS are denied access to Boesky's overseas
bankers.
   Federal Judge Miriam Cedarbaum in New York denied a
request by John Mulheren's lawyers to seek pretrial testimony
from bankers and others abroad who the lawyers believe had
financial dealings with Ivan Boesky, convicted former
takeover speculator.
   Mr. Mulheren is scheduled to go on trial Monday in federal
court in Manhattan on charges of parking stock with Mr.
Boesky. Parking occurs when an investor sells securities with
the understanding that they will be repurchased, usually at a
prearranged time and price. The government has alleged Mr.
Mulheren used the tactic to conceal the true ownership of the
parked securities. Mr. Mulheren has pleaded innocent to the
charges.
   Thomas Puccio, a New York attorney for Mr. Mulheren, has
contended that as a witness against Mr. Mulheren, Mr. Boesky
will be "biased in favor of the government" because "the
government allowed Mr. Boesky to hold on to many millions of
dollars" after he paid a $100 million fine to settle charges
against him in 1987. Mr. Puccio sought to get testimony from
overseas bankers in an attempt to ascertain the extent of Mr.
Boesky's holdings abroad.
   Judge Cedarbaum said she rejected the request because Mr.
Puccio had presented no evidence that any financial
information the attorney was seeking would prove bias on Mr.
Boesky's part.
   Mr. Boesky is expected to be the government's star witness
in the case against Mr. Mulheren. Assistant U.S. Attorney E.
Scott Gilbert said that New York financier Carl Icahn may
also be called as a witness for the government in the case.
Mr. Icahn has never been a target of the investigation but he
was involved as an investor in one transaction that is a
subject of this case.
   Mr. Gilbert also said the government will drop one of the
42 counts in the indictment. The dropped count alleges that
Mr. Mulheren and his co-defendant, Leonard DeStefano,
illegally used the U.S. Postal Service to mail payments by
Mr. Mulheren's firm to Mr. Boesky for services that were
never provided by Mr. Boesky.
   ---
   RANDOM DRUG-TESTING of jail guards is upheld by New York's
highest court.
   In a 4-3 decision, the New York Court of Appeals ruled
that New York City corrections officers' constitutional
rights aren't violated by random urinalysis drug-testing. In
reaching its decision, the majority balanced the officers'
Fourth Amendment expectation of privacy against the
government's need to control its prisons. The court cited a
drug-abuse problem among a significant number of the officers
as a compelling need for random testing.
   "By choosing to work in the paramilitary milieu of the
City Correction Department, guards voluntarily sacrifice
certain cherished freedoms," the court held.
   The dissent by Chief Judge Sol Wachtler, however, argued
that the court had carved out a "general warrant permitting
the government to intrude in the most offensive manner."
   Judge Wachtler wrote: "Following this precedent, it would
be difficult to imagine how any officer, or anyone employed
in the world of law enforcement or even anyone associated
with the criminal justice system, would be free of the
requirement of random, suspicionless urine testing once
someone in authority found it desirable."
   The 10,000-member Correction Officers Benevolent
Association may seek review by the U.S. Supreme Court, says
Irving Anolik, the group's attorney.
   ---
   HARVARD LAW SCHOOL said Nomura Securities Co. of Japan
granted it $3 million to fund a professorship in
international financial systems. The professorship is
intended to advance the study of banking regulations and the
development of securities markets and new international
financial products, Harvard Law School said. The school added
that its dean, Robert C. Clark, is expected to name the
Nomura professor next fall.
   ---
   Wayne E. Green and Arthur S. Hayes contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Occidental
   Plans 35% Increase
   In Capital Outlays
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CXY OXY CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Canadian Occidental Petroleum Ltd. plans to
increase its capital spending this year by about 35%, in part
to expand its production of sodium chlorate, a compound that
is increasingly being used by the pulp and paper industry as
a more environmentally friendly substitute for chlorine in
the bleaching process.
   Jerry Wright, Canadian Occidental's chief operating
officer, said capital spending this year will rise to about
220 million Canadian dollars (US$189.2 million) from C$163.4
million in 1989. He said the company will need to increase
its long-term debt by between C$20 million and C$30 million
by the end of 1990 from C$258 million currently in order to
finance the increased capital expenditures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Calgary, Alberta-based Canadian Occidental, which is
mainly involved in oil and gas, is 49%-owned by Occidental
Petroleum Corp. of Los Angeles.
   Mr. Wright, speaking after the company's annual meeting
here, said capital spending this year will include about C$70
million to expand two existing sodium chlorate plants in
western Canada and to add another near Edmonton, Alberta. He
said he expects the company's production of sodium chlorate
to rise to 210,000 metric tons by mid-1991 from 90,000 metric
tons currently.
   Sodium chlorate is used as an ingredient to make chlorine
dioxide, an alternative to elemental chlorine for bleaching
pulp and paper products.
   Ronald Slinn, vice president, pulp materials, at the
American Paper Institute in New York, said the industry has
been under pressure from both the U.S. and Canadian
governments to reduce its use of elemental chlorine, which
has been linked with the formation of dioxin, a suspected
carcinogen. He said pulp companies have been converting to
chlorine dioxide at such a rapid rate that he doesn't have
available firm statistics about its use.
   Mr. Wright said Canadian Occidental's 1990 spending plans
also include C$50 million for oil and gas exploration, up
from C$30.7 million last year, as the company seeks to expand
its foreign energy interests.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Graco Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GGG
</CO>
<LP>
   GRACO Inc. (Minneapolis) -- Lee R. Mitau, a partner in the
law firm of Dorsey &amp; Whitney, was elected to the board of
this fluids technology company. He was elected to a
three-year term, succeeding Maynard B. Hasselquist, a
longtime director who didn't stand for re-election.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Ivory Censor
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   It's graduation time, so the broader culture is once again
learning that the U.S. academy has become an ideological
foxhole. A part of society supposedly committed to free
debate and inquiry has become a redoubt of intolerance and
even of censorship.
   The latest episodes occurred last week. Students at the
University of Northern Colorado at Greeley protested an
invitation to Linda Chavez to speak at its May 12
commencement. At Wellesley, the elite women's college, 150
students signed a petition protesting a speaking invitation
to Barbara Bush. The First Lady's offense, said the young
feminists, was to have "gained recognition through the
achievements of her husband."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Birds gotta fly and students must protest, of course, and
at least Wellesley didn't take them too seriously.
Incredibly, however, the faculty senate at Northern Colorado
voted unanimously to "disinvite" Ms. Chavez, a former
Coloradan who served in the Reagan administration. Even more
incredibly, school president Robert Dickeson disowned his
earlier defense of "free speech" and issued a press release
disinviting her. The Supreme Soviet may be full of debate
these days, but in Greeley everyone agrees. We reprint Mr.
Dickeson's statement in its full glory nearby.
   Lest anyone think these cases are unusual, consider other
campus news:
   Emory University in Atlanta, among other schools, has
banned certain kinds of speech. Emory now bans
"discriminatory harassment," which it defines as "conduct
(oral, written, graphic or physical) directed against any
person or group . . . that has the purpose or reasonably
foreseeable effect of creating an offensive, demeaning,
intimidating or hostile environment." The policy is ambiguous
enough to fit any prejudice, yet Emory President James Laney
insists it doesn't abridge freedom of speech.
   In a symbolic protest at Harvard Law School, professor
Derrick Bell, who is black, has gone on strike until a
minority woman is named to the faculty. Though about half of
Harvard's recent appointments have been minorities or women,
Mr. Bell wants a "role model" for the school's black women
students. Merit apparently must take a back seat to race and
gender.
   Stanford Law School Dean Paul Brest recently sent a memo
to all students repudiating Marine Corps recruiting flyers.
The Marines' Judge Advocate Program isn't good enough for
Stanford, the dean wrote, "because it is not in compliance
with the School's Non-Discrimination Policy with respect to
sexual orientation." ROTC programs elsewhere have been deemed
unfit because they don't accept homosexuals.
   What is especially troubling is that these episodes are
justified in the name of "diversity" or "tolerance." They are
supposed to fight "bigotry," yet they impose a new orthodoxy
of their own. Ms. Chavez's offense was to oppose bilingual
education programs (though her Colorado speech was going to
be about the meaning of freedom). Apparently an Hispanic
isn't supposed to think for herself. A professor at Emory
better think twice about critiquing affirmative action or
risk being brought up on "anti-diversity" charges. Race,
gender and homosexuality are made taboo subjects -- unless
you hold the approved point of view.
   These new censors are actually the enemies of American
diversity. We've long supported immigration by all races, but
a melting pot requires some common cultural signposts, for
example, the English language. This doesn't mean English-only
laws, but probably should mean English, rather than
bilingual, instruction in elementary schools. While keeping
their own cultural heritage alive, it's imperative that
Hispanics assimilate into the broader American culture, as
indeed most are doing, rather than become self-segregated
into an aggrieved "group." As for hiring, we have no problem
with voluntary, private affirmative action to ensure a
diverse work force, but quotas and government coercion risk
setting race against race.
   American universities are the best in the world,
especially in the hard sciences. Yet this is all the more
reason to protect free inquiry when it's under attack, as it
now seems to be in the "softer" disciplines, especially the
humanities. The humanities faculties have attracted more than
their share of the Woodstock Generation and its radical
politics. These intellectual refugees think America can be
explained only in terms of race, gender, class and,
increasingly, "sexual orientation." The academy's tenure
system then protects the mediocre from the market forces that
prevail in politics or business.
   Happily, a counterattack may be under way. The liberal
Denver Post defended Linda Chavez. Harvard Law Dean Robert
Clark has stressed the importance of merit, despite Derrick
Bell. A group based in Princeton, the National Association of
Scholars, has formed to fight the new campus censors
nationwide.
   Ms. Chavez plans to make her own modest contribution by
buying each of Northern Colorado's 750 students a copy of the
U.S. Constitution, something they obviously haven't read as
undergraduates. Sooner or later, glasnost may arrive even on
the American campus.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Freer Markets or More Aid
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The G-7 nations have agreed to boost IMF resources by 50%,
to $180 billion, but Third World nations are grousing
nonetheless. If the new credit is siphoned off to Eastern
Europe, Zimbabwe's finance minister warns us to expect a
"very explosive and dangerous situation . . . conditions
likely to undermine international peace and security."
   Don't lose sleep over that threat. The peoples of the
Third World seldom see the IMF money funneled to their
governments and are not likely to take up arms because their
oligarchies have less to salt away in Swiss bank accounts.
But it is true that the IMF quota increase got a big boost
from the changes in Eastern Europe. Western governments seem
to feel that they should be doing something. In the absence
of any concrete strategy, building up multilateral
institutions is a natural response.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To be sure, the multilaterals talk a lot these days about
their new focus on financing private entrepreneurship and
promoting market economies. But it is virtually impossible
for them to funnel credit into a country other than through
government bureaucracies. Public finance and private
initiative seldom make a good economic brew. The Housing and
Urban Development scandal, among others, testifies to that. A
U.N.-sponsored study by East European economists concluded
last month that building market economies will depend not so
much on credit as on creating new legal structures and market
skills.
   Some of the people who know state banking best are already
pursuing this course. In January, Czechoslovakia moved to
rejoin the IMF specifically asking for technical aid, not
cash. In April, a blue-ribbon commission of leading
Hungarians published the results of their future economic
course. It stressed private investment, not loans from bodies
such as the IMF.
   The Hungarians in particular should know that the IMF can
unwittingly set back the cause of reform. Hungary's high
per-capita indebtedness is attributable in part to the
generosity of the IMF and World Bank. Its Communists loved
the Western largesse because it helped keep them in power
during those many years that preceded their ultimate
downfall. But today, a free Hungary wants its smartest people
in the private sector, not in state bureaucracies.
   We suspect that the fears of Third World oligarchs are
unwarranted. Their money will continue to come through. The
IMF was created at Bretton Woods to finance
balance-of-payments adjustments under fixed exchange rates,
but long ago turned to financing efforts to restructure the
debts and economies of debtor nations. Today, at least some
national leaders, such as Jamaica's Michael Manley, are
promising to abandon socialism in return for new aid. But
there remains the contradiction inherent in trying to
stimulate private enterprise with public money.
   If the industrial nations continue creating the credit,
there will always be countries wanting to use it. Zimbabwe's
threat of violence if the credit tap is shut off made that
point quite clear this week. However, credit resources
world-wide would be more effectively employed if more nations
followed the lead of Czechoslovakia and Hungary and focused
more on free markets and less on Western aid.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grassroots to Bush: `No More Taxes'
   ----
   By Patrick B. McGuigan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   When the White House this week announced it would set "no
preconditions" on deficit-cutting talks, it opened the door
to reversing its position on George Bush's campaign promise
of no new taxes. But if Washington is beginning to crack on
this central issue, the states are standing firm.
   A dozen or more state governments could face meaningful
tax-reduction or limitation initiatives this fall. America's
grass roots are talking, and their words don't include
"revenue enhancement" or other euphemisms for tax increases.
A look at some state initiatives and petitions in the field
shows that this year will see a new surge in ballot
propositions aiming to reduce taxes and state spending.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   -- Colorado: Last fall, activists under Douglas Bruce were
the first in the country to gain a spot on the November
ballot for a tax-reduction initiative. The new measure
combines meaningful limitations on taxation with phased-in
relief in some categories. Backers of the initiative are
likely to survive legal challenges. If they do, their
November match will be one of the most important in the
nation.
   -- Massachusetts: Citizens for Limited Taxation is back
with a sophisticated initiative that will subject to a
statewide popular vote all tax increases enacted in the
Legislature in the 1989-90 cycle. At a time when Republicans
are outregistering Democrats two-to-one, this latest
initiative could represent the first opportunity for voters
to reject directly the high-tax, high-spending policies of
the departing Dukakis administration.
   Under the commonwealth's indirect provisions for the
process, the Bay State initiative faced legislative scrutiny
in late April. Then the Democrat-dominated Legislature
rejected the tax-slashing proposal. If backers can garner a
few thousand new valid names on petitions, the initiative
will go to the people this fall.
   -- California: Joel Fox of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association announced a new initiative drive in late
December, aiming for this November's ballot. Called the
"Taxpayers Right to Vote Act of 1990," it gives voters more
direct control over both general and special taxes at the
state and local levels.
   The measure attacks future government revenues, spending
and services. Mr. Fox maintains the initiative is designed
merely to reinvigorate tax limits passed but gutted through
judicial interpretation. As a result of a blend of paid
circulators, direct mail and volunteer activists, a statewide
popular vote is virtually certain.
   -- Illinois: The National Taxpayers United of Illinois met
a May 4 deadline for submission to state officials of at
least 251,595 valid signatures on a new initiative. The
initiative would require all tax hikes to go through a
special legislative committee, and mandate legislative super
majorities of 60% for future tax increases in the high-tax
state. In fact, the group was able to turn in 470,292
signatures, subject to verification. The group has made a
strong start.
   Win or lose, the initiative made a difference: After
conservative Republican Steve Baer -- who emphasized his
strong support for the initiative -- garnered one-third of
the vote in the March 20 gubernatorial primary, GOP nominee
Jim Edgar endorsed the NTUI measure in early April.
   Democratic nominee Neil Hartigan also announced support
for the initiative, and for a month the two gubernatorial
nominees have tried to outdo one another in rejecting the
high-tax policies of retiring Governor Jim Thompson.
   All 28 Republicans in the state Senate have introduced an
identical proposal in the Legislature, assuring the
initiative drive continued life even if it does not survive
the state's byzantine initiative provisions.
   -- Oklahoma: Legislators last month enacted staggering tax
increases for education. The controversial increases in state
sales, income and corporate taxes came after five Democratic
senators switched from opposition to support of a crucial
"emergency" clause putting the hikes into effect immediately,
and avoiding a popular referendum drive.
   The switches came after thousands of teachers left
classrooms on April 16 and flooded the state capital to back
"education reform" -- although what finally passed did not
include mandated consolidation of rural districts, parental
choice or other reforms. The package results in pay raises
for teachers over a five-year period, with some increases in
funding for specific programs. Liberal Republican Governor
Henry Bellmon backed the tax hikes, and so did Steve Lewis,
Democratic speaker of the House. Mr. Lewis was rewarded
within days with an endorsement from the National Education
Association affiliate.
   But the tides could shift. All the GOPers and several of
the Democrats running to replace Gov. Bellmon this fall
oppose the increases. Grassroots forces immediately coalesced
around Dan Brown, an Oklahoma City stockbroker, and plans for
a tax-limitation initiative began. Through early this month,
thousands of calls to Mr. Brown's office indicated widespread
popular fury at the hikes, and a willingness to go into the
field with initiative petitions. It is not clear whether the
tax-cut activists would go for a simple repeal of the new
levies or seek tax-limitation provisions. Even a successful
drive may not garner a popular vote until 1991 -- and a
hostile governor could delay any vote until 1992.
   -- Michigan: At least two related initiatives are aiming
for the ballot. Individuals and groups that helped defeat two
tax-hike proposals in November could prove potent in drives
to cap or limit taxation.
   A statutory initiative to the Legislature -- whose
supporters are expected to submit their goal of 240,000 names
this month -- would roll back property tax assessments by up
to 20%. Under this rare form of initiative, legislators get a
chance to consider the proposal as a simple law without the
threat of gubernatorial veto. The tax cut plan might still
find its way to a statewide popular vote.
   Another initiative petition to limit taxes faces a July
petitioning deadline if supporters want to garner a spot on
this year's ballot.
   -- Oregon: Portland activists close to the late Ray
Phillips, a Jarvis-like figure in the state, are back with a
proposal to cut property taxes in half over a five-year
period. The initiative supporters will probably submit
sufficient valid names later this month, assuring them a spot
on what will likely be a statewide November ballot already
crowded with environmental and other initiatives.
   As the spring ends, a variety of other tax reduction or
limitation ballot propositions have fair prospects of
securing ballot spots and passing in November. South Dakota
has a mixed program. One measure slated would roll back some
taxes, but a second would allow a state income tax. Activists
plan to support the first and oppose the second.
   In Nevada, voters will ponder a constitutional measure
banning imposition of a state income tax. The initiative
passed in 1988, but must be considered a second time under
the state's provisions. In Montana, a drive to limit spending
seems to be emerging. Nebraska's Taxpayers Survival Committee
initiative filed a tax reduction initiative with the state
government last July. Bill Heusiler, a tax-cut veteran in
Arizona, is joined by supporters in contemplating a major
property-tax reduction effort. A taxcut effort might still
emerge in North Dakota. In all four states, tax reducers face
mid-summer deadlines to gather sufficient valid names.
   An initiative limiting new property taxes is possible in
Florida. In that state, the petition circulation process
might draw out matters into the 1992 election. Utahans, who
have rejected recent aggressive tax reduction efforts, might
look more favorably on a possible initiative to cut taxes on
food sales.
   The question for 1990 is whether the electorate in some or
most of the states is ready to move beyond opposition to tax
hikes to actual approval of tax reductions and meaningful
spending limitations.
   Leaders in the various initiative drives are, of course,
hoping this year will see the return of the tax revolt that
peaked a decade ago. In any case, Americans this season may
be preparing to send a message to Washington. Come November,
George Bush may find that voters paid closer attention to his
campaign promises than he thought. Don't be surprised if
Americans tell the president, "Read our lips . . ."
   ---
   Mr. McGuigan is editor of the Family, Law &amp; Democracy
Report, published by the Free Congress Foundation in
Washington, D.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Will Raise
   $1.1 Billion in Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $1.1 billion in
new cash with the sale Monday of about $16.8 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $15.71 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing on Aug. 16 and Nov. 15, respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum denominations
of $10,000, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hot Question in Washington: Have You
   Read Bush's Lips on Taxes LATELY?
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The budget debate in Washington has taken a
sudden turn toward taxes.
   President Bush, who until last week was sticking to his
read-my-lips pledge of no new taxes, told congressional
leaders Sunday he was willing to enter budget negotiations
with "no preconditions."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Confused? Here's an insider's guide to lip-reading in
Washington:
   Has the president abandoned his no new-taxes pledge?
   The pledge, although stated in unequivocal terms, has
always had some wiggle room. A look at the president's fiscal
1991 budget discloses a few billion dollars of small tax
increases: boosts in the airline ticket tax and Social
Security taxes for state employees, an extension of the
telephone excise tax, and more.
   In the past, the administration has brushed over such tax
increases by using jargon such as "user fees." Budget
Director Richard Darman made clear in testimony last year,
however, that any tax large enough to catch the public's
attention is, by definition, a violation of the president's
pledge. He called it the "duck" test: If it looks like a
duck, walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it's a duck.
   The latest White House estimates show the administration
and Congress must cut the deficit $50 billion or more to meet
the targets of the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law. If the
president is serious about raising that much money, and
administration officials say he is, he'll have to do some
serious quacking.
   What kind of taxes will the president and Congress be
considering?
   Some Republican legislators say the administration won't
raise the income tax, and instead point to alcohol and
tobacco taxes. But those don't raise much money. Doubling the
federal excise tax on cigarettes raises only $3 billion a
year. A 25% rise in alcohol taxes would raise about $7
billion.
   Some Democrats, on the other hand, want to raise the top
tax rate to 33% for high-income taxpayers. Currently, a
family of four with an income between $75,000 and $200,000
pays a marginal tax rate of 33%, but a family earning more
than $200,000 pays only 28%. The change would raise about $4
billion next year and $10 billion a year by 1995.
   GOP Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming said the president might
also be willing to go for some kind of national sales tax,
but few lawmakers believe that's a likely option.
   What about energy taxes?
   Now there's big money. A 25-cent-a-gallon increase in the
tax on gasoline would raise $25 billion a year, and
proponents say it would be good for the environment, too.
   The problem is that gasoline taxes create civil war in
Congress. People in the big Western states, who often
practically live in their cars, would feel the hit much
harder than those in Northeastern cities, who rely on public
transportation.
   Another possibility is an oil-import fee. That falls hard
on those in the Northeast who heat their homes with oil. But
it's a boon to domestic oil producers, and therefore is
beloved by the Texans who hold positions of influence in
Congress and, of course, in the White House.
   A possible compromise: a tax on all forms of energy --
known as a "B.T.U. tax."
   One result could be a package of energy tax changes,
probably including new tax breaks for drilling that have long
been advocated by the president.
   Has the president given up on his efforts to cut the
capital-gains tax rate?
   Not by a long shot. The administration is likely to insist
that a cut in the tax rate on long-term gains be part of the
budget package. Democrats, in turn, will attack that as a
giveaway to the rich, and insist it be accompanied by an
increase in the top rate to 33%. If the president won't
agree, the result could be stalemate.
   Will the budget agreement affect Social Security checks?
   Possibly. In the struggle to raise $50 billion, the
budgeteers will have to go to the big programs, and, after
defense, Social Security is the biggest.
   One option being talked about on Capitol Hill is to raise
the amount of a high-income person's Social Security check
that's subject to taxes. Currently, only 50% of a high-income
recipient's benefit is subject to income taxes. Raising that
to 85% would bring in $6 billion a year by 1995.
   Why has the president changed his tune now?
   The reasons are largely economic. High interest rates are
increasing government spending, and sluggish corporate
profits are bringing down government revenues. As a result,
estimates of the size of budget cut needed to meet the
Gramm-Rudman law's targets next year have risen to more than
$50 billion from $35 billion.
   In addition, some administration officials worry that
rising interest rates could push the economy into a recession
next year. Cutting the budget deficit, they hope, will ease
pressure on interest rates.
   Does the borrowing to finance the savings-and-loan bailout
have anything to do with this?
   Mr. Darman told lawmakers that if the borrowing for S&amp;Ls
is counted, the budget next year could fall as much as $100
billion short of the Gramm-Rudman law's deficit target, which
is $64 billion. But he also said the budget summit is likely
to exclude that borrowing from deficit accounting.
   Nevertheless, the S&amp;L borrowing is one more force driving
up interest rates and causing the administration to rethink
its position on taxes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unicorp American
   Enters Accord on Sale
   Of Real-Estate Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UAC UNI.A T.COT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Unicorp American Corp., a unit of Unicorp
Canada Corp., said it entered a preliminary agreement with
Coscan Development Corp. regarding the sale of Unicorp
American's real-estate assets.
   Under the agreement, certain Unicorp American real-estate
assets would be transferred to a partnership of Unicorp
American and affiliates of Coscan. Other assets would be
financed with participating mortgages. Net proceeds to
Unicorp American from the transactions, which are expected to
close June 15, would total about $41.6 million and would be
used to repay senior secured debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Payment of $32.2 million to Unicorp American, including
the assumption of $8 million of mortgages, would be made in
the form of a secured-loan facility to the partnership, and
$17.4 million of participating mortgage would be provided for
other real-estate assets. A Coscan affiliate would be the
managing partner, while Unicorp American would be a limited
partner.
   The agreement requires, among other things, consent of
Unicorp American's lenders. Unicorp Canada plans to
distribute in the third quarter all its common shares of
Unicorp American to holders of Unicorp Canada Class A and B
common.
   Coscan is indirectly controlled by Hees International
Bancorp, a merchant bank controlled by Toronto financiers
Peter and Edward Bronfman. Unicorp Canada is a Toronto
holding company with interest in energy and
financial-services concerns. Hees has a 24.6% non-voting
equity interest in Unicorp Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southam Swaps Stake in Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.STM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Southam Inc. said it
swapped its 49% stake in North Shore Free Press Ltd., and
unspecified cash, for 63% of Lower Mainland Publishing Ltd.,
whose Vancouver-area papers had gross revenue last year of
about 50 million Canadian dollars (US$43 million).
   Specific terms weren't disclosed, and officials with
Toronto-based Southam, Canada's largest-circulation publisher
of daily newspapers, weren't immediately available.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   North Shore Free Press published the North Shore News, one
of 14 community papers that will now be operated by newly
formed Lower Mainland Publishing; Madison Venture Corp. owns
the remaining 37% of Lower Mainland Publishing. All but
Southam are based in Vancouver.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Grumman Aide
   Enters Guilty Plea
   In Pentagon Fraud
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   GQ
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A former midlevel Grumman Corp. official
pleaded guilty to conspiring to defraud the government and to
another charge stemming from the nationwide investigation of
Pentagon procurement fraud.
   In federal court in Brooklyn, N.Y., William Capaldo
admitted that the scheme involved passing on to the federal
government sham bills for $300,000 of packaging materials.
The government ultimately covered the amounts in the phony
bills, which were submitted to Grumman by a Long Island,
N.Y., paper company between 1982 and 1987, according to the
government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Court documents indicate that the Grumman supplier, headed
by James Kane, who has since died, paid Mr. Capaldo $75,000
for certifying that the bills were legitimate. Mr. Capaldo
also admitted that he failed to report the money in his
federal income tax returns. Grumman has said it isn't a
target of a continuing grand jury investigation in Brooklyn.
   The guilty plea is an offshoot of earlier grand jury
investigations of Grumman's business dealings with Mr. Kane
and a Long Island-based political action committee he headed.
   A 1988 search warrant for another of Mr. Kane's companies
indicated that prosecutors were investigating whether he gave
stock or other "things of value" to public officials. In
addition, prosecutors have delved into Mr. Kane's contacts
with former consultants and officials of Unisys Corp. and
other defense contractors implicated in the procurement
scandal.
   Andrew Maloney, the U.S. attorney in Brooklyn, said there
would be "some future activity coming out of this office"
following yesterday's guilty plea. He declined to comment on
whether this activity would involve Grumman employees or the
company itself.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Einstein Bird Has
   Scientists Atwitter
   Over Mental Feats
   ---
   He May Be an Avian Genius
   Or the Great Pretender;
   Polly Wants a Thesaurus
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   EVANSTON, Ill. -- It is always awkward for a reporter when
a source stops answering his questions, moves closer and
gently chews his ear. But allowances must be made for
eccentric geniuses.
   The biting intellect here is an African Grey parrot named
Alex, a research animal at Northwestern University. For 13
years he has fraternized only with people and now regards
them as members of his flock -- sometimes even preening the
scruffier ones about the ears. But identifying with humans
isn't what makes him special.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nor is his ability to whistle some Mozart and say things
like "Tickle me." Parrots, after all, are uncanny mimics. But
Alex isn't just a copycat. Asked the color of a bluish pen
held before him, he cocks his head, ponders and expounds:
"Baaloo]"
   The Prof. Henry Higgins behind this former squawker is
animal-intelligence researcher Irene Pepperberg. For 13 years
she and her assistants have tirelessly acted out a kind of
"Sesame Street" for Alex. Like Big Bird and friends, they
perform simple word skits, day after day, while he watches in
a small room stocked with toys, snacks and perches. They have
slowly drawn him into the act.
   Now he can name 80 of his favorite things, such as wool,
walnut and shower. (Studiously copying Ms. Pepperberg's
Boston accent, he says "I want showah" to get spritzed.) He
knows something about abstract ideas, including soft, hard,
same and different. He can tell how many objects there are in
groups of up to six. When he says, "Wanna cracker," he means
it: Handed a nut instead, he drops it and exclaims in his
peevish old man's voice, "I WANT CRACKER." So much for the
idea that our feathered friends are all just bird brains.
   Some other animals, such as chimpanzees, have learned
nonverbal communication. But Alex is the first animal to
actually speak with a semblance of understanding. Ms.
Pepperberg believes his conversational gambits prove that he
can handle some simple abstractions as well as chimps and
porpoises can.
   When shown a group of varied objects Alex has learned to
answer certain questions such as, "How many corners does the
piece of red paper have?" with about 80% accuracy. That is,
if he is in the mood. When bored, he tells his teachers to
"go away" and hurls test objects to the floor. "Emotionally,
parrots never go beyond the level of a three-year-old" child,
sighs Ms. Pepperberg, a young 41-year-old, patiently picking
up toys Alex has strewn about his room in an orgy of play.
   Skeptics argue that Alex isn't as smart as he seems. He
has "learned to produce a repertoire of sounds to get
rewards," says Columbia University animal cognition expert
Herbert Terrace. "The only thing distinguishing him from
pigeons {taught to peck buttons for food} is that his
responses sound like English."
   But regardless of whether Alex grasps meanings as we do,
he shows an "incredible, totally unexpected" power to make
mental connections, notes Ohio State University psychologist
Sarah Boysen, who works with chimps. Before Alex, scientists
generally dismissed talking birds as mindless mimics.
   For her part, Ms. Pepperberg sidesteps the fray, merely
noting that Alex shows "language-like" behaviors. But she
adds that parrots in the wild routinely perform mental feats
-- such as learning to sing complex duets with their mates --
that prove they have a lot on the ball. Biologists sometimes
call them "flying primates" -- they have even shown evidence
of using tools. Once when Alex couldn't lift a cup covering a
tasty nut, he turned to the nearest human assistant and
demanded crowbar style, "Go pick up cup."
   Parrots tend to go loco and pluck out their feathers when
caged alone, says Ms. Pepperberg, so they generally don't
make good pets. Yet the talking-bird trade is booming,
endangering many parrot species. Alex, whom Ms. Pepperberg
bought for $600 in a Chicago pet store in 1977, may himself
have been nabbed in the jungle. And he probably isn't an
avian Einstein -- he is just highly schooled. "It's possible
I got a dingbat," his coach says.
   If so, he proves how much inspired teaching can do for the
dingy. Ms. Pepperberg, who took up bird research while
getting her chemistry doctorate at Harvard University, has
helped pioneer a new training strategy for animals that
stresses human-like learning by social interaction. "There's
been a lot of resistance to my work," she says, "because I
don't use standard techniques." But not from Alex.
   Standing on a chair, he is all eyes and ears as she and an
assistant hand back and forth a date nearby -- they're trying
to add it to his lexicon. "I like date," says Ms. Pepperberg.
"Give me date. Yum." Suddenly Alex ventures, "Wanna grain."
"No," says Ms. Pepperberg, "date. Do you want date?" Alex
preens, seemingly mulling it over. Then he says, "I want
grape." That's good enough for now. She hands it to him and
he takes a bite.
   Another of her tricks resembles the way parents help tug
their toddlers into verbal being -- by acting as if babbling
is meaningful. When Alex says something new, Ms. Pepperberg
tries to "map" it to something he is likely to remember.
After he learned "rock" and "corn," and spontaneously said,
"rock corn," she got dried corn and began using that term for
it. Similarly, "peg wood" was mapped to clothespin and
"carrot nut" to the candy Boston Baked Beans. Alex no longer
gets candy, though, for it makes him hyperactively "bounce
off the walls, saying `I want this, I want that,'" says Ms.
Pepperberg.
   Alex often seems to play with words like kids learning to
talk. Overnight tape recordings revealed he privately babbles
to himself, perhaps practicing new words. Once he saw himself
in a mirror and asked, "What color?" -- that's how "gray" was
mapped. When a student blocked him from climbing on her
chair, he uttered the only curse he's heard: "You turkey]"
   These untrained signs of wit may be just "babble luck,"
says Ms. Pepperberg. Still, Alex sometimes seems to be
groping for linguistic connections. Soon after first seeing
apples, he called one a "banerry" -- a word he hadn't heard.
"No," Ms. Pepperberg gently reminded him, "apple." Alex
persisted: "Banerry," he said, "ban-err-eeee" -- speaking as
his teachers do with new words. He still uses banerry, says
Ms. Pepperberg, which after all makes sense: An apple tastes
a little like a banana and looks like a big cherry, fruits he
already knew.
   Today, the gray eminence is again doing it his way. When
Ms. Pepperberg holds up two keys and repeatedly asks, "How
many?" he plays dumb. Finally, she calls a "time out,"
leaving the room. Moments later, Alex looks at me, eyes the
keys, and spits out, "Two."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Says Sales Arm
   Plans to Distribute
   Saab Cars in Canada
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GM S.SAA CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- General Motors Corp.'s Canadian sales arm said
it will take over distribution of Saab cars in Canada as of
Sept. 1, marketing the Swedish luxury vehicles through GM's
existing Passport franchise.
   But GM and Saab spokesmen said no such move is planned for
the much larger U.S. market, where Saab has 363 dealers. GM
and Saab-Scania AB of Sweden late last year formed a 50-50
joint venture, Saab Automobile AB, to take over Saab's
struggling car-making operations. Worldwide Saab sales
dropped 15% during the first quarter to 24,700 cars. Sales of
Saabs in the U.S. have skidded 33% since 1986.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Saab spokesman in the U.S. said the decision to
terminate the franchise agreements of Saab's 32 Canadian
dealers was "a business decision to have more effective
marketing." GM's Passport division has 63 dealers, and plans
to add another 20 by the year end. Passport dealers will put
the Saab 900 and 9000 luxury models, priced at between 25,000
Canadian dollars (US21,495) and C$55,000, alongside
Passport's current line of cars, which include the
Korean-built Optima sedan and the Impulse car and Trooper
sport utility vehicle, built in Japan.
   George Peapples, president of GM of Canada, said he
expects Saab car sales in Canada will rise within two years
to about 2,000 to 2,500 cars annually from 1,000 to 1,500
currently.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Motor Predicts
   Its Share of '90 Market
   Will Top Level in '89
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   STERLING HEIGHTS, Mich. -- Ford Motor Co. expects its
combined 1990 share of the U.S. car and light-truck market to
exceed the 24.5% share it recorded last year.
   Officials with the No. 2 auto maker are making the
prediction even though Ford's sales and car-market share fell
through the first four months of this year. The company's
January to April sales of 1,147,748 cars and light trucks are
running about 6.6% below year-ago sales; its U.S. car market
share was 22% at the end of April compared with 23% a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, Ford Executive Vice President Alexander Trotman
said the auto maker's "production schedules are up and our
share aspirations are still strong." He said higher
production of the recently introduced 1991 Ford Escort and
its soon-to-come twin Mercury Tracer will help Ford pick up
the pace. Ford is also banking on stronger truck sales
because of the new Ford Explorer sport-utility vehicle.
   Mr. Trotman made his remarks at a quality-award
presentation to the company's Van Dyke components plant in
this Detroit suburb. He also announced that Ford plans to
convert the plant so it can make a new generation of
electronically controlled automatic transmissions for cars
and light trucks.
   Mr. Trotman declined to specify when the changeover would
come, saying the project needed board approval. He said
Ford's directors will likely reach a decision on the project
by the third quarter of this year. Ford officials said it
takes at least three years to complete the changes needed to
make transmissions in a plant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TWA Machinists Union Works on Plan
   To Wrest Control of Carrier From Icahn
   ----
   By Judith Valente
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TWA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Machinists union at Trans World Airlines Inc. is at
work on a proposal to wrest control of the carrier from
chairman Carl C. Icahn through an employee takeover, union
officials said.
   Timothy Connolly, an international representative of the
International Association of Machinists, said the union plans
to meet this weekend with its financial adviser to discuss
how such a transaction might be structured.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Brian M. Freeman, Machinists financial adviser, confirmed
he is drafting an acquisition proposal, but wouldn't comment
on its specifics. Mr. Freeman played a major role in putting
together the proposed employee buy-out of UAL Corp., United
Airlines' parent. Four years ago, he helped engineer a 10%
ownership stake for TWA's pilots and machinists.
   The machinists' efforts are the latest twist in the
conflict between Mr. Icahn and TWA's unions. Mr. Icahn has
been selling off aircraft and recently threatened to transfer
TWA's domestic route network to America West Airlines unless
the pilots union makes wage concessions. The unions,
meanwhile, have approached a number of outside investors
about taking over the airline.
   Efforts toward an employee buy-out reflect the failure of
either union to interest any buyers in TWA, which had a $300
million loss in 1989 and is carrying $2.8 billion in debt.
The carrier had been profitable until Mr. Icahn took it
private in 1988, saddling TWA with debt.
   Mr. Icahn said TWA isn't for sale, although he has been
selling assets. He added, however, that "if the Machinists
want to talk, we're willing to listen."
   This isn't the first time TWA's unions have floated the
idea of an employee takeover. However, stepped-up threats
from Mr. Icahn to sell assets and TWA's deteriorating
finances have thrown the carrier into crisis, Mr. Connolly
said. "We're going to have to do something in the next couple
of weeks," he added.
   Any effort at an employee acquisition would face several
obstacles. So far, no major equity investor has come forward.
It is also unlikely TWA employees would want to make the kind
of major wage concessions that United employees agreed to in
order to finance the UAL buy-out. That accord has been
approved by UAL's board and the employees now have four
months to obtain financing for the sale. TWA's mechanics
haven't had a pay increase since 1983 and the pilots are
already among the lowest paid in the industry.
   Mr. Freeman conceded that any acquisition proposal would
have to have the support of the pilots union, if not all of
the TWA employee groups, to succeed. Pilots union leaders
said they have held preliminary discussions with the
Machinists union and plan to continue talks on employee
ownership.
   Mr. Icahn reportedly has sought as much as $1 billion for
TWA, although pilot leaders said he offered the airline to
its former president, Joseph Coor, two years ago for $450
million. TWA's most valuable assets are its vast European
route network and Kansas City maintenance base.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Care in Canadian Hospitals Is Equal
   To That in U.S., for Less, Study Says
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Health-care experts have long complained that the U.S.
doesn't get its money's worth for its high medical costs, but
proof has been elusive.
   Now, researchers comparing hospital care in Canada and the
U.S. have found little difference in death rates for a
variety of surgical procedures in the two countries, despite
wide differences in cost.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The U.S. is spending a lot more on hospitals than we are,
but they don't seem to be getting as much out of it," says
Leslie L. Roos, professor of community health sciences at the
University of Manitoba, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and the lead
author of the study. The U.S. spends 25% to 50% more per
capita for hospital care than Canada does.
   The study, published in today's Journal of the American
Medical Association, is among the first to base such a
finding on data covering a broad range of procedures. It
doesn't suggest how the U.S. might reduce health costs and,
among other limitations, it looks only at death rates in
judging the results of care. But its favorable conclusion
regarding Canadian health-care is particularly interesting
because the system is considered an important model by those
who advocate overhaul of the U.S. system.
   The researchers compared death rates both 30 days and six
months after surgery on patients aged 65 and over who
underwent one of 11 different procedures in New England
hospitals and hospitals in Manitoba. The study covered 18,945
operations performed in Manitoba between 1980 and 1986 and
64,300 procedures at New England institutions in 1984 and
1985.
   "We found absolutely no difference (in mortality) for
low-risk and moderate-risk procedures" after 30 days, says
Elliott Fisher, assistant professor of medicine at Dartmouth
Medical School, Hanover, N.H., and a co-author of the report.
These included gallbladder and prostate surgery, coronary
bypass surgery and hip replacement.
   However, U.S. hospitals had significantly lower death
rates in two procedures considered high-risk: hip fracture
repair, and open heart surgery in which doctors do both
coronary bypass and heart valve replacement. Manitoba
residents with fractured hips were 40% more likely to die
within 30 days of surgery than those in New England.
   The researchers speculate that the higher Manitoba death
rates for hip fracture occurred because more patients are
transferred from rural facilities before surgery -- 24% in
Manitoba compared with 5% in New England -- and because they
are more likely to be operated on at hospitals that do a low
volume of hip fracture repairs.
   Death rates are just one measure of hospital quality.
"You're paying to keep mortality rates low in health care,"
Dr. Fisher notes. "But it's only one of the end points."
Further study is necessary to determine, for instance,
whether U.S. patients feel better or function better than
Canadians 30 days after surgery, or if they spend fewer days
in nursing homes. If the additional hospital cost buys such
improvement in quality of life, he suggests, it could be
worth the price.
   Mr. Roos speculates death rates in Canada were aided by
strong post-surgical care, including longer hospital stays
than in the U.S., and by a well-developed and funded
home-care system. Patients are evaluated in the hospital to
determine what care they need at home, and they get it, he
says.
   Death rates at six months after surgery for the low- and
moderate-risk procedures favored Manitoba, the researchers
said, a finding that probably reflects more the underlying
health of the population than the quality of hospital care.
The researchers also found evidence that Manitoba residents
are healthier overall than those in New England. Death rates
for men and women at ages 65, 75 and 85 favored Manitobans by
from 2% to 19%. If Canadians are healthier, Mr. Roos asks,
"How come? Do we have less stress, eat better or exercise
more?"
   Such data, he says, suggest that policy makers concerned
with health costs should look beyond the issue of "shoving
money at the acute-care system" to what leads to better
health in the population at large.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kerr-Mcgee Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KMG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   KERR-MCGEE Corp.(Oklahoma City) -- John J. Murphy,
chairman, president and chief executive officer of Dresser
Industries Inc., and John J. Nevin, former chairman and chief
executive of Firestone Tire &amp; Rubber Co. (now
Bridgestone/Firestone Inc.), were elected directors of this
energy concern, filling vacancies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   With `Insider Trading,' It's Conviction
   First -- Definition Later
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   {The Robert Chestman insider-trading case so soon after
the Ivan Boesky plea is an} "indication why you have to
continue to put emphasis on prosecuting these cases. . . .
Together hopefully you're beginning to make a point that when
people engage in inside information . . . this is going to be
taken very seriously."
   -- U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani, 1988
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Mr. Chestman vigorously denies the charges that have been
made. We are distressed that this matter has escalated to the
point of filing criminal charges. . . . It must simply be a
reflection of the times. . . . In insider-trading cases, you
sue anything that walks."
   -- Defense lawyer Otto Obermaier
   What a difference a couple of years makes. A federal
appeals court has vindicated Mr. Chestman, but only after he
spent 11 months in Allenwood federal prison for a crime he
did not commit because it does not exist. Mr. Giuliani,
defeated by the voters in the New York mayoral race, seems
destined to be a defense lawyer. Mr. Obermaier is now the
U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, appointed partly for his
experience defending victims of abusive white-collar
prosecutions.
   The Second Circuit Court of Appeals decision in U.S. v.
Chestman comes too late to temper the hyped prosecutions of
Michael Milken, Robert Freeman, Richard Wigton, Timothy
Tabor. Finally, though, the judges have declared that not all
Wall Street targets in the 1980s were obvious crooks, Ivan
Boeskys trading suitcases of cash for stolen inside
information.
   The court dealt with the technicalities of the securities
laws, but the broad problem is clear: England has one, even
Switzerland and Australia have them, but despite numerous
prosecutions the U.S. still has no definition of insider
trading. Keeping the law vague does more than help
prosecutors puff up their allegations. This is part of a
bizarre but deliberate policy that people should not know how
to follow the law and avoid transgressions that make them
accidental criminals.
   "I see no need to define insider trading further at this
time and give fertile legal minds opportunities to exploit
loopholes," Rep. John Dingell said in a 1987 speech to the
Securities Industry Association. He was more definitive in
his 1988 SIA speech: "There will be no definition of insider
trading." For some reason, the Michigan Democrat thinks
murderers deserve clearer laws than brokers.
   So we have Mr. Chestman last week asking to be pinched as
a reality test when he heard he'd finally been cleared. He
isn't talking publicly while prosecutors decide whether to
appeal (U.S. Attorney Obermaier has recused himself), but on
the facts it's no wonder the judges ruled he'd been wrongly
convicted of insider trading, mail fraud and perjury:
   Ira Waldbaum decided in 1986 to sell the family chain of
grocery stores. He asked his elderly, frail sister to collect
her stock certificates. When she asked one daughter to drive
her to the bank, another daughter had to help out by picking
up the kids at school. She told her husband, Keith Loeb,
about the reason for the car-pooling. The prosecutors and SEC
alleged that Mr. Loeb then called his broker at Gruntal &amp;
Co., Mr. Chestman, to tell him he had some "accurate,
definite" but undisclosed information about Waldbaum stock.
   Mr. Chestman may well have bought Waldbaum stock on rumors
of the takeover by A&amp;P before Mr. Loeb managed to get a call
in to him. "The theory put forth by the government that
stockbrokers always return calls by virtue of the nature of
their business requires a presumption that we do not care to
adopt in the context of a perjury charge," the court ruled,
giving a flavor of the prosecutorial overreaching.
   Even if Mr. Loeb passed inside information to Mr.
Chestman, the court said there was no crime. Prosecutors said
Mr. Chestman's Rule 10b-5 "fraud" was "aiding and abetting"
Mr. Loeb to violate his fiduciary duty -- not to a company
but to his family -- to keep the takeover secret. A
fourth-hand tippee convicted for this supposed crime is too
much. Judge Roger Miner wrote that "there simply is no
evidence that he knew that Loeb was breaching a confidential
relationship." Or indeed that Mr. Loeb had any duty to keep
secret what the court called "family gossip."
   Judge Daniel Mahoney went further. He said the SEC didn't
have the power as an agency to issue Rule 14e-3. This rule
made it a crime beginning in 1980 to "be in possession of
material information" about a tender offer that the defendant
"knows or has reason to know is nonpublic" and from an
insider. This knows-or-has-reason-to-know language has been
applied to people who have no contractual or other legal duty
to keep information secret, such as those who overhear a
rumor on the golfcourse or in the elevator. Judge Mahoney
invalidated Rule 14e-3 for creating a crime where "there is
no requirement that any fiduciary duty exist or be violated."
   Why have so many prosecutors and regulators insisted on
leaving insider trading undefined? One reason is that this
advanced the agenda dating from the 1970s to have the courts
do what Congress would never do by making it a crime simply
to know something in the market that someone else doesn't
know. A favorite example of this equality-of-information
notion is that if a passenger in a plane sees a big fire at a
firm's main factory it should be a crime for him to sell the
stock short.
   Forced equality of information is an odd idea in an
industry with legions of analysts paid to ferret out
information and where Moms and Pops pay mutual funds to watch
markets for them. The law does not require a buyer to tell
the seller there might be oil under his land; why should a
trader be jailed if he's the first to learn that a company is
a fraud and sells the stock?
   Indeed, the Supreme Court has twice defeated this
equal-information theory as unworkable and unwise. Now the
Chestman case puts in doubt what prosecutors call the
"misappropriation theory." This tries to create a legal duty
against using information that others don't have --
equal-information by another name.
   The narrow enforcement goal of prosecutors can sometimes
lead them to forget the cost of overcriminalizing. Efficient
markets require information, the faster the better. Vague
insider-trading laws chill this information.
   Congress can make an honest crime of insider trading by
legislating a definition. One already on the books would fit
fine: theft. Mr. Boesky stole from clients despite his
contract to keep their secrets. When lawyers or financial
printers break their duties to clients, they become thieves.
Anyone who breaks a clear legal duty to keep news
confidential should be liable to the owner of the
information.
   Conversely, if there's no legal duty to keep information
confidential, there should be no crime. There is no reason to
prosecute fourth-hand tippees or security analysts. A
definition of insider trading as theft would convict the
criminal, protect the innocent and speed legitimate
information to markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Many Italian Firms See Big Business
   As East Europe Pushes Modernization
   ----
   By Guy Collins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST BNG I.OLV
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; Co.'s manual
typewriters have been known for years throughout East Europe.
Now, with emerging democracies there pushing for
modernization, the company thinks the market is ready for its
personal computers, cash registers and other electronic
equipment.
   "We are planning to set up a joint venture in Hungary to
produce software, market our goods and provide servicing,"
says Ettore Morezzi, the senior Olivetti official responsible
for its East Europe strategy. The company also is planning
business ventures in Czechoslovakia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While politics kept out many Western companies during the
Cold War, such Italian giants as Fiat S.p.A. and the
state-owned holding companies Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi and
Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale continued to do
business there, particularly in the Soviet Union. Now,
Italian companies in everything from banking to heavy
industry are moving into Eastern Europe with little of the
hesitation of some of their Western competitors.
   Despite the enormous political and financial risks, they
are making major commitments in the region, hoping to cash in
on what they see as their national advantages: experience,
geographic proximity and exporting zeal.
   In Poland, for example, where Fiat cars have been
manufactured under license since the 1930s, Fiat is
negotiating to produce its new Tipo family car. In
Czechoslovakia, technicians from Manifattura Lane Gaetano
Marzotto &amp; Figli S.p.A. are working to modernize the
country's inefficient textile plants. And in Hungary, Banca
Commerciale Italiana is developing a financial-services joint
venture.
   "Italians have several unrelated advantages" over other
Western competitors, says Warren Oliver, an Eastern Europe
analyst at the London brokerage firm of UBS Phillips &amp; Drew.
"The small and medium enterprises in Italy are strong, making
a good partner for similar industries in the East. The
Germans are also strong in this area, but the Italians are
more export-oriented, and there is a reluctance (in Eastern
Europe) to stake everything on the Germans."
   Eastern European businessmen agree. "We know Italian
industry and the Italian market; there is a special climate
of cooperation," says Janusz Nogowczyk, a senior
foreign-trade official for Poland's Fabryka Samochodow
Malolitrazowych car group. Mr. Nogowczyk's company has been
producing the small Fiat 126 car since the mid-1970s, turning
out 200,000 a year.
   Making the most of those opportunities won't necessarily
be easy. One potential obstacle is funding. While in the past
some major Italian industrial projects have been paid for in
hard currency, many other ventures have depended on
countertrade agreements or the direct export of goods
produced. Such deals are relatively easy for large private
companies or state-backed enterprises but they are a headache
for smaller businesses.
   One sector where Italy traditionally has been a
particularly strong exporter, and where companies are braving
the obstacles to seize the advantage in Eastern Europe, is
the clothing and textiles business. Among the competitors is
Stefanel S.p.A., which three years ago opened a boutique in
Bratislava, Czechoslovakia, to sell women's fashions for
local currency.
   "We've been doing good business here," says a store
assistant, gesturing at the steady stream of customers. There
are gaps on many shelves, a sign of the difficulty of
matching supply with demand. A Stefanel spokesman explains
that deliveries are limited by a quota system set up under
the former Communist authorities, but he expects the problem
to be resolved soon. Stefanel recently opened a
local-currency shop in Budapest, the first of 10 stores it
hopes to launch in Hungary by the year end. The shops will be
operated on a franchise basis by Tradex, a private Hungarian
company.
   Rival Benetton Group S.p.A. also has stepped up its
presence. The company has 10 hard-currency outlets in Hungary
and smaller networks in Czechoslovakia, East Germany and
Poland, and it is looking to produce clothes in the Soviet
Union through a joint venture.
   And near Moscow's Red Square, two Florentine businessmen
are doing a brisk business in blue jeans. "We have opened a
factory in the Soviet Union, and sales are doing well," says
Alessandro Fratini, who with his cousin manages the Super
Rifle jeans company.
   Super Rifle started selling in Czechoslovakia 25 years ago
and began exporting to the Soviet Union in the mid-1980s.
Now, it has invested $70 million in a Soviet joint venture
that started producing jeans locally last December.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields Show
   Mixed Changes
   For Latest Week
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CBK
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on most small-denomination certificates
of deposit at major banks rose slightly in the week ended
yesterday, although average yields fell at major brokerage
firms and on "jumbo" CDs.
   CDs in denominations of $90,000 and more and those sold by
broker-dealers both tend to closely follow interest-rate
trends. Rates generally turned down sharply Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The average yield on a one-year consumer CD, which
typically requires a minimum deposit of between $500 and
$25,000, rose to 8.10% from 8.08%, according to a survey of
18 major banks by Banxquote Money Markets, an information
service based here. Five-year consumer CDs went to 8.32% from
8.26%.
   In contrast, Banxquote reported that the average yield on
one-year CDs sold by major brokerage firms fell to 8.42% from
8.49% in the latest week, while the average on one-year
jumbos fell to 8.25% from 8.33%. Yields on longer-term CDs
fell the most. Average yields for five-year, broker-sold CDs
fell to 8.78% from 8.93%. Average yields on five-year,
large-denomination CDs slipped to 8.50% from 8.59%.
   "Savings CDs went up because they were still lagging the
market by about a week or two," said Norberto Mehl, chairman
of Banxquote, noting that some banks raised savings CD rates
while lowering yields on other types of CDs. New York's
Citibank, for example, raised the yield on its two-year
savings CD to 8.60% from 8.06%, but lowered the yield on
one-year jumbo CDs to 8.11% from 8.42%. "This illustrates the
sharp contrast in the two segments of the market," said Mr.
Mehl.
   Despite the recent decline in interest rates, it's still
possible to find CDs that pay more than 9%. Continental Bank
in Illinois offers a five-year savings CD with a yield of
9.06%, and a five-year jumbo CD at 9.16%, while Bank of
America in California offers a five-year jumbo CD with a
yield of 9.03%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Grove Weidenfeld
   Taken Off Block;
   Bids Were Too Low
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   U.PSO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Unable to attract the price she wanted, Ann
Getty said she has decided to take her publishing company,
Grove Weidenfeld, off the block and continue running it as an
independent company.
   Mrs. Getty, wife of oil millionaire Gordon Getty, is
president and owner of the highbrow publishing company, which
has been for sale since February. Patrick Peyton, a financial
adviser to the Getty family, said that insufficient money
wasn't the only reason for ending the sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Peyton, who will serve as interim president of the
publisher until a new chief executive officer can be hired,
said that Mrs. Getty also couldn't get potential buyers to
promise to keep the Grove Weidenfeld staff intact and
maintain the Grove "imprint" on books in the future.
   Most of the major publishing houses in the U.S. and a
number of foreign-owned companies took a look at Grove
Weidenfeld, and at first, it was expected to fetch as much as
$15 million. As the number of bidders narrowed to three in
recent weeks, reports circulated that potential bidders were
dismayed at the company's expensive contracts with authors
working on future books, and the potential problems of
transferring some old contracts to a new owner.
   A spokesman for Penguin USA, a unit of London-based
Pearson PLC, confirmed that Penguin was the final bidder
until talks broke down this week. Penguin is believed to have
bid somewhere between $7 million and $9 million. The chief
executive of another publishing house that examined Grove
Weidenfeld's books said he would have only been willing to
bid "about $5 million or $6 million."
   Grove Weidenfeld is a literary publisher that includes the
40-year-old Grove Press, publisher of Henry Miller, Samuel
Beckett and others, and a newer house formed in 1985 by Mrs.
Getty and British publisher Lord Weidenfeld. Although it has
had losses in the past, Mr. Peyton said Grove Weidenfeld is
making money so far this year and will publish about 70
titles in 1990, down from 140 in 1989.
   "We believe we have a certain niche in the marketplace to
publish small, literary books," said Mr. Peyton. "We won't go
after the mega-deals and compete with the big boys like we
did before."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Venture to Offer
   Music Programs
   For Cable TV
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SFA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Two fledgling cable-radio services said they
will combine in a joint venture that will offer free music
programming to about 10 million cable-TV subscribers by late
summer.
   International Cablecasting Technologies Inc., which now
delivers its Tempo Sound music service to fewer than one
million homes and had expected to be serving five million
households soon, will form the joint venture with a
subsidiary of Jones International Ltd., a cable operator.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jones International's service, Galactic Radio Partners
Inc., now delivers radio programming to about 3.5 million
households. Combining the two services, which use cable-TV
receivers to deliver static-free music by wires plugged into
the stereos of cable subscribers, will enable the two
partners to reach a "critical mass" needed to attract
advertising, said Tom Oliver, president and chief executive
officer of International Cablecasting.
   "Starting with a base of 10 million is the opening play
for a cable network," in television or radio, Mr. Oliver
said. The new venture will run about half the load of
commercials commonly found on regular over-the-air radio
stations, which typically run 10 to 12 minutes of advertising
each hour, he said.
   The joint service, owned 50-50 by the two partners, will
offer nine channels of 24-hour-a-day FM stereo music via
cable systems, which will be charged a small fee of three
cents a month for each cable household.
   While the cable-radio signal will be more clear than
regular FM reception, it won't offer the digital-audio
quality of a second service which International Cablecasting
aims to start next fall. That service, known as CD-30 and
commercial-free, will charge cable television subscribers
about $8 a month to receive 30 channels of all-digital music,
recorded on compact discs and delivered to homes via a
special tuner that will be made by Scientific-Atlanta Inc.
   International Cablecasting, whose shares are traded on the
Vancouver stock exchange, is based in Berverly Hills, Calif.
Jones International is based in Englewood, Colo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marine Midland Banks Capital
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   X.MID H.HKS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Marine Midland Banks Inc. said that its
parent, Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd., invested $200
million in new capital in Marine. The investment is split
evenly between equity and subordinated debt.
   The investment brings Marine's Tier 1 capital (chiefly
common equity) to 4.7%, up from 4.1% March 30. Hongkong bank
has said that it plans to boost Marine's Tier 1 capital to 5%
by the end of this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ann L. Robinson, a bond analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette, called the increased investment "a nice statement
of support" by the parent, especially in light of Marine's
rising levels of troubled loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Renaissance Energy Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.RES WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   RENAISSANCE ENERGY Ltd. (Calgary, Alberta) -- Clayton
Woitas, president, was named to the additional post of chief
executive officer of this oil and gas producer. Mr. Woitas,
41 years old, succeeds Ronald Greene, also 41, who remains
chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Files Charges
   Against B.F. Saul III,
   Former Roomate
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission filed
insider-trading charges against B. Francis Saul III, the son
of the chairman of B.F. Saul Real Estate Investment Trust, in
connection with the trust's 1988 acquisition by Westminster
Investing Corp.
   In a complaint filed in federal court in Chicago, the SEC
also named Peter D. Garvy, a former roommate of Mr. Saul's,
as a defendant. Mr. Garvy was accused of trading on inside
information concerning Westminster's plans to make a tender
offer for B.F. Saul common stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 28-year-old Mr. Saul of Chicago was charged with
obtaining the confidential information from his father, B.
Francis Saul II, while the two companies were in
negotiations, and then passing it onto Mr. Garvy, a
28-year-old Chicagoan.
   Between June 3 and June 21, 1988, Mr. Garvy bought 5,500
B.F. Saul common shares for $16.75 to $21.50 a share, the
agency said. On June 22, Westminster announced its offer to
acquire the B.F. Saul trust at $25 a share. Mr. Garvy later
sold the 5,500 shares for a profit of about $38,438, the SEC
said.
   Mr Saul's father is chairman of Westminster, based in
Chevy Chase, Md., as well as B.F. Saul.
   The agency asked the court to enjoin the defendants from
violating the securities laws. It also sought forfeiture of
Mr. Garvy's alleged profits as well as civil penalties.
   Mr. Saul, his father and Mr. Garvy couldn't be reached for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   . . . But Don't Call Him a Greenmailer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY J.KOI
</CO>
<LP>
   Takao Matsuura and his New York public-relations men did a
beautiful job of portraying me as a greenmailer ("Boone-San,
Either Put Up or Shut Up," editorial page, April 18):
However, in his rather unusual editorial opinion, he forgot
to mention one thing -- I've never asked Koito, or any other
company, for greenmail, and I've never taken it.
   You may recall Mr. Matsuura is an employee at Tokyo-based
Koito Manufacturing Co., where I am the largest stockholder
with 26% ownership. For more than a year now, I've pressed
for ownership rights, asking for board representation and
access to financial information. I've been shut out at every
turn.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I have even attempted to once and for all put an end to
Mr. Matsuura's greenmail paranoia. In March I submitted an
anti-greenmail resolution to Koito, proposing that the
directors adopt it into the corporate charter. Mr. Matsuura
never acknowledged my proposal.
   We've come a long way with shareholder rights in corporate
America. Can you imagine an American CEO telling the largest
shareholder to "put up or shut up?" Mr. Matsuura can get away
with such a statement because his company is not accountable
to the real owners -- the stockholders. Koito is a member of
Toyota's "keiretsu", or cartel, so stockholder rights are not
taken seriously.
   In our battle with Koito and Toyota, we are exposing a
rigged Japanese system, and we are revealing how it unfairly
competes with corporate America. We are clearly on the right
side of the issue. I'll be on my way to Japan again in June
for Koito's annual stockholders meeting.
   T. Boone Pickens
   Boone Co.
   Dallas
   ---
   What puzzles me is why Mr. Matsuura is afraid of allowing
Mr. Pickens a seat on his board. A "raider" is a shareholder.
Yet Mr. Matsuura feels Mr. Pickens will bring harm to the
very company he now owns. Why would Mr. Pickens take actions
to jeopardize his substantial investment in Mr. Matsuura's
company (by Mr. Matsuura's estimate, $840 million)? Besides,
what is good for Mr. Pickens is good for the other
shareholders as well.
   Reflect back on Unocal. Fred Hartley, who was in the same
position as Mr. Matsuura, claimed he was looking out for his
shareholders' best interest when he launched a stock-buy-back
program by borrowing heavily. What he did was turn Unocal's
balance sheet upside down and put the Employee Stock
Ownership Plan at risk in the process. Why? Because Mr.
Pickens became a shareholder.
   How did Mr. Hartley's decision enhance shareholder value?
Mr. Matsuura is hiding behind the same rhetoric as other CEOs
who think their companies are under siege.
   If Mr. Matsuura is maximizing the value of Koito why would
he be concerned about who owns the stock? But if he is not
maximizing the value, I can understand his vigorous campaign
to paint such an inaccurate picture of Mr. Pickens as
greenmailer and corporate destroyer.
   Doug Ramsey
   Diamond Bar, Calif.
   ---
   Arigato, Mr. Matsuura for your enlightenment on Boone-San.
Your article gave me renewed faith in the realization that it
is always wise to reserve one's judgment until you hear the
other side of the story.
   Donald Preston
   Old Bennington, Vt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Lack of Education,
   Poverty Breed Crime
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   In your April 3 page-one article "Price of Progress" you
implied that the problems of Columbus Junction, Iowa, are due
to Mexicans, Hispanic-Americans and inner-city blacks from
Michigan.
   You easily could have omitted the reference to national
origin and race. The misconception most Americans have is
that rising crime rates are inherently related to race -- but
only those races of people with darker skin color than white.
In fact, the fundamental reason for rising crime is poverty
and a lack of education. In Columbus Junction's situation,
when you combine this with a growing population, residents
resistant to change, differing cultures (moving from one part
of the U.S. to another can be a culture shock), the social
equation can be horrendous. Unless properly planned for in
advance, yes, the end result is crime, high-school dropouts,
etc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sooner responsible media recognize that we all too
often misuse race and national origin, the better off we will
be as a nation.
   Wendy Foster-Simeon
   Woodbridge, Va.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Greyhound Ads Take a Detour
   And Avoid Mentioning the Strike
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR T
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ignoring the strike by bus drivers, Greyhound is rolling
out a new radio campaign that it hopes will win back riders
with feel-good messages about riding across the U.S. on a
bus.
   "Oh beautiful for spacious skies . . . the road leads ever
onward and it's calling out to me," a blues singer belts in
one ad for the campaign, which was created by Bozell's Dallas
office. The ads, which begin this week, feature a new
Greyhound slogan: "Take a window seat on America, take a
Greyhound cruise."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Oddly -- to some people at least -- the ads make nary a
mention of the 10-week-old strike that has already resulted
in one death and several injuries. "This could very well
backfire," says Jeffrey B. Hirsch, president of Hirsch
Marketing, a Venice, Calif., consulting concern. "People
might think it's a joke to hear some cheerful song about
riding along merrily on a Greyhound bus. They know in reality
these buses are getting shot at."
   Greyhound executives say they decided to ignore the strike
in the campaign in large part because they didn't want to get
stuck with an expensive campaign that they couldn't use if a
settlement suddenly was reached. "We wanted something that we
can run over a long period of time," says Ralph Borland,
Greyhound's vice president of marketing.
   Still, the campaign is a major departure for Greyhound,
whose most recent ad efforts featured the tag line "Catch a
Money Saver on Greyhound" and pitched almost exclusively its
low fares. The new effort, Mr. Borland says, seeks to
leverage some "long-term good will" that consumers have for
Greyhound.
   "We need to rebuild a positive image" by reminding folks
that we're the ones that drove Americans to war, took the
country to the World's Fair and brought Tom Cruise to New
York in the movie "Cocktail," he says. "Although Greyhound
awareness is very high, I'd be the first to admit that it
isn't all positive," Mr. Borland says.
   Mr. Hirsch says, however, that Greyhound can only rebuild
its image by acting to reassure its potential riders that the
problem has been dealt with, and that the company can be
counted on to deliver a safe ride. "A business-as-usual
message is a mistake, because it's not business as usual," he
says.
   But Jane Fitzgibbon, the senior vice president who heads
up Ogilvy &amp; Mather's TrendSights division, says Greyhound is
taking the right road. "This thing has been going on for a
long time. . . . I'm wondering if the strike is still
top-of-mind for people" whom Greyhound is trying to reach,
she says. Ms. Fitzgibbon says to bring it up again in ads
would be stirring up bad images.
   In fact, at a news conference earlier this week, Greyhound
effectively declared the strike over. The company said it has
hired enough of its own drivers to keep the highways full and
contends calls from prospective passengers are pouring in.
   Greyhound's Mr. Borland says it did run out a quick
campaign at Easter that offered riders free tickets if their
bus didn't arrive on schedule. But it opted to launch the
major campaign, on which it will spend about $11 million,
without bringing up the strike.
   The new radio campaign includes ads that have been done in
a number of musical styles, such as blues, gospel and soft
rock. The blues and gospel versions are largely intended to
reach the black market, which Mr. Borland says makes up a
large share of Greyhound's riders.
   Greyhound, a unit of GLI Holding Co., is trying to
minimize the damage done to its ridership ranks by recruiting
new riders. Mr. Borland says that with the new campaign,
Greyhound is broadening its target audience to include people
aged 18 to 55. Its previous target was 18 to 34. Toward that
end, Greyhound says it plans to advertise on a number of CBS
News programs, including some news shorts hosted by CBS
personality Charles Kuralt, a favorite of older listeners.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Biederman, Kelly &amp; Shaffer, New York, won the
ad account for Blue Moon Books, a new publishing house.
Billings weren't disclosed.
   ---
   AT&amp;T: New ads for American Telephone &amp; Telegraph warn
consumers of its competitors' telemarketers that pitch
long-distance services. The ads, which begin airing this
week, depict competitors' phone representatives as hard-sell
bullies that make wild promises and exaggerated price claims.
The campaign, which has the theme "Put it in writing," was
developed by Ayer, New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- In Concert:
   Beatles Recomposed for Japanese Pianist
   ----
   By Mark Swed
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Buffalo, N.Y. -- To veterans of the avant-garde music
scene, Aki Takahashi's piano recital was a mix of what
they've come to expect at the annual North American New Music
Festival here at the State University of New York. This
Japanese virtuoso thunderously pounded her forearms on the
keys, hit notes with her flattened palms, and recited or
whistled while she played. That was the expectable part.
   What was far out at the festival was Ms. Takahashi's
choice of composers. Instead of the usual gamut of
experimentalists -- Wuorinen, Zorn or Boulez -- she had
picked works that, with one exception, were all by John
Lennon and Paul McCartney. The exception was George Harrison.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. Takahashi, backed by the Japanese record company
Toshiba EMI, has been hiring avant-garde composers from
around the world to make piano arrangements of Beatles songs.
Already she has nearly two dozen such arrangements in hand by
everyone from John Cage to young Japanese composers. She has
approached Norway's mystical Per Norgard; the Cambodian
colorist Chanary Ung; the British composer-pianist of gloomy
Gershwin arrangements Michael Finnissy; the American composer
Alvin Lucier, who experiments with the subtleties of acoustic
phenomenon; the left-wing, multistylistic American in Rome,
Frederic Rzewski; the quirky German experimentalist, Walter
Zimmerman; and many others. It is Ms. Takahashi's goal to
include a representative from every major country where new
music is practiced and to gather enough material for three
CDs, the first of which has just been released in Japan.
   It isn't quite clear, however, whether Toshiba EMI had any
idea just what it was getting into when it first suggested to
Ms. Takahashi that she record Beatles songs arranged for
piano. The firm isn't known for its spirit of adventure, and
it originally had something more traditionally commercial in
mind, namely hiring a Japanese pop arranger. But Ms.
Takahashi is uncompromising in her musical tastes.
   She favors composers furthest out of the mainstream, on
the cutting edge.
   And now that her Beatles project is under way, Toshiba EMI
seems not to know quite what to do with it. Ms. Takahashi
laments that the Japanese record producers are
unsophisticated about the international market, and that does
seem to be the case. Brown Meggs, the head of EMI Angel, the
American wing of EMI, which has first rights to all
international EMI releases, said he hadn't yet been informed
of the project but that he surely would bring it out here.
   But the festival hardly seemed more savvy in exploiting
publicity for the American premiere of what it clumsily
dubbed "The Beatles Arrangements Collection." (Toshiba EMI is
calling the recording, "HyperBeatles.") The concert wasn't
heavily promoted and took place in a funky alternative space
-- a downtown art gallery called Hallwalls -- with folding
chairs set up for a couple hundred listeners, a makeshift bar
that sold cheap beer and flat soda, and a noisy backstage
refrigerator that seemed to rattle Ms. Takahashi.
   Still, the concert couldn't have been more fascinating.
Few of the arrangements were arrangements at all, but short
new works written in a modern style based loosely on the
Beatles. That is to say that a number of the composers were
inspired to write music reflecting what the Beatles meant to
them rather than just to make new versions of Beatles music.
   For some, the Beatles were still politically relevant.
Peter Garland, a Santa Fe, N.M.-based composer and one of
those who asks for substantial forearm banging, used "You've
Got to Hide Your Love Away" as an elegy for the Beijing
students who participated in last summer's uprising. Mr.
Rzewski's spectacularly kinetic "Short Fantasy on `Give Peace
a Chance'" couldn't have been clearer in its message. Mr.
Zimmerman's "When I'm 84" brought the Lennon-McCartney
standard "When I'm 64" up to date by 20 years. The score has
a metronome marking of 84, it contains 84 chords, and it
requires Ms. Takahashi to count to 84 in Japanese while she
plays.
   Others responded more spiritually to Ms. Takahashi's
assignment. Pauline Oliveros, a composer interested in the
meditative aspects of music, turned "Norwegian Wood" into a
lovely mantra. Raphael Mostel, a New York composer who heads
the Tibetan Singing Bowl Ensemble, reacted to the romanticism
of the Beatles in "Beatles Sweet," which includes a musing
combination of "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds" in the left
hand against "Here Comes the Sun" in the right.
   And then there were the inevitable show pieces. Yvar
Mikhashoff, a pianist himself with an extraordinary
technique, wrote a series of wildly galloping arpeggios in
"Mikhachelle." The Japanese avant-gardists tended to be less
whimsical, generally adding lots of dissonances to the scores
or deconstructing them into unrecognizability, but always in
highly virtuosic ways. And while few of the renditions
actually rocked, the Los Angeles computer composer Carl Stone
came close in his fractured version of "She Said, She Said."
Alvin Curran brought elements of modern jazz to his version
of "Eleanor Rigby," but his pounding minimalist version of
"When I'm 64" (not played at the concert but on the
forthcoming CD) is the real dazzler.
   Standing apart from all this was Mr. Cage's "The Beatles
1962-1970." He changed nothing in the music and didn't
restrict himself to a single song. He simply subjected the
Beatles entire oeuvre to chance procedures and wound up with
snippets from 27 songs to be played by six pianos
simultaneously. For the concert, Ms. Takahashi performed one
part live against prerecorded renditions of the others, and
the result was an eight-minute Beatles celebration, with
distinguishable Beatles phrases tossed about in lush,
serendipitous counterpoint.
   For her recital, Ms. Takahashi selected 14 arrangements
from a list of 19 printed in the program, and she gamely and
musically attended to anything the composers threw at her.
And like any good entertainer, she left one still curious for
more, such as for Mr. Lucier's "ANY BEATLES SONG(S)," which
requires the piano to be amplified through a small speaker
dropped into a teapot, or Mr. Norgard's version of
"Blackbird" subtitled "Paul Meets Bird."
   One also wonders about what Mr. Finnissy will come up
with. He was to have preceded Ms. Takahashi's concert with a
program of his Gershwin arrangements, but he was prevented
from doing so by the Gershwin estate, which withheld its
permission at the last minute. So Ms. Takahashi compensated
him with a Beatles commission, since she apparently has an
easier time negotiating permissions with Michael Jackson, who
owns the rights to the Beatles songs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Plans to Give Bolivia
   $60 Million in Food Aid
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. plans to sign an agreement
providing about $60 million in food aid to Bolivia over the
next three years, the White House said.
   The food measure, to be signed today, was one of several
trade and economic-assistance measures scheduled for adoption
in the course of Bolivian President Jaime Paz Zamora's
official visit to Washington this week. President Bush, who
met with President Paz Zamora in February as part of the
Latin American summit against illegal drugs, praised the
Bolivian leader after a White House meeting yesterday.
President Bush cited Mr. Paz Zamora's efforts to combat
illegal drugs and restructure Bolivia's economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bush particularly noted the Bolivian leader's strides
since the drug summit in curbing Bolivian production of coca
leaves used to make cocaine.
   The Bush administration has already signed an agreement
with Bolivia to set up a joint Commission on Trade and
Investment to explore ways of increasing legitimate commerce
between the two countries. In addition to the food aid, the
U.S. and Bolivia are slated to sign accords for
drug-awareness programs and to aid Bolivia in combating a
prevalent, frequently fatal affliction called "Chagas
disease."
   The White House said the administration is also preparing
agreements governing extradition, an umbrella agreement on
narcotics, and a supplemental package of military aid to
combat narcotics traffickers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   High Yields Lure Investors
   To Denver Airport Bonds
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Very steep bond yields brought investors
flocking to the first of several bond issues for Denver's
disputed new airport.
   The city and county of Denver sold $700 million of airport
revenue bonds yesterday at yields ranging from 7.60% in 1995
to a steep 8.67% in 2023. The long-term yield is close to
that on long-term Treasury debt, and is nearly one percentage
point higher than yields on similar transportation bond
issues in the municipal market. Underwriters led by Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co. increased the size of the deal to $700 million
late in the afternoon from $600 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The issue has low investment-grade ratings of Baa-1 from
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and triple-B from Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp. The Moody's rating is conditional on the airport
being built and generating revenue to cover debt service.
   To build the airport, Denver needs to raise an estimated
$2 billion through bond sales and receive some $500 million
in federal aid. There isn't any guarantee from Denver on the
bonds. Investors can only look to future revenue from the
airport, which is to replace Stapleton airport. Opponents say
it isn't needed and will be too big and too costly.
   In rating the bonds, Moody's and S&amp;P cited a need for an
increase in passengers through Denver to meet the city's
financial projections.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   In Home Health Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IHHI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   IN HOME HEALTH Inc. said it plans a $2.5 million stock
offering. In Home Health, which provides home health care
services, said at current prices the offering would amount to
the sale of about 1.7 million of its 3.7 million shares
outstanding. The Plymouth, Minn., company said Lew Lieberbaum
&amp; Co. of New York is underwriting the offering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Countersuit Is Filed
   By Farah Inc. Against
   Its Former Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FRA
</CO>
<LP>
   EL PASO, Texas -- Farah Inc. filed a countersuit against
former Chairman William F. Farah in a county court here,
seeking to bar him from the company he helped manage for 53
years.
   The suit, a response to an action filed last week by Mr.
Farah, asks the court to prohibit the former head of the
apparel company from "interfering" in its daily operations.
The complaint alleges that Mr. Farah refuses to give up
control of the company and continues to "hinder" company
operations and "harass" employees. Further, the suit charges
that Mr. Farah's effort to regain control of the company is
an "ongoing scheme to avoid payment" of a $754,892 company
loan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As previously reported, Mr. Farah filed suit last week
against the company in an effort to prevent the board from
terminating his consulting contract and denying him access to
his office. In that action, he called the company's directors
and top officers "spiteful conspirators" who want to ruin him
financially. Mr. Farah's consulting contract pays him
$365,000 a year for the next two years.
   The management dispute began last year when Mr. Farah
resigned as president and chief executive officer. He
continued as chairman until two weeks ago, when the board
removed him after he wrote letters urging them to resign
unless they replaced current management.
   Mr. Farah wasn't available for comment yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Counsellors Tandem
   Sets Self-Tender Offer
   At 95% of Asset Value
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CTF
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Counsellors Tandem Securities Fund Inc. set
the price for its self-tender offer at $10.85 a share, or 95%
of the net asset value of its common at the close of business
Monday.
   The closed-end equity mutual fund is seeking as many as
two million of its 4.9 million common shares outstanding, and
as many as 303,030 of its preferred shares at $49.50 each,
plus an amount equal to accrued dividends. The preferred has
a liquidation value of $50 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The tender offer, which Counsellors Tandem's board
unanimously recommended shareholders reject, is being made as
part of an agreement with a large investor, Sequoia Partners
L.P. With other investors, Sequoia holds about 1.2 million,
or almost 26% of the fund's shares. Sequoia had been pressing
for measures to boost the fund's price, and had considered
replacing the fund's board.
   If more than 2.5 million common shares are tendered,
Tandem agreed to terminate the offer and hold a special
meeting to consider a binding proposal to liquidate. Tandem
will be required to support such a proposal under its
agreement with Sequoia. The self-tender offer began April 13.
An official of Tandem said it would be "inappropriate" to
disclose how many shares have been tendered so far.
   The offer expires at midnight tomorrow. Tandem doesn't
intend to extend the offer, but retains the right to do so at
a price equal to 95% of the net asset value at the close of
business three days before the then-scheduled expiration
date.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Counsellors Tandem shares closed at $10.25, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, May 8, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/16% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 1/8% near
closing bid, 8 3/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.20% 30 to 149 days; 8.15% 150 to 179
days; 8.10% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.27%
30 days; 8.27% 60 days; 8.27% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.82% one month; 7.89% two
months; 7.94% three months; 8.02% six months; 8.35% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.30% one month; 8.40% three months;
8.55% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.14% 30 days; 8.14% 60 days; 8.14%
90 days; 8.13% 120 days; 8.12% 150 days; 8.11% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/8%-8 1/4% one month; 8 1/2%-8
3/8% two months; 8 1/2%-8 3/8% three months; 8 5/8%-8 1/2%
four months; 8 11/16%-8 9/16% five months; 8 3/4%-8 5/8% six
months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 3/8% one month;
8 9/16% three months; 8 3/4% six months; 9 1/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 12.25%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, May 7, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.79% 13 weeks; 7.84% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.49%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.41%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable
rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.68%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Walton Leaves
   Morgan Grenfell
   U.S. Unit's Post
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MGF G.DBK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- J. Richard Walton, president of Morgan
Grenfell Capital Management Inc., the U.S. money management
unit of Morgan Grenfell Group PLC, resigned yesterday along
with four other people.
   Morgan Grenfell, a wholly owned unit of Deutsche Bank AG,
named James E. Minnick, executive vice president in charge of
marketing and sales, to replace Mr. Walton as president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Walton said he was leaving because of his desire along
with others to form "my own firm or something that's part of
another firm where we own the majority of the equity in our
unit." He said that within the last two months he had been
approached "by five to 10 people" who either asked him to
join them or who were willing to back a new venture.
   Mr. Walton said that the other four people who resigned
were all part of the unit he initially set up in December
1985. He said that some of them could join him in his next
job.
   Both Mr. Walton and Morgan Grenfell said that the
departure was friendly. Nonetheless, Morgan Grenfell's
London-based asset management operation has been wracked with
difficulties, including the departure of some key portfolio
managers, employee dissatisfaction with management and
deteriorating performance.
   Three weeks ago, Keith Percy, who resigned as chairman of
Phillips &amp; Drew Fund Management, was named the chief
executive officer of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management PLC,
which manages about $25 billion. Phillips &amp; Drew is a unit of
Union Bank of Switzerland.
   Last November, Deutsche Bank paid about #900 million
($1.41 billion at the time) for the 95.1% of Morgan Grenfell
Group PLC it didn't already own. The friendly takeover was
the world's largest acquisition of an investment bank.
   Mr. Walton said his resignation was unrelated to the
Deutsche Bank acquisition. Still, investment bankers noted
the big risks in purchasing a merchant bank like Morgan
Grenfell where the assets are mostly people who can literally
walk out the door. To avoid that, the West German bank
reportedly offered a few key portfolio managers three-year
contracts, according to money managers in London.
   Under Mr. Walton, the U.S. Morgan Grenfell unit grew to
where it currently manages $2.3 billion of clients' funds,
investing in U.S. securities mostly for American
institutional investors and a few international clients.
   Mr. Walton "is an exceptional individual and has all the
talents any organization would want," said Mario Gabelli,
chairman and chief investment officer of the Gabelli Group
Inc., a New York money management firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Gallery:
   A Passionate Eccentric
   ----
   By Jack Flam
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Washington, D.C. -- At the 1913 Armory Show of
international modern art in New York, Albert Pinkham Ryder
(1847-1917) was the only American honored with an exhibition
of his own in one of the central rooms. It was a curious
choice, to give Ryder the same importance as other modernist
"ancestors" such as Van Gogh, Gauguin and Cezanne. Ryder was
generally regarded as an eccentric and romantic artist -- not
"modern" in the sense of picking contemporary subjects or
painting with bold colors.
   But the exhibition of Ryder's work currently at the
National Museum of American Art here shows that the Armory
show organizers were on to something. Ryder's mature works
are "modern" in a deep and subtle way. His compositions are
simplified to the point of verging on abstraction. They also
clearly emphasize an inner vision and timeless, archetypal
subjects as against the incidental and anecdotal themes
typical of so much American art of the period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ryder, as this exhibition also makes clear, was one of the
most enigmatic and problematic of American artists, as well
as one of the greatest. Born in New Bedford, Mass., he went
to New York City when he was about 20 years old, and with the
exception of brief trips to Europe, he spent most of his life
there. Yet surprisingly little is known about his personal
life. Though convivial in his earlier years, he became
increasingly reclusive during the 1880s, and ended up as a
true eccentric living in Bohemian squalor.
   He worked on his pictures obsessively, incessantly
repainting them, with what seemed like an utter disregard for
the practical side of life, or for the niceties of artistic
technique. An affliction of the eyes made it painful for him
to look at bright light or at small details, and he was given
to long nocturnal walks. Although he was apparently
emotionally repressed in his everyday life, his paintings are
astonishingly passionate. In them you see reflected the kind
of innocent enthusiasm that made children so fond of him, and
also the sort of bizarre emotional intensity that once
impelled him to propose marriage to a neighbor because of her
violin playing.
   Many of his paintings were so heavily reworked and
employed such idiosyncratically experimental techniques that
they began to deteriorate almost immediately after they were
finished. Today, many of his works are riddled with cracks
and fissures, and some have become so dark that their
subjects can hardly be made out. Even during his lifetime, a
number of his pictures were extensively reworked by
restorers, and shortly after his death forgeries began to
appear by the hundreds.
   And yet, the poetry that emanates from his works is so
great that they seem to defy their physical ruin. In fact, as
you walk through this exhibition, you become increasingly
aware of the degree to which the cracking and darkening
actually seem to enhance the spirituality of the pictures by
giving them an uncanny aura, like that of holy relics.
   The exhibition is arranged chronologically, starting with
a number of the moody, lyrical landscapes that reveal Ryder's
enormous early admiration for Corot. It is here that we see
him gradually beginning to work in what would be his typical
manner, eliminating small details and grouping his forms in
unified masses. Although the early paintings don't have the
resonance of his mature works, they are poetic and already
display the introspective melancholy that marks almost
everything he did.
   The installation of the works here is quite engaging. An
entire gallery is given over to Ryder's decorative
commissions, which include an elaborate mirror frame
illustrated with episodes from a poem by Joseph Rodman Drake,
and panels for a lovely folding screen in the Oriental
manner. There are also some lyrically simplified landscapes
here painted on gilded leather that look for all the world
like Chinese brush paintings.
   The museum has even constructed a kind of North African
tiled atrium, complete with fountain, to display just two of
the jewel-like paintings Ryder did of Moroccan themes. Such
installations can look irrelevant or even silly, but this one
is done so tastefully that it actually enhances our
experience of the paintings. It also offers respite in the
middle of a show filled with a lot of dark and moody
pictures.
   The exhibition really picks up emotional steam with the
moonlit seascapes. The National Museum's own "Moonlight," a
disarmingly simple composition of a boat with a ragged sail
hugging the horizon under a full moon, suggests infinite
mystery. In "With Sloping Mast and Dipping Prow" (the title
is from Coleridge's "Rime of the Ancient Mariner"), the misty
moonlit night evokes a heart-rending solitude.
   A number of Ryder's paintings have literary themes, many
from Anglo-American literature, some from the Bible. The
gallery given over to "Grand Themes" shows how versatile
Ryder could be, despite his limited palette and simplified
compositional formats. The "Scottish Castle" is a ferocious
little picture, nearly all black, of a castle perched on a
cliff above a thundering sea. "The Flying Dutchman," with its
stormy sea and ghostly ship, is chillingly vivid. And the
tumultuous "Jonah," with its spiraling, storm-tossed
composition, and its stunning juxtaposition between the
struggling sinner and his implacable God, may well be the
most dramatic shipwreck painting of all time. After this,
even the famous and haunting "The Race Track (Death on a Pale
Horse)" seems almost tame.
   Elizabeth Broun, chief curator and acting director of the
museum, has written an exemplary catalog for the show, which
runs until July 29, and then will reopen at the Brooklyn
Museum Sept. 14.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN EXPRESS Co. (New York) -- Patricia Patterson was
named senior vice president of consumer lending for the
American Express Travel Related Services Inc. unit. Ms.
Patterson was assistant general counsel for Travel Related
Services and general counsel for Centurion Bank, another unit
of the travel and financial-services company. In her new
position, she succeeds Craig Hoenshell, who recently was
named president of the Travelers Cheque group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Angeles Corp.:
   Real Estate Firm Expects
   To Post 3rd-Quarter Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ANG
</CO>
<LP>
   Angeles Corp. said it expects to report a $3.9 million net
loss for its fiscal third quarter ended March 31, mainly
because of the company's withdrawal from certain real estate
investment programs.
   In the year-earlier quarter, the Los Angeles investment
management concern earned 723,000, or 16 cents a share, on
revenue of $9.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Angeles said it will no longer offer real estate limited
partnerships or real estate investment trusts to individual
investors because the vehicles have fallen out of public
favor. The decision will result in the elimination of roughly
50 jobs "at every level," possibly including some corporate
officers, a spokesman said. The staff reductions and related
moves will result in annual savings of about $2.5 million, he
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Highland Superstores Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HIGH
</CO>
<LP>
   PLYMOUTH, Mich. -- Highland Superstores Inc. reported
April sales of $61.7 million, down 2% from sales of $63.3
million a year ago. Comparable-store sales dropped 6%.
   Highland, a consumer electronics retailer, said its sales
for the first three months of the year were $185.3 million,
down 6% from $196.5 million in the year-earlier period.
Comparable-store sales declined 10%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hadson Corp.:
   Firm Slates Joint Venture
   For Coal-Fired Power Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HAD WMOR
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hadson Corp., Oklahoma City, said it entered a joint
venture agreement with a Westmoreland Coal Co. unit to build
a $275 million, coal-fired power plant in North Carolina.
   The energy and defense concern said it expects to complete
the project in late 1993. The plant will sell power to
Virginia Electric &amp; Power Co.'s North Carolina Power &amp; Light
affiliate, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hadson said it also signed an amended agreement to build
an $85 million gas-fired power plant near Albany, N.Y. Hadson
had planned to run the plant with coal, but changed the plans
for environmental reasons, the company added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   As Budget Summit Looms, Jockeying Begins
   Over Who'll Dare Raise What and for Whom
   ----
   By David Wessel and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Only two days after President Bush agreed
that bipartisan budget talks should begin without any
preconditions, Republicans tried to yank income taxes off the
table and Democrats vowed to reject any tax increases they
consider inequitable.
   With some misgivings, Democrats in the Senate and the
House agreed yesterday that they have little choice but to
accept Mr. Bush's invitation to a so-called budget summit.
Congressional leaders are to meet with Mr. Bush this morning
to tell him that. Senate Budget Committee Chairman James
Sasser (D., Tenn.) said talks could begin before the week
ends.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While the White House stuck tenaciously to its pledge to
avoid preconditions, Republican Whip Sen. Alan Simpson of
Wyoming declared flatly: "Nobody's talking about raising
income tax rates."
   And other Republicans went even farther. "I'm opposed to
having taxes be on the table, period," said Rep. Bill
Schuette (R., Mich.), who is challenging incumbent Democratic
Sen. Sander Levin.
   Democrats, on the other hand, insist they won't agree to
any package that relies exclusively on raising revenue by
cutting capital-gains tax rates and imposing regressive
energy and excise taxes. They will press for an increase in
the marginal income tax rate on the richest Americans, now
28%. Many Democrats consider that unfair because some
less-wealthy taxpayers face a 33% marginal rate -- the rate
on the last dollar of income.
   And as Democratic leaders try to assemble a coalition, the
call by Sen. Daniel Moynihan (D., N.Y.) for cutting Social
Security payroll taxes may find new support, even among those
who were cool to the idea before.
   "It can't just be gasoline taxes," said House Budget
Chairman Leon Panetta (D., Calif.). "It demands that
Democrats be for equity, and that means `the bubble' {Capitol
Hill jargon for raising the marginal tax rate on the richest
taxpayers above the current 28%} or Moynihan."
   At separate House and Senate caucuses, Democrats
repeatedly expressed fears that Mr. Bush will use a budget
summit to make them take the blame for raising taxes. "They
have just one goal: To put the tax noose around our neck,"
said Rep. Ronald Wyden (D., Ore.).
   Sen. Sasser voiced the same fear. "If revenues are used to
solve this problem," he said, "the president will say, `the
Democrats made me do it.'" When talks begin, Sen. Sasser
vowed, "The first question I'm going to ask {Mr. Bush} is,
`What is your proposal?'"
   At the House caucus, some Democrats demanded that
President Bush clearly state the dimensions of the present
deficit so the public will understand why taxes may be
needed. White House Budget Director Richard Darman may be
called to Capitol Hill to testify on his revised deficit
estimates and the administration's proposed solutions.
   Distrust of the White House is so strong among Democrats
in Congress that one Southern Democrat even suggested that
the different sides communicate in writing so that all
understand what they are getting into. Rank-and-file
Democrats warned their leaders that they aren't blindly
promising to accept whatever the summit produces.
   In short, Democrats don't want to be trapped. "They don't
want to be blamed for the result," said Rep. Panetta. "It
will take a lot of good faith," he added. "It's very tough to
find good faith in an election year."
   The primary goal of budget talks will be to assemble a
package of revenue increases and spending cuts to avoid
triggering across-the-board spending cuts this fall under the
Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law. Budget Director Darman
says that means paring more than $50 billion from the
deficit. The Gramm-Rudman deficit target for fiscal 1991,
which begins Oct. 1, is $64 billion.
   Taxes, of course, won't be the only controversy.
Republicans and Democrats differ sharply on how much to cut
the defense budget and how hard to squeeze domestic spending.
White House Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater yesterday said
Mr. Bush wants one comprehensive pact that sustains economic
growth, cuts the deficit over more than one year and
overhauls of the often-criticized federal budget process.
   But taxes were about the only issue on the lips of members
of Congress yesterday, both because of the uncertainty over
Mr. Bush's position and because some Republicans are
convinced that their party's fortunes rest on their image as
tax foes. Some Republicans are particularly upset that their
leaders, Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas and Rep. Robert Michel of
Illinois, seemed resigned to tax increases after joining
their Democratic counterparts at a meeting with Mr. Bush
Sunday night.
   "If the Republicans are dumb enough to give up the tax
issues," said Rep. Vin Weber (R., Minn.), "you bet it's going
to hurt us at the polls." He called the public's perception
of the differences between the two parties' stances on taxes
"the most significant distinction . . . in this post-Cold War
era."
   Rep. Lynn Martin (R., Ill.), who is using the tax issue in
her campaign to replace Sen. Paul Simon (D., Ill.), said
yesterday that she isn't concerned that Mr. Bush will somehow
undercut her chances by agreeing to tax increases in a
summit. But she drew a much harder line on taxes than the
administration has, ruling out increases in personal taxes,
corporate taxes and "consumer taxes."
   House Republican Whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia added that
no summit agreement will erase the distinction between the
two parties. "They aren't going to undo {Walter} Mondale,
{Michael} Dukakis and {Jesse} Jackson in one signing
ceremony," he said.
   Republican pollster Vincent Baglio, though counseling
Republican candidates not to waver from their no-new-taxes
stance now, says that President Bush's popularity could
prevent any tax increases from hurting the party. "Clearly,
George Bush has tremendous popularity, and any politician
with tremendous popularity can lead public opinion as well as
take some direction from it."
   Kevin Phillips, a Republican political analyst, predicts
that Democrats will flub a chance to turn Mr. Bush's
surrender on taxes into a potent political issue. He says
they can hurt Mr. Bush if they effectively contrast his
support for, say, gasoline-tax increases with his insistence
on cutting capital-gains taxes. "The danger to Bush comes if
the Democrats get smart and start defining just who Bush is
willing to tax and who he isn't," he says.
   "If the Democrats do that they make the issue take on a
political cost to Bush -- but these people seem to have lost
their political compass," Mr. Phillips adds.
   ---
   David Rogers and Jeffrey H. Birnbaum contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Tate &amp; Lyle PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TAT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TATE &amp; LYLE PLC -- This London-based producer of
sweeteners and starches named William C. Shanley, 65 years
old, president of Tate &amp; Lyle Inc., its U.S. subsidiary,
based in Wilmington, Del., effective Oct. 1, after his
retirement from Amstar Sugar Corp., its cane sugar refining
unit. Jack F. Lay, 61, senior vice president, succeeds Mr.
Shanley as president and chief executive officer at Amstar.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Philip Morris Cos.:
   Firm to Relocate Employees
   To Westchester, New York
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MO
</CO>
<LP>
   Philip Morris Cos. plans to relocate about 500 of its
1,700 Manhattan employees to Rye Brook in Westchester County.
   The New York-based tobacco, food and brewing company said
its main offices at 120 Park Avenue near 41st Street have
become overcrowded. And its lease on additional space at 100
Park expires in September 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The headquarters of two subsidiaries will be moving; they
are the Philip Morris International tobacco operations and
Philip Morris Capital Corp. financial-services unit.
   The move, which will begin later this year, is expected to
take a year to complete, Philip Morris said. The company,
which employs 150,000 world-wide, owns a building in Rye
Brook; the Kraft General Foods International unit already is
headquartered there.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fashion Statement:
   Its Earnings Sagging,
   Sears Upgrades Line
   Of Women's Apparel
   ---
   Chain Seeks Trendier Image
   To Combat Competitors
   In Shopping-Mall Trade
   ---
   Coolers in the Clothes Aisle
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   S RTS LES
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Suppose the local hardware store suddenly
decided to open a women's fashion department. Next to the
usual screws, socket wrenches and bug spray, there would be a
festoon of lace dresses and floral print blouses. Shoppers
could pick out a new chain saw -- or a silky camisole.
   A dubious plan? Then consider the plight of giant Sears,
Roebuck &amp; Co. Sears became the nation's largest retailer by
making household names of hard goods like Craftsman tools,
Kenmore appliances, Weatherbeater paint and DieHard
batteries. Even today, its executives like nothing better
than discussing the features of a new weed-whacker or table
saw.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But that preoccupation with hard goods has also hurt the
retailer. Sears's merchandise operations have steadily lost
market share throughout the 1980s. Last year, its U.S. stores
and catalogs contributed just 16.6% of total profit from the
company's operating groups. Five years ago, the figure was
41%. The company's financial services -- its Allstate, Dean
Witter and Coldwell Banker units -- have had to pick up the
slack.
   Sears has frantically tried to restore its U.S. stores to
prominence. It has switched to a radical "everyday low
pricing" strategy, added national brands like Panasonic and
Whirlpool, and revamped displays with what it calls "power
formats." Yet in this year's first three months, U.S. retail
operations recorded a net loss of $134.2 million -- one of
its worst quarters in years and a performance that Chairman
Edward Brennan, not surprisingly, declared "unsatisfactory."
   The latest hope for a rescue lies in the most unlikely
place: the fashion business. The reason is the evolution of
the shopping mall, where more than two-thirds of Sears's 850
stores are located. Today, most shoppers at these retail
mini-cities are on a mission to do one thing: buy clothes.
Apparel now accounts for more than 70% of non-food sales in
malls and women today stock more than three-quarters of their
wardrobes with clothes bought in malls.
   Sears can hardly pick up and move more than 600 stores, so
its only hope is to join the trend to soft goods. "It's going
to be enormously hard . . . but Sears has to figure out how
to get women to come in the store," says George Rosenbaum,
president of Leo J. Shapiro &amp; Associates, a market research
firm. (Sears also sells men's and children's clothing, but
its biggest problem area is women's apparel.)
   Mr. Rosenbaum adds that, unless Sears can draw more women
into its stores, its prospects for growth will stay dim. Says
Michael Bozic, chairman of the Sears merchandise group: "The
women's business is very important to any merchant located in
America's malls. We have to behave more as our competitors
behave."
   Yet at hardware-oriented Sears, few things could be more
difficult. Sears has sold women's apparel from its early days
as a catalog operation. A company history by former employee
Lorin Sorensen says executives insisted that, at the
company's first store, "monkey wrenches, paint, hardware and
tires be amply displayed along with the women's soft goods,
making shopping a family affair."
   Fashion has always taken a back seat. Executives like to
refer to clothing as "wearing apparel" and often have
promoted items the way they might a new tire. "Rainspots
won't show on these ALLWEATHER pure silk stockings," boasted
one Sears ad in the 1930s. The closest Sears came to getting
trendy was creating celebrity clothing lines. There were
Clara Bow tams, Ginger Rogers dresses and Joan Crawford
cloche hats.
   Otherwise, the Sears women's department was traditionally
the bag lady of retailing. In most stores, the area was
shabby and cluttered, with too few mirrors and fitting rooms.
Skirts, blouses and jackets were jumbled onto cheap racks,
and sold primarily on the basis of price. Signs trumpeted
$19.99 outfits and two-for-one bra sales. The Craftsman
mentality even extended to something called the Zip &amp; Dash
housedress. Made of shapeless polyester, Sears promoted it as
one of its top offerings because it was durable and didn't
need ironing. The Zip &amp; Dash is still for sale, though it has
been banished to a remote corner of the department.
   The upshot: Store sales of women's clothing never soared
and today account for less than 10% of the Sears's
merchandise group's $31.6 billion in annual revenue, even
though the women's department takes up a far greater
percentage of selling space in the store. Moreover, while the
typical Sears store still attracts a broad spectrum of
customers, the demographics of shoppers in its women's
department is limited: females over 40 with household incomes
of less than $30,000, according to Sears's own research.
   Remarkably, the post of women's fashion director remained
vacant for nine years. In March 1989, following a year-long
search, Sears finally filled the position: It recruited Lee
Hogan Cass, who held a similar job at the Broadway
department-store chain in Southern California. Ms. Cass won't
give her age, but records show she is 69 years old. Sears
"should be the best moderate department store in America,"
says the elegantly dressed department-store veteran. "I don't
think we are now."
   Ms. Cass, whose own wardrobe is stocked with Giorgio
Armani and Chanel, hopes to create an atmosphere at Sears
that might even tempt her to shop there. Last year, she told
one of the store's scarf buyers that he had just presented
her with the "ugliest merchandise I've ever seen." Now, she's
trying to woo new labels like swimwear-makers Jantzen and
Catalina. She is also experimenting with trendier colors and
styles, including black-and-white Op Art prints that she
predicts will be big in the spring of 1991.
   This month, Sears will kick off its first-ever television
and print advertising campaign for women's apparel. In
devising a theme for the ads, Sears decided not to pretend
that customers don't know about its weakness in apparel. The
slogan of the $25 million image campaign: "You gotta be
puttin' me on."
   Sears also knows it is getting a very late start. Big
rivals like J.C. Penney Co. already are well along with their
own fashion overhauls. Sensing the trend in shopping malls
almost a decade ago, Penney dumped most of its hard goods
entirely and made itself over to look like a department store
-- a strategy that made it one of the hottest companies in
retailing.
   Sears doesn't need to go that far -- and doesn't intend
to. With Penney's exit from hard goods, Sears enjoys the
advantage of being the lone supplier of that sort of
merchandise at many shopping centers.
   So far, one of Sears's biggest problems has been
convincing major apparel houses that it is now truly serious
about clothes. Shortly after moving to Chicago, Ms. Cass
called long-time friend Bernard Chaus, hoping to add his
large and influential apparel company to Sears's roster of
suppliers. He turned her down, flat. Mr. Chaus, whose clothes
range up to $200 in price and are widely sold in department
stores, says: "I think of us as being upper-moderate. That
range is too high for the kind of mix and environment at
Sears."
   At Sears, buyers traditionally have chosen apparel colors
the way customers buy the company's paint -- from something
called a "color card." Divided into palettes, such as pastels
and brights, the color-card approach often led to a
mind-numbing number of hues on the sales floor. In contrast,
department stores try to emphasize dominant color trends in
fashion and coordinate what they hang on their racks.
   Ms. Cass scrapped the cards and dictated eight distinct
color themes for 1990. This year, they are moving from what
Ms. Cass calls Neutrals Ninety into motifs with names like
Breakaway Brights and Indian Summer. These messages will be
reinforced in the stores with theme posters and special
display props. Sears is even sending its stores detailed
directions on how to dress mannequins to pose near the
posters.
   Sears also needs to improve its ability to pounce on
trends. In the past, it often stuck with the same merchandise
for what seemed an eternity. The company's major fashion
initiative in the 1980s picked up on an earlier theme:
attaching celebrity names to its clothes. In 1980, Sears got
Cheryl Tiegs to put her name on a new line of the company's
low-priced sportswear, which became a big hit. But the
clothes soon started to look alike year after year, and the
quality slipped. Sears waited nine years before dropping the
line.
   Now, Ms. Cass tries to spot fashion trends by huddling
with consultants and picking ideas from what she sees in
fashion shows, in shops and on the streets of London, Paris
and Barcelona. A wrapped skirt she bought in Europe last
fall, for example, was the inspiration for an item that will
show up in Sears stores later this year.
   Sears, in fact, has been completely overhauling its buying
approach, including recruiting several buyers and managers
from department and specialty stores. Whereas its buyers once
met with manufacturers in the company's Chicago tower, they
now travel to manufacturers' showrooms in New York and Los
Angeles.
   Sears also has dropped much of its cheapest and ugliest
merchandise, including sportswear that accounted for $100
million in annual sales. Out went items like $6.99 pull-on
pants made from spongy polyester, and the matching floral
blouses. In their place, Sears has been adding more outfits
fit for wearing to work.
   It is also adding respected national labels such as
Villager, which is owned by Russ Togs Inc. Cathy Hardwick, a
designer of contemporary sportswear, also recently agreed to
develop a Sears line. Her garments, which used to sell at
tony stores like Bloomingdale's and Neiman Marcus for around
$200 each, will range in price from $28 to $48 at Sears and
will begin appearing in August.
   Still, Sears's reputation continues to make wooing
important labels difficult. Before Leslie Fay Cos. agreed to
supply its Personal sportswear line exclusively to Sears, the
retailer had to prove that it wouldn't do its usual shoddy
job with display. Sears set up a prototype shop, complete
with the logo of the Personal sportswear line printed on an
eye-catching gray arch.
   Many Sears customers also are still waiting for evidence
of change. Few stores in the chain look as inviting as its
store in Aurora, Ill., which was the first to get the full
facelift that Sears calls its women's "power format." The
Aurora store has spacious and brightly lit floors, cozier
fitting rooms and more-dramatic displays, including the gray
Personal arch in the women's career clothing area.
   Sears is also now doing all-apparel advertising pamphlets
that feature pictures of models in more active poses than
those used before. One shows a svelte blond underwear model
in a lacy string bikini and bra. This was such a departure
for Sears that it shocked some company veterans, who
expressed reservations about running a women's underwear ad
that might be "too forward" for Sears. But the proponents of
the photo prevailed.
   Few people at Sears, however, have any illusions about how
far the big retailer still has to go. Its store in Niles,
Ill., though far from the worst example, is an illustration.
Mixed in with the Stefanie Powers collection and Goolagong
sportswear are some of the newer Sears labels, such as
Personal and Middlebrook Park. But the racks are still
plastered with garish red signs announcing prices "As
Advertised." None of the customers in the aisles appear
younger than 50 and, inexplicably, there is a mound of
Rubbermaid picnic coolers for sale in the middle of the
department.
   A lot more work lies ahead, acknowledges Ms. Cass.
"There's only one way to go," she says, "which is up."
   ---
            Sears: Still Searching for Success
                                                                                                       

   Insurance Is the Earner...
                                                                                                       

   1989 net income* by business group, in percent
                                                                                                       

   Allstate Insurance                  46%
   Sears Merchandise**                 37%
   Dean Witter Financial Services       9%
   Coldwell Banker                      8%
                                                                                                       

   *Excludes $246 million loss from corporate group
   **Includes credit and international operations
                                                                                                       

   And Return Is Lagging...
                                                                                                       

   1989 return on average stockholder's equity
                                                                                                       

   Wal-Mart*                           37.1%
   The Limited                         36.7%
   Dayton Hudson                       22.0%
   Dillard                             19.7%
   May                                 18.0%
   Nordstrom                           17.9%
   Mercantile Stores                   12.7%
   Sears Roebuck                       10.9%
   K mart                               6.4%
                                                                                                       

   *1990 fiscal year
   Source: Alex Brown &amp; Sons
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Amphitheaters: Sony Corp.'s CBS Records Inc. set a joint
venture with Pace Group for the development of outdoor
amphitheaters and the creation of live-entertainment tours to
fill them. Closely held Pace operates amphitheaters and
produces such live events as tractor-pulls and rock concerts.
CBS Records said the venture also aims to supply music
recordings and videos of the performances it produces.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Norwest Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NOB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NORWEST Corp. (Minneapolis) -- Richard M. Joseph, formerly
originations department manager of Norwest Investment
Services Inc., a unit of this bank holding company, was named
to the new post of executive vice president and manager of
institutional sales of the subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Douglas
   Wins Air Force Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   MD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- McDonnell Douglas Corp. received a $823.5
million Air Force contract for F-15E aircraft.
   The F-15 has been a mainstay of McDonnell Douglas's
fighter fleet for nearly two decades, but the Bush
administration has proposed halting new orders after next
year. Work on this contract is to be completed in 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Gibson Greetings Inc.:
   Lower Second-Quarter Net
   Expected; Ames Is Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GIBG
</CO>
<LP>
   Gibson Greetings Inc. said the recent bankruptcy-law
reorganization filing of Ames Department Stores would lower
its second-quarter earnings due to an unspecified charge for
bad-debt provisions.
   Cincinnati-based Gibson said its Cleo Inc. greeting-card
subsidiary, which shipped merchandise to Ames last fall, was
a creditor in the Ames bankruptcy-law proceedings. The amount
of the charge has not yet been determined, Gibson said, due
to insufficient information concerning the financial status
of Ames.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gibson noted, though, that the additional bad-debt
provision is expected to have a relatively minor impact on
its full-year results.
   In the 1989 second quarter, Gibson had net income of $2.6
million, or 16 cents a share, on revenue of $66.1 million.
For all of 1989, earnings were $42.4 million, or $2.68 a
share, on revenue of $465.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Electoral Infinities: America's Moods
   ----
   By Max Lerner
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   The kind of American political history that Michael Barone
gives us -- its mood, pace, psychic landscape -- could only
have been written in the later 1980s.
   For one thing there is a refreshing centrality of the idea
of "country," put up front in the title, "Our Country: The
Shaping of America From Roosevelt to Reagan" (Macmillan/Free
Press, 805 pages, $29.95). For another, it is the first
full-scale post-Reagan history that depicts Ronald Reagan and
his America not in terms of a "dying fall" but of a renewal
of American self-confidence. In fact, in his narrative of
America's past 60 years -- varied, scarred, tumultuous, yet
somehow triumphant -- national confidence may be seen as the
real hero, from "Dr. New Deal" to the Great Communicator.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is the confidence that fights off the enemy --
alienation and confusion -- and summons resilience enough to
overcome tragedies and achieve a national renewal.
   In fact, Mr. Barone has the courage to demark the four
major periods of his narrative not by presidencies and
parties, or war and peace, but by exactly the mood categories
I have mentioned: "Turmoil" (for 1930 to 1947, from the
Depression to the Cold War), "Confidence" (from Harry
Truman's second term to Lyndon Johnson's election in 1964),
"Alienation" (from the cultural revolution and the Vietnam
War through Jimmy Carter in 1981), and "Resilience" (for the
Reagan years). Within this sweeping period categorization we
get a narrative flow in some 56 segments, averaging not much
more than a year, each compressing action, analysis and
national mood. If the result is episodic, the book moves
through the episodes with an almost eerie newsreel swiftness.
   Mr. Barone's aim is nothing less than to topple two models
of historical writing. One is the tradition of the
"progressive" economic and class determinists, going back to
Charles Beard and Vernon Parrington but largely unchallenged
until recently. The other is the historians who "see recent
American history as a tale of decline, the story of how a
country suffused with pride betrayed its ideals, lost a war,
and allowed its economy to wither or crumble."
   He is on target in both cases. Written by a lawyer and
journalist who is a Washington insider but is outside the
academies, this book is bound to disturb the entrenched
university elite. It is not only a portent of the times but
very likely a harbinger of other histories to come.
   To fashion a replacement for the "economic determinants"
model, Mr. Barone turns to the ethnic-cultural demographics
of elections. As author of the biennial "The Almanac of
American Politics," he has a sure command of a rich range of
material that is rarely presented in such profusion in a
general history. This demographic scrutiny of every campaign
and election (sometimes telling us more than we want to know
or retain), forms the hard outer shell of the story. Within
it, he inserts a second shell much more complex and
subjective than the first -- the procession of presidents.
His problem is to move them forward in tandem without too
much overlap. Largely he succeeds, but the end product is
scarcely a model of tidiness.
   Mr. Barone is right to see Franklin Delano Roosevelt as
the "towering" figure of the 60-year span, stretching his
influence all the way through Johnson and, yes, Reagan, who
used him as a model of presidential style even as he moved
away from Roosevelt's ideas and agenda. The author's insights
into the sources of FDR's supreme self-sufficiency and
political intuition are the more remarkable because he
doesn't move back intensively enough to present the entire
stream of influence that formed FDR's mind and character. Nor
does he move forward to project FDR's foreign-policy thinking
into its consequences for the division of Europe, which is
only now dissolving.
   I single out FDR, but much the same can be said for John
Kennedy, Johnson and Richard Nixon, whose complexities of
presidential character require even deeper rooting in their
past. It can also be said for Truman and Dwight Eisenhower,
who were less complex but whose decisions, if tracked to our
own day, have had consequences deserving greater stature than
Mr. Barone gives them.
   I like to think that at the book's center, so to speak,
there is a third, innermost shell, the probing of the
collective consciousness. Mr. Barone is sensitive to the
conviction of every ethnic and cultural segment of the people
that America ought to belong to them, even though in many
cases it doesn't. To this question of what gives legitimacy
to the collective psyche of America, his answer is the right
one: "It is our country," belonging to no one exclusively but
to all together.
   Yet on the harder question of what rules history -- what
is behind the force fields of ethnic, social and cultural
claims and struggles -- I find few clear clues in the book. I
miss a discussion of the great waves of revolutionary change
in science, knowledge, "information," the life course,
selfhood, belief, which furnished the ideas that got
translated into those biennial election results. They would
have made this important history even more important.
   ---
   Mr. Lerner is a columnist and historian living in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Childbirth Isn't Seen
   As Career Ending
   For Women Today
   ---
   Census Study Cites Growth
   In Employer-Provided
   Maternity-Leave Benefits
   ----
   By Cathy Trost
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Census Bureau study shows that childbirth
in many cases has become a brief work interruption instead of
the "career-halting event" it often was for women a
generation ago, a trend facilitated by the growth in
employer-provided maternity-leave benefits.
   "In the early 1960s, the vast majority of women either in
the months before or after the birth took at least a year off
from work. Now, only about one-third take 12 or more months,"
said Martin O'Connell, chief of the Census Bureau's
fertility-statistics branch.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. O'Connell, who wrote the section of the report dealing
with maternity benefits, points out that women today have
more job skills, greater commitment to jobs and are more able
to pay for the child-care assistance they need in order to go
back to work after the birth of a child.
   But his research also indicates "a very, very strong
factor" in women's rapid return to work is the provision of
maternity benefits by employers, including leaves with and
without pay and guarantees they can retain their jobs and
seniority after such leaves. Such benefits often spare women
the burden of looking for work anew after childbirth, and
strengthen their ties to employers.
   In the early 1960s, only 16% of pregnant workers received
maternity leave with an assurance their jobs would be held
for them. Twenty years later, 47% of pregnant workers
received maternity benefits. More than 60% of women quit
their jobs at some point during pregnancy or shortly after
birth in the early 1960s, a percentage that fell to 28% in
the early 1980s.
   Besides compiling information on changing maternity-leave
benefits and their impact on women's participation in the
work force, the wide-ranging Census report reaffirms that
women are marrying and beginning childbearing later.
   Mr. O'Connell surveyed data on women whose first children
were born between January 1961 and December 1985. He found
that 65% of women worked during pregnancy in the early 1980s,
up from 44% in the early 1960s. Of those pregnant workers,
78% stayed on the job into their last trimester, compared
with 52% during the earlier period.
   "Even more remarkable in the last 25 years has been the
change in the role women play as family providers within the
first year of their child's life," Mr. O'Connell said. In the
early 1960s, one of every six women went back to work before
her child's first birthday; now one-half of women with
newborns return to work within a year of childbirth.
   The women most likely to work during their first pregnancy
are relatively older, white and have at least a high-school
education. Teen-agers, blacks and high-school dropouts are
the least likely to be employed during pregnancy or at other
times. And because of financial reasons, those teenagers,
blacks and high-school dropouts who did work during pregnancy
were the most likely to return to work within six months of
childbirth.
   But the report adds that overall, "regardless of economic
need, returning to work rapidly after childbirth is becoming
the norm among all social groups."
   The report says maternity-leave policies can benefit
employers by reducing potential costs associated with finding
replacement workers. It suggests that employers who offer
maternity benefits with the promise of job retention may
encourage more women to work longer into their pregnancy and
return to work more swiftly. But it warns that such
inducements might not work for employees in clerical and
other jobs that foster little long-term job commitment.
   The report comes as the U.S. House of Representatives is
preparing to vote on legislation that would require employers
of 50 or more workers to give them unpaid time off to care
for newborn or adopted babies; or for the serious illness of
a child, spouse or parent, or for personal-health problems.
The bill is opposed by the White House and business groups
because it mandates the provision of benefits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Electric Co. PLC:
   Ferranti Unit to Lead Team
   On Eurofighter Radar Work
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP U.GEL
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   A unit of General Electric Co. PLC of the U.K. has been
selected to head development of the radar system for the
four-nation Eurofighter aircraft project, U.K. Defense
Minister Tom King said.
   Mr. King said that Ferranti Defence Systems Ltd. has been
formally selected to head a consortium to develop the radar
system for the fighter aircraft. General Electric, which
isn't related to the U.S. company of the same name, estimates
the value of the contract at #300 million ($500 million),
although it could escalate substantially if Eurofighter goes
into full production by the late 1990s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Electric acquired Ferranti International PLC's
defense electronics unit for #270 million in February. The
other countries involved in the Eurofighter project are
Germany, Italy and Spain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- PSC Publications:
   New York Publisher Files
   For Chapter 11 Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PSC Publications, a New York-based magazine publisher,
said it filed for bankruptcy court protection while it
attempts to sell its Games magazine.
   Gerard Calabrese, president, said the closely held company
took on $7 million of debt when it formed in 1987 for the
purpose of purchasing Needlecraft For Today from Bassion
Publishing and Games from Playboy Enterprises Inc. In 1988,
PSC also purchased Creative Ideas For Living from Southern
Progress Corp., a subsidiary of then Time Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While Games magazine and a spinoff, Games Junior, were a
success with advertisers and readers, Mr. Calabrese said
Needlecraft For Today "faced stiff competition from other
craft magazines and was a cash drain. It was our undoing."
   PSC is now selling its magazines. Creative Ideas For
Living was sold in March to Sampler Publications of St.
Charles, Ill. PSC is currently negotiating the sale of Games
and Games Junior. Sources close to the company said Walt
Disney Co. is one of the interested buyers. Disney couldn't
be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   `Superbrat' Strives to Expand UB Group
   ---
   Mallya Seeks to Build
   First Indian Multinational
   ----
   By Anthony Spaeth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST G.SIE ERICY G.HFA PHABY
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SURREY, England -- Vijay Mallya is 34 years old, rich,
overweight and saddled with one of the least enviable
nicknames in Indian business: "superbrat." He is also, as
chairman of the giant UB Group, one of India's most ambitious
tycoons.
   In 1983, Mr. Mallya inherited a liquor empire that his
father built through shrewd acquisitions and by personally
inspecting invoices. The son has a different style -- he
likes computers, corporate jets and subordinates with MBAs.
He is determined to build the first Indian multinational,
even if Indian tax and foreign-exchange regulations force him
to run it from England and Dubai.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also, he's tired of the stigma of being a liquor baron in
tradition-bound India. To get greater social standing, Mr.
Mallya is altering his empire in the same hungry way he
collects yachts, thoroughbred horses and vintage Rolls
Royces.
   "I could have retired at the age of 28 and had a very
comfortable life," says Mr. Mallya in his snug Surrey study.
"But I had this burning desire to prove myself. And that
ambition has grown."
   It remains to be seen if Mr. Mallya's expansion plans will
succeed. But his story illustrates the startling generational
change taking place in largely family controlled Indian
industry. Superbrats like Mr. Mallya are bringing new ideas,
methods and collaborations into India -- with mixed approval
from their elders.
   "My age is my worst liability," Mr. Mallya concedes.
"Indians cannot stomach the fact that a 34-year-old is
running a company this size."
   UB Group goes back to 1948, when Vittal Mallya, Mr.
Mallya's father, used stock-market profits to buy three
British-owned breweries and a food company in newly
independent India. Eight years later, he bought McDowell &amp;
Co., a wine and spirits trading house, which he converted
into a distiller.
   By the 1970s, his company was the second-largest distiller
and brewer in India. But in 1977, the government of Prime
Minister Morarji Desai declared prohibition. It was then that
the elder Mr. Mallya took a gamble and purchased four
breweries and six distilleries.
   The Desai government fell, prohibition was canceled and
the group was suddenly India's largest liquor company. About
the same time, Vittal Mallya acquired an electrical-works
company in Mysore and a petrochemical plant. "He not only
took a very bold step forward in our traditional business,"
says Mr. Mallya. "But he also started hedging our bets."
   By 1983, when the older Mr. Mallya died, the group had
annual sales of 2.3 billion rupees ($220 million at 1983
exchange rates) and was in the alcohol and food businesses,
petrochemicals, batteries and pharmaceuticals (as Indian
partner of Hoechst AG of West Germany).
   Young Mr. Mallya, the only child, was 28 that year. After
university studies, he spent years in various factories
connected with the group, including distilleries in central
India, a Hoechst unit in New Jersey and six months as a
production foreman in a Bristol, England, paint factory. He
worked hard and partied even harder. By his late 20s, Mr.
Mallya had earned a reputation for his social life.
   Today, to hold together a fast-growing and widespread
empire, he takes 20 to 40 airplane flights a month, works
past midnight and spends hours a day at the telephone. He
reserves weekends for expensive pastimes, including his 110
racehorses and 150 vintage cars. He likes parties, jewelry
and yachts -- he owns a 70-footer in England and a 40-footer
in Bombay.
   Many wondered if the playboy could handle the family
empire. But with the family controlling 51% of UB, he had no
trouble dismissing others' claims to the throne. He took over
on Oct. 19, 1983.
   "That's when the 12- and 14-hour working days started," he
says. "When I sat in the chair and had 10 directors sitting
around me, I realized the buck stops with me. There was no
daddy upstairs to go running to.
   "I sat down with a huge piece of paper," he recalls, "drew
boxes and lines and found that every manager in the group
reported to the chairman. Every single invoice from every UB
company came to him: He went through them randomly to see
that the billing was right." Mr. Mallya reorganized. "From 40
people reporting to me, it shrunk to 10."
   Then he looked for ambitious people to fill management
positions. "I wanted people who were young, who could relate
to my youth," he says. Mr. Mallya is unabashed in his desire
to get rid of older employees, and is even considering
lowering the retirement age.
   In 1986, Mr. Mallya assigned his new managers his ultimate
dream: to expand even more than his father had beyond UB's
traditional business of alcohol and beer, a "mighty cash
cow," he says, but a distinctly unholy one in India, where
devout Hindus eschew alcohol.
   While diversifying into electronics, petrochemicals,
telecommunications and biotechnology, Mr. Mallya and his MBAs
began a global hunt for acquisitions and partnerships. To
escape foreign-exchange and tax regulations in India, he
declared himself a "nonresident Indian" in 1987, a status
that limits to 179 each business year the number of days he
can be in India. He manages his interests from mansions in
southern India, Dubai and Surrey, and from his own British
Aerospace 125 jet.
   The group's biggest planned investment is a $588 million
naphtha cracker, plus $470 million in downstream
petrochemical projects. The group has set up a
telecommunications joint venture with Atea N.V. of Belgium,
which is majority-owned by Siemens AG of West Germany and
L.M. Ericsson AB of Sweden. Pharmaceuticals operations,
including the joint venture with Hoechst, are being expanded,
and a new joint venture with Pharmacia AB of Sweden will make
health-care products.
   For the year ended March 31, Mr. Mallya estimates 12
billion rupees ($694.4 million at current rates) in net
sales, five times what it was when he inherited the company.
Only 23% of sales currently comes from liquor and beer. He
expects an operating profit of 800 million rupees, with 38%
of that contributed by the liquor and beer businesses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL on small S corporations has tax
lawyers in a stew.
   In recent years, hundreds of thousands of closely held
corporations have converted to S status for the benefits of
being taxed at the owners' level, much as partnerships are.
Conversion isn't taxable. But a staffer of Congress's joint
tax committee on Friday disclosed an unexpected proposal to
change that. The plan would create a "toll charge" that
"would practically eliminate conversions," says Richard Shaw
of Shenas, Shaw &amp; Spievak, a San Diego law firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposal is in recent joint-committee-staff
recommendations to the House Ways and Means panel for
simplifying taxes; it came out at a meeting of American Bar
Association tax lawyers in Washington. It would treat a
conversion as a liquidation of the corporation and a
distribution of assets. Thus, corporate tax would be imposed
on the concern's accumulated gain in value; then the owners
would owe personal tax on the remaining balance. The
effective total tax rate could be 52.5%.
   This treatment, rejected by legislators in 1982 and 1986,
eliminates many other S-corporation tax complexities, Shaw
says, "but at too high a cost."
                                                                                                       

   PEACE AND COMFORT may return to the IRS's private-ruling
policy.
   The IRS provoked protests a year ago by saying it would
stop issuing requested "comfort" rulings to confirm obvious
effects of proposed transactions; it saw no need to rule on
issues "clearly and adequately addressed by published
authority" and hoped to ease strains on its resources. But
responding to the outcries, it sought comments and delayed
the sweeping policy change to this week. Now Announcement
90-65 says the IRS has dropped the plan and will adopt some
suggested alternatives.
   The measures will include providing a list of specific
no-ruling topics, model language for certain documents,
checklists of "safe-harbor" tests for some transactions, and
procedures for automatic rulings on certain issues. The IRS
says it will discuss each measure with tax-professional
groups before issuing specific guidelines.
                                                                                                       

   BANKRUPTCIES are demanding 23% of Justice Department tax
lawyers' time.
   Uncle Sam is a major creditor in many cases. The job of
protecting IRS tax claims is surging along with
bankruptcy-court filings, Assistant Attorney General Peterson
says. Justice's tax division got almost 12,000 new cases in
fiscal 1989 and expects almost 16,000 in 1990-up from 5,000
in 1986. The worst may be yet to come, she says, perhaps
arising from leveraged buy-outs of the 1980s. "LBO has in
some minds come to stand for `large bankruptcy opportunity,'"
she told the ABA tax lawyers last week.
   Peterson says the government intends to play "an
aggressive role" in bankruptcy cases and in large cases will
seek a place on committees that speak for creditors. So far,
that has happened only in the cases of Texans William Herbert
Hunt and Nelson Bunker Hunt, where it was very productive.
The government expects to receive about $170 million in those
cases and could get an additional $165 million, depending on
the Hunts' future income.
   Bankruptcy-court statisticians expect 735,000 filings in
fiscal 1990, up from 658,000 in 1989, and are projecting
roughly 10% rises in 1991 and 1992.
                                                                                                       

   SOCIAL SECURITY numbers for dependents as young as two
must be listed on 1989 returns so that the IRS can check
dependency claims. It is sending notices to filers who didn't
supply the numbers or insert the words "applied for" on
returns. Filers who omitted a number for the second year will
get a stronger notice and may be assessed a new $50 penalty.
                                                                                                       

   A $25,000 PENALTY, the new maximum, has been levied on
Charles W. Singer Jr. of Philadelphia for persisting in
frivolous and delaying tactics in Tax Court. Judge Cohen also
upheld civil fraud penalties. Singer previously pleaded
guilty in a district court of criminal tax evasion.
                                                                                                       

   ALLEGED IRS MISCONDUCT and the agency's plans to deal with
it are to be discussed today at a hearing before a House
Government Operations panel headed by Rep. Barnard (D., Ga.).
IRS Commissioner Goldberg and Treasury Inspector General
Kirkendall are scheduled to testify.
                                                                                                       

   MINIMUM-TAX RULES affect June payments of corporate
estimated taxes.
   Starting this year, corporations must calculate an amount
called adjusted current earnings in determining whether they
owe the 20% alternative minimum tax instead of regular tax at
a lower effective rate. Last week, the IRS proposed rules for
computing the amount. Calendar-year corporations should use
the rules in calculating estimated taxes due June 15, Samuel
Starr of Coopers &amp; Lybrand, CPAs, recommends. On the whole,
the rules seem reasonable, he says.
   Banks, life-insurance concerns, and corporations that are
partners in partnerships in particular are affected by
several provisions. And a section related to employee
stock-ownership plans will hit many companies, Starr says: In
effect, it denies for minimum-tax purposes a full deduction
for dividends paid to an ESOP. Such deductions are allowed in
calculating regular taxes, on certain conditions.
   The IRS has scheduled a hearing on the proposed rules on
Oct. 16 and 17.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Maine plans an amnesty for tax delinquents who
step forward between Nov. 1 and Dec. 31. . . . Samuel
Sessions of the Senate Finance staff will move up to chief
tax counsel, succeeding Patrick Oglesby, who is going into
private practice.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Apparel Firm Insiders Were Big Sellers
   Of Stock in First Quarter, Report Shows
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   GPS LTD QEIC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Insiders in the apparel business are busy
selling blocks of their companies' stocks.
   In the first quarter, stocks of clothing retailers were
among the most heavily sold by insiders -- corporate
executives, directors and major shareholders, according to
Invest/Net, a North Miami, Fla., concern that tracks
Securities and Exchange Commission filings by insiders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   SEC filings show that specialty retailers Gap Inc.,
Limited Inc. and Quiksilver Inc. each have clusters of
insider selling totaling more than 100,000 shares this year.
   These stocks are all Wall Street favorites, and they've
risen since the insider sales. Nonetheless, selling by
corporate insiders can be the first sign of problems at a
company that is seemingly roaring along. Things to watch are
the number of insiders selling, the percentage of their
holdings being sold, and the total number of shares involved.
   While "apparel retailing has been in the tank since 1987,"
Limited and Gap have both prospered despite the industry
trend by "outmerchandising the competition," said Robert F.
Buchanan, retail analyst at Baltimore-based Alex. Brown &amp;
Sons Inc. "The real question in my mind is how long these
`good' retailers can buck the trend," he said. "I'm sure that
question is being asked by some of these retail executives:
when does my stock stop outperforming?"
   Insider selling has been strong at Gap, a San
Francisco-based casual-wear chain. Thirteen insiders sold its
shares in January through March, SEC filings show. In fact,
according to Invest/Net, the selling at Gap in March was at
the heaviest level for the company since Invest/Net began
tracking insider filings in 1983. Still, in early April Gap
stock hit a 52-week high of $70 a share.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
the stock closed at $63.50, down $1.25.
   Millard Drexler, president of Gap, sold a total of 368,000
shares in January and March for $20.3 million. As most of the
shares were granted him under his compensation agreement,
most of the $20.3 million is a profit for Mr. Drexler, the
company said. However, he retains almost 1.2 million shares,
SEC filings show. Mr. Drexler was out of the country and
couldn't be reached for comment.
   The other 12 insiders, SEC filings show, sold between
1,000 and 60,000 shares each. They sold over the three-month
period at prices of $48.88 to $66.
   Warren Hashagen, Gap's treasurer and a seller of 5,000
shares, said the insiders all sold within "the window"
allowed by the company. That period began shortly after
fourth-quarter earnings were announced. He said that "the
stock price is at a very high level."
   In the first quarter, seven insiders at Columbus,
Ohio-based specialty retailer Limited sold the company's
stock for $35 to $41.30 a share, SEC filings show. The
largest sale was by director Martin A. Trust, who sold
110,000 shares Feb. 28 and March 9. He retains 4.2 million
shares.
   The most recent sale was by Howard Gross, president and
chief executive officer of the firm's Victoria's Secret
lingerie stores. As shown in the accompanying Insider Trading
Spotlight table, Mr. Gross sold 15,000 shares, 38% of his
holdings, for $645,000 on April 4, according to SEC filings.
Mr. Gross and the company declined to comment. Mr. Trust
couldn't be reached.
   The other five Limited insiders each sold between 1,000
and 60,365 shares. In New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, Limited shares finished at $41.375, up 25 cents.
   Since March 21, insiders at Quiksilver, a Costa Mesa,
Calif., apparel retailer, have sold a total of 130,000 of its
shares. Randall Hunt, a vice president and director, sold
50,000 shares, retaining a stake of 350,700. Charles E.
Crowe, a vice president and director, also sold 50,000
shares, 19% of his total holdings. All the insiders sold at
share prices ranging from $23.53 to $25.38. The company
declined comment on the sales, and Messrs. Hunt and Crowe
couldn't be reached.
   Quiksilver stock closed in over-the-counter trading at
$27.50, up 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Decides Time Is Ripe to Cut Deficit
   ---
   President's Decision to Seek
   Accord With Congress
   May Mean More Taxes
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES JAPAN LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush himself decided that the time
is ripe now to seek a big deal with Congress on cutting the
federal budget deficit, even though he knows that succeeding
would require him to swallow his no-new-taxes pledge.
   After resisting repeated arguments by his budget director
and other aides that he move to begin serious negotiations
with Congress, senior Bush advisers say, the president
concluded over the past few weeks that rising interest rates
and a growing sense of concern in Congress about the
resulting growth of the federal deficit had created an
opening for a bipartisan agreement. For the first time in his
presidency, one adviser says, Mr. Bush "is certain this is
the time to try" for a sweeping deal with Congress to get rid
of the deficit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Aides insist that Mr. Bush still is the most reluctant
figure in his own administration to endorse tax increases.
But they also acknowledge that the price for success in
negotiations will be acceptance of some kind of tax
increases.
   And while they contend, predictably, that Mr. Bush will
remain adamantly opposed to raising income-tax rates, they
hint he may well accept some other kinds of taxes if he gets
something he covets in return: changes in the federal budget
process giving him more control over congressional-spending
decisions. Mr. Bush would like a line-item veto, but advisers
say some other kind of new presidential authority to block
spending projects might succeed.
   Mr. Bush could still walk away from discussions altogether
if he doesn't think he'll accomplish his goals. He may also
find the political price for his own party too steep in this
election year. "If they can't get Congress to go beyond what
they've been willing to do in the past, then I'm for walking
away," says Mitchell Daniels, a former Reagan White House
political director, who added that "even a large part of the
Republican base" would like to see Mr. Bush try finally to
put the deficit problem behind him.
   "What's at stake here is the overall economy," Mr. Bush
told lawmakers in a meeting yesterday, according to
participants.
   The seeds of the current negotiations have been
germinating for a long time, White House aides say. They
contend that Mr. Bush, who publicly dismissed the need for
seeking a big budget agreement with Congress in an interview
just three months ago, privately sensed all along that a
serious budget summit would be necessary sometime this year.
   Originally, Bush advisers say, the White House thinking
was that such a session might be put off until about the
beginning of June. But various factors have merged to move up
that timetable.
   Above all, interest rates have remained too high for the
Bush administration's tastes, threatening already weak
economic growth. And higher interest rates, in turn, are
driving up the size of the federal deficit because the
government is shelling out more in its own interest payments.
Pressure on the Federal Reserve Board can moderate interest
rates somewhat, Bush aides say, but the only way to keep them
down is to attack the deficit.
   Because government interest payments are rising and
federal receipts have been running below projections, it has
become clear that it will take a far bigger deficit-reduction
package to avoid the across-the-board spending cuts required
by the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law. At the same time,
the mounting costs of the thrift bailout are putting added
pressure on already tenuous budget assumptions. Business
representatives were beginning to warn both the White House
and Congress that economic conditions at the grass roots
weren't encouraging.
   In addition, some administration aides suspect that a
significant reduction in the deficit and, in turn, in U.S.
interest rates is the only way to correct what they consider
an imbalance in the relationship between the dollar and the
yen. The yen has been relatively weak recently, which tends
to boost Japan's foreign sales and make it harder to cut
Tokyo's trade surplus with the U.S.
   Increasingly worried about the same signs of possible
recession in an election year, Democrats in Congress began
moving on the budget issue faster than the White House
expected. The result was that Mr. Bush, who prides himself on
his sense of political timing, sensed that suddenly
"everybody knew we had to fix the problem," an adviser says.
   Even some people outside the government share Mr. Bush's
sense that the timing may be right for the deal that has
eluded Washington before. "I am convinced that the president
of the United States understands the seriousness of the
problem and wants a serious, multiyear budget deal that
doesn't just produce goose eggs on the bottom line but helps
the country move into the twentieth century," says Carol Cox,
head of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a
bipartisan group of former government officials. Ms. Cox has
been skeptical before about the chances for meaningful budget
agreements.
   The Bush administration now wants to push for a rapid
conclusion to negotiations, both to create pressure on
negotiators to produce results and to prevent political
posturing from undermining the process.
   But there are two big problems. One is Mr. Bush's
continued reluctance to endorse tax increases. Many
administration aides think that accepting any increase in
income-tax rates will look too much like a violation of Mr.
Bush's no-new-taxes campaign pledge. Besides, one senior
adviser says, Mr. Bush has become convinced over time that
increased federal revenue won't be used to cut the federal
deficit but will be siphoned off by Congress for spending
projects.
   And that creates the second problem: Mr. Bush's desire for
a change in the way the budget is handled. Administration
aides suspect that Mr. Bush is prepared to swallow some other
taxes -- such as cigarette, alcohol and fuel taxes --
provided that the negotiations produce what the president
considers a comprehensive budget package, including new
presidential authority over the budget.
   One adviser even calls the desire for a procedural change
"the single most important thing" to Mr. Bush in the search
for a permanent deficit solution. Some presidential aides
suggest that Democrats don't understand how strongly Mr. Bush
feels about the issue.
   In the end, though, it doesn't seem likely that either Mr.
Bush or congressional Democrats would allow a big budget deal
to collapse over an argument about the budget process. In
fact, some Democrats in Congress now have begun calling for
procedural changes of their own. They want to alter budgetary
accounting for Social Security to defuse charges that they
are using the Social Security trust fund to reduce the
deficit.
   Some administration aides say that, ultimately, a bigger
problem for Democrats may be to swallow the kinds of cutbacks
in entitlement programs, such as farm subsidies, that would
be necessary to close a budget deal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Southwest Gas Corp.:
   Net in Quarter Declined 5%
   As Gas, Thrift Profits Fell
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SWX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Southwest Gas Corp.'s first-quarter net income fell 5% to
$21.3 million, or $1.08 a share, due to lower earnings from
gas operations and from the company's thrift unit.
   In the year-ago quarter, Las Vegas, Nev.-based Southwest
Gas had net income of $22.5 million, or $1.17 a share. The
company had about 19.4 million average shares outstanding in
the latest quarter, compared with about 18.8 million a year
ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue rose 6% to $273.6 million from $258.3 million.
   Southwest said its gas operations contributed $20 million
to net income in the latest quarter, compared with $20.7
million a year earlier. The company blamed the dip on costs
related to pipeline replacement programs and facilities
expansion to meet increased natural gas demand.
   The thrift unit, PriMerit Bank, contributed $1.3 million
to consolidated net income, compared with $1.8 million a year
ago. The 36% decline was mainly due to lower real-estate
development income and increased expenses related to
expansion of the thrift's branch networks in Nevada and
Arizona, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hitachi Says Judge
   In Texas Dismissed
   Claim by Motorola
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   HIT MOT
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   BRISBANE, Calif. -- Hitachi Ltd. said a federal judge in
Texas has dismissed one of a spate of patent-infringement
lawsuits pitting Motorola Inc. against the Japanese
electronics company.
   Hitachi said that on April 26, the U.S. District Court for
the Western District of Texas granted Hitachi's motion for
dismissal of a case claiming that Hitachi's H16
microcontroller infringed on a Motorola patent. At the time,
the court also ruled that the Motorola claim was barred by a
March decision declaring the Motorola patent in question to
be invalid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case is one of several patent disputes involving
Motorola and Hitachi. Another case, involving Hitachi's
patent-infringement claim against Motorola's 88000 RISC
microprocessor, is scheduled for trial in September, Hitachi
said.
   In Schaumburg, Ill., a Motorola spokesman had no specific
comment on the court decision, but noted that litigation
surrounding the Hitachi H16 continues in challenges to other
patents.
   A Hitachi spokesman said in a news release that the two
companies are engaged in negotiations to try to settle their
outstanding disputes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Electric Co.:
   Judge Temporarily Blocks
   Daimler Jet-Engine Projects
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   GE G.DAI UTX
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   General Electric Co. received an order from a federal
judge temporarily blocking a Daimler-Benz AG subsidiary from
entering a series of commercial jet-engine programs with
United Technologies Corp.
   Last month, GE filed a lawsuit asking $1.15 billion of
damages, charging the West German industrial group with
breaking an agreement it has with GE to develop high-thrust
jet engines. GE charged that proprietary data that it shares
with Daimler will find its way to GE's competitor, United
Technologies, which owns the jet-engine maker Pratt &amp;
Whitney.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Manhattan, U.S. District Judge Robert P. Patterson Jr.
scheduled a hearing for May 22. GE has requested an order
blocking Daimler and its Motoren-und Turbinen-Union unit from
entering into agreements with GE competitors on the engines
or from disclosing any GE data on the engines until the case
can be tried.
   GE, Fairfield, Conn., also has interests in financial
services and broadcasting. United Technologies, Hartford, has
diverse industrial and defense interests.
   Lewis A. Kaplan, an attorney in New York for the Daimler
subsidiary, said the unit "believes that the GE claim is
without merit and expects to prevail."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   EPA Issues a Rule
   Covering Treatment
   Of Hazardous Waste
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Environmental Protection Agency issued a
rule for treating hazardous wastes that will cost industry
$350 million to $440 million annually, but environmentalists
claim the regulation is too lax.
   The rule, the last in a set of five regulations issued
since 1984, will demand the biggest expenditures from the
electric, gas and sanitary service industries, chemical
plants and petroleum refineries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest regulation, covering more than half of the
hazardous waste generated today, requires that contamination
by more than 300 chemicals, toxicity and other hazardous
characteristics be reduced before sludge or waste water can
be disposed of in landfills, deep wells or other facilities
by at least May 1992.
   The EPA said the rules will keep "significant quantities"
of hazardous wastes off the land, help prevent groundwater
contamination and encourage companies to reduce the amount of
wastes they generate. But environmental groups charged that
the agency buckled under to chemical and other interests by
setting standards that don't always require industry to use
the best available technology, such as incineration or
solidification techniques, to treat hazardous wastes before
disposal.
   Karen Florini, an attorney with the Environmental Defense
Fund, called the rule "extremely lax" and said the EPA is
"abandoning a golden opportunity for pollution prevention."
She said environmental groups are considering filing a
lawsuit.
   In writing the rules, the EPA was under pressure from both
industries that generate wastes and hazardous-waste treatment
companies that would have profited from tougher regulation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Cambridge BioScience Corp.:
   Agreement Reached to Buy
   An Interest in Dublin Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CBCX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cambridge BioScience Corp. said it agreed in principle to
acquire a stake in Noctech Ltd., a maker of infectious
disease products based in Dublin, Ireland.
   A Cambridge BioScience spokesman said the company expects
to invest $750,000 to $800,000 in Noctech and to own "a
little less" than 20% of Noctech when the transaction is
completed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Noctech will serve as Cambridge BioScience's marketing and
distribution base in Europe, the biotechnology concern said.
It added that initially its diagnostic tests for AIDS and
other viruses will be manufactured at Noctech, and that later
other of its products are expected to be made at the Irish
company.
   Cambridge BioScience is headquartered in Worcester, Mass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Motors Corp.:
   Delco Unit to Export Struts
   To Toyota Plant in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GM TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Motors Corp. said its Delco Products division will
export suspension struts from its Kettering, Ohio, factory to
a Toyota Motor Corp. car assembly plant in Japan.
   The agreement, which expands an existing relationship
between the two auto makers, comes at a time when Japanese
auto makers are under increasing pressure to buy more auto
parts from American companies. The value of the contract to
GM wasn't disclosed. Shipments are to begin later this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, Toyota will buy up to 500,000 strut
assemblies a year from Delco Products and install them on
subcompact Corolla models built in Japan. The GM division
already supplies suspension parts and other components to New
United Motor Manufacturing, Inc., the GM-Toyota joint venture
car plant in Fremont, Calif., and to Toyota's Georgetown,
Ky., and Canadian car assembly plants. Delco Products also
exports windshield washer systems to Toyota in Japan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Stryker Corp.:
   Health-Goods Firm Expects
   1990 Net of $23.4 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STRY
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Stryker Corp expects net income in 1990 to meet analysts'
predictions of $23.4 million, or $1 a share, Chairman and
President John W. Brown said.
   Mr. Brown predicted the company's earnings and sales both
will grow by at least 20% this year, consistent with the
annual increases posted by the health-products company since
it went public in 1979.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1989, Kalamazoo, Mich.-based Stryker earned $19.2
million, or 82 cents a share, on sales of $225.9 million. For
the first quarter of 1990, it had a net income of $6.3
million, up nearly 25% from the year-earlier period.
   Mr. Brown said his company will face a challenge
sustaining its 20% growth rate throughout the 1990s. The
tremendous increase in U.S. health-care costs will bring a
"backlash" if it continues, he said.
   Stryker has achieved its growth rate by bringing out a
series of well-received products, such as hip implants and
surgical tools. Mr. Brown said the company will introduce a
new "stream of products" -- mainly variations of existing
products -- during the next two to three years.
   Stryker doesn't pay a dividend and doesn't intend to start
paying one, Mr. Brown said. "Our argument is if you let us
reinvest the money, we'll give you a better return," he
explained.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- New York Times Co.:
   Launch of Weekly Magazine
   Is Delayed by Media Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NYTA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   New York Times Co. delayed plans to launch a weekly
magazine -- working-titled Blocks -- for young New Yorkers.
   A company spokeswoman said the magazine, envisioned as a
supplement to the company's flagship newspaper, the New York
Times, "has been put on hold for the foreseeable future due
to the business environment in the New York area." That
environment has already led to advertising linage slumps at
New York area magazines as well as the New York Times.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Described as a life style and feature magazine, Blocks was
seen as a way to draw a younger audience and new advertisers
to the newspaper. The spokeswoman said the decision to
postpone the magazine "was no reflection on the concept of
the product."
   Industry rumors had circulated that the Times would
purchase 7 Days, a weekly magazine for New York that was
folded recently by its owner, Leonard Stern. The Times
spokeswoman wouldn't comment on the acquisition rumor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Advance on Late Buying;
   Success of Treasury Sale Is Cited
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market preserved its winning streak,
as a late burst of buying following a successful start of the
Treasury's quarterly sale of notes and bonds pushed prices
higher in quiet trading.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average ran its string of gains
to seven consecutive sessions, its longest uninterrupted
rally since last July, by climbing 11.94 to 2733.56.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among broader market measures, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock
Index rose 1.48 to 342.01, the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Index gained 0.66 to 187.11 and the Dow Jones
Equity Market Index added 1.41 to 318.22.
   For nearly the entire session, the industrial average
remained stalled in a trading range of about 10 points as
market players awaited the results of the initial phase of
the Treasury's quarterly refunding, a $10.57 billion sale of
three-year notes.
   When the results were released about 10 minutes before the
close, the market promptly broke out of that range with the
help of some futures-related program buying and rallied to
session highs.
   The average yield of 8.74% on the Treasury's three-year
issue was in line with market forecasts, and the note sale
attracted a record $2.45 billion in noncompetitive offers --
a good sign for the remainder of the three-part refinancing.
   The Treasury will sell $10 billion in 10-year notes today
and wrap up the refunding tomorrow with the sale of $10
billion in 30-year bonds.
   Advancing and declining issues were about even on the Big
Board for most of the session, but gainers closed with a lead
of 813 to 650. Volume totaled 144,230,000 shares, up from
132.8 million Monday.
   Despite the market's late surge, traders said many players
were taking a "wait-and-see" attitude toward stocks amid
fears that interest rates might have to go higher for the
Treasury to complete its refunding, especially the 30-year
bond sale.
   "It's just unbelievably dull," said Thomas Gallagher,
managing director in charge of capital commitment at
Oppenheimer &amp; Co., and the next couple of sessions "are
probably going to be just like this" as market players focus
on the Treasury auctions.
   With the market's latest advance, the industrial average
surpassed a streak of six consecutive gains set last Oct.
2-9. The average rose for nine consecutive sessions last July
3-14, with broader measures matching that streak.
   American General gained 1 1/2 to 50 1/2 on Big Board
composite volume of 2.3 million shares amid rumors that
Nippon Life Insurance and Chubb might make offers for the
company, which has put itself up for sale. Nippon Life was
said to be considering a $60-a-share bid, according to Dow
Jones Professional Investor Report, while Chubb was said to
have an offer of $62 a share under consideration.
   An American General spokesman told the investor report he
wasn't aware of any talks between the company and either
rumored suitor. He declined further comment. A Chubb
spokesman called the rumors of its interest "totally
unfounded."
   Federal National Mortgage Association rose 3/8 to 35 3/4
on 1.7 million shares. Chairman David O. Maxwell said the
company's capital is "fully adequate to meet extraordinary
adverse conditions, should they arise," and added that Fannie
Mae plans to increase its capital by $2 billion to $2.5
billion by the end of 1991.
   CalFed, which rose 1/8 to 17 3/8, topped the list of most
active Big Board issues as a result of dividend-related
trading that pushed its composite volume to 2.5 million
shares. Shares of the thrift carry an 8% dividend yield and
go ex-dividend today.
   The savings-and-loan sector was among the market's best
performers; Golden West Financial climbed 3/4 to 28, Great
Western Financial rose 5/8 to 17 1/2 and HomeFed went up 1 to
29 5/8. H.F. Ahmanson, parent of the nation's largest thrift,
rose 1/4 to 18; the company said its core operating earnings
are continuing to increase.
   Baxter International added 3/4 to 22 7/8 after projecting
annual increases of 15% to 18% in operating income through
1993 on sales gains of 8% to 10%. Separately, its board
approved the repurchase of as many as 13.5 million common
shares, along with buy-backs involving two preferred issues.
   Pan Am rose 1/8 to 2 3/4 as 1.3 million shares were
traded. Chairman Thomas Plaskett told the annual meeting that
the financially troubled company, which has been seeking a
merger partner, has "talked to every other major airline."
   Republic New York rose 1 3/4 to 45 1/4. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York cleared Edmond J. Safra to acquire
as many as 1.5 million additional voting shares of the
company. He already owns about 9.8 million shares, or a 29%
stake.
   Ethyl rose 2 1/8 to 27 7/8. The company said it would hold
a news conference tomorrow to announce its plans to ask the
Environmental Protection Agency for approval of a gasoline
additive that it claims will cut automotive emissions, among
other things.
   Rowan rose 5/8 to 12 5/8. PaineWebber analyst James
Carroll said that the company's meeting with analysts in New
York was "very positive," and he reiterated an "attractive"
rating on the stock.
   Sotheby's Holdings fell 7/8 to 19 5/8 amid pessimism about
the outcome of its auction of contemporary art. Christie's
International, another major auction house, reported somewhat
disappointing results from a contemporary-art sale Monday
night in New York.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.25
to 347.58. Volume totaled 13,090,000 shares.
   California Energy fell 2 to 9 3/4. Its partners in a
geothermal-energy project in Southern California have filed a
complaint with the American Arbitration Association, in which
they allege the company overcharged them by $17 million
between 1986 and 1989, the San Francisco Chronicle said.
   Landmark Land retreated 1 7/8 to 10 3/8 after the Office
of Thrift Supervision, which regulates the company's Oak Tree
Savings Bank unit, objected to the proposed sale of much of
its real estate and resort holdings for $967 million to
developer Barry G. Hon.
   ISS International Service System climbed 2 3/4 to 10 1/2.
ISS A-S, the company's major shareholder, offered to buy the
stock it doesn't own for $10 a share.
   Catalina Lighting went up 1/2 to 9. The company reached an
agreement with David Moss, its former chairman and chief
executive, under which he won't compete with Catalina for two
years and will serve as a consultant.
   Hampton Industries dropped 3/8 to 7 1/2 after reporting a
first-quarter loss of 13 cents a share, compared with net
income of 41 cents a share a year ago.
   Cenvill Development slipped 3/8 to 5 3/8. The company
declared a 5% stock dividend in lieu of a cash payout.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hoesch AG:
   Domestic Profit Rises 31%
   On 28% Increase in Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HWK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   West German steel producer Hoesch AG, citing a lively
economy, successful diversification efforts and the inclusion
of new holdings, said this week that its 1989 domestic group
profit jumped 31% on a 28% gain in sales.
   Detlev Rohwedder, chairman of the Dortmund-based company,
said that the first quarter had started where the last year
left off. "The first three months of 1990 were very good, as
far as sales, profit, and order inflow are concerned," he
said. "We are quite satisfied and if the current trend
continues, we will have another delightful year."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hoesch, which will begin world-wide group results next
year, said domestic group profit last year reached 76 million
marks ($45.9 million), up from 58 million marks in 1988.
Sales climbed to 10.679 billion marks from 8.345 billion
marks.
   Hoesch has been boosting its financial reserves, which has
led to speculation that other companies might try to buy
Hoesch. Both British Steel PLC and Usinor Sacilor SA, a
French steel maker, have been rumored suitors. However, Mr.
Rohwedder said there have only been informal talks about
"small-scale" joint projects.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Fiat S.p.A:
   Profit for 1989 Increased
   9.3% on Sales Rise of 17%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FIA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Italian car group Fiat S.p.A reported a 9.3% rise in 1989
consolidated profit before minority interests on a 17% sales
increase. The concern described the performance as "the best
in the group's history."
   The results were achieved amid strong demand both in the
Italian and European car markets last year, which, however,
is now showing signs of weakening.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fiat's consolidated profit before minority interests rose
to 3.31 trillion lire ($2.73 billion) in 1989 from 3.03
trillion lire ($2.5 billion) the previous year. Total
consolidated net profit climbed 13% to 3.66 trillion lire
from 3.24 trillion lire, while consolidated net sales soared
to 52.02 trillion lire from 44.31 trillion lire.
   The Milan-based company announced a 50 lire increase in
the per-share dividend to 370 lire for common and preferred
shares and 400 lire for savings shares, a payment analysts
described as high.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bayer AG:
   Pretax Profit Drops 3.1%
   On Foreign-Exchange Factor
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BAY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bayer AG, citing the weakness of the dollar and the yen
against the mark, said group pretax profit slipped 3.1% to
930 million marks ($561.6 million) in the first quarter from
960 million marks ($579.7 million) a year earlier.
   The West German chemicals company, whose first-quarter
earnings drop reflects a general trend in chemical industry
results, said sales, which were also hurt by foreign-exchange
factors, slipped 2.7% to 11.01 billion marks from 11.31
billion a year earlier. It said the strengthening of the mark
cut first-quarter sales by 550 million marks. Volume sales
rose 3% during the period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bayer said the weaker first-quarter results should be seen
"against the background of the excellent first quarter of
1989." Chairman Hermann J. Strenger, speaking to reporters at
a news briefing, termed the earnings "a good start of the
1990s at a high level."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc.:
   S&amp;P Lowers Debt Ratings,
   Cites Research Reduction
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   ICN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it lowered its ratings on ICN
Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s senior debt to single-B-minus from
singleB-plus, and on subordinated debt to tripleC from
single-B-minus. About $187 million of debt is affected. S&amp;P
said the downgrade reflects the diminished business prospects
for the company's anti-viral drug, Ribavirin, coupled with a
major reduction in the Costa Mesa, Calif., company's research
and development commitment. "The downsizing of the Viratek
research unit, following the termination of clinical trials
to demonstrate the efficacy of ICN's anti-viral agent
Ribavirin against AIDS, limits prospects for the continued
commercial development of new therapies," S&amp;P said.
"Consequently, ICN will continue to be largely dependent on
biomedical products and pharmaceuticals that are not patent
protected for most of its revenues."
   An ICN spokesman said, "We believe that based on the
strength of our operating subsidiaries that the downgrading
of U.S. public debt is unwarranted. We plan to revisit the
issue again with Standard &amp; Poor's next year."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Deutsche Bank AG:
   Banking Sector Share of 5%
   In East Germany Is Goal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DBK EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   Deutsche Bank AG is aiming for market share of 5% or more
in East Germany after starting commercial banking operations
there July 2, the day monetary union between East and West
Germany is set to begin.
   Hilmar Kopper, chairman of West Germany's largest bank,
said he is confident that Deutsche Bank can begin providing a
wide range of banking services in about 100 branches in East
Germany on that day, using buildings and employees provided
by its joint venture with Deutsche Kreditbank AG, the
commercial banking arm of the East German central bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Deutsche Bank will take over 5,000 to 6,000 employees from
Kreditbank and will send 1,000 bankers from West Germany as
trainers and supervisors to the East German operations, Mr.
Kopper told a group of Frankfurt business journalists.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Bargain-Hunters Nudge Chips
   Toward Trump's Casino Issues
   ----
   By George Anders and Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It isn't easy being bullish on developer
Donald Trump these days. It's especially tough for holders of
various Trump casino bonds -- which have been hammered as
much as 30% this year because of weakness in the Atlantic
City, N.J., gambling market.
   But at cheap-enough prices, according to Wall Street
wisdom, even the most hated securities can be a buy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Has that moment arrived for bonds of Trump Plaza, which
now trade at about 82 cents on the dollar and yield 17% to
maturity? Or for bonds in Trump's Castle, which trade at 65
cents on the dollar and yield a whopping 24% to maturity? Or
for bonds in the giant new Trump Taj Mahal casino, which
trade at about 70 cents on the dollar and yield 21% to
maturity?
   Gingerly, some bargain-hunting has begun. "People are
adding Trump bonds selectively," says Ron Goldstein, a bond
trader at Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. "Particularly with the Trump
Plaza, people see value."
   To venture into the Trump casino bonds, the bulls must
make three assumptions. First, they must believe that
Atlantic City's gambling slump and overcapacity problems
won't get much worse. Second, they must assume that the
recent erosion in Mr. Trump's fortune -- magazines are saying
it has fallen to $400 million or $500 million from previous
estimates of more than $1 billion -- will be contained. And
finally, they must anticipate how Mr. Trump is likely to play
his hand in Atlantic City if he isn't able to run all three
of his casinos profitably.
   Although the bonds are closely associated with Mr. Trump's
name, they don't have any claim on his personal wealth.
Instead, they are first mortgage bonds secured by the casinos
themselves.
   In many investors' view, the Trump Plaza bonds will fare
best. The casino has a prime location on Atlantic City's
Boardwalk and was solidly profitable last year, reporting net
income of $24.6 million and $76 million of cash flow (net
income plus interest expense, depreciation and amortization).
Cash flow was more than double its $34 million interest
expense.
   "It almost doesn't matter if the Plaza loses market share"
in Atlantic City's current climate, says Kaye Handley, an
analyst with M.D. Sass &amp; Co. "That property could lose half
its cash flow and still eke out its interest payment {for
1990}. There aren't a lot of properties that could say that."
   Next year, things get a bit tougher for Trump Plaza. It
must raise cash to retire $28 million of long-term debt. It
also must defend its market share against the new Trump Taj
Mahal -- the biggest casino in Atlantic City, with a 15.6%
market share.
   And necessary capital spending will make Trump Plaza's
interest-coverage ratios a little snugger than analysts'
presentations suggest. The Trump Plaza had $34 million of
capital spending last year; most analysts think it can trim
that amount this year and next to a maintenance level of $5
million to $10 million. (Trump officials weren't available
all day yesterday for comment.)
   In April, the first month the Taj Mahal was open, Trump
Plaza stumbled, as its revenue dropped 24%. But early May
statistics show the Trump Plaza rebounding. Analysts are
loath to make much of short-term trends, saying it will take
until the summer before they can tell clearly how much the
Taj Mahal is affecting the business of other casinos.
   Analysts and money managers say Trump Plaza seems able to
live with its $273 million of long-term debt outstanding. Mr.
Trump recently asserted that the casino has a value of $636
million. Even cautious analysts, who would value it at five
times cash flow, or $350 million to $400 million, see plenty
of value in the casino. "Bondholders are protected," says
Mark Brostowski, a Salomon Brothers analyst.
   The picture isn't nearly so reassuring for holders of
Trump's Castle bonds. The casino is in Atlantic City's less
popular Marina district, and last year it had a $6.7 million
loss. The casino's cash flow of $51.1 million barely covered
interest expense of $43.3 million, even before $42.3 million
of capital spending.
   "It's been frustrating," says a mutual-fund holder who
bought Castle bonds at 90 cents on the dollar and has ridden
them down.
   Trump's Castle bondholders hope the company will show $45
million to $55 million of cash flow this year. That won't
stretch far enough; the company faces a $43 million interest
bill this year, some maintenance capital spending and a
sinking-fund payment June 15 to retire $22.8 million face
value of bonds.
   "Such requirements . . . create cash needs that exceed
anticipated annual cash flows from operations for 1990 and
beyond," Trump's Castle warns in its latest 10-K filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.
   Trump's Castle's lack of cash almost certainly must be
made up either by Mr. Trump or by more bank loans. At one
time, analysts such as Ray Neidl of Dillon Read had thought
that Mr. Trump might be able to raise money by selling stock
in Trump's Castle. But the downturn in both the casino's and
Mr. Trump's fortunes make that less likely, Mr. Neidl says.
Although there's still talk in Atlantic City that Mr. Trump
might attempt some sort of public offering of stock in his
casinos, the Trump Plaza would seem to be a more likely
vehicle for an offering.
   As much as bondholders hope Trump's Castle will pay all
its interest and principal in a timely fashion, some of them
are looking at less-cheery cases. One bondholder says he
would be content if the company refinances its debt at 85
cents on the dollar.
   Another holder observes that under terms of the original
bond financing, if the casino misses interest payments,
bondholders are entitled to take control of the property.
"I'm not a subordinated, junior lender," one bondholder says.
"I don't have a lot of creditors ahead of me. If these things
go down, I will win."
   Trump's Castle officials declined to comment on the
company, referring all questions to Mr. Trump, who was out of
town and didn't return phone calls.
   The biggest gamble of all -- for both Mr. Trump and
bondholders -- is the new Trump Taj Mahal casino, which
opened last month. The casino is Atlantic City's largest,
with 120,000 square feet of floor space, double the size of
its nearest competitor. Mr. Trump has invested $75 million of
his own money alongside $50 million of bank loans and $675
million of high-yield junk bonds raised through Merrill Lynch
&amp; Co.
   "We still don't know what the property is going to do on
any sustained basis," says Anne Lorsung, an analyst at
McCarthy, Crisanti &amp; Maffei. Her forecasts, however, suggest
that buyers of the bonds had better hope Mr. Trump's business
savvy hasn't dulled.
   Trump Taj Mahal carries an annual interest bill of about
$100 million, or $75 million for the nine months of 1990 in
which it is operating. Ms. Lorsung says she estimated in
March that the casino would produce $81 million of cash flow.
Despite a robust April for the casino, though, she now
worries that her original estimate may have been "a little
optimistic."
   Even if Trump Taj Mahal hits Ms. Lorsung's target, it will
need extra cash to cover repayment of $10 million in bank
debt this year and maintenance capital spending of at least
$10 million. "I look for a shortfall of $15 million," she
says. The likely sources? Mr. Trump or the banks.
   Ordinarily, investors could follow Mr. Trump's progress at
Trump Taj Mahal by looking at the company's quarterly 10-Q
financial filings with the SEC. But in late March, Trump Taj
Mahal asked the SEC for permission to stop making such
disclosures. That's allowable if a company has less than 300
bondholders. Trump Taj Mahal said it had 251 holders.
   Some information on Trump Taj Mahal's finances will still
emerge from the New Jersey Casino Control Commission. But the
request to stop SEC filings "won't be viewed positively by
the market," Ms. Lorsung says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Atlantic Richfield Co.:
   Britain Clears Firm's Plans
   To Develop North Sea Field
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Atlantic Richfield Co. said the British government
approved the Los Angeles-based company's plans to develop the
Pickerill Field in the U.K. North Sea, clearing the way for
the sale of the natural-gas field's entire output to
PowerGen.
   PowerGen is one of two generating companies formed by
Britain to succeed the state-owned Central Electricity
Generating Board, which Britain is taking public. Arco
declined to disclose the cost of the project, but the British
government said it is about #200 million ($334 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pickerill Field, located about 40 miles off the
Lincolnshire coast in the North Sea's southern basin, has
estimated gas reserves of 750 billion cubic feet. Production
is set to begin in 1992, at a maximum rate of 210 million
cubic feet a day.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- AB L. M. Ericsson:
   Pretax Profit Soared 94%,
   Sales 30% in First Period
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   ERICY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Swedish telecommunications group AB L.M. Ericsson said its
pretax profit in the first three months soared 94% to 1.18
billion kronor ($195 million) from 609 million kronor ($100.8
million) in the corresponding period a year earlier.
   Ericsson said consolidated sales increased 30% to 10.41
billion kronor from 7.99 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ericsson's interim report exceeded market expectations and
the pretax profit was almost 280 million kronor above the
average prediction of analysts.
   The group said income per share after taxes and full
conversion leaped 88% to 17.25 kronor from 9.19 in the first
threemonth period last year.
   Ericsson said the improvement was attributable mainly to
the public telecommunications and radio communications
business areas, both of which posted a strong increase in
volume and favorable margin development.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Fibreboard Corp.:
   Holders Narrowly Approve
   Doubling Shares in ESOP
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FBD LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Shareholders of Fibreboard Corp. narrowly passed a measure
doubling the shares authorized for the company's employee
stock option plan.
   After what was decribed as acrimonious debate at the
company's annual meeting in Roxboro, N.C., shareholders voted
1,080,791 to 1,035,540 to approve a plan doubling the number
of shares in the option plan to 700,000 from 350,000.
Fibreboard is a Concord, Calif., lumber and construction
products company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Donald Miller, a shareholder from New York City who holds
about 52,000 shares of Fibreboard, said he voted against the
plan because it was proposed by the board "without the
benefit of an independent study of the plan's dilutive
effect."
   In a related measure, shareholders voted to make options
available to non-executive managers of the company at 85% of
fair market value. Options for directors and executive
managers are granted only at fair market value, the company
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ISS AS:
   U.S. Unit's Stock Soars 35%
   On Parent's Takeover Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ISI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The shares of ISS International Service System Inc. leaped
35% on the news that its Copenhagen-based parent, ISS AS,
proposed to acquire the 34% stake that it doesn't own for $10
a share, or $13 million.
   Both parent and unit provide building-maintenance
services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New York-based ISS International's shares rose past the
proposed offer price, indicating that investors expect a
higher price for their shares. In American Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday, ISS International shares added
$2.75 to close at $10.50.
   A panel of outside directors at the subsidiary will assess
the bid, ISS International said. For advice, the panel has
retained the law firm Rogers &amp; Wells and expects to hire an
investment banker.
   Separately, the subsidiary reported that first-quarter net
income rose 6.2% to $830,000, or 12 cents a share, from
$781,000, or 11 cents a share, in the year-earlier period.
Revenue edged up 2.4% to $122.2 million from $119.4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GORBACHEV DEMANDED a restructuring of the Soviet Union's
armed forces.
   As the military prepared to parade its might in cities
across the country today to mark the Soviet victory over Nazi
Germany in World War II, the Kremlin leader told a gathering
of senior officers and veterans that Moscow's leadership was
"far from being satisfied with the current situation in the
army." He said proposed legislation to revamp the armed
forces is under consideration. Despite fresh challenges from
pro-independence Baltic republics, Gorbachev rebuffed calls
from military hard-liners for a firm hand against
"anti-socialists."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moscow's chief arms adviser said continued U.S. opposition
to talks over sea-launched missiles could block a treaty
cutting long-range weapons.
   ---
   A FIRE ERUPTED aboard a Navy guided-missile destroyer,
killing a sailor.
   In the first major accident at sea since a series of
incidents prompted a two-day review of naval safety
procedures last fall, a fire broke out in the boiler room of
the USS Conyngham about 80 miles off North Carolina,
spreading to an area that houses the ship's sonar and radar
operations. At least 12 sailors were injured in the blaze,
which temporarily left the 27-year-old vessel "without
communications and dead in the water," a White House
spokesman said.
   The Navy said a crew member aboard an air-cushioned ship
that was traveling near Virgina Beach was killed when a
propeller malfunctioned.
   ---
   West German Chancellor Kohl rejected Moscow's suggestion
that settling the military allegiance of a united Germany
could be delayed until East and West Germany are merged. He
said Bonn wanted the "external" aspects of unification, such
as Germany's membership in NATO, resolved during six-power
talks on German integration.
   ---
   A group of Contra rebels surrendered their rifles to U.N.
troops to start the disarmament of Nicaragua's insurgent
force that fought against the former Sandinista regime. The
Contras agreed to begin handing over their weapons after
reaching a pact last week with President Chamorro.
   ---
   The U.S. plans to sign a pact providing about $60 million
in food aid to Bolivia over the next three years. The White
House disclosure came as Bush met with Bolivia's President
Paz Zamora and said La Paz "won't stand alone" in fighting
cocaine and in trying to improve the nation's economy.
   ---
   The White House is pressing El Salvador's President
Cristiani for progress on investigating the Nov. 16 killings
of six Jesuit priests and two women. The move came after a
Salvadoran court said evidence had disappeared and witnesses
had vanished.
   ---
   An entry in North's diaries suggests that the former White
House aide met with then-Vice President Bush a few hours
after lying to Congress about aiding the Nicaraguan rebels.
Portions of the diaries, obtained by a private group, renew
questions about Bush's involvement in the Iran-Contra affair.
   ---
   The U.S. and Iran are nearing settlement of about 2,600
small claims Americans filed against Tehran's government
after the 1979 Islamic revolution, the State Department
disclosed. Officials said that progress had been made over
many months and isn't connected to Iran's involvement in the
recent release of two U.S. hostages in Lebanon.
   ---
   Iraq's President Hussein displayed several Baghdad-made
electronic devices that he said were similar to parts seized
in March by Britain, which claimed they were triggers for
nuclear arms. Hussein denied the charges and accused the West
of trying to hinder Iraq's technical development.
   ---
   Albania said it wants to join the East-West Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe, a 35-nation process begun
in 1975 covering military security, human rights and economic
aid. The announcement by Albania, which last month urged ties
with the U.S. and Soviets, was viewed as a further step from
a policy of isolation.
   ---
   Yugoslavia's ruling Communists held crisis talks in
Belgrade in an attempt to prevent the collapse of the party
following losses in free elections in two of the country's
six republics. In Croatia, the leader of a center-right
separatist party declared victory in Sunday's parliamentary
elections.
   ---
   Thousands of students boycotted classes and held rallies
in South Korea following a call by dissidents for nationwide
protests this week aimed at toppling President Roh's
government. Violent clashes between students and riot police
were reported on campuses in Seoul and two provincial cities.
   ---
   A car packed with dynamite exploded outside a government
office building in the western Colombian city of Pereira,
killing at least one person. Responsibility for the blast
wasn't claimed, but authorities suspect cocaine traffickers,
who have been battling Bogota's crackdown on illegal drugs.
   ---
   Died: Tomas O'Fiaich, 66, Roman Catholic primate of all
Ireland and an ardent Irish nationalist, in Toulouse, France,
of cardiac arrest. . . . William E. Schiller, 81, retired
chairman of Hershey Foods Corp., May 2, in Harrisburg, Pa.,
of heart disease.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Regulators Take Over
   Mississippi Savings,
   Charter New Thrift
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Federal regulators took over Mississippi
Savings Bank, Batesville, Miss., and chartered a federal
mutual institution to take its place.
   The new institution, which has the same name, will assume
certain assets and liabilities of the former thrift and will
operate under conservatorship under oversight of the
Resolution Trust Corp. It remains open for business as usual.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Office of Thrift Supervision said it took over the
thrift, which had assets of $173.4 million, because it was
operating in an unsafe and unsound manner and had liquidity
problems. The OTS also said the institution wasn't complying
with federal capital requirements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Alpha Capital Co.:
   Investment Company Holds
   5.1% Pacific Western Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PWB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Alpha Capital Co., an Oakland, Calif., investment firm,
said it holds for investment purposes a 5.1% stake in Pacific
Western Bancshares Inc., San Jose, Calif.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Alpha said it holds for itself and clients 623,828 Pacific
Western common shares, including 171,200 shares bought in the
past 60 days for $11.50 to $12.25 each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alpha said it plans to work with Pacific Western's present
management and board to maximize shareholder value. While it
has no plans at present, such activities may involve a sale
of the company to a third party, the filing said.
   A spokesman for Alpha Capital said the company doesn't
have current plans to expand its holding but may do so in the
future.
   Phillip R. Boyce, chairman and chief executive officer of
Pacific Western Bancshares, said the move simply increases a
friendly and longstanding investment in the company by Alpha.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH HAS DECIDED to seek a major deficit-cutting accord
with Congress, even if it means some higher taxes, senior
aides say. The president is said to remain opposed to any
rise in income-tax rates. But aides hint Bush might accept
increases in other taxes if he wins more control over
congressional spending.
   Democrats agreed they have little choice but accept Bush's
invitation to a so-called budget summit, though both
Democrats and Republicans are already wrangling over taxes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   The Treasury's auction of three-year notes drew a record
participation by individual investors, who were lured by the
highest yields in a year. The success of the $10.5 billion
sale sparked a late rally by stocks, boosting the Dow Jones
industrials 11.94, to 2733.56. The dollar finished mixed.
                                                                                                       

   Oil futures prices rose but then retreated from daily
highs as threats of supply shortages subsided.
   ---
   The thrift-bailout agency hopes to speed the sale of real
estate amassed from ailing S&amp;Ls by cutting prices on
hard-to-sell properties by up to 20%. The agency also plans
to sell about $300 million in properties through a televised
auction this summer.
   ---
   Financier Charles Knapp is said to be under federal
investigation for his activities in trying to build his
Trafalgar Holdings into a personal financial empire. Also,
insurance regulators are said to be looking into Knapp's
recent activities in that industry.
   ---
   MasterCard and Visa abandoned plans for a joint nationwide
"debit card" as part of an antitrust settlement. But the move
is expected to prompt both firms to introduce their own
versions of the card, which would function almost like cash.
   ---
   The Treasury told Congress it will offer a plan this week
to shift regulation of stock-index futures to the SEC, ending
months of uncertainty. But the move is likely to reignite the
debate over regulation of the products.
   ---
   LIN Broadcasting posted a $180.8 million loss for the
first quarter. Also, LIN definitively agreed to buy
Metromedia's cellular assets in New York for $1.9 billion in
cash and stock.
   ---
   Lockheed decided to pull all its aircraft operations out
of Burbank, Calif., reflecting the slowdown in Pentagon work
and the need to cut costs.
   ---
   TWA's Machinists union is working on a plan to wrest
control of the carrier from Chairman Carl Icahn through an
employee takeover. The effort is the latest twist in the
conflict between Icahn and TWA's unions.
   ---
   Ford won a partial victory in its battle with inventor
Robert Kearns. A jury ruled the auto maker didn't willfully
infringe on Kearns's patents for a windshield wiper system.
   ---
   Chemical Banking's credit rating on long-term debt and
preferred stock was lowered by Moody's, which cited the
bank's profit outlook. Moody's also cut its rating on
Fleet/Norstar Financial Group's senior debt.
   ---
   The computer workstation is about to become cheaper and
portable, continuing its penetration of the PC market. Two
models will be unveiled soon by Sun Microsystems and Toshiba.
   ---
   Time Warner's J. Richard Munro stepped down as co-chairman
and cochief executive, as expected. The announcement came at
a sometimes contentious annual meeting.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 144,230,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2733.56, up 11.94; transportation 1165.01, up 10.49;
utilities 212.09, up 1.58.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3287.36, up
3.06.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.67, off 0.03;
spot index 135.05, off 0.12.
   Dollar: 157.62 yen, off 0.47; 1.6573 marks, up 0.0015.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Stuart Hall Co.:
   Chairman Says Share Net
   Outpaces Earlier Estimate
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   STUH
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Stuart Hall Co. is "running slightly ahead" of an earlier
projection of a 52% boost in 1990 earnings per share from
1989, Charles G. Hanson, chairman, said.
   Mr. Hanson, who also is chief executive officer of the
Kansas City, Mo., office and school-products concern, said
Stuart Hall's earnings per share are "a couple of cents
ahead" of an estimate he made at the company's annual meeting
Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the meeting, he said he expects earnings from
continuing operations of 86 cents per share for the fiscal
year, which ends in November. Yesterday, in over-the-counter
national trading, the company's stock closed at $10.50 a
share, up from $8.875 a share on Monday.
   He said the company's gross sales for 1990 are forecast at
$127.5 million, up 28% from the year earlier's $99 million.
The company sells a range of office supply products such as
paper and envelopes, as well as school products, to
drugstores and supermarkets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Graphic Scanning Corp.:
   Company Pays Off Note
   Given to Former Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GSCC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   Graphic Scanning Corp. said it paid off an $11 million
note related to a settlement of litigation between the
Englewood, N.J., company and Barry Yampol, founder and former
chairman.
   In January, Mr. Yampol agreed to accept the 12% promissory
note, in addition to a payment of $16 million and a warrant
to buy one million Graphic shares, to settle his suits
against the company. Mr. Yampol had charged after being
ousted in a proxy fight that he wasn't compensated for
certain businesses started during his tenure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, the telecommunications-services concern said
stockholders elected a board that included the addition of
James Greenwald and Robert Price, bringing the total number
of members to 10.
   In March, Gabelli Group Inc., a New York investment firm
that controls the equivalent of 38.8% of Graphic shares, said
it couldn't support an earlier group of directors proposed by
the company and suggested that Graphic nominate
"knowledgeable industry professionals." In response, the
company added Mr. Greenwald, president and chief executive
officer of Katz Communications Inc., and Mr. Price, president
of Price Communications Corp. Katz and Price are both New
York-based broadcasting concerns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Jury Orders Frito-Lay Inc.
   To Pay Singer $2.5 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP OMCM
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A federal jury ordered Frito-Lay Inc. and
ad agency Tracy-Locke Inc. to pay singer Tom Waits nearly
$2.5 million for imitating his gravelly voice in a radio ad
for Doritos' Salsa Rio tortilla chips.
   The jury's award includes punitive damages of $2 million,
of which $1.5 million are against Tracy-Locke, a unit of
Omnicom Group Inc., New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The singer contended that Frito-Lay, a PepsiCo Inc. unit,
purposely imitated his "deep and growly" voice and "bluesy"
style for the 1988 spot. Frito-Lay countered that the ad "was
just a singer doing a jingle."
   Mr. Waits is one of several celebrities recently to be
embroiled in litigation with ad agencies over the
misappropriation of their image or voice. Last year, a
federal jury in Los Angeles issued a $400,000 judgment
against Young &amp; Rubicam for creating an automobile ad using a
Bette Midler sound-alike.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Stocks Hold Win Streak on Bullish News
   From Bond Market; Dress Barn Up 1/2
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Buoyed by bullish news from the bond market,
over-the-counter stocks managed to hold their own after
dipping in intraday trading.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index edged up 0.61, a 0.14% gain, to
close at 431.84, after slipping slightly most of the day.
Volume increased to 133.8 million shares from 122.6 million.
However, the margin between advancing and declining shares
narrowed, 965 to 922, and more stocks hit new lows than new
highs, 109 to 97.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday's successful quarterly auction of three-year
Treasury notes supported OTC stocks, said Robert Padala, vice
president of OTC trading at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, New
York. "We'll be going right on the heels of the bond market,"
Mr. Padala added, anticipating a stronger OTC market if the
bond market rallies today.
   Lance Zipper, head of OTC trading at Kidder Peabody,
agreed that institutions seemed to gain confidence from the
bond market and bought some traditional OTC leaders: MCI
Communications gained 3/4 to 39; Apple Computer rose 1/4 to
41 3/4, and Sun Microsystems advanced 1/4 to 25 7/8.
   Mr. Zipper added that he also saw interest in some
regional airlines such as Comair Holdings, which rose 1 1/4
to 17 5/8, and Atlantic Southeast Air, up 1/8 to 17 5/8.
   However, Walter Carucci, vice president of Carr
Securities, which makes markets in OTC stocks for other
dealers, said he continues to see a "tremendous" divergence
between better-known issues and "the rest of the universe."
Mr. Carucci said that split continues to keep him bearish
about the market.
   California automobile insurers, among them Mercury General
of Los Angeles and 20th Century Industries of Woodland Hills,
got a boost after this newspaper reported that a hearing
officer's interpretation of California's insurance-overhaul
initiative, Proposition 103, might deal a potentially
devastating blow to proponents of automobile insurance
reform.
   Mercury General climbed 1/2 to 17 and 20th Century rose 2
to 22 5/8. The Nasdaq insurance index was among the day's
leading indexes, gaining 0.63% to 484.35.
   A potential takeover move triggered a 1 5/8 rise to 7 1/8
in shares of Horizons Industries, a Calhoun, Ga., carpet
manufacturer. A group including Beaulieu of America Inc., a
Dalton, Ga., yarn and carpet manufacturer, announced it holds
a 13.3% stake in Horizon and might seek control.
   Sweden's L.M. Ericsson Telephone Co. rose 4 7/8 to 165 7/8
after the international telecommunications company reported
that pretax earnings for the first quarter ended March 31
nearly doubled. The company said it expects pretax earnings
for the year to be up 25% over 1989.
   Dress Barn was among the day's mostactive issues, closing
up 1/2 at 10 on 1.1 million shares. The Stamford, Conn.,
apparel concern reported that sales for the third quarter
ended April 28 rose 18% and estimated earnings in the quarter
rose to 18 to 19 cents a share from 17 cents a year earlier.
The rosy sales news prompted Shearson Lehman Hutton analyst
Stacy Ruchlamer to repeat her "buy" rating on the stock,
according to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report.
   Concord Camera jumped 1 1/8 to 3 7/8 on more than 10 times
average volume. Michael Rea, chief financial officer of the
Avenel, N.J., maker and distributor of cameras and related
products, told DJPIR he had no explanation for the gain and
declined to comment on the company's earnings outlook.
Concord Camera is due to report earnings for the third
quarter ended in March by May 15.
   Calgene rose 1 5/8 to 9 after Piper Jaffray Hopwood
analyst George Dahlman repeated his "buy" opinion on the
stock, according to DJPIR. Calgene is a Davis, Calif.,
developer of genetically engineered agricultural products.
Mr. Dahlman said he thought the shares had come under
pressure because of some negative publicity by
environmentalists and a lack of major announcements. The
company is expected to report earnings for the second fiscal
quarter by May 15, according to DJPIR.
   Washington Bancorp rebounded 1 1/4 to close at 4 3/4 after
Monday's 5 1/2-point dive. The holding company of National
Bank of Washington, said Monday it's discontinuing its
commercial paper program and isn't able to repay about $36.7
million of unsecured commercial paper obligations.
   Jetborne International, which soared 7/8 Monday to close
at 2 13/16, closed unchanged after the Miami overhauler and
reseller of aircraft components said it's in preliminary
talks with three organizations to buy part or all of the
company. Jetborne said it also is considering spinning off
one of its subsidiaries to the public.
   Bancorp Hawaii tumbled 2 to 44 3/4 after the Honolulu bank
filed a secondary offering of 1.5 million shares of common
stock.
   American Integrity dropped 1 3/8 to 6 3/8 after the
Philadelphia insurance company reported operating income for
the first quarter ended March 31 of six cents a share, down
from 20 cents a year earlier. The company also hired an
investment adviser to review strategic alternatives.
   Pinkerton slipped 1/2 to 17 1/4 after the Van Nuys,
Calif., security company said it expects to take a $2.6
million charge in the second quarter for early debt
repayment. Pinkerton, which had an initial public offering
April 4 at $14 a share, reported net income for the first
quarter ended March 23 rose to 14 cents a share from 11 cents
a year earlier.
   Engineered Support Systems slipped 1/8 to 2 5/8 after the
St. Louis maker of military ground support systems said
delays in beginning production of several key programs will
hurt revenue in fiscal 1990, ending Oct. 31. Some production
and related revenue previously expected in 1990 won't appear
until fiscal 1991, said the company's chairman and chief
executive officer, Michael F. Shanahan Sr.
   General Parametrics lost 5/8 to close at 2 3/8. On Monday,
the Berkeley, Calif., maker of computer graphics products
said it expects to report a net loss for the second quarter,
ended April 30, the company's first quarterly loss since it
became public in 1986.
   Siliconix fell 1/2 to 1 13/16. On Monday, the Santa Clara,
Calif., maker of semiconductors and circuits said it's in
negotiations with International Rectifier to resolve
four-year-old patent litigation. Last month, Siliconix filed
for Chapter 11 protection under the federal Bankruptcy Code,
one day after a federal District Court in Los Angeles ruled
Siliconix had infringed five of International Rectifier's
patents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Republic
   Names Two to Board
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   ARBC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TORRANCE, Calif. -- American Republic Bancorp said it
named two shareholders, who are also directors of its
Republic Bank unit, to the board of the parent company,
expanding it to nine members.
   "The action was taken to avoid the possibility of a
contest over the election of directors" at the annual
shareholders meeting, originally set for tomorrow but
postponed until revised proxy materials are ready, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new directors are Edmond J. Russ, an attorney and
former mayor of Gardena, Calif., and Henry Zdonek, a
certified public accountant. Mr. Russ said in an interview
that he nominated Mr. Zdonek in a letter sent to American
Republic's president last month.
   "It wasn't a proxy fight; any shareholder can nominate
someone to the board," Mr. Russ said.
   The two men hope to generate more local business for the
bank in their new positions. "There might {also} have been
some differences with the board," but "they weren't major
enough to be publicly announced," Mr. Russ said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- USX Corp.:
   Arco and Sonat to Acquire
   Some Oil and Gas Property
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   SNT ARC X
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   USX Corp. said it agreed to sell an oil and gas property
parcel of its Texas Oil &amp; Gas Corp. unit to Atlantic
Richfield Co. and Sonat Inc. for $193 million. The parcel is
one of seven USX has put on the block.
   The properties, located in Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma,
mainly in the Arkoma basin, were considered among the most
attractive. USX had hoped to sell all of Texas Oil &amp; Gas's
reserves in the first quarter, for about $1.5 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the reserves couldn't be sold in one piece and had to
be parceled. USX Chairman Charles A. Corry said at the
company's annual meeting this week that he expected to sell
as many as four of the seven parcels.
   Pittsburgh-based USX said negotiations are continuing with
bidders on the other parcels. A closing on the Arkoma
property is expected in 60 to 90 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sotheby's Auction
   Ends With 37%
   Of Artwork Unsold
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   BID
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A cold flap of reality hit the art market at
Sotheby's Holdings Inc.
   At the auction house's sale here of contemporary art last
night, art collectors went bargain-hunting with avid bidding
for "mid-price" six-figure artworks. But there was little
interest in the low-end and high-end paintings and
sculptures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a packed sales room that grew increasingly uneasy,
again and again bidders rejected even household-name
contemporary artists like Jackson Pollack and Roy
Lichtenstein as too expensive.
   Of the 87 artworks up for bid, 37% didn't sell. Overall,
the total for the sale reached $55.9 million, very much below
the $88.1 million to $114.8 million range predicted by the
auction house. In contrast, Sotheby's last major contemporary
art sale in November raised $98.3 million for 68 paintings
and sculptures.
   Morever, many pieces last night sold at prices below the
lowest published Sotheby's estimate. That indicates that the
secret minimum price the sellers would accept might have been
slashed since the pieces were originally scheduled for
auction a few months ago -- in general, the sign of a
softening market.
   Lucy Mitchell-Innes, head of Sotheby's contemporary art
department, said the market was still "strong" and
"confident," but "expectations among collectors have gotten a
bit ahead of themselves."
   Sotheby's sale was less successful, however, than the
contemporary art sale Monday night held by its rival
Christie's International PLC in New York. At that sale,
one-third of the artworks didn't sell, but several of the
most expensive ones found buyers.
   At Sotheby's, Willem de Kooning's "Woman as Landscape," a
huge riot of red and black once exhibited in the Museum of
Modern Art, failed to sell. It was estimated to sell for $9
million to $12 million. Bidding ended at $4.8 million.
   However, Mr. de Kooning's "Palisade" fetched the highest
price of the evening at $7.2 million. Richard Gray, a Chicago
art dealer, purchased the piece, which was estimated to sell
for $8 million to $10 million.
   Francis Bacon's dark, contorted oil painting of a pope,
"Study for Portrait," was sold for $5.5 million to an unnamed
European art dealer. The pre-sale estimate range was $5
million to $7 million.
   One of the surprises of the sale was Andy Warhol's "12
Jackies," a haunting black and white silkscreen featuring
repeated images of the former first lady, shown in mourning
for President Kennedy. Estimated to bring $2 million to $2.5
million, it also didn't sell.
   The major auctions of the spring season, the evening sales
of impresssionist and modern paintings, will be held at
Christie's and at Sotheby's Tuesday and Thursday of next
week, respectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Gain Slightly as Bargain Hunters
   And Profit-Takers Engage in Lively Tug-of-War
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks managed to close slightly higher, as a
tug-of-war between bargain hunters and profit-takers kept
activity buzzing, participants said.
   Meanwhile, London stocks ended moderately higher, fueled
to a degree by thin trading conditions and overnight gains on
Wall Street.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Nikkei index of 225 issues gained 14.31 points to
30970.58, after advancing 782.63 points Monday.
   At the end of the morning session in Tokyo Wednesday, the
Nikkei index was down 121.72 points to 30848.86.
   Tuesday's volume on the first section was estimated at 750
million shares, up from 617.43 million shares Monday.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section added 7.11 points, or 0.31%, to 2303.60. The
index advanced 48.68 points Monday.
   The second section index, which gained 48.40 points
Monday, leaped ahead 43.52 points, or 1.20%, to close at
3671.88. Volume was estimated at 14 million shares, up from
8.97 million shares.
   Although the Nikkei index gained an unimpressive 14
points, the day's constant activity was interesting, perhaps
more so than Monday's 783-point rally, said Minami Omura, a
PaineWebber Inc. broker.
   Monday morning's trading began with a 200-point
retracement on the Nikkei, as dealers and investment trust
funds, convinced that the market's short-term rally would end
soon, initially took profits.
   But this outlook was met by new bullishness by individual
investors, who felt confident that the Nikkei index has begun
a recovery, traders said. Monday's gain marked the first time
this year that the Nikkei index has risen for five
consecutive sessions.
   Moreover, brokers seeking to dress up accounts for
customers who've sustained heavy losses on issues bought at
the market's December peak contributed to brighter
sentiments.
   More issues gained than lost, as advancing issues clearly
outpaced losers 622 to 338, with 145 issues unchanged.
   In addition, the yen's steady movements, while not
particularly encouraging, at least weren't a hindrance to
positive sentiments in the equity market, traders said.
   Ms. Omura noted that Sunday's communique by the Group of
Seven industrialized nations, which stressed the need for the
yen's stability in light of global economic adjustment,
hasn't yet had much of an impact on the yen or, indirectly,
on stocks.
   Likewise, Japanese Finance Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto said
after a cabinet meeting that he's watching the longer-term
effects of the communique, rather than the short-term
effects.
   Meanwhile, the market apparently lacks a leading sector,
and is motivated more by rumors and corporate earnings
results, traders said.
   One unconfirmed rumor that Morinaga Milk Industry would
merge with Morinaga &amp; Co. sent the milk company's stock
sharply higher, closing at its stop-high, traders said.
   Other food shares didn't follow, as the sector is regarded
"as a lackluster area of the market right now," said Kevin
Haag, a trader in overseas operations at Nomura Securities
Co.
   Mr. Haag said that the food sector is likely to be
overshadowed by the high growth prospects of constructions,
shipbuilders and transportations.
   Stocks within the railroads and real estate sectors were
of particular interest to bargain hunters, Ms. Omura noted.
   Keisei Electric rose 80 yen to 1830 yen (51 cents to
$11.57), Tokyu added 90 yen to 1740 yen and Odakyu rose 20
yen to 1260 yen.
   Mitsui Real added 30 yen to 1860 yen, Mitsubishi Estate
was up 40 yen to 1700 yen and Sumitomo Realty gained 50 yen
to 1570 yen.
   In London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 share
index gained 19.8 points to 2182, off the intraday peak of
2192.3 at midday, but firmer than the day's low of 2173.3 at
the opening of trading.
   The Financial Times 30 share index rose 13.3 points to
1710.1. Volume was 309 million shares, down from Friday's
equally thin 437.5 million shares. The market was closed
Monday for a holiday.
   In the futures markets, the June Financial Times-Stock
Exchange 100 stock-index contract closed at 2211, unchanged
from Friday.
   Dealers said the market came off its midday peak for two
main reasons. Firstly, market makers sought to cap the
advance to prevent the market from moving too quickly ahead
and to keep prices around what dealers suggested were more
manageable levels in terms of buyer interest. Secondly, short
covering in the early going, which was prompted in part by
Wall Street's advance, began to evaporate as the market
climbed to its intraday peak.
   A dealer with one large London brokerage noted that the
market, nevertheless, is "well based at these levels." He
added that equities are gaining some support from reduced
jitters over the stability of the Conservative-led
government, particularly following this past week's local
elections in Britain.
   Among the FT-SE 100 stocks, seven were unchanged, 83
gained and 10 retreated.
   The biggest mover was General Universal Stores, while the
biggest loser was Reuters, falling 5 pence to #11.19 (8 cents
to $18.68).
   General Universal and Whitbread were pushed higher by
local reports suggesting the European Community plans to make
all classes of shares equal. General Universal ordinary
shares rose 13 pence to #13.63 and the Class A shares
increased 37 pence to 967 pence. Whitbread's Class A shares
jumped 10 pence to 379 pence and the Class B shares were
unchanged at #12.50.
   In the midst of the thin trading volume, Hanson edged up 2
pence to 214 1/2 pence on a relatively heavy 10 million
shares traded and British Telecom rose 12 1/2 pence to 262
pence on trading of six million shares.
   Meanwhile, stocks closed lower in Frankfurt and Zurich;
mixed in Amsterdam, Brussels, Milan; and higher in Stockholm.
South African gold stocks closed firmer.
   Elsewhere, prices closed higher in Seoul, Manila and
Taipei, were mixed in Hong Kong and Singapore, lower in
Wellington and little changed in Sydney.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                             May 7      May 4       Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. .....................  313.9      312.1     -  3.4
 Britain ..................  641.0      641.0     - 11.1
 Canada ...................  376.7      370.5     - 12.9
 Japan .................... 1309.7     1281.6     - 20.9
 France ...................  591.4      588.8     +  4.3
 Germany ..................  308.0      305.2     +  8.0
 Hong Kong ................ 2206.8     2192.3     +  5.2
 Switzerland ..............  203.8      203.5     -  7.7
 Australia ................  300.8      296.8     -  9.2
 World index ..............  495.3      487.7     - 12.7
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Steadies in Sluggish Dealings;
   Treasury Auction Makes Market Wary
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar steadied after two days of broad
declines and as the Treasury's long-awaited debt auction got
under way.
   The auction, which stretches over three days, instilled
caution in market participants. Also inhibiting major
position-taking was the scheduled release Friday of data on
U.S. retail sales and producer prices for April, traders
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gillie Augeri, vice president and chief dealer at
Connecticut National Bank in Hartford, said traders generally
expect the $30.5 billion Treasury refunding to go well but
are reluctant to move prior to learning the outcome.
   Amid sluggish dollar dealings, activity in non-dollar
exchange rates, particularly the mark-yen cross rate, drew
attention, traders said.
   The dollar slipped against the yen in response to buying
of the Japanese unit against the mark, dealers said. The West
German currency was seen correcting a bit against the yen
after a rise Monday in New York to 95.52 yen, participants
said. The mark ended yesterday's New York trading at 95.12
yen.
   The $10.5 billion of three-year notes auctioned yesterday
brought an average 8.74% yield, the Treasury announced. The
result, which was in line with expectations, came too late to
affect foreign exchange trading. Preliminary indications
showed good participation by Japanese investors.
   The Treasury will sell $10 billion of 10-year bonds today,
followed by the sale of $10 billion of 30-year notes
tomorrow.
   The dollar posted a modest gain against the mark on a
slight squeeze of short positions that developed in the wake
of the U.S. unit's two days of declines against the West
German currency, said Valerie Walker, vice president and
corporate foreign exchange manager at Harris Trust &amp; Savings
Bank in New York.
   The market is still bearish on the U.S. unit, Ms. Walker
said. Many of those who were squeezed out of their short
positions yesterday are merely waiting for the dollar to fall
to 1.6470 marks before selling it once again, she said.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6573 marks, up from 1.6558 marks late Monday, and at
157.62 yen, down from 158.19 yen late Monday. Sterling was
quoted at $1.6705, up from $1.6685 Monday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the U.S. currency was
quoted at 157.30 yen, down from Tuesday's Tokyo close of
158.05 yen. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.6575
marks.
   The dollar still is suffering from a more pessimistic view
of the U.S. economy after last Friday's disappointing
employment report, said Morris Armstrong, vice president and
manager of foreign exchange at Girozentrale Vienna.
   "We have a situation now where you have inflation and no
growth," Mr. Armstrong said, referring to the combination of
Friday's disappointing employment numbers and the rising
inflation shown in the report on first-quarter gross national
product.
   In contrast to Ms. Walker, though, Mr. Armstrong said the
dollar seems to have found a comfortable trading area at
current levels against the mark and yen. It must be
remembered that the dollar's lower level against both
currencies is still within trading bands seen this year and
"the more the dollar stays in these (bands), the more you
have to believe it's in equilibrium," he said.
   Despite the gains made by the yen against the dollar and
the mark, Ms. Walker, Mr. Armstrong and others said the
Japanese currency won't strengthen appreciably in the absence
of a rise in Japanese interest rates.
   Comments by French Economics Minister Pierre Beregovoy
that Group of Seven monetary officials believe the yen
shouldn't decline any further were brushed off by the market,
said Girozentrale's Mr. Armstrong.
   With a net outflow of capital from Japan and no rise in
Japanese interest rates, "there's no reason to send the yen
higher right now," he said.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $370 an ounce, down $1.90. Estimated
volume was a moderate 2.5 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted at $370.70 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Oil Futures Slip Back After Early-Session Surge
   As 2 Accidents Appear Unlikely to Hurt Supply
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Oil futures prices rose but then retreated from daily
highs yesterday as threats of supply shortages, following
closure of a major pipeline in the Gulf of Mexico and a
refinery fire in California, subsided.
   West Texas Intermediate crude for June delivery settled at
$18.28 a barrel, up one cent from Monday. During the trading
session, however, crude prices had surged more than 30 cents
beyond that level.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Crude oil supplies remain more than ample. But reports
that production platforms supplying 95,000 barrels a day from
the Gulf of Mexico to onshore refineries had been shut down
because of a pipeline leak made traders wary of selling.
   The pipeline, operated by Texaco Inc., leaked about 900
barrels of crude oil into Gulf waters before it was closed
off early Monday. Late yesterday, divers were still unable to
search for the source of the leak because of choppy seas and
high winds, a Texaco spokesman said. The production,
equivalent to five or six cargoes of crude per month, will be
unavailable for an indefinite period, he said.
   A fire at a Chevron Corp. refinery in El Segundo, Calif.,
also made traders jumpy. But it was quickly extinguished and
appeared to do little damage. And market participants
continued to be concerned about possible disruptions of
near-term supply from North Sea oil installations because of
threatened work stoppages there.
   Also lending support to prices yesterday were pledges by
the oil ministers of Nigeria and Indonesia to cut production
in support of the agreement reached by the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries last week.
   Prices of petroleum products followed the upward move of
crude oil, although the gains were sharper. Inventories of
both distillate and gasoline are leaner than crude stocks,
making the prices of those commodities more sensitive to news
of potential supply stoppages.
   Figures released by the American Petroleum Institute late
yesterday also show that U.S. imports of both products fell
last week. And gasoline output by U.S. refineries declined
slightly, the report shows, a factor that could buttress
prices for that fuel as the beginning of the summer driving
season draws near.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices eased. June delivery gold
slipped $2 an ounce to $372 after trading as high as $375.20.
July silver was off three cents an ounce to $5.0580. July
platinum declined $5.40 an ounce to $479.20. The possibility
that South Africa and the Soviet Union, the two largest gold
producers, might have to sell gold is hanging over the
market, said William O'Neill, vice president of research for
Elders Futures Inc., New York. He noted that South Africa had
reported a 17.3% decline in its foreign exchange holdings in
March, to $864 million from $1.06 billion in February. "This
is an exceptionally low level and the concern is that it
might sell gold to increase its foreign exchange," Mr.
O'Neill said. He also cited a Wall Street Journal story that
reported the Soviet Union may be having problems making
payments on its U.S. grain purchases. Separately, the
Commodity Exchange said it changed the original margin
requirement for gold and silver contracts. Effective at the
close of trading today, original margin for speculative gold
trading will be cut to $1,300 from $1,700 per contract. The
margin for hedge trading will be dropped to $1,000, from
$1,300. Margin for speculative silver will be cut to $1,300
from $1,400. The hedge remains the same at $1,000. The
speculative and hedge margin requirements on copper and
aluminum will remain the same. Comex margin requirements are
retroactive, applying to existing positions.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices recovered most of Monday's losses.
The soon-to-expire May delivery was up 3.20 cents a pound to
$1.2040, while the most-active July contract rose 2.50 cents
to $1.1215. Analysts said there were no new developments.
"The market sagged Monday, when London was closed, and
recovered when it reopened," said one analyst. The principal
factor in the market, analysts said, was tight supplies,
which caused the premiums of soonest-to-expire contracts to
widen over more deferred positions in both London and New
York. A second analyst observed that some support could be
attributed to May traditionally being the heaviest
copper-consuming month of the year. Negotiations with some
North American copper mining companies on new labor contracts
already have begun, which also may have been a price-firming
factor, he said.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures prices rose on concern that exchange
supplies of the concentrate may be insufficient to meet
commitments on the soon-to-expire May contract. May prices
ended with a gain of three cents a pound at $1.9680. Notices
of intent to deliver concentrate against May contracts began
to be issued May 1, but only 386 notices have been issued so
far, said analyst Judith Gaines of Merrill Lynch. The open
interest, or the number of outstanding May futures that have
to be nullified either by an opposite trade or delivery of
the commodity, amounts to 1,240 contracts. But supplies of
concentrate in exchange warehouses certified for delivery
against the May contract amount to the equivalent of only 584
contracts. The last trading day for May delivery orange juice
is May 17. Ms. Ganes noted that a majority of the May open
interest comprises speculative short sellers who either have
to deliver the concentrate or liquidate their positions by
buying back contracts. However, yesterday it was the July
contract that rose sharply, advancing 4.50 cents a pound to
$1.9625 cents. Ms. Ganes said that "there was buying back of
contracts by traders who were short May, and these traders
then bought twice the quantity of contracts in July." The
result was that May was strengthened by the buying, but July
more so because of the larger demand, she said. Separately,
Ms. Ganes noted that the U.S. Department of Agriculture will
issue its monthly revision of the Florida orange crop
tomorrow. The figure for Valencia oranges is expected to
rise, she said, but it won't have any effect on the supply of
concentrate. "Last year at this time, 50% of the Valencia
crop remained to be processed," Ms. Ganes said. "This year,
because of the December frost, there is only a fraction of
that. Processing plants have been closing over the past two
weeks as current crop supplies have petered out, and they
aren't going to reopen to process the late trickle of
Valencias."
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK and MEATS: Prices of hog and cattle futures
contracts sank sharply as traders moved to take profits on
recent rallies. For June delivery, hogs were down 1.32 cents
a pound to 63.57 cents, and live cattle were down 1.27 cents
a pound to 73.92 cents, on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
The sell-off began after several contracts in both pits hit
life-of-contract highs. "There wasn't any significant piece
of news," said Charles Levitt, an analyst at Shearson Lehman
Hutton, Chicago. "It just had been a while since a good
correction." Hog prices have been rising since early February
because of an unusual drop in the amount of hogs being
slaughtered in the U.S. The supply of mature hogs ready for
slaughter has been tight in part because farmers have been
cautious about expanding their herds since late 1988, when
many suffered an unprofitable spell. Cattle prices were also
depressed by profit-taking. However, cattle prices have been
widely projected to fall as the slaughter increases this
summer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Major Stake in DHL Unit
   Is Studied by Three Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NIW G.LHA JAPNY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Nissho Iwai Corp., a leading Japanese trading
firm, is holding talks with Japan Airlines and Lufthansa
German Airlines to acquire a joint stake in DHL Worldwide
Express, the world's largest express-delivery service.
   A spokesman for the Japanese carrier confirmed that
Japan's largest airline is "studying a proposal to invest in
DHL" but refused to elaborate about the negotiations. DHL
Corp., based in Brussels, couldn't be reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to Japanese news reports, JAL, Lufthansa and
Nissho Iwai would seek to increase any DHL holdings
gradually, acquiring a majority of DHL's stock by 1992. Nihon
Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading business daily, reported that
the three firms are considering paying $500 million for a
stake in DHL. A final agreement on the plan among the three
companies is expected later this month.
   DHL would give the Japanese air-cargo carrier access to
the expanding freight business in Europe, analysts say. The
deal would mark Nissho Iwai's entry into the
document-delivery business.
   Analysts add that the Japanese-German link is an attempt
to counter the competitive threat of Federal Express Corp.,
which is aggressively expanding in Europe and in Asia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LIN Reports
   $180.8 Million
   1st-Quarter Loss
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LINB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- LIN Broadcasting Inc. reported a $180.8
million first-quarter loss after taking a charge of nearly
$300 million for executive severance payments and other
costs.
   Separately, LIN, which until January had little debt,
definitively agreed to acquire Metromedia Inc.'s cellular
operations in New York for $1.9 billion in cash and preferred
stock. The deal will add more than $1 billion in debt to
LIN's balance sheet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The severance payments, which, as expected, include more
than $200 million to Donald Pels, LIN's former chairman, stem
from BF McCaw Cellular Communications Inc.'s acquisition of
52% of LIN.
   To cover the costs, LIN took a $292.9 million charge,
which also included payments to other executives and
undisclosed fees to its banking and legal advisers on the
McCaw transaction. LIN declined to disclose the exact amount
it paid to Mr. Pels, but it covered a pre-negotiated
severance package that he had with LIN. It also covered the
buy-out of 1.3 million stock options he held in the company
as part of the agreement with McCaw.
   Donald Guthrie, a vice president at LIN and a senior vice
president at McCaw, declined to disclose the amount of the
severance payments to the LIN executives, who included Arnold
Blauweis, former vice president, finance; Michael Plouf,
former treasurer and vice president, corporate development;
and Ronald Graiff, former vice president, engineering.
   Mr. Guthrie also declined to specify the amount paid to
LIN's banking advisers, Wasserstein, Perella &amp; Co., and its
legal counsel, Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore.
   In the quarter, LIN's loss equaled $3.50 a share, vs. net
income of $20.2 million, or 38 cents a share, in the
year-earlier period. Without the charge, LIN would have
earned $22.8 million, or 44 cents a share. Revenue grew 17%
to $61.7 million from $52.9 million.
   In national over-the-counter trading, LIN shares closed at
$64.50, unchanged.
   LIN's first-quarter loss follows a $15 million
fourth-quarter loss, after LIN paid BellSouth Corp. $66.5
million for terminating an agreement to be acquired by the
Atlanta-based regional Bell phone company.
   The Metromedia deal was proposed as all-cash. But
yesterday, LIN said it will pay Metromedia $1.05 billion in
cash for its New York cellular properties, to be funded by
additional debt. Metromedia will also get $850 million in new
redeemable preferred stock in a LIN subsidiary, LCH Cellular
Inc. LCH now holds all the LIN cellular subsidiaries and its
WOTV television station in Michigan as well as publishing
properties. In addition, LIN will pay $60 million to minority
holders of 1.7% of the New York license.
   LIN also agreed to transfer 1.01% of its controlling
interest in a Philadelphia cellular franchise to Metromedia
for $15.5 million. This will give Metromedia 51% control of
the franchise and leave LIN as the minority owner at 49%.
   LIN said its base of cellular phone subscribers grew 59%
in the quarter to 413,000 from 260,000 a year earlier. Ken
Leon, an analyst at Bear, Stearns &amp; Co., noted that LIN's
subscriber growth between the fourth quarter of 1989 and the
first quarter of 1990 was 12% vs. the industry average of
15%.
   "It's a quality company on an operating basis," said Mr.
Leon. But given its subscriber growth and debt load, "I think
LIN is a real crapshoot."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   MICHAEL R. GOLAND, a businessman and donor to pro-Israel
political causes, didn't produce telephone logs showing he
was in almost daily contact with the American Israel Public
Affairs Committee during the 1986 Cranston-Zschau Senate race
in California, as stated in Monday's edition, although the
logs reflect at least four such telephone contacts. Last
week, a federal district court jury in Los Angeles, while
convicting him on one count of an election-law violation,
also acquitted him on four counts and was deadlocked on a
fifth. Monday's edition failed specifically to mention the
acquittals.
   (See: "Politics &amp; Policy: Pro-Israel Political Donor Is
Convicted Of Trying to Sabotage Senate Campaign" -- WSJ May
7, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   DOUBLEDAY, a unit of Bertelsmann AG's Bantam Doubleday
Dell Publishing Group Inc., has so far printed more than half
a million copies of "The Stand: The Complete and Uncut
Edition" by Stephen King. Yesterday's edition misstated the
number of copies that has been printed.
   (See: "Marketing &amp; Media: Doubleday Pulls Out All the
Stops For Reissue of Stephen King Novel" -- WSJ May 8, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Drexel Burnham
   Trading Unit Faces
   Creditor Pressure
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey and Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP J.NIW
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc.'s commodities trading
unit could be forced by creditors into bankruptcy court
alongside its parent as early as today.
   Some of the lawyers representing foreign central banks and
others owed a total of more than $500 million said they
expect a Chapter 7 involuntary bankruptcy filing to be made
against the unit, Drexel Burnham Lambert Trading Corp. The
unit "upstreamed" more than $600 million to its parent
company before the parent faced a liquidity crisis and filed
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy law protection on Feb. 13.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The trading unit's creditors include foreign central banks
as well as several international trading firms that made
precious metals, petroleum or foreign-exchange transactions
with the Drexel unit.
   The biggest creditor appears to be Nissho Iwai Corp., a
Japanese concern, owed about $160 million. Portugal's central
bank is owed $95 million to $120 million, depending on the
market price calculation of gold it lent the unit.
Yugoslavia's central bank is owed about $70 million,
Malaysia's about $43 million, and Poland's $10 million, say
lawyers involved in the matter.
   A Drexel spokesman said the trading unit, based in Fort
Lee, N.J., is no longer doing business and has been "winding
down" its positions since Feb. 13. He declined to comment on
relations with creditors. The unit's chief asset, he said, is
a $600 million or more claim against the parent company.
   Richard F. Levy, a lawyer at the Chicago law firm of
Kirkland &amp; Ellis who is representing the National Bank of
Yugoslavia, said the bankruptcy petition is signed by three
creditors and will be filed today. "We don't have confidence
that the current management of Drexel will prosecute this
{$600 million} claim" on the trading unit's behalf, he said.
Mr. Levy said his client asked the other creditors to sign
the bankruptcy petition. He refused to name the others who
signed, and wouldn't say why the Yugoslavian central bank is
apparently angrier than other creditors.
   Drexel has said that it expects all creditors to be
repaid, though the spokesman wouldn't specifically say
whether the trading unit's creditors will be paid.
   Creditors of the unit suspect that, as the Drexel parent's
access to commercial paper funding and other sources dried
up, it turned to the unit for cash. "Our general impression
is that they were helping to finance the parent," said Peter
Reed, a vice president of CRT Energy L.P. in Chicago, which
is owed about $1.9 million.
   Drexel denies that. The spokesman said the trading unit
regularly provided cash to the parent, as needed, and that
such advances went up and down -- and that the $600 million
level reached before Feb. 13 was by no means the highest the
advances had ever been. "This was not operated as a vehicle
to raise money for the parent company," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Wins Limit on IMF Resource Boost,
   But Next Review Date Is Pushed Ahead
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN EUROP JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. succeeded in limiting an increase
in the resources of the International Monetary Fund, but it
had to agree to advance by two years the date for the next
review of the institution's funds.
   The 50% increase approved by the fund's policy-making
Interim Committee should ensure that the IMF can assist
economic overhaul in developing countries and in Eastern
Europe. It means that the IMF will have about $180 billion in
resources compared with about $120 billion now.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. and some other nations, including Britain and
Saudi Arabia, had sought an increase of 35% or less in IMF
resources, which are called quotas. The IMF, France and
developing countries had supported a 100% increase. The next
review of the IMF resources will begin in March 1993 -- not
in 1995 as the U.S. had wanted. U.S. officials, however,
stressed that the current review took two years and that a
future review might take as long.
   "It's a compromise, everyone had to give a bit," said
Canada's Finance Minister Michael Wilson, chairman of the
Interim Committee. "I think we all realized if we couldn't
get agreement on this we'd have to go another six months"
with the matter unsettled, he added.
   In its communique, the Interim Committee also said that
progress toward "the single European market in 1992, the
prospective unification of Germany, and successful reforms in
Eastern Europe will strengthen the outlook for economic
growth." But the panel warned that "substantial efforts must
be made" to raise savings "to lessen pressure on interest
rates."
   The IMF's 152 member countries subscribe quotas to the IMF
by pledging reserves in an exchange of assets. The IMF has
sometimes supplemented these resources by borrowing from
member countries. But it currently has sufficient resources,
according to Mr. Wilson, who added that he didn't think the
fund would need to borrow before the quota increase goes into
effect at the end of 1991.
   There are 11 countries that are seriously in arrears to
the IMF, and their overdue obligations total more than $3
billion. Under a U.S.-backed plan, these countries would be
given access to other IMF funds that could be used to pay
their obligations, provided these countries undertake tough
changes. If the nations fail to make these changes, the
countries risk losing gold they have already pledged to the
IMF that would be sold to make good the loans made to them.
   As part of the IMF quota increase, the rankings of several
large shareholders will change. The U.S. will remain the
largest holder with slightly more than 19%. Japan and West
Germany will rank second, with equal holdings of slightly
more than 6% each, while Britain and France will rank fourth
equally, with about 5.5% each.
   Britain has elected to lend France about 0.5 of a
percentage point of its share to allow the two countries to
rank equally. In return, the two countries will rank equally
for the foreseeable future, and France may lend Britain some
of its share after the next quota increase.
   The quota increase is linked to a change in the IMF's
articles that will allow the organization to suspend
uncooperative member countries. That's another intended
safeguard against payments arrears. "We aimed to create a
tool that is a middle solution," a senior Treasury official
said, who added that the IMF's current approach "isn't
providing a realistic solution to the problem."
   The cost of borrowing from the IMF also will rise soon as
part of its effort to clear arrears. IMF Managing Director
Michel Camdessus said that the institution will increase
charges on its regular loans by 0.35 of a percentage point
July 1. This, along with a cut of a little more than one
percentage point a year in what it pays to countries whose
currencies it uses, will allow the IMF to build a pool of
$1.3 billion over five years. The IMF now charges about 8.6%
annually on its regular loans.
   Many delegates attending the half-yearly meetings of the
IMF and World Bank already speculate that the IMF's next
quota review may include discussion of Soviet membership in
the group.
   Certainly, there is a recognition that the Soviets may
need more economic assistance. West German Finance Minister
Theo Waigel said, "Europe and the U.S. should work together
to stimulate growth and economic reform in the Soviet Union."
But he didn't advocate establishing new institutions for this
purpose beyond the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. The EBRD, which is now being planned, will make
long-term loans to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Passes Bill Directing
   SEC to Improve Settlements
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House passed a bill directing the
Securities and Exchange Commission to improve coordination of
the clearance and settlement of stocks and related financial
instruments.
   The measure, approved on a voice vote, is a reaction to
the October 1987 stock-market crash. Studies show that
trading during the crash strained the back-office payment
systems for stocks, options and futures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill doesn't specify how the clearing and settlement
functions are to be linked, but directs the SEC to report
back to Congress within two years.
   The SEC backs the legislation, and a similar provision is
included in the Senate's pending market-revision bill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Workstation
   Options
   Expanding
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder and Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW J.TOS DEC HWP
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The workstation is about to become cheaper and portable as
well, continuing its penetration of the personal-computer
market.
   Sun Microsystems Inc., of Mountain View, Calif., is
expected to unveil on Tuesday a new low-cost version of its
popular Sparcstation that puts it in the price range of many
personal computers. And Tokyo's Toshiba Corp., in a bid to
expand its share of the rapidly growing market for
workstations, said it would begin selling the world's first
portable workstation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sun's machine, expected to cost just under $5,000, is just
the latest in a technological leapfrogging game by computer
makers; rivals say they will soon best Sun's machine with
still faster, cheaper workstations.
   Toshiba's announcement comes a month after Japanese rival
Sony Corp. announced it would sell a portable workstation by
late July. Toshiba said it hopes to begin production of its
new machine, based on Sun's Sparc chip, in the U.S. by the
end of the year, officials said at a Tokyo news conference.
It is scheduled to go on sale in Japan in mid-July.
   Called the Sparc LT model, it is the latest demonstration
of Toshiba's ability to pack more and more computing power
into smaller and smaller machines. The company, long a minor
player in computer sales, has become a world leader in laptop
personal computers in the past three years. The new
workstation "is going to extend the market because you're
going to be able to do more things with it," said Peter G.
Wolff, a technology analyst with Kidder Peabody's Tokyo
office. "It's an innovative step."
   But many computer makers say the market for laptop
workstations is limited. Since the main users of workstations
are scientists and engineers, who typically work with
equipment that isn't readily movable, the advantages of
portability aren't as clear-cut as they are for
personal-computer users.
   In addition, workstations usually gain much of their
usefulness from being hooked up to one another and to other
computers. As a result, users aren't very likely to use them
at home or on the road, as many business executives do with
portable personal computers.
   Workstations, which combine high speed with flashy
graphics and usually run the Unix operating system, until
recently have been high-priced desktop machines selling for
$20,000 and up. But prices have fallen steeply since last
year as makers worked toward the high end of the
personal-computer market.
   "The technology wars are really heating up and the
technology price curve is getting steeper," said John Hime,
vice president of systems products marketing at MIPS Computer
Systems Inc. "Sun's got a great machine, but other companies
like MIPS are introducing technology just as fast, if not
faster."
   The new Sun machine, called the Sparcstation SLC, will run
at 12.5 million operations per second, analysts familiar with
the machine say. The $5,000 price tag brings the computer
well into the price range of high-end personal computers,
which don't run as fast and have poorer graphics. Sun's
cheapest machine now is the $8,995 Sparcstation 1-Plus.
   Still, the Sun machine may lack important components. The
SLC will be a stripped-down version of Sun's Sparcstation
built into a 17-inch monochrome monitor with no disk drive
and no ability to be expanded with add-in cards. So it will
have to be tied into a network of other computers to be
useful.
   What's more, any low-priced workstation faces a basic
hurdle: Most of the software programs that businesses use are
written to run on Microsoft Corp.'s MSDOS operating system,
not on the Unix operating system used by Sun.
   Sun's rivals are critical of the new product. "I don't
think they'll have the performance in the box to make up for
all the things the box doesn't have," said Donald Gaubatz,
group manager for workstations at Digital Equipment Corp.
Digital began selling last year a $5,950 workstation that is
only slightly slower than the Sparcstation, he said, adding
that the company plans to keep the price competitively low.
   MIPS, likewise, said it plans price cuts and performance
improvements that will bring its machines in line with Sun's
by this summer. Hewlett-Packard Co. plans to sell later this
year a low-end workstation based on Motorola Inc.'s new 68040
microprocessor chip. Hewlett now has the cheapest
workstation, the $3,990 DN 2500, running at about 40% the
speed of the new Sun machine, said Mark Tolliver, Hewlett's
workstation-marketing manager. "We have no intention of
surrendering that position," he said.
   The new Toshiba machine, which weighs 17.7 pounds, has a
fold-up screen. Company officials said it weighs a third as
much as the basic Sun model sold in Japan, and takes up half
the space. It has a processing speed of 13.2 mips and will
sell in Japan for about two million yen (about $12,600).
Toshiba expects to sell about 3,000 of the machines in Japan
this year and about 14,000 next year.
   But, in addition to concerns about the practicality of a
laptop workstation, the Sparc LT has some technological
constraints that may limit its use. It currently has only a
built-in black and white screen. Color, often a crucial
feature for the scientists and engineers who are the main
workstation users, won't be available for more than two
years. Unlike battery-operable laptop computers, the machine
has to be plugged in.
   Toshiba's market projections for laptops are "rubbish,"
said Vicky Brown of International Data Corp. of Framington,
Mass. "Can you see someone carrying 18 pounds on the bullet
train? We're far away from the point where we're going to
have a big market for laptop workstations."
   Digital's Mr. Gaubatz agrees. Users of Unix workstations
depend heavily on networks that tie them together with other
machines, he said. "There will be some people who would find
a reason to buy it," he said. But most users "are just too
intimately connected to their network. You don't have that if
you have the thing on your lap."
   But Toshiba officials say that, with desk space more
cramped in Japan than in the U.S., such smaller machines may
have greater appeal in their home market. And they say they
are simplifying the software to try and broaden the base of
traditional workstation users.
   Toshiba has been selling Sun workstations in Japan since
1986, and a year ago signed an agreement with Sun allowing it
to develop and manufacture machines based on the Sun system.
"Sun welcomes the Sparc LT," said Scott McNealy, Sun's
chairman, in a statement videotaped for yesterday's press
conference. "This complementary product will expand the
market for Sparc workstations and servers, just as the PC
market was enhanced by the arrival of laptops."
   The Japanese, who still have only a tiny share of the
world computer market, have been jumping into the $6 billion
workstation market. Sony is Japan's leader with its News
workstation, which it started selling in 1987, and exporting
the following year.
   ---
   Laurence Hooper contributed to this story.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Germans May Market
   Stock-Information
   System in London
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- A West German stock-exchange
official said the nation is considering marketing its Ibis
price-information system in Britain if the London Stock
Exchange follows through with plans to install its Seaq
International system in German trading rooms.
   But Ruediger von Rosen, executive vice chairman of the
Federation of German Stock Exchanges, said he would prefer if
the major European stock markets would cooperate in the Price
Information Project Europe, a pan-European screen-based
securities-trading system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such a cooperation would cut the cost of information and
facilitate the creation of a unified European market place
for the trading of blue-chip shares, the official said in
remarks prepared for the Financial Markets Group Conference
at the London School of Economics. A text of the speech was
made available in Frankfurt.
   Seaq, which handles around 12% of the trading volume in
the key German blue-chip stocks, launched a marketing
campaign to install its monitors in Frankfurt bank offices,
which would permit traders to conduct their business directly
on the London exchange.
   In return, the German exchanges could offer their new Ibis
system to traders outside West Germany once it has been
expanded into a full-fledged trading system able to handle
stocks and bonds from all major European markets, Mr. von
Rosen said. Ibis's main advantage over Seaq and other systems
is its direct line to the German Central Securities
Depository, which permits automatic clearing and settlement
within a two-day period, he said.
   But such a strategy would result in a situation where
traders are surrounded by monitors from Ibis, Seaq, the
French CAC system, and even the U.S. Nasdaq network, Mr. von
Rosen said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UPS to Acquire
   `Quiet' Engines
   Of Rolls-Royce
   ----
   By Charles W. Stevens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   X.UPS U.RR UTX FDX
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   United Parcel Service said it is replacing Pratt &amp; Whitney
engines on its older cargo jets with engines built by Rolls
Royce PLC to bring the planes within U.S. noise limits.
   UPS, based in Greenwich, Conn., said the decision will
cost it at least $400 million. It comes as a setback for
Pratt &amp; Whitney, a United Technologies Corp. division, which
is trying to sell "hushkits" to owners of hundreds of planes
powered by the company's older engines that exceed federal
and more restrictive local noise standards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By persuading fleet operators to install quieting
equipment rather than new engines to meet noise rules, Pratt
&amp; Whitney hopes to preserve customers for its highly
profitable spare parts business. But when air carriers opt to
re-engine the planes instead of installing the quieting gear,
Pratt &amp; Whitney risks losing the business if the customer
buys replacement engines from a competitor.
   That's what happened in UPS's decision to install
Rolls-Royce Tay 650 engines on the 35 Boeing Co. 727-100
planes in its fleet and some others it plans to acquire.
   The sale represents a further disappointment for Pratt &amp;
Whitney because the re-engining will result in London-based
Rolls-Royce replacing Pratt &amp; Whitney as a primary
engine-supplier to UPS. "It's our territory and we don't like
to see that violated," a Pratt &amp; Whitney executive in East
Hartford, Conn., said.
   UPS said the $400 million re-engine agreement includes
payments to a third party to modify the three-engine planes
for the Tay 650 and to get the reconfigured aircraft
certified by the Federal Aviation Administration. The first
of the modified planes will enter service in 1992, UPS said.
   UPS and Rolls-Royce said their agreement also includes
options for the re-engining of as many as 80 planes, should
the carrier acquire more 727s. If all of the options are
exercised, Rolls-Royce would receive about $600 million for
280 engines, including spare engines, the companies said.
   UPS said it rejected buying quieting equipment for its
727-100s because the gear -- developed by Pratt &amp; Whitney and
Memphis-based Federal Express Corp., and marketed by Federal
Express -- would only have brought the JT8D-7-engined planes
just within the latest U.S. noise standard, called stage
three. The Rolls-Royce engines, on the other hand, are just
half as noisy as the altered Pratt &amp; Whitney engines, making
the planes compliant with the more restrictive rules set by
some local airports. The new engines also burn less fuel,
spew fewer pollutants, and extend the range and payload of
the planes, UPS said. The new engines will also be cheaper to
maintain, the company said. "Looking at all the alternatives,
the Rolls-Royce choice was best for us," a UPS spokesman
said.
   Installing quieting gear would have cost UPS about $1.6
million per plane, a Federal Express spokesman said. The Tay
650 engines will cost the carrier about $6.6 million per
plane, industry executives said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Dallas Morning News
   Is Cleared by Jury
   In Competition Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BLC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- A state court jury in Houston found that the
Dallas Morning News wasn't guilty of unfair competition when
it lured the rights to 26 Universal Press Syndicate features
away from its rival, the Dallas Times Herald.
   The decision is the latest bit of bad news for the
struggling Times Herald, which has been waging a circulation
and legal war with the larger Morning News, a unit of A.H.
Belo Corp., for years. Recently, the Federal Communications
Commission dismissed a related complaint in which the Times
Herald asked that Belo's Dallas television license be revoked
because of its agreement with Universal Press.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Times Herald, owned by closely held DTH Media Inc.,
sued its larger rival last year after Belo and Universal
Press, based in Kansas City, Mo., announced a joint venture
intended to explore electronic media possibilities for the
syndicate's features.
   But the agreement also gave Belo exclusive rights to
Universal Press features for the Morning News. As a result,
Universal notified the Times Herald that it couldn't run 26
features any longer, including popular comic strips such as
"Doonesbury" and "The Far Side" and columns such as "Dear
Abby" and Erma Bombeck. During the four-week trial, the Times
Herald claimed that its circulation declined after it lost
the features. The newspaper asked for $33 million in damages.
   "Since the beginning of this lengthy legal process, we
have said that the Times Herald's claims were totally without
merit and were undertaken solely for competitive reasons,"
Robert W. Decherd, Belo's chairman and chief executive
officer, said in a news release. "We are delighted that the
jury has heard the facts and vindicated our position."
   A spokesperson for DTH Media said the company wouldn't
comment on the verdict.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Small Investors
   Are Big Buyers
   At Treasury Sale
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Sam Alcorn
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE HCA X.AST COT FHP CANDA EUROP F
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Attracted by the highest yields in a year,
individual investors scrambled to buy record amounts of
three-year Treasury notes in an apparent bet that interest
rates are headed lower.
   Small investors snapped up 23% of the $10.57 billion of
three-year notes sold by the Treasury yesterday as it kicked
off the government's huge $30.5 billion quarterly auction of
notes and bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The three-year notes were sold at an average yield of
8.74%, the highest at a government auction since last May but
lower than some bond dealers had expected. The Treasury
received a record $2.45 billion in so-called "noncompetitive
bids," which come mainly from individuals. That topped by far
the previous record $1.75 billion in noncompetitive bids
received at the February 1989 three-year note auction, when
the issue yielded 9.18%.
   "It looks like retail investors are rushing to get good
rates before they drop any further," said Charles Lieberman,
a managing director at Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp.
He said that after Friday's bond market rally, which pushed
Treasury yields as much as 1/4 percentage point lower, many
small investors "figured they had missed the top of the
market and realized they had better buy now." A week ago,
yields on actively traded Treasury bonds exceeded 9% but now
most are between 8.7% and 8.9%.
   Hours before the 1 p.m. EDT bidding deadline yesterday, a
line of investors snaked its way through a first-floor wing
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, where bids are
placed for Treasury auctions.
   The rate on the three-year note is "pretty good right
now," said Richard White of East Rutherford, N.J., who was
waiting to submit his bid. "It's better than what you get at
the bank," said another investor, referring to his bank money
market account.
   At a time when many savings and loans are being taken over
by the government, and the credit ratings of some commercial
banks and corporations are eroding, some small investors are
turning to government bonds for safety as well as high
yields.
   "A three-year {Treasury security} is playing it safe,"
said Bob Bodin of New York City. "There are a lot of
conflicts in the economy. My guess is rates won't go much
higher. Rates, if anything, will go down."
   By submitting a noncompetitive bid, small investors agree
to accept the average price and yield determined by
competitive bidding that takes place among big Wall Street
bond dealers. Noncompetitive bids at the previous 12
three-year note auctions averaged $984 million, according to
Maria Ramirez Capital Consultants Inc., a subsidiary of John
Hancock Freedom Securities.
   The competitive bidding among bond dealers was aggressive.
The Treasury received 3.53 competitive bids for every one it
accepted, well above the average 2.90 bid-to-cover ratio at
the previous 12 three-year note auctions.
   Most analysts considered yesterday's auction a success.
However, they said that a good three-year note auction does
not necessarily mean that the remaining portions of the
three-part auction will go smoothly. The auction continues
today's with the sale of $10 billion of ten-year notes and
concludes tomorrow with the sale of $10 billion of 30-year
bonds.
   "It's misleading to believe that a successful three-year
auction will translate into successful 10-year and 30-year
auctions," said Maria Fiorini Ramirez, president of Maria
Ramirez Capital Consultants.
   Mr. Lieberman agrees. "The three-year auction was expected
to be the best spoken for, so I don't think the three-year is
a litmus test for the upcoming auctions," he said. Three-year
notes "are assets that are bought by bank trust departments
and individuals. The 10-year notes and 30-year bonds are
bought mostly by pension funds, insurance companies and large
Japanese investors."
   Japanese investors also snapped up large portions of the
new three-year notes.
   William Brachfeld, an executive vice president at Daiwa
Securities America Inc. estimates that Japan's four biggest
securities firms purchased about 30% of the new three-year
securities, including $2 billion purchased by his firm.
   "There was a mix of speculative and long-term investment
interest" by the Japanese, he said. Because all four brokers
have both Japanese and non-Japanese customers, it is
difficult to measure precisely the amount of securities
purchased by Japanese investors. Nonetheless, Japanese
clients are believed to be the mainstay of the four firms'
business.
   There was talk that First Boston Corp. was among the
biggest bidders at the three-year note sale. A top trader
there confirmed that his firm was active at the auction but
he declined to be specific.
   "We had as big a bid in the three-year note auction as we
ever had" for a sale of securities with that maturity, said
John Costas, co-manager of government trading at First Boston
Corp. He said his firm's robust bidding in part reflected
strong customer demand.
   First Boston recently revamped its government trading
operations by bringing in several former top bond trading
managers from Salomon Brothers Inc. The new team is led by
William J. Voute and E. Craig Coats Jr. Mr. Coats gained a
reputation while at Salomon Brothers for often being an
aggressive bidder at Treasury auctions.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bond prices were modestly higher. The benchmark
30-year bond rose about 1/8 point, a gain of about $1.25 for
a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
   The benchmark bond was quoted late at a price of 96 16/32
to yield 8.82% compared with 96 11/32 to yield 8.84% on
Monday. The latest 10-year notes were quoted late yesterday
at a price of 97 21/32 to yield 8.84% compared with 97 19/32
to yield 8.85%.
   Short-term rates were little changed.
   In when-issued trading activity, the yield on the new
10-year notes to be auctioned today was 8.82%, down from
8.84% late Monday. The yield on new 30-year bonds, which are
scheduled to be auctioned tomorrow, was 8.80%, down from
8.82% late Monday.
   Here are details of yesterday's three-year note auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
                                                                                                       

 Applications                         $37,327,040,000
 Accepted bids                        $10,574,140,000
 Accepted at low price                            13%
 Accepted noncompetitively             $2,448,000,000
 Average price (Rate)                  99.702 (8.74%)
 High price (Rate)                     99.728 (8.73%)
 Low price (Rate)                      99.676 (8.75%)
 Interest rate                                 8 5/8%
                                                                                                       

   The notes are dated May 15 and mature May 15, 1993.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Issues
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds ended 3/8 to as much as 3/4 point higher,
with the market showing a firmer tone, buoyed in part by the
successful Treasury note sale.
   In the new-issue municipal arena, strong investor demand
prompted underwriters led by Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. to increase
the size of an issue of Denver airport system revenue bonds
to $700 million from $600 million.
   The bonds were priced to yield from 7.60% in 1995 to 8.67%
in 2023. The underwriters also restructured the deal, moving
bonds maturing in 2011 to 2012.
   Overall, more than $1 billion in new debt was priced
yesterday.
   A Chase Securities group won an issue of $185 million
Pennsylvania general obligation bonds. The bonds were priced
for re-offering to yield from 6.15% in 1991 to 7.25% in
2008-2010.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities ended 3/32 to 5/32 higher in light
dealings.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9% issue for May
delivery ended at 94 17/32, up 3/32, its 9 1/2% issue at 97
1/32, up 5/32, and its 10% issue at 99 15/32, up 5/32.
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.'s 9 1/2% issue was quoted at
96 25/32, up 4/32.
   The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 9.94% to a 12-year
average life assumption.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   A robust run-up in zero-coupon junk bonds sparked gains
across the high-yield bond spectrum, prompting speculation
that the market may be ready for a sustained rally.
   Most junk bonds, or speculative-grade securities with low
credit ratings or no credit ratings at all, advanced 1/4 to
1/2 point. The gains in the zero-coupon sector of the market
were the most striking.
   Among the star performers were zero-coupon bonds of
Hospital Corp. of America, which jumped one point to end at
65 1/2.
   Also higher were zero-coupon bonds of American Standard
Inc., Colt Industries Inc. and Fort Howard Corp. which
climbed about 1/2 point each.
   "When the zero-coupon market is up, it's encouraging,"
said Steven Shenfeld, a trader at Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp. "Whether or not there's some broader trend,
it's too early to tell."
   Still, Shenfeld says "when people buy incremental yields
and volatility, it's a positive indicator."
   Zero-coupon bonds are highly volatile and tend to surge in
market upswings and plunge in market downturns.
   In the investment-grade corporate bond market, high-grade
issues were also stronger, gaining between 1/8 to 1/4 point.
   Paul Ross, a high-yield analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc.,
said although there was strong interest in the zero-coupon
sector of the market, the buying continued to be selective.
   "There has been more active buying interest in the better
quality LBO issuers of zeros," Mr. Ross said.
   Because of their deferred interest features, zero-coupon
bonds are typically issued by leveraged buy-out junk bond
companies that seek to put off heavy interest payments during
the early years of an LBO.
   Since zero-coupon bonds are lower on a company's capital
structure and tend to be more risky, strength in zero-coupon
bonds is seen as a sign of investor confidence.
   "When you see a broad-based rally in the zero market, it's
a good indicator that the market is headed higher," said one
zero-coupon trader.
   In a research report released late last week, First Boston
Corp. said deferred interest securities like zero-coupon
bonds outperformed cash paying bonds during April.
   In addition, junior securities fared better than senior
securities last month, according to the First Boston report.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   A three-day rally in the Canadian government bond market
came to a halt as prices fell about 1/2 point in light
trading.
   "There was a bit of a retrenchment in response to
{Monday's} rally and a bit of profit taking," one trader
said. The price of Canada's benchmark 20-year bond was as
much as 2 1/8 points higher on Monday.
   Traders said prices fell yesterday due to concerns about a
Canadian government bond auction set for tomorrow. Terms and
maturities of the bonds to be auctioned are scheduled to be
announced today.
   Yesterday's declines were a disappointment for some
investors who were hoping the Canadian bond market would
continue to recover from a long depression. Although Canadian
bond prices were higher last Thursday, Friday and Monday,
prior to that brief period prices had been falling for
several months due to an escalating dispute between the
Canadian government and the province of Quebec.
   The dispute involves a proposed constitutional amendment,
known as the Meech Lake accord. It was negotiated in 1987
and, if approved, would recognize Quebec as a "distinct
society" within Canada. Many Quebec politicians say they will
seek independence from Canada if the Meech Lake accord isn't
ratified by June 23.
   Meanwhile, Ford Credit Canada issued $100 million
(Canadian) of 13 1/8% five-year Eurobonds priced at 101.70 to
yield 13.17%. The issue, which was guaranteed by Ford Motor
Credit Co., a unit of Ford Motor Co., was managed by Wood
Gundy Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900509-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900509-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Arbitration Award Is Made Under RICO
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   KMG LABOR GRA CMAFC CANDA FREST UPJ
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   An arbitration panel awarded damages under the federal
racketeering law to Kerr-McGee Refining Corp. in what was
apparently the first use of the law by arbitrators.
   The Supreme Court affirmed the right of arbitrators to
make such awards in 1987. Because damages under the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law automatically are
tripled, the Kerr-McGee award amounted to $512,520.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case involved an incident in which Kerr-McGee
Refining, a unit of Kerr-McGee Corp. of Oklahoma City, Okla.,
had chartered a tanker from Triumph Tankers Ltd. to transport
oil. The three-member arbitration panel found that in March
1984, Triumph Tankers illegally took a substantial quantity
of oil from Kerr-McGee by diverting the oil into a secret
tank in the tanker. The panel found that because Triumph had
converted cargo for its own use on previous voyages, there
was a "pattern" of unlawful activity. To win a case under the
civil portion of the RICO statute, a plaintiff must prove a
pattern of serious wrongdoing conducted through a business or
other enterprise.
   Kerr-McGee's contract with Triumph had a clause mandating
that disputes be arbitrated rather than tried by a court.
   Joseph C. Smith, a New York attorney for Triumph, declined
to comment on the case. The tanker Kerr-McGee chartered has
since been sold for scrap. John P. Vayda, a New York attorney
for Kerr-McGee, said Kerr-McGee doesn't know where Triumph is
based or whether the company is still in business.
   Mr. Vayda said he believes the arbitrators' decision will
serve as a "very large deterrent" and will show "that
arbitration shouldn't be treated lightly." But he said it's
unclear whether Kerr-McGee will be able to collect damages
from the company.
   The arbitration award that Triumph would be required to
pay is in addition to a previous partial award of $332,138
the arbitrators granted to Kerr-McGee in September 1988. The
latest award includes $368,496 in damages and $111,544 in
legal fees and out-of-pocket expenses, as well as other fees.
   In a dissenting opinion, Alexis Nichols, one of the
arbitrators, called Kerr-McGee "greedy," and warned that
"although one arbitration does not establish a precedent,
aggressive maritime attorneys, who ordinarily handle
run-of-the-mill commercial maritime disputes, will henceforth
be tempted to also plead treble damages under the civil RICO
statute, having nothing to lose and everything to gain."
   ---
   HYATT LEGAL SERVICES must pay damages in AIDS
discrimination case.
   Hyatt was ordered to pay $157,000 to a former regional
partner in Philadelphia for removing him from his job because
he has acquired immune deficiency syndrome. The amount, which
includes $50,000 in punitive damages, is believed to be the
highest award in the country in an AIDS-related employment
discrimination case, according to the Lambda Legal Defense
and Education Fund in New York, a national group that tracks
AIDS-related issues.
   In a 41-page opinion, federal Judge Raymond J. Broderick
in Philadelphia found Hyatt's conduct "not merely inexcusably
insensitive and illegal, but so outrageous that the sanction
of punitive damages is warranted."
   Hyatt is the nation's biggest provider of prepaid legal
service plans. In a prepared statement, the firm conceded
that "in retrospect" it may have mishandled the matter and
said it would not appeal. "Hyatt Legal Services believed that
its conduct . . . was a fair and honest balancing of its
responsibilities," the firm added.
   The case, involving Clarence B. Cain, 38, is not the first
to go against an employer for discriminating against an
employee with AIDS; federal courts in California and
Louisiana have made similar rulings. But it is the first to
test Pennsylvania's recently enacted Human Resources Act,
which requires employers not only to accommodate AIDS victims
in the workplace but to allow them to work at their
accustomed jobs.
   Mr. Cain, who was stricken with AIDS 1 1/2 years after
becoming Hyatt's regional manager in Philadelphia, was
offered three alternatives several days after his superiors
learned the news: a $12,000 severance package, a demotion
with a 50% pay cut to a staff position in Virginia or help
getting treatment at an experimental AIDS treatment program.
   Judge Broderick, who described Mr. Cain as a "brilliant
attorney with a promising future," wrote that he found the
choices "a corrupt assault" on Mr. Cain's dignity.
   "The court sent the message loud and clear," said Richard
J. Silverberg, Mr. Cain's attorney. "You can't {remove}
someone with AIDS who can still do his job simply because he
has contracted the disease."
   Mr. Cain currently is hospitalized in Newport News, Va.,
in serious condition.
   ---
   BEATRICE FOODS CO. prevails against appeal by families of
leukemia victims in toxic-waste suit.
   The refusal by the First U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to
grant the families a new trial appears to end what the
Boston-based court called "this long safari of a case."
   The families had sued Beatrice and W.R. Grace &amp; Co. in
1982, alleging that toxic chemicals dumped by the companies
polluted two suburban wells in Woburn, Mass., and caused
eight cases of leukemia, resulting in five deaths.
   A jury in 1986 found that Grace had been negligent in
dumping the chemicals but that Chicago-based Beatrice had not
contributed to the contamination. Before a planned second
phase of the trial, Grace settled out of court without
admitting liability.
   The families appealed the jury verdict for Beatrice, and
the case grew tangled when they later learned that Beatrice
had withheld two environmental studies conducted at the site.
They asked the judge for a new trial, arguing their case had
been damaged by Beatrice's conduct. The judge denied their
request.
   In 1988 the appeals court upheld the jury verdict in
Beatrice's favor. But the court asked the trial judge to hold
hearings on whether the new evidence regarding the
environmental studies required a new trial. The trial judge
ruled it did not, and last week the appeals court affirmed
that decision.
   The appeals court upheld the trial judge's finding that
even if the families had received the reports they still
would have been unable to prove that Beatrice disposed of the
chemicals at the site.
   "The jury has been right all along. There is no basis for
Beatrice's involvement in the case," says Jerome P. Facher,
an attorney for Beatrice.
   Jan Schlichtmann, an attorney for the families, said he
will ask the appeals court to rehear the case, arguing the
court did not address all the evidence concerning Beatrice's
misconduct.
   ---
   MARCUS SCHLOSS &amp; CO. ex-official settles insider-trading
case with SEC.
   D. Ronald Yagoda, former head of arbitrage at Marcus
Schloss, was sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission
for allegedly receiving inside information on pending stock
transactions from Andrew Solomon, a former analyst at Marcus
Schloss. Mr. Solomon was part of the so-called Yuppie Five
ring, broken up after an SEC inquiry.
   In July, a jury acquitted Mr. Yagoda of similar charges in
a criminal case brought by federal prosecutors.
   Under the SEC settlement, Mr. Yagoda, without admitting
liability, received a one-year suspension from the securities
industry, according to Stanley S. Arkin and Robert J. Hausen,
his attorneys. The settlement involves no payments by Mr.
Yagoda, they said.
   An SEC official said she couldn't comment on the matter as
no settlement has been filed with the court.
   ---
   FEDERATED LEGAL BILL shows lawyers will reap big fees in
bankruptcy case.
   The law firm for Campeau Corp.'s troubled U.S. retail
units, Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores
Corp., submitted a bill of $1.6 million for the first six
weeks of work in the matter. The bill from Jones, Day, Reavis
&amp; Pogue included $290,156 in out-of-pocket expenses.
   The total legal bill represented only 85% of the firm's
hourly billings, in addition to 100% of the out-of-pocket
expenses. The Cleveland-based law firm will get the remainder
after the bankruptcy judge in the case approves the fees.
Federated and Allied filed for bankruptcy-court protection on
Jan. 15.
   According to filings in bankruptcy court in Cincinnati,
Jones Day professionals logged 9,538 hours at an average rate
of $169 an hour. The average includes billings by law
partners, associates and paralegals. About 40 partners, 55
associates and 25 paralegals worked on the matter.
   David Heiman, the partner in charge of the matter, topped
the list, logging 371 hours at $285 an hour.
   The firm's disbursements included $85,523 in travel
expenses, $61,294 for food and lodging and $31,385 for
photocopying.
   ---
   SLEEPING PILL'S side effects are targeted in lawsuit.
   Attorneys for two people who are suing Upjohn Co. of
Kalamazoo, Mich., over the widely marketed sedative Halcion
are seeking class-action status for the lawsuit.
   Stuart Wechsler, an attorney for the plaintiffs, says he
personally suffered depression, amnesia and other side
effects after taking the drug, and was forced to take a leave
from his law firm of Wechsler Skirnick Harwood Halebian &amp;
Feffer in New York City. Mr. Wechsler isn't a plaintiff.
   The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Cincinnati, seeks
$50,000 in damages for each plaintiff. It alleges that Upjohn
failed to disclose known harmful side effects to the Food and
Drug Administration before Halcion received U.S. approval in
1982.
   Upjohn voluntarily withdrew its large-dose version of the
drug in 1987. It continues to market a smaller dose. Dr. Ted
Cooper, chairman and president of Upjohn, declined to comment
on the suit.
   ---
   STORY OF GOLD-LADEN SHIP kept Khashoggi in contact with
Marcoses, attorney says.
   James Linn, attorney for Saudi businessman Adnan
Khashoggi, said his client kept in close touch with the
Marcoses after they fled the Philippines in 1986 not because
he was part of an alleged racketeering conspiracy but because
he was promised a portion of the gold. Federal prosecutors in
the case say Mr. Khashoggi's numerous phone calls to Imelda
and the late Ferdinand Marcos in 1986 were part of an effort
to cover up the alleged racketeering.
   In his opening statement to the jury in federal court in
Manhattan, Mr. Linn said, "I'm almost hesitant to mention
this because it sounds crazy, but it's not. Mr. Marcos told
(Mr. Khashoggi) that he had a ship of gold. And President
Marcos told Mr. Khashoggi, `I'll give you 10% of this gold if
you will find a safe port for it.'" Mr. Linn said Mr. Marcos,
who was ousted in February 1986, claimed he would use the
gold to raise an army to restore him to power some day.
   "He told Mr. Khashoggi he would give him 10%, 10% of this
whole ship of gold," Mr. Linn said, "and this guy fell for
it." He said Mr. Khashoggi, who is being tried on charges of
obstruction of justice and mail fraud, regularly communicated
with the Marcoses because he wanted the gold -- which never
materialized.
   Mr. Khashoggi is being tried alongside Mrs. Marcos, who is
charged with taking more than $160 million from the
Philippines and illegally hiding the assets in investments in
the U.S.
   ---
   CANADA'S TOP JUDGE TO RETIRE: Chief Justice Brian Dickson
of the Canadian Supreme Court has decided to retire June 30.
A government spokesman in Ottawa said a successor will be
named later. Chief Justice Dickson, 73 years old, was
appointed to the Supreme Court in 1973 and named chief
justice in 1984.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   A STORY in the April 5 edition reported that W.R. Grace &amp;
Co. had been found negligent in a chemical-dumping case and
had then settled out of court. The settlement, however, was
reached only after the judge had vacated the negligence
verdict and ordered a new trial.
   (WSJ April 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
