<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   International Multifoods Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   IMC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   INTERNATIONAL MULTIFOODS Corp. (Minneapolis) -- Robert F.
Maddocks, formerly senior vice president, human resources,
for the U.S. food division of Beatrice Cos., was named vice
president, human resources. He succeeds Jerauld N. Mattson,
who was named vice president, human resources, for the
company's frozen specialty foods division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   AM International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   AM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AM INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Chicago) -- The company said it
merged its AM Multigraphics and international divisions under
the AM Multigraphics title and named George H. Gilmore Jr.
president of the new unit. Mr. Gilmore, 40 years old, headed
the international division and is a former president of Mitel
Inc. The graphics-equipment concern said Gerald J. McConnell,
47, vice president and head of the former AM Multigraphics
unit, resigned from the company to pursue other interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Songs We Never Sang
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<LP>
   I was caught off-guard by Dave Shiflett's March 20 Leisure
&amp; Arts review, "Flame-Broiled Marxist." Near the end of his
article Mr. Shiflett mentions a chorale from the SS Hymnal.
   As one partial to supply-side economics, I would hate to
see the SS acronym catch on. However, there is a fair degree
of black humor in the phrase "SS Hymnal." Maybe you could
nominate it for "Oxymoron of the Year."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arthur J. Keegan
   Vice President
   HBO &amp; Co.
   Atlanta
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Paramount Communications Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PARAMOUNT COMMUNICATIONS Inc. (New York) -- Peter D. Nalle
was appointed president of the Professional Information
Group, a unit of Simon &amp; Schuster, the publishing arm of this
communications concern. He assumes responsibilities
previously held by Jonathan Newcomb, 43 years old, who
continues as an executive vice president of the parent. Mr.
Nalle, 42, previously was president and chief executive
officer of J.B. Lippincott, the health-care publishing unit
of Harper &amp; Row.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PepsiCo Signs a 10-Year Trade Accord
   With Moscow That Includes Soviet Ships
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   PepsiCo Inc. said it signed a new trade agreement that
will more than double its sales in the Soviet Union during
the next 10 years.
   The agreement gives Pepsi a chance to expand its lead
against Coca-Cola Co. in the coveted and underdeveloped
Soviet market. On a per-capita basis, the Soviets drink about
one-tenth as much soft drinks as their U.S. counterparts.
Although Coca-Cola outsells Pepsi world-wide more than
2-to-1, Pepsi has the lead in certain key markets, notably
the Soviet Union and India.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pepsi, whose 18-year-old countertrade agreement in the
Soviet Union has involved trading Pepsi-Cola concentrate for
Stolichnaya Russian vodka, called the new agreement the
largest trade pact between a U.S. company and the Soviet
Union. In Moscow, retired Pepsi Chairman Donald M. Kendall,
the architect of Pepsi's Soviet business during the past
three decades, said the Purchase, N.Y., company would spend
more than $1 billion to upgrade and expand bottling plants
and to provide concentrate, among other things.
   The new accord, first reported in the New York Times,
continues the vodka-concentrate trades. Moreover, Pepsi will
help the Soviets sell or lease 10 commercial ships in
international markets. The ships will provide Pepsi with
foreign exchange credits, part of which will be used to open
the first Pizza Hut restaurants in Moscow later this year.
Pepsi owns the Pizza Hut chain.
   Such exotic countertrade measures are necessary for
companies doing business in countries, such as the Soviet
Union, that don't have hard currency. In China, for example,
Pepsi trades its soft drinks for Chinese mushrooms, which, in
turn, end up on Pizza Hut pizzas.
   But countertrades have had a checkered history in the
Soviet Union. Perhaps one of the most notable examples
involves Occidental Petroleum Corp. and a purported $20
billion, 20-year exchange of fertilizer chemicals with the
Soviets. By all indications, the agreement, signed in the
1970s, has fallen well short of initial projections.
   Occidental says contract shipments "have been running
smoothly" but declines to disclose revenue from the trade.
According to the company's annual report, only 60% of
fertilizer-chemical capacity built to serve the Soviet trade
is actually being used for that purpose.
   Pepsi, which has marketed soft drinks in the Soviet Union
since 1972, said it sold about 40 million cases there last
year. Pepsi-Cola was the first Western consumer product sold
in the Soviet Union. Coke, which has sold its Fanta brand
there since 1979 and its Coca-Cola brand only since 1985,
said its volume was less than 20 million cases in 1989.
   Beyond the soft-drink volume to be generated, Pepsi's new
agreement gives the company a critical asset in its
dark-horse campaign to catch Coke overseas in the soft-drink
business: bragging rights. Historically, Pepsi has motivated
its overseas bottlers, sometimes beleaguered by the
overwhelming strength of Coke, by pointing boastfully to big
markets where Pepsi leads its Atlanta-based rival. "So much
of this business," said Jesse Meyers, publisher of the trade
magazine Beverage Digest, "is motivation."
   Under the Soviet accord, Pepsi said it will more than
double the number of its plants to 50 from 24. The cost of
the new plants will be paid off mostly with proceeds from the
vodka sales, Pepsi said. The accord also extends for 10 years
Pepsi's exclusive rights to provide Russian vodka to the U.S.
   Pepsi said the agreement would provide the equivalent of
more than $3 billion in retail sales of Pepsi-Cola and
Stolichnaya vodka over 10 years. However, a spokesman
wouldn't estimate how much sales would actually end up on
Pepsi's books.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Pepsi closed at $66.50, up $1.50.
   ---
   Frederick Rose in Los Angeles contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Going Gently on Gorbachev
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   George Bush's warning to Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze against the use of force in Lithuania was both
diplomatic and ambiguous -- a bit too much of both. It
stressed the importance of the U.S.-Soviet relationship to
the U.S. It could have laid more emphasis on the importance
of U.S. friendship to a foundering Soviet Union.
   The President explained that U.S. relations with the
U.S.S.R. affect the lives of people all over the world. No
one quarrels with that. He cited arms control, human rights,
the exodus of Soviet Jews and regional questions. "I want to
keep that going." So, on Lithuania, "we're not dictating, or
attempting to -- couldn't do that anyway -- but we're saying
we want it to be peaceful."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To be sure, subtle diplomacy often is more effective than
the public loudspeaker. The administration also has a point
in wanting to treat the Lithuanian secession carefully so as
to not endanger the chances for a Soviet-Lithuanian accord.
But the U.S. has publicly favored Lithuanian
self-determination. It doesn't necessarily further that cause
by merely warning the Soviets against the "use of force."
   One might argue that the Soviets already are using force,
having beefed up army and KGB forces in Lithuania and having
stormed several key buildings. Moscow also is sealing
Lithuanian borders to make it difficult for the outside world
to know whether or not force is being used. It isn't
necessary to employ a lot of force. The Lithuanians have
little choice but to behave peacefully, at least for the time
being. The Russians have most of the weapons.
   Surely Lithuanian independence is worth a more vigorous
U.S. defense. The U.S. never recognized the legitimacy of
Stalin's 1940 rape of the Baltic states. So what is it
prepared to do about it now that the issue has come to a
head? Are there more important issues in the world than the
right of self-determination?
   Indeed, that is what is fundamentally involved in several
of those other sensitive U.S.-Soviet issues President Bush
cited, such as Soviet backing for oppressive regional
regimes, the emigration demands of Soviet Jews and, for that
matter, the entire human rights panoply. If the U.S. is going
to walk on eggs in defending self-determination for the
Baltic peoples, in what way does that further its moral
position in dealing with the other issues?
   But, goes the counterargument, look at how the Soviets are
so forthcoming elsewhere. Didn't Mr. Shevardnadze say in
Washington that the Soviets would not insist on a "neutral"
Germany after unification?
   First of all, the Soviets are no more eager than the West
to have a unified Germany that is unattached to any alliance.
They want a Germany with strings and Mr. Shevardnadze didn't
say that none of those strings would be Soviet. He did not
concede to West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's insistence
that Germany will be a part of NATO. The Soviets are hardly
in a position to get tough with Germany. As they try to save
their economy by drawing trade and investment from the West,
they need Germany as badly as they need the U.S. But neither
are they playing dead.
   There also is the well-worn argument that Mr. Gorbachev
must be treated kindly because his own position is precarious
and he might be superseded by a Soviet hard-liner. One could
rephrase that and give it some validity. It is true that Mr.
Gorbachev is a skillful politician and the world is safer
having a skillful rather than a clumsy politician in his
chair. But there is little basis for the notion that the West
has to prop up Mr. Gorbachev by offering him concessions. No
Russian czars have had more power than he now commands.
   The West should assert its most valued principles and let
Mr. Gorbachev deal with his domestic politics. That requires
an understanding that Mr. Gorbachev will give only what he
has to give. He won't give self-determination unless there is
significant pressure from the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   On Sports: Another Green Jacket for Faldo
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   Augusta, Ga. -- It was deja vu all over again at the
Masters golf tournament Sunday. Nick Faldo, the
matter-of-fact Britisher, rallied to win on the second extra
hole of a sudden-death playoff, just like he did last year.
Also like last year, a Yank had the winner's green jacket
almost on his shoulders, only to let it slip off. Darn
polyester has a way of doing that.
   Yeah, there were differences. The weather was terrible
last year and perfectly gorgeous this year. Last year's
victim was youngster Scott Hoch, who missed a short putt on
the first extra hole to allow Faldo's eventual winning putt,
while this time it was 47-year-old Ray Floyd, who had given
hope to an athletically disadvantaged group -- the
middle-aged -- before plunking a seven-iron shot into the
pond in front of the green on the finale, the par-four,
455-yard 11th.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Faldo said that remembrances of things past were much with
him at playoff time. "I hit into the same bunker on 10 {the
first extra hole} that I did last time, and once again saved
with a par. On 11, I recalled last year and thought, `Maybe
this will be my hole again.' And it was."
   Floyd, the 1976 winner, began the day two shots up on
Masters rookie John Huston and three up on Faldo. He led the
tall, 32-year-old native of Surrey, England, by four shots
with just six holes to go, but gave in to gloomier thoughts
once the outcome was clear. "It was devastating. I never felt
like that before, ever," he said. "At this stage in my
career, I have to wonder how many more chances I'll have."
   This was the third Masters in four years to go to a
playoff, and the third straight to be won by a Brit, Scotsman
Sandy Lyle having prevailed in 1988. Faldo's repeat victory
was only the second in the tournament's history, following
Jack Nicklaus's in 1965 and '66.
   Faldo now has collected three firsts in golf's "majors" --
the other being the 1987 British Open at Muirfield in
Scotland -- and while post-tourney talk about him being the
sport's new No. 1 was inconclusive, he got what sounded like
a vote from Nicklaus, an ex-rex. "He hits the ball at the
flag every shot, and he's always straight -- always right
there. That's tough to beat," said Jack, a sixth-place
finisher Sunday.
   The champ himself had a few remarks on the subject. "They
say you have to grind it out in the majors, but I don't think
that's the right word," said he. "You have to be patient,
keep playing, keep trying to do something right. And it's
blooming nerve-wracking, you know. Lucky there's {drinking}
water on every hole."
   As Masters go, this was a good one on a number of grounds.
Augusta National's crowds are made up mostly of middle-aged
or early-elderly longtime ticket holders who cherish the
familiar. The tourney delivered plenty of that, with four
former titlists (Nicklaus, Floyd, Faldo and German Bernhard
Langer) among the six players who began the final day in
contention.
   The galleryites love a mano-a-mano, and they had it in
Faldo and Floyd, whose 72-hole scores of 278, 10 under par,
were five strokes better than anyone else's. They love a late
charge, and Faldo provided it with his three birdies on the
last six holes that forced overtime.
   If the fans could have voted, the 50-year-old Nicklaus,
whose record six green jackets are enough to open a
haberdashery, would have won, and the weathered Floyd, from
nearby North Carolina (Go Tarheels]), in his 26th visit here,
would have been second. But even so, their showings cheered
the long-in-tooth.
   "No reason someone over 50 couldn't win a major if he
keeps himself in shape," asserted muscular Gary Player, 54, a
three-time former champ here whose 291 was good for 24th
place. Noted Floyd on Saturday night after his second
straight 68 gave him the third-round lead: "We {golfers}
don't have to run, tackle or hit. Golf's much more of a
mental game."
   Ironically, Floyd confessed after his Sunday round that a
mental factor -- his approach toward having a large lead --
contributed to his failure to become the event's oldest
winner. "When nobody ran at me early today, that dictated
play, because I started playing for pars," he said. "On the
{par-five} 13th and 15th holes, I didn't go for the greens on
two like I might have. I don't know if I did it purposely --
it's a natural thing to do in the situation. But I did it,
and it cost me."
   Floyd's last-day score of 72 was even par, but not dull.
He took a Cook's Tour of the course, visiting trees, traps
and other out-of-the-way places. His short game -- his forte
all week -- kept him competitive. He one-putted six times,
five for pars, and might have won if a birdie putt from the
fringe on the 405-yard 14th hadn't hit playing-partner
Huston's ball marker and veered away. Floyd's sole three-putt
green came after a pulled nine-iron left him 50 rollercoaster
feet from the pin on 17, and it cost him his lead.
   Faldo was even-par through 12 holes, at which point his
deficit had grown to four. But he said a par three he made on
that hole from a difficult sandtrap lie started his rally. He
birdied 13 and 15, which Floyd cautiously parred behind him,
and the par-three 16th on an uphill putt he guessed was 12
feet long but looked more like 20. Pars on 17 and 18 gave him
a 69 for the day.
   Floyd hit a lovely iron shot to 15 feet of the flag on the
first extra hole. He putted for the tourney but came up
short. Then came his pulled seven-iron shot on 11. "My first
thought was, `Don't go follow him in {the water},'" Faldo
said. "But once I hit mine, I knew I had it."
   Huston, a 28-year-old Floridian, qualified for the Masters
by winning his first tour event last month. He dropped six
strokes to par through 10 holes Sunday, but birdied 15, 16
and 17 to finish third at 283.
   Nicklaus began the day five back and wound up seven in
arrears. Still, he said his back felt good for the first time
in years, and was peppy even in defeat. "Can't hang around;
got to get ready for the next seniors event," said the man
who once denigrated that form. But he sounded like he had
other, grander goals. Again.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   U.S. Computer Maker Takes on NEC on Its Own Turf
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KWS INTC J.SRP NIPNY ASTA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   A small U.S. computer maker plans to turn the tables on
NEC Corp. by cloning the giant Tokyo company's most popular
personal computer and selling it to the computer-hungry
Japanese, at lower prices. AST Research Inc. plans to unveil
tomorrow in Tokyo a computer that mimics NEC's PC-9801, a
machine that has captured more than half of Japan's
personal-computer market, which is the world's second
largest, after the U.S.
   The Irvine, Calif., company's move is radical, and risky,
because it centers on a product that is made purely for the
Japanese market and so won't be sold in the U.S. While many
Japanese companies take that tactic -- NEC and others peddle
personal computers in the U.S. that they don't sell at home
-- no foreign company has so directly assaulted NEC's
near-monopoly of the Japanese market. NEC's machines have
become de facto standards in Japan's booming
business-computer market, much as International Business
Machines Corp.'s personal-computer architecture is a de facto
standard in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The AST machine also could become a test of how open the
Japanese market really is for competitive U.S. products.
Japanese trade officials often complain that U.S. companies,
including computer makers, don't make products that match
Japanese shoppers' buying patterns. Among U.S. computer
manufacturers, only IBM has managed to garner even a fraction
of the Japanese personal-computer market. Apple Computer
Inc., which sells a Japanese-language version of its
Macintosh computer, has only a minuscule share. NEC software
won't run on either of those company's machines.
   A U.S. Commerce Department official will accompany AST at
the unveiling to show official support, says Joan McEntee,
deputy undersecretary for export at the department. Commerce
Secretary Robert Mosbacher "feels very strongly that it's a
good example of a product meeting the Japanese on their own
ground," she says. "It's a good test of the supposed new
openness of the Japanese market."
   AST says it has consulted with NEC about its cloning plans
and that NEC isn't opposed to the new competitor entering its
turf. AST expressed confidence that patent questions won't
arise.
   An NEC spokeswoman in Tokyo said, "We do know AST is going
to make an announcement, but we're not too sure what kind of
machine it will be." She added, "I don't think we would
comment on other companies' strategies."
   Only one company, Japan's Seiko Epson Corp., has cloned
the NEC machine. While unabashed about copying U.S. computer
technology, the Japanese have politely shied away from
mimicking each others', leaving a rare, nearly uncontested
Japanese market.
   "It's one of those huge, untapped markets for aggressive
overseas companies," says Safi Qureshey, AST's president and
chief executive officer.
   Copying another bit of Japan's export strategy, AST plans
to undercut NEC's pricing while offering more features. And
in an unusual reversal, it will offer the machine for sale
under Japanese brand names, much as Japanese TV makers sell
sets to U.S. vendors for sale under American labels. AST says
it is negotiating with several concerns, including
consumer-electronics giant Sharp Corp., that are interested
in selling the machine.
   The new AST machine, called the AST Dual SX/16, will run
the thousands of software packages written for the NEC
computer as well as programs written for the IBM personal
computer. The machine uses Intel Corp.'s 80386SX
microprocessor, a set of chips made by Japan's Kawasaki Steel
Corp. and some internal software written by a small Japanese
company named Tomcat Computer Corp.
   The move comes from a scrappy company that has been
pushing heavily overseas as the U.S. personal-computer market
grows more crowded. AST runs Russian-language advertisements
in the Soviet Union and pushes overseas sales in India and
other foreign markets that are largely ignored by many U.S.
personal-computer companies. AST, with sales of $456.6
million in the year ended June 30, 1989, expects the Japanese
machine to become a major revenue contributor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Unfair Use: Copyright Decision Cramps Writers' Style
   ----
   By Amy Gamerman
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   Bruce Perry has tacked a drawing of a fox caught in a trap
over his desk. It's a grim joke on his work of the past 20
years, an unauthorized biography of Malcolm X that draws on
newly discovered letters written by the black-power activist.
Just as Mr. Perry was preparing to publish his book, a new
judicial interpretation of the copyright law came down -- and
now none of the letters can be used.
   "I'm in the process of emasculating parts of my own book,"
Mr. Perry said. "I heard a terrible story about how an animal
caught in a trap chews off his leg to save his own life.
That's what I'm doing here."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The letters -- including Malcolm X's correspondence to an
unknown first love -- were a cornerstone of Mr. Perry's book.
But thanks to a series of rulings that have made it legally
dangerous to quote even the smallest amounts of unpublished
material without the copyright owner's consent, Mr. Perry
could see his book barred from publication by Malcolm X's
estate if even a trace of the letters remain.
   Mr. Perry, like every other author or journalist, now must
operate within a highly restricted new definition of the
doctrine of fair use. The Supreme Court started the
juggernaut rolling in 1985, by ruling that the Nation had
overstepped fair-use protections when it printed excerpts
from a stolen copy of Gerald Ford's yet-unpublished memoirs,
on the grounds that first publication is the writer's
prerogative. In 1986, J.D. Salinger sued to block publication
of a biography that quoted from his unpublished letters.
Finding that the market value of Mr. Salinger's letters was
at stake, the court ordered the quotations expunged and even
barred close paraphrases.
   Then, last April, New Era Publications International, a
Danish press affiliated with the Church of Scientology, tried
to stop Henry Holt &amp; Co. from publishing a book that used
excerpts from L. Ron Hubbard's private diary and letters.
Although New Era filed too late to have the book stopped, the
U.S. Second Circuit Court agreed that the book could hurt the
market value of any future authorized biography.
Subsequently, four members of the court went still further,
stating that there could be virtually no unauthorized use of
unpublished material -- "even if the work is a matter of . .
. high public concern." The Supreme Court refused to rehear
the case in February, dashing many publishers' and writers'
hopes for a reversal.
   "I think {the decision} has universal ramifications for
scholarship," said Sanford Thatcher, director of Penn State
Press, who tracks copyright issues for the Association of
American University Presses. "As these cases develop, these
trustees will see they have power more and more, and can call
for high fees or deny permission altogether, and that's going
to stop scholarship in its tracks."
   Of course, not everyone sees it that way. The people who
wrote the letters, diaries or notebooks -- not to mention
their spouses and heirs -- sometimes fail to understand why
other writers should be able to exploit them for personal
gain, or why the public's right to know should take
precedence over their privacy and property rights.
   "The copyright law says you can't protect Mr. Hubbard's
ideas or facts about him, but you really can protect his
creative expression," said Michael Lee Hertzberg, lawyer for
New Era, "that's one thing that Mr. Hubbard and any writer
really is entitled to."
   But publishers and many writers charge that the court's
rulings have effectively transformed the copyright law into a
more powerful weapon than ever for public figures and their
estates desiring to control or even thwart books they'd
rather not see written. In many cases, the documents in
question are on open and sometimes unrestricted deposit at
university libraries and archives.
   Now writers such as Mr. Perry, who does not have the
copyright owner's cooperation, find themselves caught in a
Catch-22 in which even requesting permission can expose them
to legal action. Trade publishers are turning the job of
editing critical biographies and other high-risk books over
to their legal departments, where unauthorized quotations
either are purged or drastically reduced.
   "You start looking at very practical factors -- like what
would be the likely plaintiff's means of suing us and the
author," said Amy Jenkins, associate counsel for Warner
Publishing Inc., which now is being sued by Richard Wright's
widow over a published biography that quotes from six
unpublished letters. Doubly cautious, Warner has even begun
to require that all writers provide taped or written
permission for interview excerpts, on the theory that a taped
or transcribed conversation also is subject to copyright.
   Academic presses, with their shallower pockets, aren't so
gun-shy yet. "I don't think we've got anywhere near as much
at stake," said Walter Lippincott, director of Princeton
University Press. "With most academic books we are printing
1,500 or fewer copies, and at that level nobody really cares
. . . the books we publish get such little attention on the
most part."
   But that wasn't the case at the University of Tennessee
Press back in 1986, when director Carol Orr decided not to
publish Victor Kramer's critical selection of James Agee's
early work after Mary Newman, trustee of the Agee estate,
objected to his use of unpublished, "second-rate" writings
that had been acquired by the University of Texas in 1964.
Although Mr. Kramer had received formal permission from a
previous trustee, Ms. Orr decided to shelve the book, the
product of 20 years of research, rather than risk a lawsuit.
   "I'm not entirely in disagreement with the author and the
author's heirs when they say they have a right to control the
material and how it's used," Ms. Orr said. "If it weren't an
important principle, then all kinds of unscrupulous people
could use the material for their purposes."
   Ms. Newman's attorney, Mark Budwig, maintains that Mr.
Kramer wants to reprint so much of Mr. Agee's work that he
has gone beyond fair use as it was defined even before the
Hubbard case. However, Martha Pearson, one of Mr. Kramer's
three lawyers, said efforts to compromise on the length of
the excerpts have led nowhere. The Hubbard decision may prove
to be a "major factor," she said, in the legal battle over
publication.
   Fearful of Mr. Kramer's fate, many writers are
deliberately censoring their most original material, and
trimming the scope of their work accordingly. Linda
Wagner-Martin's literary biography of Sylvia Plath became
"just a biography," she says, when Plath's estate insisted
that massive amounts of published and unpublished writings be
removed. James Reston Jr. thought he had hit pay dirt when he
discovered letters between John Connally and Lyndon B.
Johnson, but he used only the tiniest excerpts in his
biography of Connally rather than risk an injunction. Without
this original material, and with close paraphrasing
off-limits too, a book can lose its immediacy and force.
   "In one letter, he says `I died inside,'" Mr. Perry said,
quoting Malcolm X. "Now how do I paraphrase that in such a
way to convey that pain, without getting sued?"
   Since the Supreme Court showed no sympathy in this regard,
publishers, writers and academics gathered in Washington last
month to lobby Congress. In response to them, Rep. Robert
Kastenmeier and Sen. Paul Simon both have introduced bills to
eliminate the distinction between published and unpublished
works where fair use of quotations is concerned.
   Nevertheless, the Second Circuit Court may undermine even
this effort at mitigating its previous decisions. This month,
the court will consider whether to uphold a ruling in favor
of New Era Publications, which managed to enjoin another book
about Mr. Hubbard -- this time, by challenging the author's
use of the Scientology founder's published writings. Perhaps
it's time for someone to start writing the biographies of the
judges of the Second Circuit Court. Their attacks on fair use
certainly have made them fair game for the muckraking
scholarship still legal in this country.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amex Seat Sells for $145,000
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The American Stock Exchange said a seat was
sold for $145,000 yesterday, down $1,000 from the previous
sale earlier in the day.
   Seats are currently quoted at $140,000 bid, $151,000
asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alamco Expects to Record Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AXO
</CO>
<LP>
   CLARKSBURG, W.Va. -- Alamco Inc. said it expects to record
a second-quarter after-tax gain of about $1.4 million, or 56
cents a share.
   The extraordinary gain is from the prepayment of a note to
a trade vendor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The producer of oil and natural gas reported net income of
$436,000, or two cents a share, for the year-earlier second
quarter. That figure includes a tax credit of $194,000, or
one cent a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   We'll Work Wonders
   In Land of Miracles
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   It is difficult to reconcile George Melloan's pessimistic
view of Israel's economy (Global View, op-ed, March 5) with
the fact that 150 U.S. companies are successfully operating
facilities in Israel. While the Israeli government does
impose certain controls -- as do most countries -- the fact
remains that U.S. companies are manufacturing
state-of-the-art products in Israel.
   Intel (California) has invested $100 million in a
high-tech factory in Jerusalem. It will now add an additional
$80 million investment that will enable it to export more
than $100 million from Israel annually.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Motorola (Illinois) operates five facilities in Israel
with exports also exceeding $100 million. National
Semiconductor (California) recently announced that it will
add $50 million to its Israeli investment.
   Vishay (Pennsylvania) has operated two factories in Israel
and will now add a third. Its additional investment will be
$60 million. The Limited, one of the world's largest
retailers of women's fashions, announced that it will
increase its investments in Israel. Its four plants currently
employ more than 750 workers. It forecast exports of $50
million for 1990.
   Some of the bureaucracy that exists in Israel is due to
the fact that the government provides grants up to 39% of a
foreign corporation's investment. In addition, the government
provides export insurance, tax-free holidays, etc.
   American companies understand how to live within an
economy that is slowly showing signs of improvement. Israel
is moving toward a freer economy. It is putting up for sale
24 government-owned companies according to a plan designed by
First Boston Corp.
   It will not be an easy task for Israel to absorb large
numbers of Russian immigrants, but Israel -- the land of
miracles -- will do as it has done in the past -- rise to the
occasion. Israelis will not let this historic opportunity
grind to a halt for lack of providing jobs to Soviet Jews
emigrating to Israel.
   Elmer L. Winter
   Chairman
   Committee for Economic Growth of Israel
   Milwaukee
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Volvo, Drumming Up Holder Support
   For Renault Alliance, Sees Cost Savings
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   VOLVY F.RNA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- AB Volvo of Sweden said its proposed
strategic alliance with France's Renault S.A. would have
boosted 1989 pretax profit by 306 million Swedish kronor ($50
million), or 4.4%, had it been in effect last year.
   In a memorandum detailing the planned alliance for
shareholders, Volvo said it expects to reap average annual
cost savings of 800 million kronor between the second and
fifth years the Renault partnership is in force. Those gains
would soar to two billion kronor a year by the time full
effects of the cooperation are achieved by years eight to 10
-- about 1999, the Swedish auto maker said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bullish analysis is part of a hard sell Volvo is
giving the proposed Renault partnership to quell complaints
by several big shareholders. The transaction requires
approval by shareholders at Volvo's annual meeting on April
25.
   Initial reactions to the Volvo-Renault association were
generally favorable when it was unveiled in February. But
questions have surfaced following recent comments from
Renault officials ruling out certain areas of potential
cooperation, such as joint development of heavy truck models
or engines, that promised big payoffs.
   "If that's the case, there's very little sense in their
getting together," said Philip Ayton, auto analyst for London
securities firm Barclays de Zoete Wedd. "The alliance is a
way of solving some of the problems Volvo is facing. But as
it stands it's too woolly to have even much medium-term
impact."
   The annual two billion kronor cost reductions projected by
Volvo would be evenly divided between trucks, buses and cars.
The Swedish concern estimated that within five to 10 years
(using current truck and bus operations as a base) shared
production, purchasing and product development with Renault
would trim costs 6% to 8% each year. On the car side,
cooperating with Renault would enable Volvo to cut costs by
up to 5% by the late 1990s. Volvo said there is also
potential for significant short-term cost savings, although
it didn't quantify them.
   A company spokesman said the cost cuts would generate
bigger profit increases at the truck and bus division than
cars. "The reason is that you have more obvious synergies on
the truck side," he said. "And you can go further in
cooperating without endangering each company's trademark
image in trucks than cars."
   It took Volvo and Renault more than a year of negotiations
to agree to their test marriage. Stopping short of an
outright merger, the two big auto concerns outlined a plan
leaving them legally independent but closely tied in
practice.
   Under the pact, the companies swap 45% minority stakes in
their respective truck and bus units. Volvo would also
acquire 20% of the parent Renault, which includes the French
concern's auto operations, with an option to raise the stake
to 25% within three years.
   Renault, in turn, is to buy 25% of Volvo's car division.
The French concern also agreed to gradually accumulate a
voting stake of up to 10% in the parent Volvo concern through
open market purchases.
   The net financial effect of the transactions call for
Volvo to pay Renault 7.9 billion kronor. (The figure would
jump to 12.5 billion kronor if Volvo exercises its option to
buy an additional 5% of the Renault parent concern.)
   Repeating earlier arguments, Volvo cited overcapacity and
competition, exacerbated by stringent environmental
regulation and a faster pace of product development, as
reasons it must increase output of both cars and trucks to
stay afloat in increasingly cutthroat European car markets.
The Renault alliance would allow Volvo "to retain its
independence while simultaneously strengthening its
competitiveness," the Swedish concern said.
   Not everybody agrees. Mats Guldbrand, head equity fund
manager at pension fund SPP of Stockholm, a big Volvo
shareholder, said he's "still skeptical about the deal." One
reason is that he remains uncertain about the price Volvo is
paying for Renault, which he calls a "difficult company to
value" in its present form.
   But he frets even more about potential flaws in an
alliance of independent companies, especially a case such as
this one, where a full merger apparently was thwarted because
neither partner would cede control. Citing a recent meeting
with big shareholders where Volvo Chairman Pehr Gyllenhammar
repeated a litany of points on which he wouldn't consider
concessions to Renault, Mr. Guldbrand said: "That approach
isn't going to help cooperation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   U.S. Agency
   Plans to Speed
   Sales of Thrifts
   ---
   Resolution Trust Is Seeking
   To Sell 140 in 90 Days
   Under New Guidelines
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Resolution Trust Corp., the
savings-and-loan bailout agency that has been bogged down for
months, is promising to sell insolvent S&amp;Ls at a blistering
pace under a new plan to unload the thrifts in smaller
pieces.
   The agency has sold 52 thrifts since it was created eight
months ago. But it now plans to sell or liquidate 140 in the
next 90 days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Agency officials say they can cut through bureaucratic red
tape by using broad new guidelines that give buyers more
flexibility to decide which S&amp;L investments to take over. The
new policy will allow buyers to bid solely on the "core"
institution -- consisting of a thrift's deposits and
securities holdings.
   The bidder may also bid separately on the S&amp;Ls' riskier
investments, or it may eschew those bad assets altogether.
Those assets would remain with the government for later sale.
The plan also gives the buyers up to 18 months, instead of
the current six, to decide which assets to keep and which to
give back to the thrift agency.
   "I think what they are doing is smart," says Clay Lebhar,
managing director of the financial institutions group of
Prudential-Bache Capital Funding. "All things considered, it
should increase the appetite for these troubled institutions.
It's a plus to the process."
   By isolating the bad assets, potential buyers won't have
to spend so much time and money on examining the thrifts
before making a bid. Industry executives believe that will
broaden the field of bidders, and the thrift agency says it
could halve the time and manpower required for buyers to
analyze the thrifts.
   For example, NCNB Corp. of Charlotte, N.C., dispatched a
few dozen executives to University Savings Association in
Houston, a $2.8 billion thrift saddled with bad real estate
loans and a liquidity crunch. The team spent more than a week
reviewing loan files, computer systems, and the branch
network before compiling its bid and acquiring the thrift.
NCNB was one of just four bidders, because few others were
willing to commit such manpower and money to an analysis,
which might not lead to a winning bid. Other buyers have said
such analysis of a large institution might require six
months.
   Frank Gentry, senior vice president of corporate strategy
and planning of NCNB, says the bank, on the prowl for other
thrifts, could face more competition. "I think you are going
to see more bidding because of" the new policy, he said. "The
RTC has learned from its bidding so far."
   So far, sales by the thrift agency have ultimately left
the government holding almost all the bad assets of the
thrifts it sells, and the new strategy won't reduce that
liability at all. But some analysts believe the agency may
wring more value from selling the core of the S&amp;L franchises
quickly, before they diminish in value by languishing in
government hands for months.
   "They are trying to save the women and children at least,"
says Karen Shaw of the Institute for Strategy Development, a
Washington research firm.
   Moreover, the thrift agency just announced it will permit
banks buying S&amp;Ls to retain the thrifts' branch networks,
even if some state laws impose limitations on banks' buying
of branches. The agency contends it has the authority under
the S&amp;L bailout and restructuring law passed last year. Such
a policy could attract more banks to the sick S&amp;Ls.
   A wave of swift sales would be a huge shot in the arm for
the agency, which has been thwarted by funding problems,
political fights, and most important, a lack of buyers. Just
yesterday, the White House acknowledged that the bailout plan
is likely to cost far more than its original $166 billion
estimate over 10 years, but didn't specify how much more. The
General Accounting Office currently puts that figure at $243
billion.
   Most recently, the bailout was on hold because of
confusion over a court ruling that the nation's top thrift
regulator hadn't been appointed to his post constitutionally.
That ruling was effectively nullified when the Senate last
week confirmed Timothy Ryan as director for the Office of
Thrift Supervision. Mr. Ryan was sworn in yesterday. A
spokesman for the agency says several sales that were in the
pipeline before the court ruling may be announced this week.
   The agency, he said, has also begun marketing 87
institutions -- those not targeted for liquidation -- in
earnest. It sent to 1,000 prospective thrift buyers
information about the thrifts, which include CenTrust Bank in
Miami, where losses may exceed $2 billion, and 10 other
failed thrifts with assets over $500 million.
   It will hold seminars this month in Houston and Dallas
outlining how to bid for the S&amp;Ls or their assets. The RTC
also recently entered into an agreement with the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. to borrow whatever manpower is needed
for the 50 or so liquidations that are planned.
   "It may be ambitious, but we are hopeful that we can meet
these goals," says Sherwin Koopmans, who heads the marketing
effort for the thrift agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   CBS Inc. Cancels `The Pat Sajak Show'
   Following 14 Months of Poor Ratings
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS CCB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- CBS Inc. canceled "The Pat Sajak Show," its
first full-throttle effort into the lucrative late-night
arena in two decades. The talk show's failure is a major
disappointment for CBS's television network, which will
finish third in prime-time ratings for the third consecutive
year.
   Last year, the three major networks earned combined
advertising revenue of more than $430 million in the
late-night period, which begins at 11:30 p.m.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cancellation of the show, after 14 months of bad
ratings, was expected. Mr. Sajak, the show's host -- who was
called affable, yet dull by TV critics -- won't be out of
work; he recently renewed his contract to continue as the
host of "Wheel of Fortune," the No. 1-rated game show
produced by King World Productions.
   CBS is working on various late-night projects, including
two 15-minute shows being developed by Norman Lear, the
producer behind such past CBS hits as "All in the Family,"
"Maude" and "One Day at a Time." But it has the daunting task
of coming up with at least two hours of new programming for
the period beginning at 11:30 p.m. And CBS faces the
unenviable chore of once again trying to persuade its
200-plus stations to broadcast a network-supplied show.
   Currently, CBS programs one-hour action/adventure shows,
such as "The Prisoner," after the Sajak show. But the network
wanted to program youth-oriented, comedy-oriented shows at
12:30 p.m. to run opposite "Late Night with David Letterman"
on NBC. Rod Perth, vice president of late-night programming,
said the network is developing other shows. Also, Michael
Wiseman, executive producer of the Sajak show, will remain
with CBS's late-night development planning.
   For the time being, some affiliates said that they
wouldn't air shows offered by CBS until the network announces
its plans for next fall. "I have my own reruns of old network
shows," said Cullie M. Tarleton, senior vice president of
WBTV, the CBS affiliate in Charlotte, N.C. "I'll program that
time period myself and keep all the advertising revenue,
instead of splitting it with the network."
   Mr. Sajak's final CBS broadcast was last Thursday and
substitute hosts will be used until the final show on Friday.
A CBS spokeswoman said that beginning next week, the network
will program reruns of shows, such as "Wiseguy," until its
new plans are finalized.
   Mr. Sajak was out of the country yesterday and couldn't be
reached for comment.
   The show also competed against "The Arsenio Hall Show,"
which critics considered far hipper and which is sold
directly to TV stations by Paramount Television, a unit of
Paramount Communications Inc.
   Since the Sajak show premiered in January 1989, it
underwent numerous changes. CBS cut it to one hour from 90
minutes and altered its format so it would look less like a
clone of "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson" on NBC, a
unit of General Electric Co.
   But none of the changes helped. Last week, the show was
viewed by only 2.3% of the available audience, compared with
5.9% tuned to Mr. Carson, according to the A.C. Nielsen Co.
   CBS had hoped that Mr. Sajak, whose two-year contract
expires this summer, would be an alternative to Mr. Carson.
The network built a state-of-the-art studio for the show at
Television City, the network's Los Angeles-based
headquarters, for about $4.5 million.
   Mr. Sajak was brought to CBS by Michael Brockman, who was
in charge of its late-night programming. Mr. Brockman left
about two months after Mr. Sajak began, to join Capital
Cities/ABC Inc.'s TV network as president of daytime,
children and late-night programming.
   "The cancellation is not surprising," Mr. Brockman said.
"But the show did not become what we had planned. It was
never supposed to be a clone of `The Tonight Show.'" Mr.
Brockman noted that ABC is poised to launch "Into the Night
Starring Rick Dees" on July 16 and "I don't want to give away
any secrets that I may have taken with me from CBS on how the
{Sajak} show should've been done."
   The ABC project, a comedy/variety show with Mr. Dees, a
Los Angeles disk jockey, is the latest effort to develop a
companion show to follow ABC News's "Nightline."
   Jack Sander, president of WAGA, the CBS affiliate in
Atlanta, which didn't broadcast Mr. Sajak's show, said the
network must come up with programming that affiliates would
want to broadcast. "For a network to be a full-service
network," he said, "it must have shows in all parts of the
day."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Recalls Aerostar Minivans
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford Motor Co. said it is recalling
about 101,000 of its 1986-model Aerostar minivans to repair a
defect that could cause fuel leaks.
   The auto maker said it isn't aware of any fires or
accidents linked to the defect. Ford said it will install,
free of charge, new seals between the gas tanks and the gas
tank filler pipes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.K. Price Gauges Up
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Producer output prices, or prices of
manufactured goods, rose 0.7% in March from February, while
producer input prices, or prices of raw materials and fuels
purchased by manufacturing industry, rose an unadjusted 0.1%
in March from February, Britain's Central Statistical Office
reported.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Network Equipment Says Quarterly Net
   Will Trail Forecast Made Just Last Week
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   NWK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   REDWOOD CITY, Calif. -- Network Equipment Technologies
Inc., citing improprieties with certain orders and shipments,
said its fiscal fourth-quarter results will be worse than a
pessimistic projection it made just last week.
   Network, a communications network designer that until
recently had been considered among the hottest companies in
the industry, said it expects to report earnings per share of
10 cents for the quarter ended March 31, only about a third
of the 33 cents a share posted for the year-earlier period,
and far below analysts' estimates. The company also said
revenue would be $44 million compared with $38.8 million a
year ago, a substantially smaller increase than analysts had
been expecting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The disclosures pounded Network's stock, which plunged
$5.75 to close at $15.125 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The stock had been moving steadily higher
over the past year, rising from $18 a share in 1988 to a
recent high of $34.375 shortly before its reverses.
   The news was the second embarrassment in a matter of days
for Network and its high-profile chief executive officer,
Bruce D. Smith. On April 2, Network's stock plunged 21%
following the company's surprise prediction that quarterly
earnings would be lower than a year earlier.
   At the time, Network blamed a greater-than-expected
decline in sales through International Business Machines
Corp. and a failure to receive confirmation of certain
orders.
   Many analysts had dismissed the 21% stock tumble as an
overreaction, but nevertheless most cut their profit
estimates for the quarter to about 31 cents from 39 cents and
trimmed revenue projections to about $50 million from $56
million.
   But Network said a thorough review over the weekend turned
up "terms of sale" that didn't "conform to (company)
policies." Furthermore, Network said it is investigating
shipments made against an order that it described as "not
valid." It said the improprieties reduced both margins and
revenue, worsening the already depressed quarterly results.
   The company couldn't be reached to elaborate on the sales
irregularities or whether any fraud may have been involved.
However, securities analysts said Mr. Smith informed them in
a conference call yesterday that the problems were
"localized" and minimal and have been cleared up, in part by
shifting some personnel. One analyst, George P. Kelly of
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., said he still believes that Network's
management is "the best in the business" and that the
company's prospects are still strong.
   The personnel shifts Mr. Smith mentioned to analysts may
have included Roger T. Hobbs, vice president of national
marketing, whom Network announced has resigned. The company
didn't say whether the resignation was related to the sales
problems and Mr. Hobbs couldn't be reached for comment. He
was succeeded by Craig Tysdal, formerly vice president of
product marketing.
   The troubles come at an awkward time for Network and Mr.
Smith. Mr. Smith has embarked on an ambitious, costly plan to
develop a global network computer system that will have the
capability to manipulate data much more extensively than
current systems. Meanwhile, the company's core business of
producing standard networks is slowing, mainly because of the
reduced sales through IBM. Network has estimated that
developing the new network software will eat up about half
its research and development budget in coming years.
   Moreover, Network is likely to face competition from some
of the biggest companies in computing, including Hewlett
Packard Co. and Digital Equipment Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Coffee and Tea
   And the English and Me
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<LP>
   I respond to Larry Wallberg's March 13 Leisure &amp; Arts
article, "No Oreos Allowed: A Yank `Takes Tea' in London,"
with a modest report of an experience I had in London the
other year.
   My British wife (Welsh from a little South Wales valley
mining town) and I were visiting with a girlhood chum of hers
who lives and works (as a teacher of French) in London. After
spending time in the Victoria and Albert, we ended up sitting
in the lobby of the Hotel Rembrandt across Cromwell Road. As
it was tea time we were hoping for some refreshment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ladies were reminiscing briskly about bygone school
days. Time passed, but no one came to tend to us. Finally, I
excused myself and walked over to the bar in the corner,
where I asked the bartender, in my American accent, if
someone could please help us.
   "Certainly, sir, I'll be right over," was the response.
And when he reached our table he rubbed his hands together
and said, in that unctuous manner adopted by serving people
the world over when they think they have an unsuspecting
tourist, "May I bring you proper English tea."
   "I'm Welsh, and I'll have coffee]" was the response from
one lady. And from the other, "I'm also Welsh, and I'll have
coffee, too."
   The poor fellow was positively undone.
   Oh, by the way, I had a pot of tea and a scone.
   Robert L. Bratman, M.D.
   Mountain View, Calif.
   ---
   I would like to thank Mr. Wallberg for making such a good
impression on his host country. When you consider that he
"lives and writes in New York City," it is sad to think that
he never ventured to the Hotel Pierre or the Helmsley for
afternoon tea. Please, Mr. Wallberg, save your money
traveling across the Atlantic -- you can make a fool of
yourself right here at home. With unofficial American
ambassadors like yourself, we will soon be restricted from
the finer hotels abroad.
   Lisa Sample
   Iselin, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Ends Lower as MCI Announces
   $1.25 Billion Buy-Out of Telecom USA
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks barely budged in light trading as
some investors headed home early to begin celebrating
Passover and others prepared for a day off on Good Friday.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index of OTC stocks edged down just
0.72, or 0.17%, to close at 430.18. Heavy trading in MCI
Communications, which fell 1 1/8 to 35 3/4 after announcing
it would pay $42 a share, or $1.25 billion, for long-distance
carrier Telecom USA, helped flatten the index.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Trading is expected to be light all week because of the
two religious holidays. "I expect a quiet week and don't see
any big swings," said Peter DaPuzzo, head of OTC trading for
Shearson Lehman Hutton. "As traders, we'll provide our normal
liquidity, but I don't expect people to be aggressive or go
out on a limb on a week like this."
   OTC indexes are market weighted, magnifying the effect of
MCI's drop on the overall market. The New York Stock Exchange
composite index closed about 0.3% higher.
   OTC decliners led advancers 850 to 1,014. National Market
System volume fell to 84,575,100 shares, compared with
Friday's 102,138,400 shares. Trading in MCI accounted for
more than 3.4 million shares.
   MCI's announcement sparked excitement in another regional
telecommunications concern, Advanced Telecommunications.
Shares of the Atlanta-based company jumped 24% in sympathy
with Telecom to close up 3 1/4 at 16 3/4, on about 586,000
shares, or 10 times normal volume.
   Advanced Telecommunications is the nation's second largest
regional long-distance carrier, behind Telecom, in an
industry facing a "hot-bed" of consolidation, according to
analyst Mark Dunkel of Robinson-Humphrey Co.
   Mr. Dunkel says that Advanced Telecommunications looks
particularly attractive in light of the nearly 100% premium
MCI will pay for Telecom, or a multiple of 26 times his
estimate of Telecom's 1990 earnings.
   Before yesterday's gain, Advanced Telecommunications was
trading at just under 10 times Mr. Dunkel's estimated
earnings for the company of $1.40 a share for fiscal 1991,
ending in March. The company has a "very valuable" customer
base in Florida, Georgia and Texas and will be one to keep an
eye on amid continuing consolidation of regional long
distance carriers, Mr. Dunkel says.
   Several stocks that recently took a beating rebounded in
robust trading. Among them were Novell, up 1 1/4 at 40, which
tumbled 4 1/8 Friday after Lotus Development agreed to
acquire the company for stock. Also recovering in brisk
trading was Oracle Systems, which rose 3/4 to 16. Both stocks
were "oversold" last week, but regained favor yesterday, said
Jerry Newman, a San Francisco-based institutional salesman
with Cowen &amp; Co.
   Also on the active list, 3Com, added 1/8 at 13 3/8 after
announcing that it will buy back up to one million common
shares, or about 3.5% of its outstanding common stock.
   Michael Foods fell 1 1/4 to 13 7/8. Dain Bosworth lowered
its 1990 and 1991 earnings estimates for the company because
of its recently completed acquisition of the remaining 50% of
Milton G. Waldbaum Co. that it didn't previously own,
according to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report. Michael
Foods said it doesn't expect the acquisition to dilute
earnings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Living Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- The cost of living in West
Germany rose 0.1% in the month to mid-March and 2.7% from
March 1989, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said.
   The final statistics for the month compare with a 0.2%
increase reported in the preliminary data, released 11 days
ago. The year-to-year rate of 2.7% was unchanged from the
preliminary report.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equimark Expects
   To Post Sizable Loss
   For the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   EQK ONE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Equimark Corp. said it expects to report a
first-quarter net loss of between $13.5 million and $15.5
million, or $1.21 a share and $1.38 a share.
   In the year-earlier quarter, Equimark earned $5.7 million,
or 50 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Equimark said it agreed to sell most of its
credit-card receivables to Banc One Corp. in Columbus, Ohio.
Terms weren't disclosed. The sale includes about $350 million
in Equimark accounts. Equimark will keep about $113 million
in noncredit-card revolving credit receivables.
   Equimark indicated in January that it would sell the
credit-card business because consolidation in that industry
makes it increasingly difficult for smaller credit-card
issuers to compete.
   The diversified financial services company has been
selling certain assets to help finance its federally assisted
acquisition of ailing National Bancshares of Texas, based in
San Antonio.
   For the latest quarter, Equimark's projected loss is due
to a "significant increase" in the company's provision for
possible loan losses and to losses related to the sale or
write-down of certain nonperforming real estate.
   Equimark said its reserve for possible loan losses at
March 31 is projected to be about $6 million higher than the
year-end 1989 balance of about $42 million. The loan loss
reserve is also projected to cover about 75% of the total
nonearning assets at the end of the quarter, as compared with
63% at the end of 1989.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Equimark closed at $9.375, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Private Firms Invented
   Mail Service in 1840s
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<GV>
POSTAL SERVICE (POS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Regarding your March 7 page-one article "Letter Bomb:
Postal Service Again Asks for Rate Increase as Automation
Lags," I was struck by the horrible mistake the nation made
back in 1845 when it got rid of the private mail companies.
In the 1840s, private mail companies were inventing mail
service in America. The government would not deliver letters
to and from the post office, so private carriers undertook to
do this for a penny for each letter. They innovated the use
of letter boxes so letters could be deposited conveniently
throughout the city. They started the use of postage stamps
so that you could prepay the postage of letters deposited in
a box. And they instituted three-times- and then
four-times-a-day delivery.
   Best of all, the private carriers, in competition with the
moribund post office of that day, cut the cost of mail
delivery between cities, in some cases to one-fifth of the
post-office rate. It was a vibrant time of progress in mail
service, which was ended only by Congress's giving the Postal
Service a monopoly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jack R. Sanders
   San Diego
   ---
   I couldn't help but think that a large contributing factor
behind the proposed rate increase is the frank; not
Postmaster General Anthony Frank, but the free mailing
privileges given to every member of Congress.
   By making congressmen pay for their mailings like everyone
else, the rate increase probably could be cut in half, and
simultaneously we would eliminate a large amount of junk
mail.
   Mark J. Skorcz
   Cincinnati
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   AMA Sounding a Clear Note, But Its Tune Has Changed
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The new voice of the American Medical
Association is Brahmin in accent and blunt in message:
   In health care, Americans need to "retrench back to a
reasonable benefit schedule."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Supply and demand don't meet in medicine, thanks to
insurance: "Every patient that walked into my office, I could
find something wrong with. The average human body has 123
moles on it."
   Basic coverage ought to be rationed using success ratios:
"You don't do a technical operation on somebody who has
virtually no chance of survival. Yet that's what's being done
today. People are talking about possibilities -- we want to
talk scientific probabilities."
   Different attitudes toward human life distort how the U.S.
measures itself against the world: "You go to France or
Germany, you don't see any 500-gram {18-oz.} babies in the
neonatal intensive-care unit. You see viable infants that are
going to grow up and be self-supporting."
   Congressional repeal of the "catastrophic" tax reflected
avarice of the Medicare elite: "You've got 100,000
millionaires drinking out of the public trough, and you've
got kids dying in the inner cities from diseases {against
which} they could have been immunized. That's obscene."
   James Todd is the acting top AMA executive and under
consideration for a permanent appointment. But he doesn't
seem to be holding back, nor is it an easy time to do so. As
James Sammons's 16-year reign ended in February amid
financial scandal, the AMA was undertaking a major drive to
influence the new order in U.S. medicine that seems to be
looming in every legislative session.
   Health Access America is the AMA's plan. It combines
recognition of large-scale economic imperatives with a denial
that the price match between individual buyer and seller, the
basis for all economy, can ever hope to re-emerge in
mainstream medicine.
   In that respect, it is similar to trial balloons floated
in recent months at the federal and state levels. It would
require employers to cover their workers' households,
universalize Medicaid for the uncovered poor, create state
risk pools for those of modest means who are now
"uninsurable," and tax medical fringe benefits.
   Dr. Todd isn't putting a price tag on this. "The Pepper
Commission gave its report and the minute somebody said $66
billion everybody threw up their hands and said, `That's a
nice exercise,'" he recalls. The cost would depend on how
spartan the basic benefit package is (the AMA wants to
pre-empt state add-on requirements). If the doctors get
malpractice-liability suits curbed, that will hold it down.
High deductibles and co-payments will, too. Lots of
economists would agree to all that.
   Then comes physician price controls. Oh, they're not
called that. Rather, they're "practice parameters" -- still
to be worked out -- designating what's appropriate (read:
reimbursable) treatment. And a relative-value scale for
specialists that sets fees based on a doctor's overhead,
including his training, equipment and insurance.
   How does that element of the proposal sit with Dr. Todd's
membership? "Uncomfortably," he admits. However, he sees no
prominent defections. And he says doctors will accept such a
setup, together with other components of the package, as a
way to dispel an existing adversarial climate vis-a-vis
patients, insurers and the government, along with the
intrusive monitoring that springs from it. Although Canada
still is a fighting word with physicians, Dr. Todd's
health-care vision owes more to that nation's lower-cost,
less-technological system than he'd like to admit.
   Dr. Todd, 59, is a Harvard product who once was chief
resident at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York. A
general surgeon in suburban New Jersey until 1985, he
maintains that fees in medicine already are a function of
"complexity, severity, experience" -- input costs really --
but with some bills larded because full insurance eliminates
consumer resistance. No "perfect" market works in this
circumstance, it follows, and objective rate schedules are
the best way to impose restraint. The wealthy would be free
to pay extra (Dr. Todd is not a utopian), but for the mass
market, price couldn't be a reward for extraordinary talent
or an inducement to practice in undesirable surroundings.
   This represents a remarkable, if gradual, break from
historic AMA policy. For much of this century, progressives
considered the group reactionary for jealously guarding the
prerogatives of physicians (and acting to limit their
number). It also stood foursquare against government mandates
for health-care coverage. Now, that too is out. Dr. Todd, who
talks of his meetings with "Henry" and "Ron" (Reps. Waxman of
California and Wyden of Oregon, Democrats active in writing
laws for medicine), says the AMA's "maturation" stems from
realizing "ideologies of the past really aren't that
appropriate to the future."
   Today the group's headquarters are staffed with lawyers,
ethicists and others with more than an M.D. after their
names. It's a far cry from the 1930s and 1940s, when Morris
Fishbein was a one-man policy shop in his editorship of the
AMA Journal, and even from the 1950s, when the doctors made
early use of political consultants and PACs to shape debate.
   Losing the fight against Medicare in 1965 broke the back
of the old AMA. Now restoring the fiscal health of Medicare
is a key item in Health Access America. The AMA wants workers
to pre-fund the program so that compound growth of its assets
will carry them through acute and long-term care.
   Could the undoing of Medicare's catastrophic-care mandates
last year mean that the country is now moving back toward
less-regulated and -subsidized medicine, even as the AMA is
pushing ahead? Dr. Todd rejects reading any significance into
last year's political phenomenon. "It was about 40,000
people" who "didn't want to pay the extra money, even though
it would be ultimately to the benefit of the whole program,"
he says.
   Whatever the price tag for a redrawn health-care system,
Dr. Todd expects some new taxes to be needed, and says
(contra the AMA's stance in the early '70s) the fairest is a
head tax. "A sin tax really doesn't work. It probably
adversely affects those least able. You're not going to stop
the disadvantaged, the poor from using alcohol and tobacco
and drugs because that's their escape from the situation they
find themselves in."
   Only about 43% of U.S. physicians belong to the AMA today,
down from 73% at the time of the Medicare fight. However,
dues are nearly 10 times what they were then, in nominal
terms -- and the rolls have dipped with each big hike. Among
doctors under age 45 the membership percentages rose in the
1980s. So whether Dr. Todd speaks for American medicine is
subject to debate. But like the sound of his words or not,
you find the AMA is outspoken again, even as it goes along to
get along with the lawmakers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Kennedy's Views Are Listened to Frequently
   And Seriously by Bush, Quayle and Sununu
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush invites him to the White
House and takes his counsel seriously.
   "He's been my friend since 1981," says Vice President Dan
Quayle. "I enjoy his company."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "He deserves credit because he is willing to work out
differences whenever possible to come up with a workable
package," says John Sununu, White House chief of staff.
   Who is this extraordinary confidant of the conservatives
who run the country?
   Stand up and be recognized, Edward M. Kennedy,
Massachusetts Democrat, chief keeper of the liberal flame --
and counselor to the president, deal-maker with the chief of
staff and friend of the vice president.
   "It's different these days," says Sen. Kennedy, chairman
of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee. "President
Bush has his views and he stands by them, but he's willing to
listen and sometimes to agree with us."
   Mr. Kennedy concedes this is an unusual experience -- he
never found common ground during the eight years Ronald
Reagan was president. (Nor did he find much to share with
Jimmy Carter, he might have added.)
   In recent weeks, Mr. Kennedy has maintained a hectic
public pace, partly in reaction to a spate of newspaper and
magazine stories that have commented on his drinking and
womanizing. Critics say the pace is an effort to bolster his
fading image.
   The relationship between Mr. Bush and Sen. Kennedy is to
some degree tribal. Though the president is WASPish and Mr.
Kennedy is Irish, they are both New Englanders and both came
of age in privileged surroundings. Mr. Kennedy notes that the
president's father, Prescott, served in the Senate with his
brother, John. In fact, says the senator, when he was a
University of Virginia law student and needed a speaker to
address a student forum, Prescott Bush volunteered, as a kind
of tribal duty.
   President Bush has opened his house to receptions for the
Special Olympics, a Kennedy-supported program for mentally
impaired athletes, "and my sister Eunice and I appreciate
that," Mr. Kennedy says. Both the president and Mr. Sununu
have been helpful in trying to resolve upkeep and maintenance
problems at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
according to Mr. Kennedy.
   They exchange convivial notes from time to time. Sen.
Kennedy points out one of the presidential notes -- he's
framed it and hung it on the wall. That exchange, he says,
started with a photograph a constituent mailed to him shortly
after the last Democratic national convention, when Mr.
Kennedy blistered Mr. Bush with the chorus line, "Where was
George?" The photo shows a highway billboard with bold print
saying "Where's George? In the White House, Teddy]"
   Mr. Kennedy mailed the photo to Mr. Bush, who replied with
the thank-you note that's framed on the wall ("Ted," it
concludes, "have a wonderful family Thanksgiving. George").
   Recently, the relationship has become more substantial.
After returning from a trip to Moscow, where he talked to
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, Sen. Kennedy was invited
to the White House to make a personal report to President
Bush about the Soviet Union's problems with breakaway
Lithuania. Mr. Kennedy told the president that Mr. Gorbachev
was under heavy pressure to take a hard line, and he urged
caution in dealing with the situation, a view that Mr. Bush
adopted.
   Mr. Kennedy's comfortable relationships with Messrs. Bush,
Quayle and Sununu is hard for doctrinaire conservatives to
swallow. But Mr. Kennedy as a presidential adviser is far
worse. "Lithuania," says Howard Phillips, chairman of the
Conservative Caucus, "is the defining moment for the Bush
presidency -- and he is allowing Kennedy to define it for
him. He {the president} is laying the groundwork here for a
primary challenge in 1992."
   Vice President Quayle concedes it isn't always easy being
a friend of a man conservatives dislike. "I take a lot of
heat from my conservative friends," he says. "I tell them,
`Look, it's one of those friendships you strike up in the
Senate. He isn't buying into my philosophy and I'm not buying
into his.'"
   The Bush-Kennedy relationship is a formal one; the
Kennedy-Quayle relationship is informal, more a high-fiving,
rib-poking affair between two politicians who empathize over
the lumps they take in the press (Mr. Kennedy for his alleged
rambunctious personal life; Mr. Quayle for his alleged
intellectual shortcomings).
   It serves Mr. Kennedy's interests to be seen as a White
House intimate, just as it serves Mr. Quayle's interests to
be taken seriously by Mr. Kennedy.
   They've been to each other's houses for dinner and every
now and again Mr. Kennedy drops by the vice president's
office for breakfast and a little chat. "We talk about a lot
of things," says Mr. Quayle, "but we don't commiserate a lot
about each other's bad press."
   Back on Feb. 22, Mr. Kennedy dropped by for breakfast --
to be greeted by a birthday cake. It was his 58th birthday,
and Mr. Quayle's birthday gift was an invitation to join him
the following month as an official delegate to the
inauguration of Chile's new democratically elected
government. Mr. Kennedy already had been invited, but he says
he was touched by the invitation to be part of the official
party.
   "He was very constructive {on the trip}," says Mr. Quayle.
"He avoided emphasizing the differences in our views on South
America."
   Sen. Kennedy, some say, was more supportive of Mr. Quayle
than another official in the party, Bernard Aronson,
assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs and a
favorite of Secretary of State James Baker. The vice
president and Mr. Baker don't always share a comfortable
relationship.
   During a flight from Barbados to Chile, Mr. Kennedy came
swinging down the aisle wearing a New England Patriots
football jersey. The name on the back was "Quayle," the
number, "96."
   "Everybody got a big laugh out of that," says the vice
president.
   When the trip was over, Mr. Kennedy wrote a two-page
letter to Mr. Bush, praising, among other things, Mr.
Quayle's performance. "I thought he represented the country
well," says Mr. Kennedy. "I thought he made the
administration's points well. He gave as good as he got. He's
serious about his job."
   Perhaps the biggest surprise of all is the way Sen.
Kennedy, from liberal Massachusetts, and Mr. Sununu, the
White House chief of staff and former governor of tightfisted
New Hampshire, work together. They have gone head to head on
bills to aid the disabled and to raise the minimum wage, and
they are still grappling with child-care and civil-rights
legislation. "He {Sununu} argues his points well, and he's
fair," says Mr. Kennedy.
   The two men -- opposites in temperament and ideology --
sometimes have managed to accommodate each other, and that's
been a surprise to both of them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tridex Corp. Plans Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TDX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WESTPORT, Conn. -- Tridex Corp. definitively agreed to pay
more than $5.5 million in cash and notes for Ithaca
Peripherals Inc., a Groton, N.Y., maker of point-of-sale
printers for retail and financial institutions and other
markets.
   Tridex manufactures mark-sensing scanners and dot-matrix
printers used in lotteries, automatic-teller machines and
videotex systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Transco Unit Tests Gas Wells
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   E NBL NES
</CO>
<IN>
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Transco Exploration &amp; Production Co., a unit of
Transco Energy Co., said it tested five natural-gas wells in
the Gulf of Mexico that it expects to have onstream in the
third quarter.
   Four development wells, scheduled for platform
installation this summer, are located 162 miles southeast of
Houston at East Cameron Block 109, Transco said. Transco is
the operator and has a 76% interest in the wells. Zilkha
Energy Co. owns the balance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said it completed a well at Brazos Block
491. Transco has 38% of that well. Zilkha has 16%; a
subsidiary of Noble Affiliates Inc. has 23%; and a subsidiary
of New England Electric System has 23%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Metro Airlines
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   MAIR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Metro Airlines said March traffic was 50.9
million revenue passenger miles, up 68.4% from March 1989. A
revenue passenger mile is the equivalent of flying one paying
passenger one mile.
   Metro's load factor increased to 53.1%, from 46.8%. For
the quarter, Metro flew 135.8 million revenue passenger
miles, up 48.6% from a year ago. The airline's load factor in
the first three months rose to 50.4%, from 47.6% last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FlightSafety International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FSI SMF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- FlightSafety International Inc. said it agreed
to buy certain assets of Bicoastal Corp.'s SimuFlite division
for $64 million.
   FlightSafety, which provides aircraft and other
high-technology training, said it also will assume about $19
million in liabilities of Bicoastal, formerly Singer Co. In
addition, FlightSafety has agreed to assume certain training
contracts from Bicoastal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transaction must be approved by the federal bankruptcy
court that is supervising Bicoastal's reorganization.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   As UAL Turns: Winners and Losers of Takeover Show
   ----
   By Randall Smith and Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL BAB LABOR NWA REL DAL AMR BSC PWJ Z.CSU CCI CMB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The long-running takeover battle for United Airlines
parent UAL Corp. has the makings of a long-running soap
opera.
   Will the pilots complete their fourth bid in three years?
Can Chairman Stephen Wolf survive? Can Coniston Partners get
out alive? Will the arbitragers suffer another takeover-stock
bloodbath? How can the directors get out of this mess?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eugene Keilin, one of the pilots' investment bankers, says
the siege has been "like the Thirty Years' War." The union
proposal for a $4.38 billion buy-out that was approved by UAL
directors Friday "is either a truce or the end of the war."
   Although the finale remains in doubt, the latest episodes
-- which began with a $5.4 billion bid last August by Los
Angeles billionaire Marvin Davis -- have already produced
plenty of heroes and villains, winners and losers.
                                                                                                       

                          WINNERS
                                                                                                       

   Marvin Davis. After setting up Northwest Airlines parent
NWA Inc. for a takeover last spring, Mr. Davis put UAL in
play last summer by acquiring 3% and making a bid. Assuming
he bought 650,000 shares for an average of $140 a share, and
sold at roughly double that level before the labor-management
buy-out collapsed in October, his indicated profit would be
about $90 million. Mr. Davis wouldn't comment.
   Saul Steinberg. His Reliance Group Holdings Inc. bought
1.5 million shares of UAL for an average of $110 before
takeover fever hit the airlines last year. So even though he
still held about one million shares when the first bid
collapsed last October, he got out at an average of $210,
making a $150 million profit on a $165 million investment.
   American and Delta Air Lines. United's takeover morass has
meant expansion opportunities that will only ripen if United
assumes more than $4 billion in extra debt for this buy-out.
Both AMR Corp.'s American and Delta, which have kept their
debt levels low while other airlines leveraged up, should
compete more aggressively for international routes.
   Machinists Union. United Machinists chief John Peterpaul
and his investment banker, Brian Freeman, have emerged as
winners in both phases of this deal. Their opposition helped
kill the first pilot-management buy-out. When the pilots
wanted to make a new bid, they went to the machinists. Mr.
Peterpaul's price for cooperation: Mr. Wolf's scalp.
   Pilot advisers. Led by the law firm of Paul Weiss Rifkind
Wharton &amp; Garrison, banks and advisers to the pilots and Mr.
Wolf racked up fees of $58.7 million, despite failing to
compete the first deal. When Mr. Wolf was excluded from the
latest bid, he got his law firm, Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &amp;
Flom, hired by the board.
   Other pilot advisers include Salomon Brothers Inc. and
Keilin &amp; Bloom.
                                                                                                       

                          LOSERS
                                                                                                       

   UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf. Riding high six months ago, Mr.
Wolf saw his reputation dented with the collapse of the first
deal, which would have gained him $76 million for his stock
and options. A man some believe is more motivated by ego than
money, he retreated from the action and refused to lead a new
buy-out attempt. Now, if the unions complete their bid, he is
probably gone. Ditto his No. 2, Jack Pope, a former financial
whiz whose hardball tactics with the banks helped sink the
first deal.
   Arbitragers. Takeover-stock traders sustained losses of
more than $1 billion when UAL stock plummeted to $121 from
$293 after the deal collapsed last October and initial
efforts to revive it faltered. Firms that lost big included
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., Bear Stearns Cos.,
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. and Paine Webber Inc. For
them and others, UAL became known as "the deal from hell."
   UAL's board. The siege has left many with the view that
UAL directors lack leadership. After allowing former chairman
Richard Ferris to buy hotels and rental cars and rename the
company Allegis Corp., they ditched Mr. Ferris under fire,
but haven't extricated United from the morass. Directors
include Manufacturers Hanover Corp. Chairman John
McGillicuddy and Hertz Corp. Chairman Frank Olsen.
   Board advisers. The board's investment banker, First
Boston Corp., and law firm, Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell, have been
tarnished by their mere association with the endless deal,
some takeover experts say. Davis Polk could bill at its
regular hourly rates, but First Boston has only been getting
$250,000 per quarter plus expenses. If the latest deal
closes, First Boston gets $10 million; but it won't get a
bonus for topping Mr. Davis's first bid of $240 a share. The
pilots' new bid is only $201.
   Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. These two banks
collected $8 million in fees for saying they were "highly
confident" they could raise $7 billion for the first buy-out.
But their reputation suffered from their highly embarrassing
failure to deliver.
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   United's pilots. Pilot union leader F.C. "Rick" Dubinsky
and his long-time investment banker, Eugene Keilin, have been
pursuing a buy-out like the Holy Grail. However nobly
inspired, the effort has clearly debilitated UAL. Whether
they can turn it into a success for United's 6,500 pilots
depends on whether they find management, obtain financing,
and revive the airline. If the deal flops, Mr. Dubinsky could
face political problems with his members in the fall.
   Coniston Partners. The partners in this investment firm
thought they were scooping up UAL at bargain prices after the
$300-a-share deal collapsed. Its average disclosed cost:
$161. Coniston faced a $100 million loss on its 11.8%
position when the stock went as low as $121, as the pilots
struggled to mount a new bid. Even with an agreed-to deal,
Coniston is still in the hole after carrying costs, and its
losses will deepen if the unions don't get financing.
Yesterday, UAL stock closed at $161, down $2.50 a share in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   British Airways PLC. This United ally backed the first
deal with a promised $750 million investment. Its top two
executives engaged in public bickering after the first deal
fell apart; and British Air steered clear this time. Now it
may get involved again.
   Consumers. The flying public could wind up paying higher
air fares to help United make its interest payments. "Higher
debt levels can ultimately mean higher fares," says Cornish
Hitchcock, legal director of Aviation Consumer Action Project
in Washington, D.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   In Concert: Countdown to Ecstasy for Steely Dan Fans
   ----
   By Pam Lambert
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- For years the odds of catching Donald Fagen in
concert looked only slightly better than those on the Berlin
Wall falling. Steely Dan, the pop vehicle he piloted with
Walter Becker, had released the last of its sophisticated pop
albums back in 1980. And some time before that the pair had
abandoned both touring and the pretense of bandhood, using
Steely Dan as the banner under which a loose confederation of
studio musicians could record.
   But there it was a few weeks ago in the Sunday paper -- an
ad for something called the "New York Rock and Soul Revue."
Mr. Fagen's name appeared in fine print, sandwiched between
singers Patti Austin and Michael McDonald, with Phoebe Snow
as the chaser. This was one concert I wasn't going to miss --
even if I didn't know quite what to expect.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Neither did many of those who packed the Beacon Theatre
last week for what was billed as a one-time event (though
several of the participants may do a concert or two later
this year). Some were clearly hoping for a Steely Dan show --
they were the ones shouting, "Aja]" "Haitian Divorce]" and
the titles of other Dan favorites. Some were anticipating an
evening with the former Doobie Brother, like the guy who
bellowed, "We love you, Michael]" But when the red lights
finally illuminated the stage, to the accompaniment of a
tenor sax, neither Fagen nor McDonald was on it. Instead
there were three horns, four singers, and a band of studio
musicians called Curious George, and they were driving
full-throttle into Isaac Hayes's "You Got Me Hummin'."
   It wasn't until the third number that the headliners made
their entrance. Mr. McDonald, his prematurely silver locks
giving him the look of Kenny Rogers' younger, thinner
brother, sat down at the Rhodes piano stage right. Mr. Fagen,
in suit and horn-rims, crossed to the grand piano stage left.
And Ms. Snow, wearing the broad grin of somebody who's right
where she belongs, planted herself center-stage and launched
into "Knock on Wood."
   Growling, gritty, the voice was a revelation to anyone
acquainted only with the jingle queen of the past few years
or the folky chanteuse of her first and biggest hit, "Poetry
Man." As she soared and swooped through the blues -- and her
four-octave range -- putting even Mr. McDonald's duetting
tenor in the shade, you couldn't help wondering what
monumental screwups had kept this talent from making a record
for eight years. And whether there wasn't some producer out
there who could match Ms. Snow with worthy material.
   The cheers had just about died down when the rhythmic
figure opening "Black Friday," the first Steely Dan song of
the evening, got the crowd yelping all over again. (The
number dated from Mr. McDonald's brief pre-Doobies stint with
the ensemble in the mid-70s.) At first Mr. Fagen's voice
sounded too forced, compared with its hipster-cool ease on
the recordings. But things improved as the aptly named
guitarist Drew Zing stepped in, wisely playing his own lines
instead of echoing Larry Carlton's stinging lead breaks on
the original. Next came "I'm Sorry," and no one, not Patti
Austin, who gave the song a smoothly swinging reading, nor
Mr. Fagen, who provided sensitive piano accompaniment, had
anything to regret.
   Then the spotlight swung to Mr. McDonald for "Minute by
Minute," one of his syncopated pop smashes. His singing was
every bit as soulful as expected. But what really made the
song special was the rich texture the musicians gave it --
now with bright brass lines, next a swell of background
harmony, then Mr. McDonald's keyboards playing off Mr. Zing's
fluid guitar. Through the number -- as throughout the concert
-- there was always the understated musicianship to listen
to, instead of just a series of star turns. The intelligent
playing made even a standard like "Que Sera, Sera" sound
fresh -- Ms. Austin led a full-throated gospel version over
Mr. Fagen's rolling jazz piano -- in a way that's all too
rarely encountered in pop.
   And in true revue spirit many of the unfamiliar faces were
given a chance to shine. Jeff Young, Curious George's
keyboard player and singer, got the second half off to a
rousing start with his "Man Smart," a syncopated vamp in
Little Feat's footsteps. Pure-voiced Phillip Hamilton joined
deep-throat Sam Butler for some stellar harmonizing on
"Soothe Me." Mindy Jostyn blew a mean harmonica.
   It would be hard to single out a high point in this
evening that went from strength to strength, though a
sentimental favorite would have to be Messrs. Fagen and
McDonald reteaming on the Dan classic "Pretzel Logic" --
flying in the face of the song's lyric, "Those days are gone
forever, over a long time ago . . ." About the only tune I
could have done without was Ms. Snow's "Poetry Man," a
security blanket it's time for her to let go of. But she
quickly redeemed herself with wrenching versions of the blues
"Shaky Ground" and "At Last."
   For the big finale, "In the Midnight Hour," Austin and
Snow shared the stage at last, looking like twins down to
their identical close-cropped curls. The pair swayed and
tried not to step on each other's toes, musically or
literally, as the song turned into a vocal pepper game,
Austin to McDonald to Snow to Jeff Young and back again. As
Mr. Fagen bobbed behind the piano and the band played on, it
was one of those evenings nobody wanted to end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Biogen's Vaccine
   For Hepatitis B
   Licensed to Merck
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   BGEN MRK SBE
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Biogen Inc. said Merck &amp; Co. licensed
rights to Biogen's hepatitis B vaccine technology from
SmithKline Beecham PLC, which had licensed it earlier from
Biogen.
   Terms weren't disclosed. The licensing agreement covers
production of genetically engineered hepatitis B vaccine
world-wide, except in Japan, Biogen said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new licensing agreement eliminates the possibility of
a legal battle over rights to the vaccine technology between
SmithKline and Merck, the two main sellers of genetically
engineered vaccines for hepatitis B. The agreement also will
give Biogen a significant additional source of revenue from
its hepatitis B technology at a time when concern is growing
about the liver disease. Biogen said it expects to receive
revenue of more than $20 million in 1990 from its hepatitis B
technology.
   In 1987, Biogen, a biotechnology concern, won a broad U.S.
patent on genetically engineered hepatitis B products. In
1988, Biogen licensed SmithKline to make and sell hepatitis B
vaccine products in the U.S. and other countries, except in
Japan. The licensing had set up the possibility of a legal
showdown between SmithKline and Merck, whose vaccine might
have infringed Biogen's patent.
   A SmithKline spokesman confirmed the agreement. A Merck
spokesman also confirmed the pact, adding that it's part of a
broader cross-licensing of hepatitis patent rights between
Merck and SmithKline. Merck negotiated the licensing
agreement, he said, "because we didn't see any business sense
in dragging out" a dispute over patent rights to the vaccine.
   Hepatitis B is a virally caused liver disease that kills
an estimated 4,000 to 6,000 Americans annually. About two
million people in the U.S. are chronically infected with the
hepatitis B virus, which is responsible for an estimated $600
million to $700 million annually in health-care costs.
   The disease, a major cause of liver cancer, is spread by
sexual contact or by exposure to blood of infected persons.
High-risk groups include homosexual men, drug users who share
needles and sexually active heterosexuals. Some 30% of
patients with acute hepatitis B have no known risk factors,
however, according to a recent study.
   U.S. efforts to reduce incidence of hepatitis B have
proven ineffective, and recently some doctors have called for
wider vaccination to prevent the disease. "Controlling
hepatitis B will require a change of strategy, away from
targeting those at high risk and toward universal hepatitis B
vaccination," Jay H. Hoofnagle, a doctor at the National
Institutes of Health, recently concluded in an editorial in
the New England Journal of Medicine. Dr. Hoofnagle added,
however, that the cost of the vaccine -- about $120 to
immunize an adult -- may impede efforts to institute
universal vaccination.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FNM ROH J.DKB SLM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rohm &amp; Haas Co.'s Rohm &amp; Haas Holdings Ltd. -- $150
million issue of amortizing debentures, due April 15, 2020,
priced at par to yield 9.80%. The noncallable debentures,
priced at a spread of 1.25 percentage points above the
Treasury's 30-year bond, have an average life of 20.5 years
and are guaranteed by Rohm &amp; Haas. Rated single-A-1 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and single-A by Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through Goldman Sachs &amp;
Co.
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
real estate mortgage investment conduit securities in 23
classes through Nomura Securities International Inc. The
issue, series 1990-52, is backed by Fannie Mae 10 1/2%
securities.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   World Bank (agency) -- 45 billion yen ($285.3 million) of
7 1/4% Eurobonds due April 27, 1995, priced at 101 3/8 to
yield 7.31% less fees via IBJ International. Fees 1 5/8.
   European Investment Bank (agency) -- 150 million Swiss
francs ($100 million) of 7 1/2% privately placed notes due
May 4, 2000, priced at 101 3/8 to yield 7.30% via J.P. Morgan
Securities (Switzerland). Fees 2 1/8.
   Council of Europe (agency) -- 10 billion yen ($63.4
million) of floating-rate notes due April 26, 2000, paying
interest at 0.40 point below the long-term prime rate,
semiannually, priced at par via Daiwa Europe Ltd. Call option
in April 1991 at 100.20 and thereafter annually at par.
Once-only put option after seven years at par. Fees 0.25.
   Dai-Ichi Kangyo Australia Ltd. (Japanese parent) -- $50
million of Eurobonds due May 12, 2000, priced at 102 via DKB
International. Bonds pay interest at 0.33 point above
six-month London interbank offered rate for the first four
years; thereafter, fixed interest rate of 10%. Once-only call
option at par in 1994. Guaranteed by Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank.
Fees 2.
                                                                                                       

                            OTHER
                                                                                                       

   Student Loan Marketing Association -- $500 million of
floating-rate notes due Oct. 11, 1990, priced at par to yield
a variable rate equal to .20 percentage point above the
bond-equivalent yield of the three-month Treasury bill
auction rate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Horror Stories Out of China
   ----
   By Lee Lescaze
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   China has fallen silent. After the killings at Tiananmen
Square last June, the corrupt Communist Party, bankrupt of
ideas and hated by its people, has opened a new era of fear.
   When China is quiet, outsiders only learn much later the
details of secretly inflicted sufferings endured by China's
people. In "Legacies: A Chinese Mosaic" (Knopf, 245 pages,
$19.95), Bette Bao Lord has gathered personal histories of
friends and families as they were caught in the machinery of
past political crackdowns. Their biographies make an
appalling dossier, but this catalog of gently told horror
stories is all the more painful because new pages are being
added in China as we read it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mrs. Lord, author of the best-selling novel "Spring Moon,"
and her husband, Winston, a former U.S. ambassador to China,
were staunch supporters of Deng Xiaoping's China until
Tiananmen Square. Now, they are among the few prominent
Washington-connected China experts who have protested
President Bush's eagerness to overlook Tiananmen's bloodshed
in the name of geopolitics. Mrs. Lord's "Legacies" forcefully
underlines the irrationality of a White House that gloats and
blusters about the importance of freedom in Panama and
Lithuania, but turns its back on China's people and beds down
with China's tyrants.
   What makes Mrs. Lord's tales of Communist Party-ordered
suffering especially horrible is that they demonstrate how
successfully the system has inspired the Chinese people to
suspect and betray one another.
   Children shun parents. Wives sell out husbands. Production
units ostracize individuals.
   In 1985, when the Lords arrived in Beijing to start his
ambassadorship, China appeared to have changed. Mao Tse-tung
was increasingly forgotten. Reform was under way. China was
rejoining the world economy. Chinese could speak more freely
to foreigners. Deng Xiaoping was Time magazine's Man of the
Year. Optimists like Mrs. Lord believed the Communist Party
could be reformed from within.
   Three-and-a-half years later, Mrs. Lord -- no longer an
optimist -- left Beijing just days before the People's
Liberation Army opened fire on the people last June 4. Her
book ends with voices speaking after the killings from new
pressure chambers of fear. "Here there is no air," says one
man who even before Tiananmen had spent the best years of his
life in prison. "There are no words to describe to innocents
the mysterious density of terror."
   Innocence in Communist China has been the belief that
better times will last. Instead, repression has followed each
relaxation.
   The Chinese who gave Mrs. Lord their tape-recorded
histories all lost their innocence one way or another.
"Legacies" skillfully mixes their tales with a narrative of
Mrs. Lord's experience. She keeps her tone level, but leaves
a reader a legacy of sadness and outrage.
   A scholar, now 87 years old, once dared to criticize the
pre-Communist government. He also made the mistake of
studying abroad. For these errors he has never been trusted.
No one has hired him. "You can't imagine what it has been
like for me. Three degrees, three summa cum laudes from three
famed universities, and never any responsibilities, never]
The boredom. The monotony."
   An actress remembers turning against her father when she
was seven years old because the Communist Party branded him a
"rightist, third class."
   She was ashamed of him. Her mother divorced him. He was
sent to work among peasants, was tortured and committed
suicide. "My daughter, do not despise me," he asked in a
final note.
   "Peace has yet to come to me," the actress says at the end
of her tale. "Perhaps it is because when I was very young I
shouldn't have understood that politics is all, but I did."
Sooner or later, the Communist Party has forced everyone to
understand that politics -- as defined by the party -- is
all.
   Pain is inflicted in strange ways. A cadre learns from his
interrogator that it was his wife who betrayed him. A man is
made to wear women's clothes in prison. A work unit forces a
couple to divorce.
   A man spends two years on death row, awaking each morning
to listen as someone else is taken away to be killed.
Inexplicably, he isn't chosen. Equally inexplicably, he is
freed.
   "Legacies" has a few saccharine passages, notably when
Mrs. Lord presents some impressions of the U.S. brought home
by traveling Chinese. Believe it or not, she quotes a New
York undercover policeman explaining that he won't arrest
prostitutes working Times Square unless they directly solicit
him because: "Better all go free than for me to jail one
innocent girl."
   But for the most part, Mrs. Lord writes with quiet
precision. She speaks Chinese, having left China for the U.S.
at the age of eight, and she got close to her subjects.
   They clearly trusted her. She has rewarded that trust by
making readers understand the forces that have caused so many
Chinese to fall victim to the tyranny of their Communist
rulers.
   ---
   Mr. Lescaze is the Journal's foreign editor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environment:
   Audubon Society Hopes Music Videos
   And Movies Get Its `Green' Message Out
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE TBSA AAPL WILLA PHG
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   On an exotic location shoot in Kenya, stars Isabella
Rossellini, John Lithgow and James Earl Jones recently
finished filming a made-for-TV movie with the working title
"The Last Elephant," billed as an action-adventure drama
about one man's crusade to stop poachers from slaughtering
elephants for their ivory tusks.
   It has romance, violence and intrigue, but this isn't your
average Hollywood production. It's a movie with a message.
The first feature film produced by the National Audubon
Society -- with $4 million provided by Turner Broadcasting
System Inc. -- the movie aims to get viewers riled up enough
"to make a personal commitment to elephant protection," says
Christopher Palmer, president and executive producer of
National Audubon Society Productions. Following the film's
premiere this fall on TBS, Ms. Rossellini will make an appeal
to viewers to call a toll-free number for information on how
to fight poaching.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With Earth Day around the corner and the environment high
on the list of fashionable causes in Hollywood, Audubon's Mr.
Palmer is on a hot streak. A 42-year-old former Environmental
Protection Agency official, he is trying to revamp the
Audubon Society's image as a genteel bird watcher's group by
producing high-profile programming aimed at a general
audience.
   With a patchwork of financing from corporate backers such
as Turner and General Electric Co., institutions, and
individuals, Mr. Palmer has put together an impressive lineup
of projects. In addition to TV specials and feature films
that will appear on Turner's TBS and TNT networks and the
Public Broadcasting Service, Audubon is producing
environmentally oriented music videos featuring rock stars
such as the Grateful Dead. On the high-tech front, Mr. Palmer
has lined up joint ventures with companies such as Apple
Computer Inc., Lucasfilm Ltd. and Dutch electronics giant
N.V. Philips, which are helping to fund projects that include
interactive video-disk systems for schools and institutions,
and computer software and games.
   In many of its projects, Audubon is going for the glitz,
recruiting movie stars to narrate documentaries for free and
luring rock icons to make music videos gratis for their
favorite causes. Mr. Palmer wants to make more films like
"The Last Elephant," using fictional stories to tackle
important environmental issues. While it isn't clear whether
these projects will galvanize substantial numbers of viewers
into action, Mr. Palmer defends his strategy. "We have to
reach new audiences that don't read as many books and
newspapers or watch documentaries," he says. "They do watch
music videos and movies -- and we have to deal with the world
as it is."
   Audubon isn't making fluff. While groups such as National
Geographic Society have long provided TV viewers with
high-brow nature programs and environmentally oriented
specials, Audubon has tackled controversial issues -- and
locked horns with powerful commercial interests in the
process. Last year, in a much-publicized brouhaha, eight
advertisers including Citicorp, Ford Motor Co. and Exxon
Corp. pulled about $250,000 of ads from TBS for Audubon's
"Ancient Forests: Rage Over Trees" under pressure from the
logging industry. The program was critical of loggers in the
Northwest's older forests.
   Stroh Brewery Co., an advertiser and the primary
underwriter of Audubon specials, also withdrew its funding --
partly because of a threat from loggers to boycott its
products and partly because the company was in the middle of
takeover talks and under severe financial pressure. TBS
agreed to run the special without commercials, and also
agreed to provide Audubon with interim funding for the
specials until it could line up a new sponsor.
   Last month, after a six-month search, Mr. Palmer got a $3
million commitment from General Electric, already a big
supporter of Audubon's classroom projects. The grant will
fund eight hour-long specials, and GE will also buy
commercial time when the specials appear on TBS. GE says
Audubon will have complete editorial control over the
specials. Though GE and Audubon differ on such issues as
commercial nuclear power -- GE is in the business, which
Audubon opposes -- a GE spokeswoman says the two "don't have
to agree on everything."
   Turner, whose chairman, Ted Turner, is a big booster of
environmental causes, also has agreed to provide a chunk of
the programming budget for specials and feature films. "We
encourage Audubon to take a strong point of view," says Jerry
Hogan, president of Turner Entertainment Networks.
   Though the programs aren't profitable for the company,
"they add to the character and personality of TBS," Mr. Hogan
says. Indeed, TBS has drawn high ratings for Audubon programs
narrated by such Hollywood stars as Michael Douglas and
Robert Redford. Meryl Streep is narrating next month's
special on the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and "Cheers"
star Ted Danson will host a coastal-pollution special
scheduled for October.
   Audubon uses the specials to get viewers involved. Last
month, TBS set up a toll-free "dolphin hot line" through
Western Union for viewers of "If Dolphins Could Talk," about
the mammals' plight with tuna fishermen and pollution
narrated by Michael Douglas. Callers were able to order a
free activist kit and send protest messages to the tuna
industry via a Western Union mailgram for a small fee.
Western Union said the volume of calls it received in the
two-hour period following the show was one of the highest in
the company's history.
   Getting the feature film on elephant poaching produced was
a tougher sell for Mr. Palmer. Several Hollywood studios
rejected the idea before Turner's new TNT cable network
bought it, providing money to hire screenwriters and a
well-known Hollywood producer, Robert Halmi. Turner's Mr.
Hogan says the company is considering releasing the film to
theaters overseas. "The movie is an example of Chris's
entrepreneurial spirit -- coming up with a dramatic movie
that appeals to the viewer as entertainment," he says.
   Mr. Palmer, who was born in Hong Kong and raised in
England, was trained as an engineer and served in Britain's
Royal Navy. A dual citizen of Britain and the U.S., he worked
as an energy adviser for Sen. Charles Percy, then joined the
Carter administration as chief of staff to the EPA's deputy
administrator. He joined Audubon in 1980 as director of
energy and environment, starting the society's television
department in 1984. There, he says, he realized Audubon could
use mass media and new technologies to vastly expand its
message beyond the hard core of about five million to nine
million people on the usual environmentalist mailing lists.
   To reach younger viewers, Audubon is trying to recruit
rock and country stars to make environmental music videos;
the first, featuring a new song by the Grateful Dead, will
make its debut next week. Claude Carmichael, a Wall Street
analyst with a recording background who volunteered to
produce the music videos, says artists can compose a song or
use original material Audubon is having written for the
videos, and draw on the society's extensive library of
documentary footage to accompany their music.
   Mr. Palmer is also promoting a range of educational
programs for schoolchildren and working closely with schools
to train teachers in the use of various Audubon-sponsored
materials. He raised $270,000 to start a computer software
series, Audubon Wildlife Adventures, featuring role-playing
stories about grizzly bears, sharks and whales. A
joint-venture with Lucasfilm and Apple Computer is developing
video-disk-based interactive science programs on
environmental issues. And with Philips, Audubon is producing
so-called CD-interactive products that combine digital audio
disks with visual elements and computer data.
   Audubon is also producing a series of print products,
including Audubon comic books, college textbooks, a series of
children's books that will be published by Bantam Books in
1992 and a companion novel for "The Last Elephant" movie.
John Wiley &amp; Sons Inc. is publishing a series of "Audubon
Perspectives" books that will cover the society's
high-priority issues and include sections on what readers can
do to get involved.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PEOPLE PATTERNS
   ----
   Compiled by the staff of American Demographics magazine
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Ah, Creature Comforts
   For the Home, in Deed
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   THE AMERICAN DREAM of owning a home apparently encompasses
a lot of the things that go inside.
   Homeowners in the U.S. are more likely than renters to
have washers, dryers, dishwashers, and even telephones,
according to a new housing survey from the Census Bureau.
Refrigerators and stoves are virtually universal for both
owners and renters. But only 86% of renters have a phone,
compared with 97% of owners. Homeowners are more than twice
as likely as renters to have washers, 93% vs. 42%.
Eighty-four percent have dryers, compared with 33% of
renters. Over half -- 55% -- have dishwashers, compared with
31% of renters.
   Homeowners have more money to buy such things. They also
have more room for them. Nearly half -- 47% -- of homeowners
have a separate dining room, compared with 24% of renters.
Forty-three percent have two or more living or recreation
rooms, compared with just 9% of renters. To keep this space
comfortable, owners are more likely to have air conditioning
and fireplaces.
   Owners also are more likely to have outdoor space. Fully
83% of homeowners have a porch, deck, patio, or balcony,
compared with 61% of renters. Seventy-two percent have a
garage or carport, compared with 29% of renters.
   When it comes to waste, however, renters are nearly tied
with owners. Thirty-six percent of renters have a disposal in
their kitchen sink, close to the 38% share of homeowners.
                                                                                                       

   Travel Paths Diverge
   With Older Americans
                                                                                                       

   EVERYONE KNOWS that the retired are a good travel market.
But there are different travel segments within the older
population.
   A new study from New York-based Mediamark Research found
that 52% of adults aged 55 and older took a domestic trip of
200 miles or more in the past year, close to the average for
all adults. They make up 26% of the total adult travel
market.
   Most mature Americans are retired, which means they have
the time to take longer trips. They are 10% more likely than
the average adult to go away for one to two weeks, and 50%
more likely to go away for more than two weeks.
   Many of those aged 55 to 59 still work, and they dominate
the short-trip market. Forty-four percent went away for a
week or less, compared with 35% of all older Americans.
People 60 to 64 dominate midlength trips. Seventeen percent
were away for one to two weeks, compared with 14% of all
older Americans. Ten percent of those 65 to 69 were away for
more than two weeks, compared with less than 9% of all mature
Americans.
   The younger segment of the older market is more likely to
travel than the older segment, probably because they have
more money and better health. Twenty-one percent of those
aged 55 to 64 took at least one trip outside the continental
U.S. in the past year, compared with 18% of all mature
Americans.
   There is something of an age limit to traveling. Those
aged 75 and older are less likely than average to travel.
Even so, 41% of these oldest Americans took a domestic trip
in the past year, and a vigorous 12% went abroad.
                                                                                                       

   One Roof Overhead,
   Separate Costs Below
                                                                                                       

   THE OLD SAYING that two can live as cheaply as one is a
slight exaggeration. In fact, two-person households spend 68%
more than one-person households, according to a 1988 Bureau
of Labor Statistics survey.
   It's true that some expenses are more economical when
shared. Two-person households spend just 53% more than
single-person households on housing. In dollar terms, this
comes out to $4,074 per person, compared with $5,335 for
one-person households. Two-person households spend only 48%
more on clothing than single-person households; they spend
$663 per person, compared with $893 for singles.
   Two-person households spend twice as much as one-person
households on health care and on personal insurance and
pensions. They also have twice as many cars on average, and
spend twice as much on transportation, $5,403 compared with
$2,700.
   Alcohol is the only major spending category for which the
old adage is true. The average two-person household spent
$278 on alcohol in 1988. So did the average single-person
household.
                                                                                                       

   Middle Age at 26.1:
   Hispanics Are Youngest
                                                                                                       

   HISPANICS ARE the youngest population in the U.S., with a
median age of 26.1. New Census Bureau estimates for 1989 show
that fully 68% of Hispanics are under age 35, compared with
54% of the general population. Only 5% of Hispanics are aged
65 and older, compared with 12% of the total population.
   Blacks are slightly older than Hispanics. Their median age
in 1989 was 27.7. Sixty-three percent of blacks are under 35,
and 8% are aged 65 and older. Asians and native Americans are
slightly older than blacks, with a median age of 29. Some 61%
are under 35, and 7% are 65 and older.
   Whites are the oldest population group in the U.S., with a
median age of 33.6. Some 53% are under age 35, and another
13% are aged 65 and older. Whites also have a
higher-than-average share of middle-aged people. Thirty-four
percent of whites are aged 35 to 64, compared with 32% of
other races, 28% of blacks, and 27% of Hispanics.
   The young median age of Hispanics is attributed to higher
fertility and immigration rates. Blacks also have higher
fertility rates than whites. Asians have higher immigration
rates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   King's Views on Abortion Got Spiked in Belgium
   ----
   By Paul Belien
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   It seems that if they want to find out more about Belgium,
Belgians ought to read The Wall Street Journal Europe.
   A week ago today, the government of Prime Minister
Wilfried Martens temporarily suspended King Baudouin's
constitutional powers after the latter refused to sign a law
legalizing abortion that had been voted on and approved by
the lower house of the Belgian Parliament. Before the law was
approved by the upper house last fall, The Wall Street
Journal Europe published an article in which I stated that
King Baudouin would not sign the abortion bill. This had been
confirmed to me by reliable sources.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A law in Belgium needs the approval of both houses of
Parliament and the king. The king never refuses to sign a
democratically approved text, but in this case he had
conscientious objections. King Baudouin is a Catholic with
close links to the charismatic renewal movement, and as such
he sees abortion as a form of murder. Furthermore, he and his
wife, Queen Fabiola, are childless and as a result care
deeply for children. "For many years we struggled to fathom
the meaning of this sorrow. But gradually we came to
understand that, having no children ourselves, we have more
room in our hearts for loving all, truly all children," the
king told the nation some years ago.
   A refusal on the part of the king to sign a democratically
approved law might, however, have severe consequences for
Belgium's constitutional order. The king seems to have known
this, and was prepared to take the risk. "I would sooner
abdicate than legalize abortion," he said.
   When, last October, I heard the news about the king's
objections I informed my newspaper's editor in chief. He is
the former spokesman of Prime Minister Martens, still belongs
to the prime minister's inner circle, and often uses the
newspaper as an instrument for the prime minister's Christian
Democratic Party. The Belgian Christian Democrats, although
they opposed the abortion law, were not prepared, for the
sake of their Socialist coalition partners, who favor
abortion, to risk a government crisis over the issue.
   My editor in chief was not interested in the story. The
Wall Street Journal Europe, however, was. It ran my piece on
the king's position and the looming constitutional dispute in
Belgium in its Nov. 1 issue.
   The Belgian newspapers made no mention of the king's
stand. They apparently considered the position of the Belgian
head of state to be something the Belgians should not be
informed of. The Christian newspapers all wanted to keep the
news down, as they all have close links to the Christian
Democratic Party. The Socialist and liberal newspapers did
not like the news, as they favored the abortion legislation.
And Belgium has no neutral newspapers, free of political
partisanship. Which is why for many Belgians the news of the
king's refusal to sign the law might have come as a surprise.
   After the Journal ran my article, my editor in chief told
me I could no longer write for foreign publications as a
journalist of his newspaper.
   I did make one false prediction, however, in my article
for the Journal. I concluded that the king's refusal might
lead to a constitutional crisis. This did not happen. The
politicians just ignored the constitution. Mr. Martens simply
suspended the king's powers for two days and had the
government sign the abortion law instead. In order to do this
the government invoked Article 82 of the Belgian
constitution, which had been used during World War II when
the king was in the hands of the enemy -- the Nazis -- and
the government had taken over the king's powers. Apparently,
the government supposes that the king is in the hands of the
enemy again -- not the Nazis, but his own conscience.
   ---
   Mr. Belien was on the foreign desk of Gazet van Antwerpen.
He was fired after this article appeared in The Wall Street
Journal Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Delta Air Lines Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   DAL TXT
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Delta Air Lines Inc. received a $21.5
million Air Force contract for air transport.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Textron Inc. won a $16.1 million Army contract for the
wide-area mine system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Goodyear to Post
   Sharp Decrease
   In Quarterly Net
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   GT CHV
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Co. will report
sharply lower profit for the first quarter, but expects
results to improve in subsequent quarters, Tom H. Barrett,
chairman and chief executive officer, said after the annual
meeting.
   "We made money" in the quarter, he said, but he declined
to make a specific estimate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, Harry W. Millis, an analyst with McDonald &amp; Co.,
Cleveland, who attended the meeting, said he expects the
company to report first-quarter net of between 25 cents and
50 cents a share. In the 1989 first quarter, Goodyear earned
$94.5 million, or $1.64 a share, on sales of $2.64 billion.
   First-quarter profit was reduced by lower tire demand from
auto manufacturers, which resulted in temporary plant
closings at Goodyear, Mr. Barrett said. "Severe pricing
competition in the North American and European replacement
markets" also cut into profit, he said.
   Mr. Barrett said he doesn't expect Goodyear to close
plants in the second quarter, barring a sudden cutback in
auto production.
   In addition, moves by the Brazilian government to brake
inflation in that country are hurting Goodyear's sizable
subsidiary in that country, he said. And the company is
incurring start-up costs on a tire plant in Canada.
   Furthermore, the company's oil pipeline whacked
first-quarter earnings by about 50 cents a share, he said.
The pipeline's losses weren't reflected in the 1989
first-quarter report.
   The pipeline will produce "a quarterly loss of
approximately 50 cents per share until it is more fully
utilized," Mr. Barrett said at the meeting. "The situation
won't get worse," he said, and "there is hope that it could
improve earnings substantially by 1992."
   The problem, Mr. Barrett said, is that offshore California
oil production isn't sufficient to fill the pipeline, which
was built to move crude oil from California to refineries on
the Gulf Coast.
   Mr. Barrett said after the meeting that Goodyear has
suspended efforts to sell the pipeline because there's no
market for it under present conditions. He said he is hopeful
that further drilling by Exxon Corp. and other producers will
provide additional offshore crude. Furthermore, some
producers, such as Chevron Corp., that currently use tankers
to move West Coast crude may be required to switch to the
pipeline, he said, because of the danger of tanker spills and
other damage to the environment.
   At the meeting he outlined a series of actions the company
has taken to make its tire marketing more efficient and more
effective, including introduction of lower-priced tires
carrying the Goodyear brand. "In the U.S. retail operations
alone, we have reduced our work force by about 800 people,"
he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   If Only Those Guys With Guns
   Had Been Trained the Same Way
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   GOTTINGEN, West Germany -- Looking for a warm and cuddly
playmate for the kids? Elfriede Hesse has just the thing: an
East German guard dog.
   "This is a real family pet," says the Gottingen kennel
director, patting a cowering German Shepherd Dog named
Carina. "She's a little neurotic, but sweet as a puppy and
desperate for love."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until recently, Carina belonged to the 6,000-dog troop
patrolling the "death strip" between East and West Germany.
Along with machine guns, electrified fences and land mines,
the dogs were part of the intimidating machinery that
deterred East Germans from fleeing to the West.
   But in one of the many state secrets leaking out of East
Germany these days, it turns out the Communists' canine corps
was all bark and no bite. "Most of the dogs were just
decoys," says Ulrich Karlowski, an official with West
Germany's Society for the Protection of Animals. "They were
trained to do simple things like sit and run, not attack
people."
   In recent months, the animal society has taken custody of
400 East German border dogs, fearing they might otherwise be
destroyed. Ms. Hesse headed across the border in a convoy of
six cars -- one for each dog she intended to bring back --
because she assumed the animals would be hard to handle. But
the only snarls were from West German border soldiers, who
delayed the convoy so a veterinarian could examine the dogs.
   When their arrival here -- 10 miles from the border -- was
trumpeted in the local press, she was besieged with inquiries
from would-be dog owners. "They all wanted vicious guard
dogs," she says. "What they found were duds."
   Accustomed to being chained, some of the East German dogs
are reluctant even to give chase, preferring to walk in tight
circles. "They seem very frightened when the other dogs
bark," says Ms. Hesse, who so far has placed four of the East
German dogs with local families.
   She herself prefers a West German Rottweiler for guard
duty at the kennel. "Now he might give you a bite," she says
of the fierce-looking creature.
   Aspiring escapees from communism weren't the only ones
fooled by the dogs. An East German border guard named Georg
says he, too, assumed they could tear him to pieces. "I was
scared to walk near them on my patrols," he recalls. "Then I
noticed that none of them even barked at me. It was all just
a bluff."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   America West March Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AWAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- America West Airlines said its March
traffic increased 35.5%, to 941.8 million revenue passenger
miles. A revenue passenger mile is the equivalent of flying
one paying passenger one mile.
   America West said its load factor rose to 65.2%, from
62.4% a year earlier. The airline said first-quarter traffic
increased 35.6% over the 1989 period, to 2.5 billion revenue
passenger miles, and its first-quarter load factor rose to
61.9%, from 59.8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- West Germany's total capital
account deficit narrowed to 5.68 billion marks ($3.35
billion) in February from 9.80 billion marks ($5.78 billion)
in January, the Deutsche Bundesbank said.
   The long-term capital account deficit widened to 19.10
billion marks from 545 million a month earlier, the West
German central bank said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The short-term capital account swung to a surplus of 13.42
billion marks from a deficit of 9.26 billion in January, the
Bundesbank said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Trade Talk Beats Trade Fight
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Trade negotiators from Washington and Tokyo have completed
a pact that even Democratic Senate trade hardliner Max Baucus
of Montana has lauded. Among other things, the Japanese would
agree to loosen the restrictions on creating large retail
outlets, increase government public works spending,
deregulate the nation's distribution system and stiffen
antitrust enforcement.
   The Japanese concessions, which would benefit European
Community traders as well as the two principal nations, is a
continuation of Japanese efforts to lighten up on its
economy. The bureaucratic elites at MITI made a show of
noting the limitations of the agreement, and some U.S.
interests spoke of the need for "monitoring" and
"enforcement" procedures, evoking the world of nuclear
first-strikes and arms-control treaties. At the more sensible
level of the voting public, though, there is strong evidence
that what Americans and Japanese want most is to receive the
full benefits of a free trading system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Japanese electorate has demonstrated a desire for an
open economy that more clearly favors consumers. Overall,
Japanese imports shot up 40% between 1985 and 1988. The
Japanese current account surplus between April 1989 and
January 1990 was down 36.8% from a year earlier. This past
weekend's agreement comes on the heels of Japanese
concessions on the import of supercomputers and satellites.
   Those who want to claim that the recent concessions are a
victory for the Super 301 bludgeon should remember that none
of the other nations named as part of the act have been as
forthcoming. The Japanese have demonstrated how much they
want good relations with the U.S., so much in fact that the
leaders of the Liberal Democratic Party were willing to set
aside their power squabbles to unify behind this deal.
   But as the trade agreements go to the politicians in the
respective legislatures, this progress could be undone. Some
congressional Democrats have apparently decided that the
party can establish its macho credentials by being Ramboesque
on trade.
   If the coming months see a revival of congressional
Japan-bashing in the United States, the Japanese may decide
that concessions don't produce long-term improvements in
relations. They'll conclude, correctly, that Japan-bashing by
U.S. politicians exists mainly to serve domestic political
needs and is unconnected to Japanese behavior. More bashing
or more Super 301 activity would strengthen protectionists in
the Japanese Diet. Japan has its own domestic politics, where
for instance the operators of mom-and-pop stores oppose
opening the kinds of large department stores that will
provide Japanese consumers the imported goods they've been
calling for.
   More than domestic demagoguery threatens the accord. In
the past, U.S. protectionists have been mesmerized by the
trade deficit figures. It seems silly, but it is an article
of faith among many protectionists that any trade surplus is
proof of unfair trade barriers. Congressional leaders have
already declared that this pact will be deemed a failure if
the trade figures worsen in coming months. The figures have
dropped from their highs, mainly because of lessened U.S.
demand. But in the course of normal fluctuations in U.S.
consumption, they could widen again, through no fault of the
Japanese.
   For their part, U.S. negotiators made concessions in
several broad or vague areas, such as the savings rate,
budget deficit and the quality of U.S. education. Of these,
getting the education system back on track would probably
make the strongest contribution to ensuring the
competitiveness of U.S. exporters.
   For now, the important goal is to avoid letting relations
between the U.S. and Japan deteriorate over trade frictions.
With the post-Cold War world evolving and with the political
economy of Europe being transformed daily, this is hardly the
time for the U.S. and Japan to go off in a corner for a round
of trade retaliation. The weekend's agreement suggests that
these two important governments are trying to stay out of
that corner and remain in the business of building a new
world order.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC LABOR LATAM JAPAN FREST EUROP MDEST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   FREE-MARKET PRINCIPLES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A 35-nation East-West economic conference in Bonn
yesterday prepared a document that firmly commits formerly
communist countries to free-market principles.
   The document is to be signed tomorrow at the end of the
four-week long Conference on Economic Cooperation in Europe.
It merges key elements of U.S. and European Community
proposals, both of which focused strongly on East bloc
countries' needs to turn their economies around in Western
fashion.
   According to the communique, the 35 participating nations
-- the U.S., Canada and all European countries except Albania
-- acknowledge that "increased reliance on market forces"
should improve economic performance. In addition, the
communique commits nations to either implement or maintain a
wide range of free-market-style reforms.
   Western delegates said that although the Soviet Union will
sign the document, that country retains some reservations.
"The Soviet Union is not at all as far with its reforms as
its former satellites," said Piet Bukman, minister of foreign
trade of the Netherlands.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN KUWAIT
                                                                                                       

   Kuwait's cabinet approved legislation that for the first
time enables foreign residents to invest in Kuwaiti companies
through investment funds. Kuwait's minister of state for
cabinet affairs, Rashed Abdul-Aziz al-Rashed, said that
non-Kuwaitis, subject to certain rules, will be allowed to
use the funds to invest in local equities and real estate.
Economists and bankers said the measure was part of recent
government attempts to revitalize the local economy. Foreign
workers and their families make up 60% of Kuwait's 1.8
million population.

   DISPOSABLE LIGHTER INQUIRY
                                                                                                       

   The European Community's executive commission has begun an
inquiry into imports of disposable lighters from China, South
Korea and Thailand after receiving a complaint from the
European Federation of Lighter Manufacturers. The federation
alleged that the Asian manufacturers charge less for their
lighters in the EC than they do in their domestic markets; as
a result, the Asians' unit sales in the 12-nation market rose
to 55.7 million in 1988 from 22 million in 1986. The Asians
had 22% of the market in 1988, valued at seven million
European currency units ($8.4 million).
                                                                                                       

   RESTORING FRANCE'S GARDENS
                                                                                                       

   France's Culture Minister Jack Lang launched a $122
million project to restore some of the nation's most famous
public gardens. The project will involve restoring Paris's
Tuileries, which the daily Le Monde recently described as a
dusty repository for unwanted statues. "The idea with the
Tuileries is to make it . . . so beautiful that it gives a
message of hope to a world asphyxiated by pollution," said
Marc Simonet-Lenglart, a gardening historian in charge of the
project.
                                                                                                       

   HELPING SOUTH AFRICA'S BLACKS
                                                                                                       

   Liberty Life Association of Africa Ltd., one of South
Africa's largest life insurers, announced the formation of a
new social foundation to help the black community. The
foundation will, over a period of five years, spend over 100
million rand (about $38 million) in such areas as improving
educational facilities, housing and support for black
entrepreneurs.
                                                                                                       

   SWEDISH MILK BLOCKADE
                                                                                                       

   Heavily subsidized Swedish farmers, fearing a reduction in
government support, blocked milk and other dairy
product-deliveries to shops across the country. A spokesman
for the Federation of Swedish Farmers said farmers picketed
dairy plants, stopped trucks from making regular pickups and
left shops without fresh supplies. He said he wasn't sure how
long the protest would last. Farmers fear that the Social
Democratic government, shifting towards emphasis on high-tech
industries with high export earnings, will decrease
agriculture support.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE MERGERS
                                                                                                       

   In the first three months of 1990, Japanese companies were
involved in a total of 209 merger and acquisition cases,
suggesting that the total for the year could surpass the 660
cases recorded in all of 1989, according to a survey by
Yamaichi Securities Co.
   The survey included mergers and acquisitions by Japanese
corporations domestically and overseas, as well as
acquisitions of Japanese concerns by foreign enterprises.
Japanese companies purchased 126 foreign firms in the period,
according to the report, while foreign companies acquired or
merged with only two Japanese companies.
   The price tag put on M&amp;A activities in the three months
reached 1.075 trillion yen ($6.82 billion), Yamaichi said.
   Japanese companies' overseas M&amp;A activity was strong in
the three months despite the yen's weakness on the
foreign-exchange market, Yamaichi said.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Trash piles mounted at Madrid's Barajas International
Airport as a weeklong strike by janitors continued. The work
stoppage has left hallways and waiting rooms covered with
refuse, prompting the closing of 30% of the airport's
bathrooms. . . . Cuba's Communist Party daily Granma said the
1989-90 sugar harvest was 600,000 tons behind schedule and
appealed for an exceptional effort from sugar workers to save
it from failure.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Advanced Micro Says
   Revenue Was Flat
   In the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   AMD
</CO>
<LP>
   SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- Advanced Micro Devices Inc. said it
expected to post flat first-quarter revenue, lower than the
company had anticipated.
   However, Advanced Micro said an extraordinary gain from a
previously announced technology transfer with Sony Corp.
pushed first-quarter net income above the nine cents a share
it earned in the year-earlier period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Advanced Micro said revenue was about the same as the
$269.6 million the semiconductor concern generated in 1989's
first quarter. It didn't give an estimate for per-share
earnings. The company blamed the revenue results on
lower-than-anticipated prices on chip products, notably
Eproms, a type of chip that is one of Advanced Micro's main
products.
   Advanced Micro has been struggling for many quarters to
overcome problems stemming from a broad slump in the chip
industry and some basic strategic errors. Its results for the
latest quarter mirror the problems encountered by several
other chip makers.
   W.J. Sanders, chairman and chief executive officer, said
orders picked up late in the period, especially in
international markets. He said that increase, coupled with
already-implemented cost cutting measures, should result in
better operating margins in the current quarter.
   In over-the-counter trading yesterday, Advanced Micro
closed at $8.50, down 37.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM May Back
   `Slate' Maker,
   Executives Say
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. is discussing plans
to back Go Corp., a closely held maker of innovative "slate"
personal computers, industry executives indicated.
   The exact nature of the backing couldn't be learned, but
the executives indicated that it will likely include
financial support, and may extend to licensing of IBM's
advanced handwriting-recognition technology. IBM, Armonk,
N.Y., may also consider reselling Go's computers to its own
customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   IBM and Go declined to comment on the arrangement, sketchy
details of which were reported yesterday in PC Week, an
industry newspaper.
   Go, based in Foster City, Calif., is developing a
hand-held computer that users control with an electronic
"stylus" rather than a keyboard. Instead of typing in data
and commands, users write with the penlike instrument on the
computer's display.
   This type of "slate" computer is being touted as the ideal
tool for workers on the move -- delivery people, sales
representatives, and insurance adjusters, for example.
   Grid Systems Corp., a subsidiary of Tandy Corp., Fort
Worth, Texas, already makes a slate computer. Several
Japanese companies have introduced slates that recognize
Japanese characters, and are expected to enter the U.S.
market soon.
   Sony Corp., for example, last month announced a 2.8 pound
book-size slate that it said would create a new computer
market in much the same way the Walkman, its miniature
cassette player, revolutionized the personal entertainment
industry in the early 1980s. For now, the product is
available only in Japan.
   But Go, founded in 1988 by executives from Ashton-Tate
Corp. and Lotus Development Corp., has caught the imagination
of many in the computer industry. That interest has
translated into investment dollars and software promises, and
has also attracted some high-powered talent, such as Dan'l
Lewin, recently lured from Next Inc.
   IBM's involvement will likely enhance Go's ability to set
standards in this emerging industry segment. "If it's true,
it's a real good business decision for both companies," said
Richard Shaffer, editor of Technologic Computer Letter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<LP>
   From a speech by Paul H. Nitze on the occasion of the
inauguration of the new building of the Council on Foreign
Relations in Washington, March 12:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the Council on Foreign Relations to have its own
quarters here in Washington reflects a changed era. In the
'20s and '30s, New York was not only the financial,
industrial and press capital of the country, but prided
itself on being its policy center as well. The State
Department and White House might conduct diplomacy in peace
and raise and command armies in war, but policy was made by
serious people, men with a longer view, i.e. the great men of
finance and their advisers. New York was where they were to
be found. . . . In the postwar years the Council has
continued to represent an invaluable way for many of us
Washingtonians to tap the intellectual resources of the
enormously important New York business and intellectual
community. But the centrality of Washington to the
relationship has increased.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Dow Jones Net Fell
   88% to $24.9 Million
   In the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Dow Jones &amp; Co. said first-quarter net income
fell 88% to $24.9 million, or 25 cents a share, from $200
million, or $1.99 a share, in the year-earlier period, which
included a $164.1 million, or $1.63 a share, gain, from the
sale of an investment in a cable-system operator.
   Excluding the year-earlier one-time gain, net fell 31%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dow Jones, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, said
operating income from its business publications segment rose
20% to $26.2 million from $21.8 million. But the increase was
more than offset by a 35% decline in operating income from
information services, to $35.8 million from $54.6 million.
The decline was attributable mostly to losses from a
foreign-exchange trading service being introduced by the
Telerate Inc. subsidiary.
   Dow Jones noted that the year-to-year first-quarter
comparison for information services operating income is
distorted by the inclusion this year of 100% of the expenses
of developing The Trading Service; a year ago, the service
hadn't begun operation, half its development losses were
being borne by a 50% partner, since bought out, and
Telerate's share of those losses wasn't included in operating
results but was reported as an investment by the equity
method of accounting.
   Dow Jones's first-quarter operating income fell 22% to $62
million from $79.8 million. Revenue rose 5% to $427.1 million
from $406.8 million.
   Net also was reduced by increased interest expense and
goodwill amortization related to Dow Jones's acquisition of
Telerate, completed in January 1990, by a decline in
operating income at the community newspapers segment, and by
a higher effective tax rate.
   Information services segment revenue rose 9% to $184.3
million. Excluding Telerate, revenue from the information
services group, which includes Dow Jones News Services and
Dow Jones News/Retrieval, rose 7.9%.
   Revenue for business publications, which includes The Wall
Street Journal and its overseas editions, Barron's magazine
and other publications, increased 3.5% to $189.3 million;
operating income for the segment showed the third consecutive
quarterly increase. Journal advertising linage in the quarter
declined 3.9%; Barron's linage rose 2.1%.
   Operating income of Ottaway Newspapers Inc., the community
newspapers segment, fell 39% to $4.5 million; revenue
decreased 2.5% to $53.4 million. Advertising linage at the 23
daily newspapers fell 8.8% in the quarter.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Dow Jones closed at $28.875, down 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Insurers Receive Setback in Asbestos Case
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Ellen Joan Pollock
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   OI UICI CI CMAFC FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
INSURANCE (INS)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   In a severe setback for the insurers of former asbestos
manufacturers, a New Jersey state judge ruled that
Owens-Illinois Inc.'s insurance companies will have to pay as
much as $960 million to cover asbestos-related claims against
the company.
   Owens-Illinois sued several of its insurers in 1980 when
they balked at paying the asbestos-related claims. Judge
Erminie Conley of Superior Court in New Brunswick, N.J., on
Friday rejected the insurers' arguments that Owens-Illinois's
policies don't cover asbestos damages. The judge said the
policies cover a combined maximum of $960 million in
property-damage and personal-injury claims. The maximum for
personal-injury claims, which account for most of the damages
being sought in suits against Owens-Illinois, is $620
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gita Rothschild, an attorney for Owens-Illinois, called
the ruling "a total victory. It's a vindication of the rights
of policyholders."
   David D'Aloia, an attorney for two of the insurance
companies, United Insurance Co. and Allstate Insurance Co.,
said, "I was stunned by the ruling. . . . We disagree with
the judge's ruling and are evaluating it for appeal."
   The other companies that were either primary or secondary
insurers in the case are General Reinsurance Corp., Cigna
Reinsurance Co. and Owens Insurance Ltd. Owens, which is a
subsidiary of Owens-Illinois, had entirely reinsured its risk
through the other companies, Ms. Rothschild said.
   The policies would cover suits filed against
Owens-Illinois for damages that came to light after 1977,
which would account for most of the tens of thousands of
asbestos-damage suits pending against the company. Claims
against Owens-Illinois before September 1977 are covered by
the company's previous policies. From 1948 to 1958,
Owens-Illinois made pipe insulation from asbestos, which
causes respiratory illnesses.
   The insurers had claimed their policies didn't apply to
any asbestos health injuries, such as lung cancer, because of
exclusions added to the policies. They also accused the
company of fraud, alleging that Owens-Illinois didn't inform
the insurers of various asbestos-related suits.
   As a result of Judge Conley's ruling, Owens-Illinois would
receive "hundreds of millions of dollars in coverage that
wasn't meant to be included and that wasn't paid for by the
company," Mr. D'Aloia said.
   The judge's decision, however, doesn't mean that any of
the money will go directly to Owens-Illinois. Instead, if
upheld, it would guarantee that insurers will have to pay a
huge portion of settlements and damages awarded in the
company's asbestos cases.
   "All of the money will go to asbestos victims," said Ms.
Rothschild. "The policyholder should get the coverage that it
thinks it is buying. It shouldn't have to fight to get the
coverage that it thinks it has been paying for all these
years."
   ---
   NEW FEDERATED STORES bankruptcy court filing is linked to
possible effort to get back $500 million from banks.
   With Campeau Corp.'s two U.S. retailing units already
under court protection, the units' holding company, Federated
Stores Inc., also filed a bankruptcy-law petition on March
30. While the company presented the filing as a housekeeping
matter, it appears to be more than that.
   By filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
before April 7, the holding company gained a significant
advantage in the event it attempts to get back $500 million
paid to the Bank of Montreal and Bank Paribas on April 7,
1989.
   The payment was made as part of a refinancing of Allied
Stores Corp., a Campeau unit. Under bankruptcy law, an
insolvent company can sometimes get money returned that it
had paid out within a year prior to the Chapter 11 filing. If
Federated had filed for bankruptcy court protection after
April 7, it would have forfeited this possible right.
   In the weeks prior to Federated's filings, creditors of
the two units, Allied and Federated Department Stores Inc.,
had put pressure on the parent's chairman, G. William Miller,
to file under Chapter 11 so that the company -- and hence its
creditors -- might get a crack at the $500 million. "We were
saying that we were concerned and we didn't want to see that
{April 7} date passed," said Lawrence M. Handelsman, counsel
to the Federated bondholders committee.
   While Allied creditors are participating in the Allied and
Federated Department Stores proceedings in Cincinnati, parent
Federated chose to file its own Chapter 11 petition in a
different city: San Francisco. This concerns some creditors,
who may want a role in the fight for the $500 million because
they believe that it ultimately belongs in Allied's coffers.
   If the creditors ultimately decide to sue to get the money
for themselves, they would likely rely on the doctrine of
fraudulent conveyance. In such a suit, anyone damaged when a
leveraged buy-out goes bad can bring suit on the grounds that
the buy-out was designed or destined to render the resulting
company insolvent.
   Bankruptcy lawyers say that the judge in San Francisco
will have separate debtors and creditors to protect. Thus, it
could be more difficult for Allied and Federated creditors to
pursue actions in that court. "I think it's strategy. . . .
It does remove those actions from the main arena {in
Cincinnati}," says a lawyer for Allied creditors.
   Mr. Miller, Federated's chairman, points out that three
other Federated holding companies had earlier filed for
bankruptcy-law protection in San Francisco and that to file
Federated's petition elsewhere would have been "confusing."
   He says he believes that bondholders knew that FSI would
try to preserve their rights and complains that "lawyers like
to stir up activity."
   ---
   PEAT MARWICK WINS VERDICT dismissing $21 million damage
suit in Texas.
   A state court jury in Houston threw out the negligence
case after nearly three weeks of trial. Most such cases don't
get so far because liability insurers often prefer to settle
to avoid the possibility of a big judgment. The insurers
believe many people see accountants as a source of "deep
pockets" to recoup business losses.
   "It's difficult to run the risk, but Peat Marwick felt
strongly in this case," said Cliff Gunter, an attorney in
Houston with Dallas-based Bracewell &amp; Patterson, counsel for
the accounting firm.
   The case reflects a trend in which more investors are
suing accounting firms, claiming they lost money in business
deals by relying on misleading documents prepared by
accountants. Filed in March 1987, the suit was brought by 13
members of a real estate limited partnership known as 320
Associates, which was established for the construction of a
downtown Houston office building. Lenders foreclosed on the
project.
   The plaintiffs, a group of locally prominent professionals
and business people, alleged that Peat Marwick didn't
properly prepare partnership tax returns for 1981. They
contended it negligently misrepresented certain partnership
agreements in the tax returns, causing them to continue
financial commitments they otherwise would have withdrawn. In
a verdict issued last Thursday, the jury exonerated Peat
Marwick.
   "This case was yet another example of the alarming trend
in our society where one party makes a business mistake and
tries to make another pay for it," said Mr. Gunter. Attorneys
for the plaintiffs couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   CHICAGO LAW FIRMS want foreign legal advisers licensed to
consult in Illinois.
   The petition submitted to the Illinois Supreme Court would
allow foreign attorneys to advise corporations based in their
countries about U.S. law. The lawyers also would be able to
counsel U.S. firms on foreign matters. They would not,
however, be permitted to represent clients in domestic cases.
   Nine major Chicago law firms, including Sidley &amp; Austin,
Jenner &amp; Block, Kirkland &amp; Ellis and Mayer, Brown &amp; Platt,
are behind the petition. But it is not an altruistic
endeavor. Chicago lawyers can't practice in some foreign
countries, notably Japan, because foreign lawyers can't work
in Illinois. The firms say the reciprocity problem also
hinders the growth of international business and trade in
Illinois. New York, Alaska, California, Washington, D.C.,
Hawaii, Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Texas already have
rules similar to the Illinois proposal. Wisconsin also is
considering licensing foreign lawyers as consultants. The
Cook County state's attorney's office says it will not oppose
the effort as it did five years ago.
   At that time, the state's attorney's office feared that
unlicensed foreign attorneys would mislead and exploit
immigrants and foreign residents.
   ---
   A CONTEMPT RULING was upheld against an attorney who
refused to identify his client.
   Chipping away further at the attorney-client privilege,
the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta affirmed a
contempt ruling against Jerald W. Newton, a Santa Monica,
Calif., attorney. Asserting the so-called "last-link
doctrine," Mr. Newton refused to reveal the identity of a
client whose fees were paid by a third party. He was asked to
make the disclosure by a federal grand jury in South Florida
investigating money laundering.
   The last-link doctrine protects lawyers from having to
disclose client information which, though not ordinarily
privileged, becomes so because it would be the last link in
proving a crime. The appeals court said that since the "John
Doe" client was already under indictment, he couldn't have
reasonably expected his identity to be kept confidential. Mr.
Newton said he hadn't decided what to do about the ruling.
   The ruling is the second in a month from the 11th circuit
dealing with attorney-client privilege and the doctrine. In
another case last month, Chief Judge Gerald B. Tjoflat said
he would like to see the full panel review the last-link
concept and toss it out.
   The law is developing rapidly in this area. In a Seventh
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals opinion in March, the court
upheld the attorney-client privilege in a case involving a
Chicago lawyer, David Cherney, who refused to reveal who paid
his client's fees.
   Mr. Cherney said that the third party had consulted him
about his own possible involvement in a conspiracy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allstate's Suit in New Jersey
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CIC AET S
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PRINCETON, N.J. -- Allstate Insurance Co. filed a federal
lawsuit challenging New Jersey's recently enacted auto
insurance reform law. The suit says the law adopted in March
deprives Allstate of a reasonable return by forcing insurers
to cover part of $3 billion in losses incurred by the state's
high-risk insurance pool.
   The reform law lowers premiums by 20% and abolishes the
high-risk pool, known as the Joint Underwriters Association.
Three other companies, Continental Corp. of New York, Liberty
Mutual Insurance Group and Aetna Life &amp; Casualty, have also
sued to block the reform plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Female Voice-Overs: Still Hard to Find
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS Z.NES SAA SGP GREY IPG WCRSY
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Sominex wanted to convey a feeling of comfort in its
new TV and radio commercials that premiered in February, it
used a woman's voice to deliver its soothing message.
   "We wanted to get across a lullaby, and a woman's voice is
more comforting," says Sandor Katz, director of brand
management at SmithKline Beecham Consumer Brands, the
manufacturer of Sominex, an over-the-counter sleep aid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unfortunately, that news isn't so comforting to women, at
least those women who make their living as voice-over
announcers for radio and television advertisements.
Television shows are fast breaking down stereotypes of
women's and men's work, say the Screen Actors Guild as well
as casting directors and advertising agencies, but the
lucrative voice-over business is still virtually an all-male
club.
   "Why hasn't advertising changed?" asks Deidre Westervelt,
chairwoman of the women's voice-over committee of the Screen
Actors Guild. "We're still selling hair spray and panty hose.
But many of the people who buy the products that are
advertised by men are women." Men are used more than women
because, Ms. Westervelt says, "it's a tradition."
   In the ad business, male voices are considered more
authoritative. Women are mainly relegated to products such as
cosmetics and feminine hygiene products, although some women
are being used for airlines, usually considered a "male"
product, such as Sabena Airlines.
   "For every ten commercials, only one is voiced by a
woman," says Dan Ingram, a former disk jockey who now voices
commercials and who is a vice president of the Screen Actors
Guild, which represents commercial announcers, among others.
"I want to compete on equal footing with women in auditions.
It's getting a bit better. Auditions are becoming more
asexual."
   Women say they have a long way to go. Several years ago,
the Screen Actors Guild established its women's voice-over
committee in New York to heighten ad agencies' awareness of
the problem.
   Ms. Westervelt monitored two network newscasts as well as
the syndicated "Entertainment Tonight" on a recent evening
and found the scale heavily tilted toward male announcers.
Only one commercial of 14 on the "CBS Evening News" featured
a woman; three out of 15 on "NBC Nightly News" had female
announcers. On the 15 commercials during "Entertainment
Tonight," three were handled by women.
   Of course, there are female celebrities who do well in
commercial announcing, including Sally Kellerman, who starred
in the movie "MASH."
   But the Screen Actors Guild is fighting for the average
announcer. For instance, the union commissioned a study three
years ago in which focus groups heard commercials that were
identical except that one was produced with a male announcer,
the other with a female announcer.
   The audience couldn't determine which was more effective.
"That study is as fresh as tomorrow's newspaper," says Mr.
Ingram. "Not much has changed, unfortunately."
   Casting directors say they try to change things subtly
when approaching a client who specifies a male announcer.
   Joan Lynn, who heads a commercial casting agency, says she
sometimes "sticks one or two women onto a sample audiotape"
that is comprised of men. "Those clients tell me they want a
50-year-old, aggressive, good, rich-sounding man," says Ms.
Lynn. "Sometimes I like to surprise them. Women can be as
memorable as men."
   There are no exact figures to the number of men in
commercials compared with the number of women. But even
creative directors admit to the discrepancy. "Why don't we
have a woman advertising our product? That's a good question
that I don't know the answer to," says William A. Wohlfeil,
vice-president of marketing for NutraSweet. "It's something
to consider."
   One advantage to using women, says Ms. Westervelt, is that
since there are so few used, "the sound of a woman tends to
break through the sameness of all commercials. It cuts
through the clutter."
   ---
   Schering Ad Consolidation
                                                                                                       

   Schering-Plough's Health-Care Products division
consolidated its $60 million to $70 million ad account at
three New York agencies.
   Warwick Baker &amp; Fiore and Della Femina McNamee WCRS, both
current Schering-Plough agencies, were named to handle
additional brands. Cadwell Davis Partners, a Saatchi &amp;
Saatchi agency, was also assigned several brands. Previous
agencies include Messner Vetere Berger Carey Schmetterer;
Bloom Agency; and Ketchum Advertising, which will handle
sales promotion and public relations for some products.
   An executive close to Schering-Plough said total billings
will be more or less shared equally among the the three
agencies. The company handles media buying in-house.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   BACKER SPIELVOGEL: Gordon Summer was named executive vice
president and director of BSB Promotions at Backer Spielvogel
Bates, a new position. Previously, Mr. Summer was a senior
vice president at Einson Freeman, a large sales promotion
agency. Backer Spielvogel, a unit of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi, said
the appointment of Mr. Summer represents the agency's
commitment to further expand its integrated marketing
capabilities.
                                                                                                       

   SAATCHI STAKE: Southeastern Asset Management, Saatchi &amp;
Saatchi's largest shareholder, raised its stake to 14.5% from
13.2%. O. Mason Hawkins, who runs the Memphis, Tenn.,
company, declined to comment, but has said that he doesn't
plan to make a bid for the company.
                                                                                                       

   NESTLE: Lintas: Europe was awarded more than $20 million
in additional Nestle S.A. confectionery business. Nestle
wouldn't say which brands had been assigned to Lintas, an
Interpublic Group agency.
                                                                                                       

   PUERTO VALLARTA: Puerto Vallarta Tourist Association named
Grey Advertising as agency for its $6 million account.
Champney &amp; Associates, Dallas, previously serviced the
account.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southland Agrees to Sell Stores
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   SLCPC MDA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southland Corp. said it signed a definitive
agreement to sell its 56 7-Eleven stores and related
properties in Memphis, Tenn., to Mapco Petroleum Inc., a unit
of Mapco Inc.
   Terms of the transaction weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Troubled Southland, a convenience store retailer that went
private in a 1987 leveraged buy-out, has been selling assets
to repay debt and said it would use proceeds from the
transaction to reduce its long-term bank debt.
   Mapco is a coal, refining and natural gas concern based in
Tulsa, Okla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Top Soviet Aide
   Sees Opposition
   To Market Plan
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The Soviet government expects powerful public
opposition to its plans to switch to a market economy. But
Leonid Abalkin, deputy prime minister in charge of economic
reform, says "there is no alternative" if the U.S.S.R. is to
remain a major world power.
   At a news conference, Mr. Abalkin confirmed that the
government will soon present a package of measures that
includes a sweeping reform of prices, selling off state
industries and revamping the nation's banking system. He also
said the government may buy consumer goods in the West to
ease the pain caused by the measures, but ruled out any quick
moves to make the Soviet currency, the ruble, convertible.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Soviet leadership is expected to announce details of
the package this month, and officials have been issuing
warnings about painful and unpopular measures. Some labor
leaders already say the plans won't be acceptable to the
population, which is accustomed to guaranteed employment and
heavily subsidized food and consumer goods.
   Alexei Sergeyev, an economics professor at the Labor
Unions' Higher School, said the government package may
include a two-year ban on strikes to head off potential
social unrest.
   Mr. Abalkin said the government has already taken the
"strategic decision" to switch to what he termed a regulated
market economy. "The working population will probably resent
it, as will much of the "apparat" (bureaucracy)," he
acknowledged. "But there's no avoiding the opposition, we'll
simply have to face it."
   He stressed that the package will differ considerably from
the economic "shock therapy" adopted by Poland early this
year. The Soviet measures will try to cushion the blows by
tying social benefits to inflation, protecting low-income
citizens and reforming prices in stages, not all at once. "We
want to raise prices but not kill the consumer," Mr. Abalkin
said. "We don't want to bring him to his knees."
   Although he didn't give details, many of the measures he
outlined are similar to ones he proposed last fall. At the
time, his advice was largely ignored by the Soviet government
of Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov, who opted for a much more
cautious economic program that relied heavily on continued
central planning.
   But Mr. Abalkin said the government now accepted the need
to break clearly with the planned economy and move rapidly
toward a market system. "It is impossible to set up an
efficient economy without using market mechanisms," he said.
"Balancing on two stools is impossible."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Savin Expecting
   To Post a Profit
   For 1st Quarter
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   SVB CLRX
</CO>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Savin Corp. expects to report a profit
for the first quarter, compared with a year-earlier loss, as
it began to benefit from placements of its Prism I color
copier, said E.P. van den Boogaard, the copier marketer's new
chairman.
   Savin also announced a long-term supply accord with
Colorocs Corp., which designs the Prism I. And the company
also is still accepting and counting votes from holders of
common shares on four proposals. Savin had asked its
shareholders to, among other things, give the company more
flexibility when paying dividends and to let the company
award certain options.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first quarter, Savin estimates pretax earnings of
$400,000, compared with a year-ago loss of $1.1 million.
Savin declined to disclose the after-tax number, but Mr. van
den Boogaard said it would be printed in black ink. A
year-earlier, Savin had a loss of $930,000, or three cents a
share.
   Savin estimated that revenue advanced 3.3% to $92 million
from $89 million. The first quarter is usually Savin's
weakest, said Mr. van den Boogaard, who took the top post
late last month.
   Mr. van den Boogaard, 46 years old, also is president and
chief executive officer of HCS Technology N.V., an Amsterdam
distributor of facsimile machines, copiers, and computer
hardware and software. HCS recently boosted its voting stake
in Savin to 55% by buying the Savin holding of Colorocs Corp.
Mr. van den Boogaard took the chairman's post from Charles
Muench, president and chief executive of Colorocs.
   At a special meeting last month, Savin presented eight
proposals to shareholders. Holders agreed to cut the par
value on the common and four classes of preferred stock; to
let Savin pay dividends on Series-A preferred in common
stock; to increase authorized Series-C shares; and to make
some changes in a stock-option plan.
   The special meeting was postponed to March 29 and then to
April 20 to allow common-share holders to continue to vote on
proposals to let Savin pay Series-C dividends with more
Series-C; to grant certain stock options; to grant an option
on three million Series-C shares to HCS; and if this third
proposal fails, to grant to HCS as much as $10 million of
common or Series-C stock.
   If HCS receives and exercises the option on the three
million Series-C shares, it would invest as much as $21
million in Savin, increasing its voting stake to 63%.
   The votes that are coming in still largely favor the
proposals, Savin said, declining to provide specific numbers.
The company has said that the initial failure of the four
ballot measures, which require approval from two-thirds of
the common shares, stemmed from the difficulty of getting its
many holders to vote.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Sub-Caucasus Caucus?
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   The future face of affirmative-action policy may be coming
into focus in Pasadena, California. Southern California is
home to tens of thousands of people of Armenian heritage, and
a special Pasadena survey has determined that at least 6,850
of them reside in that town. The $98,000 poll was done
because some in the local Armenian community, which includes
a few highly placed city officials, suspected discrimination
in the broader city work force. So Armenians, at 5.8% of the
population, will be added to the traditional categories --
black, Hispanic, Asian -- in setting quota targets for
hiring. It wouldn't appear, however, that this is a
particularly disadvantaged class -- the same survey placed
the average Armenian household income at $39,000. Also, one
of the Armenian minority, George Deukmejian, is Governor of
the nation's largest state.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ames Stores
   To Report Loss
   For Fiscal 1990
   ---
   Company, Hurt by Results
   At Its Zayre Units, Sees
   A Deficit of $228 Million
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   ADD
</CO>
<LP>
   Ames Department Stores Inc., hurt by the disastrous
results of the Zayre department stores it acquired in 1988,
said it plans to close 74 stores and expects to report a $228
million loss for the year ended Jan. 27.
   Ames, based in Rocky Hill., Conn., said it is negotiating
with its banks for a new credit agreement and has hired
investment advisers "to assist . . . with a restructuring
that will include a capital infusion."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even though the troubled department-store chain had said
it would report a loss for the year, the amount estimated --
which is subject to a final audit -- was larger than
anticipated. The company has blamed disappointing sales at
its Zayre stores for its lackluster performance.
   In fiscal 1989, Ames had net income of $47.2 million, or
$1.20 a share, on sales of $3.36 billion.
   In heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday,
Ames shares recovered to close at $3.25, down 25 cents, after
falling sharply earlier in the day. The loss was disclosed
after the market closed.
   Ames said the loss will include a charge of about $150
million to cover the costs of closing 74 unprofitable stores,
which would reduce the number of stores it operates to 606.
The company had posted a loss of $27.7 million, or 99 cents a
share, for the first nine months of the fiscal year,
indicating that its fourth-quarter loss will be about $200.3
million.
   "The operating loss for the year resulted primarily from
substantially lower than anticipated sales and gross margins
in the former Zayre stores," said Peter Hollis, Ames's chief
executive officer. "The profitability of the original Ames
stores has been maintained."
   When Ames paid $800 million for the 392-store Zayre chain
in November 1988, it had high expectations that it could turn
the chain around. The cut-price retailer, competing against
such chains as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and K mart Corp., had
been battling sagging sales for at least two years prior to
the sale.
   Ames thought it could do a brisk business if it shed the
heavy discounting practice of the former Zayre chain and gave
Zayre a new "every-day low price" pitch. Ames closed 74 of
the chain's worst stores and spruced up the interior decor of
the remaining stores to set it apart from the often
disheveled image many Zayre stores presented. With new paint,
brighter lighting and quicker computerized cash registers,
the stores failed to woo new Zayre customers. The effort, in
part was impeded by a souring economy in the Northeast, where
much of Ames's business is done.
   Still experimenting, Ames last year continued to spiff up
its stores, eliminated the Zayre name and rechristened all
the stores with the more upscale Ames name. Hope was that the
chain would turn the corner last holiday shopping season. To
boost financial results, Ames even opened its doors for
business on Thanksgiving Day. But the new tactic hasn't yet
worked.
   Comparable-store sales for December at the remaining units
acquired from Zayre were down 13%. Sales at the rest of the
chain, however, increased 5%, the company said.
   "We were trying to re-educate the Zayre customer but
weren't as successful as we had anticipated," said Douglas
Ewing, a company spokesman. Results of the fourth quarter and
the year have been disappointing to Ames. "The real picture
began to unfold as we examined our numbers {in recent
weeks}," said Mr. Ewing, "long after we had met with analysts
on Jan. 12." "The size of the loss was not known until
recently when we started getting details of the full fiscal
year. Performance came in well below expectation."
   As recently as this month, most analysts had been
expecting Ames to report a loss of about $10 million for the
year following estimated profit of $12 million for the
quarter. Most weren't expecting a $150 million charge.
   As for the future, Mr. Ewing expressed confidence that the
company would be able to negotiate a new credit agreement
with lending institutions later this month. He declined to
discuss details or comment on whether Ames was in violation
of current lending agreements.
   Ames also said it has retained the investment banking
firms of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and Wertheim Schroder &amp;
Co. to help in a restructuring that will include "a capital
infusion." The company didn't elaborate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Firms Find India's Welcome Mat Frayed
   ---
   New Government Signals
   Coolness to Foreign Investment
   ----
   By Anthony Spaeth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW DELHI, India -- After four months in office, Prime
Minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh seems more intent on undoing
his predecessor's legacy than on establishing a program of
his own, analysts say. In the process, his government is
sending bleak signals to foreign investors.
   Investigations ordered by the new government are putting
pressure on former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, his political
and business allies, and even foreign companies that got too
close to the previous administration.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Singh government hasn't withdrawn the welcome mat for
foreigners that Mr. Gandhi put out in 1984. But its actions
"have not given outside investors reason to have much
confidence," says a Western diplomat.
   In the past four months, Mr. Singh's government has:
   -- Launched investigations into the alleged payment of
bribes to Indians by Europe's Airbus Industrie consortium; AB
Bofors, an artillery-gun-making unit of Nobel Industries
Sweden AB; and Hawaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft, a West German
submarine manufacturer.
   -- Rejected an investment application by Coca-Cola Co.
that the Gandhi government was close to accepting last year.
   -- Announced it would seek to void last year's $470
million settlement by Union Carbide Corp. over the 1984
Bhopal gas disaster.
   -- Accused a Japanese group of paying illegal commissions
to a government corporation and withdrawn the companies'
access to certain projects.
   Some of the investigations could well expose dirty deals.
Charges of corruption hobbled Mr. Gandhi and his party at the
polls last November. Mr. Singh, who ran as a "Mr. Clean"
candidate, vowed to wipe out the perennial grime of Indian
politics.
   But analysts say the Singh government is starting to look
vindictive. And while the actions against foreign companies
don't reflect any stated policies of the government or Mr.
Singh, they do seem to reflect a change in attitude.
   Mr. Singh has cabinet ministers who approve of
multinational investments and those who condemn them. Finance
Minister Madhu Dandavate is a longtime socialist. Mr. Singh
was the architect of Mr. Gandhi's economic liberalizations,
which encouraged foreign investment. But he comes from a
landed-aristocratic background, where anti-business attitudes
are common.
   All of this, taken on top of India's traditional economic
xenophobia, which Mr. Gandhi only dented, is bad news for
foreign investors. "There's a genuine reluctance on this
government's part to entertain too much foreign investment,"
says a New Delhi-based foreign diplomat.
   When Mr. Singh came to power in December, he made a
careful effort to avoid the appearance of vindictiveness
toward his predecessor. It was a lesson he learned from
history. In 1977, when the Janata Party took control of the
government from Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, it arrested
Mrs. Gandhi and appointed a commission to investigate her
alleged abuses of power. The actions backfired: Mrs. Gandhi
was seen by many Indians as a martyr, and that helped her
regain power in the 1980 elections. She was assassinated in
1984 and succeeded in office by her son Rajiv.
   When Mr. Singh took over from Mr. Gandhi, he said he would
let due process take its course and ordered a range of
investigations. The probe into the purchase of the guns and
submarines, simmering scandals that helped turn the elections
in November, are making headway. In late March, a former
civil-aviation secretary and several middle-level managers of
state-owned Indian Airlines were accused of taking bribes
from Airbus Industrie in the purchase of 31 Airbus A-320s.
   Indian newspapers have been cluttered recently with news
of Gandhi-era civil servants being investigated, charged or
dismissed. And in the private sector, the government is
trying to remove the Ambani family, closely connected with
the Gandhis, from the board of a large engineering company it
acquired last year. This could signal an investigation into
all takeovers and stock issues of the past few years, which
could shake the Bombay stock exchange, India's largest.
   During the Gandhi years, India's stock markets boomed, as
did takeovers. The Gandhi government delayed bringing
Western-style regulation to the markets, preferring to keep
control through the Ministry of Finance and government-owned
banks and financial institutions, which have large
shareholdings in many companies. As a result, most big stock
deals that took place in the past five years had approval
from New Delhi, analysts say -- and many might now be
reversed.
   If hard times have arrived for foreign companies in India,
some have probably earned them with questionable business
practices. In March, the government charged a Japanese group
-- made up of such heavyweights as Sumitomo Corp., Sumitomo
Heavy Industries Ltd., Mitsui &amp; Co., Marubeni Corp., C. Itoh
&amp; Co., Mitsubishi Corp., Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. and
NKK Corp. -- with making kickbacks to win two pipeline
contracts. Their punishment: None will get future government
petroleum contracts.
   Union Carbide's four-year struggle to resolve the Bhopal
case seemed concluded in February 1989, when it settled with
India for $470 million. But Mr. Singh made it a campaign
promise to reopen the case. The Supreme Court is now hearing
arguments against the constitutionality of a Gandhi-era law
that made the government sole representative of the victims.
   Last month, the government rejected an investment proposal
by Coca-Cola without giving any reasons. Analysts say it was
reacting in part to Mr. Gandhi's 1988 decision to allow
PepsiCo Inc. to sell its soft drink in India. The Singh
government is also taking a second look at Pepsi's project.
The U.S. Embassy in New Delhi warned the government that
canceling an approved investment is more serious than denying
an investment application.
   Pepsi has already begun selling snack foods and is to
launch its soft drink this month. In Parliament last month, a
member demanded to know if Pepsi had paid kickbacks to the
Gandhi government; a Singh minister said he was unaware of
any kickbacks. But he said the government was investigating
whether Pepsi will be allowed to use its brand name, which
the company had planned to do.
   The wrangling over Coke and Pepsi is reminiscent of the
expulsion of Coca-Cola from India in 1977, which helped erase
India from the foreign-investment map for nearly a decade.
Coke's problems with India began while Mrs. Gandhi was in
power, but the expulsion took place under the Janata
government in 1978. The expulsion was championed by George
Fernandez, once again a powerful minister, who has publicly
stated he wants Pepsi thrown out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Rival Groups Break Off Merger Talks
   In Battle Over Unix Operating System
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW T IBM DEC
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   The two sides in the computer industry's war over the Unix
operating system said they have broken off talks on merging
their groups and have agreed to go their separate ways.
   That represents at least something of a setback for
proponents of Unix, because customers may get confused about
which version of Unix to use and delay any purchases. In
addition, corporate customers will find it inconvenient to
have to deal with two flavors of Unix rather than one --
they're already having enough trouble juggling all the
operating systems, types of hardware and application software
packages on the market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Any trouble could be important, because as Unix has built
momentum over the past couple of years, it has helped change
the rules of the computer marketplace. Unix runs on most
types of computer hardware, so customers who use it aren't
locked in to using one company's hardware, as customers
generally have been in the past. That has given customers new
flexibility; it has also helped drive profit margins on
hardware way down.
   The one drawback for Unix has been that most versions were
slightly different, so programs for one type of hardware
needed to be fiddled with before they could run on another
type. And anything that prolongs that difficulty is a
problem.
   At the same time, the end of truce talks was hardly a
surprise. The Open Software Foundation -- an industry group
that includes International Business Machines Corp. and
Digital Equipment Corp. -- and Unix International -- which
includes American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. and Sun
Microsystems Inc. -- had been sparring for the past two
years.
   It had become increasingly clear in recent months that
they were unlikely to unite. Some of the companies involved
argued, in fact, that the announcement will help sellers of
Unix-based systems because it will finally get customers to
stop focusing on the two sides' on-again-off-again
negotiations.
   "Now that this whole thing is behind us, maybe we can
focus on the real issues," said Scott McNealy, chief
executive officer of Sun Microsystems, a maker of
workstations that has been one of the major figures in the
Unix wars. He said that it was "absolutely fanciful thinking
that we'd ever get down to one of anything," and that the
real competition is Unix against other operating systems, not
one version of Unix against another.
   The Open Software Foundation said talks broke off partly
because Unix International and AT&amp;T's Unix development arm
refused to turn control of Unix over to the industry. The
Open Software Foundation had been formed largely because of
concern that AT&amp;T, the originator of Unix, and its ally Sun
had too much control over the Unix marketplace because they
controlled the development of the basic Unix software.
   OSF also said it decided that its version, to be finished
late this year, was clearly superior to the latest AT&amp;T
version on the market. That is especially true, OSF said, in
terms of the system's security and its ability to run on
hardware with more than one central processor.
   Unix International said talks broke off because OSF was
pulled in too many different directions by its numerous
members. Unix International also disputed the idea that there
was much difference in the technology, saying it would be
able to deliver at about the same time as OSF the features
that OSF claimed as advantages.
   Both sides were quick to claim victory. Unix International
members argued that they have built up too much momentum to
be overtaken, because they already have their next-generation
version of Unix in the marketplace, while OSF has run into
delays. OSF members noted their impressive membership list,
whose importance was underscored yesterday when several
announced that they were increasing their financing of OSF to
ensure its success.
   Whether one will gain a significant advantage probably
won't be clear until after OSF members start selling systems
based on its version of Unix, a year from now. But other
computer-industry fights like this have ended in draws
lately, and it seems likely that this one will, too.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Cosmetics Firms Making Little Effort
   To Cooperate With FDA, Report Says
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<CO>
   AVP
</CO>
<IN>
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The cosmetics industry is making little
effort to comply with the Food and Drug Administration's
voluntary regulations, the General Accounting Office said.
   According to a GAO report, fewer than 40% of cosmetics
manufacturers and packers have registered their plants with
the FDA, and fewer than 4% filed reports with the agency
about product-related injuries. Both figures are slightly
below those measured by GAO in 1978, when the congressional
watchdog agency last did such a study.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FDA is authorized by law to oversee cosmetics, but its
power over the $18 billion-a-year industry is limited. It
doesn't have the authority to approve or disapprove new
cosmetics, as it does with drugs. Nor does it have the power
to require cosmetics companies to register products and
submit information on product-related injuries. Instead, the
FDA asks companies to submit this information voluntarily.
   "People call up and say, `Why don't you do this? Why don't
you do that?'" says Dr. Heinz Eiermann, who heads the FDA's
cosmetics division. "All these questions are raised, which
are made on the assumption that we have all the authority to
get information or require manufacturers to do the testing,
which we don't have."
   Each year, the FDA receives around 250 consumer complaints
about cosmetic products, most of them involving allergic
reactions.
   The bulk of consumer complaints are made to the companies
themselves. Avon Products Inc., which sold 420 million units
of cosmetics in the U.S. last year, received 102 complaints
-- all allergic reactions. None of these were
life-threatening, and all were reported to the FDA, according
to a company spokesman.
   The GAO found that many cosmetics manufacturers refuse to
disclose the results of safety tests to FDA inspectors. But
Michael Petrina, vice president for legislative relations at
the Cosmetic Toiletry and Fragrance Association, said he knew
of no instances where the industry had refused cooperation on
"serious safety questions." Mr. Petrina said cosmetics
companies are less cooperative when FDA inspectors on routine
inspections decide to go on a "fishing expedition."
   Mr. Petrina cited a letter sent last year by former FDA
commissioner Frank Young praising the industry's willingness
to submit data on consumer hazards "of broad public concern."
   Rep. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.) disagrees. "This industry seems
to be unaccountable," says Rep. Wyden, who headed hearings on
cosmetics regulation in 1988 and commissioned the GAO report.
Rep. Wyden plans to submit legislation to require cosmetics
companies to register with the FDA and disclose safety tests
and injury reports.
   Mr. Wyden also called for the FDA to review 884
potentially toxic ingredients found in cosmetics. According
to the GAO report, industry researchers see "no major safety
concerns" with any of them.
   ---
   Kathleen Deveny in New York contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arch Petroleum Credit Line
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ARCH
</CO>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- Arch Petroleum Inc. said it received
a $25 million revolving credit line from BankOne Texas, a
unit of Banc One Corp. The credit line will be used for oil
and gas property acquisitions and drilling activities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Beating the Clock:
   Was It an Accident
   Chernobyl Exploded
   At 1:23 in the Morning?
   ---
   Science Resets Body Rhythms
   To Help Folks Stay Alert,
   Fall Asleep or Be Happy
   ---
   Light and a Pinch of Melatonin
   ----
   By Glynn Mapes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   Is it coincidence?
   The nuclear power plant accident at Three Mile Island took
place at 4 a.m., with a crew that had just rotated from the
day shift to night work.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Chernobyl reactor exploded at 1:23 a.m.
   And it was shortly after midnight when shift workers at
the Bhopal chemical plant began the chain of errors that led
to the fatal poisoning of more than 2,000 people.
   That these industrial disasters all occurred in the wee
hours of the morning wasn't a matter of chance but, rather,
biology, according to a growing band of scientists known as
chronobiologists. These researchers -- physicians,
psychologists, physiologists and mathematicians -- study the
mysterious biological rhythms that govern everything from
alertness and sleep to hormone production and body
temperature.
   The chronobiologists' goal is ambitious: They seek the
ability to reset the human body clock, whenever work or
travel knocks it out of synch with its surroundings. Their
findings could help the important worker who can't afford to
doze off on the night shift and who doesn't want to spend
sleepless mornings staring at his bedroom ceiling, unable to
fall asleep. They could help the executive who flies through
six time zones one day and, two days later, snoozes at a
board meeting.
   "People are nodding off in the workplace, on the highways,
in the cockpits," says Martin Moore-Ede, the director of
Boston's Institute for Circadian Physiology, a nonprofit
research outfit that focuses on alertness problems of
shiftworkers. "It's a fundamental mismatch between man, who
sleeps at night, and a high-tech world that expects him to be
as alert at 4 a.m. as he is at 10 a.m."
   Though chronobiology has blossomed as a science only in
the past 10 years, its practitioners have already had an
impact. They have developed new ways of scheduling labor to
ease the demands of shift work in the petrochemical and
utility industries, in nursing and in police work.
Chronobiologists have found that administering anti-cancer
drugs at certain times of the day makes them far more
effective and increases a patient's tolerance for strong
doses. And they are working on new ways to improve the
disturbed sleep patterns of the elderly.
   Chronobiologists have even come up with a remedy for jet
lag. Harvard Medical School researchers last year were able
to show that the body clock is profoundly affected by light
and darkness and can be reset -- to any new time zone -- by
precisely timed exposures to bright light. The researchers
use high-intensity fluorescent lights, but they say airline
passengers can accomplish much the same thing simply by
spending certain hours in daylight at their destinations.
   The scientific work concentrates on a tiny group of nerve
cells just behind the eyes known as the superchiasmatic
nuclei (SCN), along with the pineal gland, a pea-sized organ
located a few centimeters deeper in the brain. Together, they
make up the biological clock, or, as the scientists call it,
the circadian pacemaker. (Circadian, from the Latin "circa"
and dies, means "approximately a day.")
   French philosopher Rene Descartes called the pineal gland
the seat of the soul. And until just a few years ago, no one
had a better idea of its function; physicians considered it a
useless, vestigial organ. Now it has become fashionable, the
subject of textbooks and conferences. The pineal receives
information on the day-night cycle from the eyes, via the
SCN, and at the appropriate time pours a sleep-inducing
hormone called melatonin into the bloodstream. The change
from light to dark, or the reverse, is a time cue. Darkness
starts melatonin production; bright light shuts it off.
   It turns out the human clock is a poor timekeeper, running
at a rate of 25 hours a day in most people. Accordingly, it
must be reset daily by strong time cues such as the
light-dark cycle, or by other, weaker cues -- meal time,
periods of activity, regular social interaction. The body
accomplishes this resetting readily -- unless a worker should
happen to be trying to stay awake at 2 a.m. when all the time
cues tell him he should be in bed. Or unless a jet setter has
just flown nonstop from New York to Tokyo and knocked his
body clock out of synch with his surroundings.
   The natural, 25-hour "day" helps explain a curiosity
noticed by nearly all frequent fliers: Less sensation of jet
lag flying west than flying east. Heading west lengthens the
day, or retards the body clock, which is already running late
on its 25-hour cycle. But heading east shortens the day and
advances the body clock, fighting its natural slow-poke
tendency. Thus, on a trip west it is easier to stay up late
the first day, go to sleep at the local time and then adhere
to local schedules. East-bound fliers, on the other hand,
find it difficult to fall asleep earlier than their body's
normal sleep time and hard to function the next few mornings
at an hour when they would normally be sleeping.
   A 1988 survey of 800 long-haul air travelers conducted by
Upjohn Co. found that 94% suffered symptoms of jet lag, with
48% describing them as severe. They feel sleepy during the
day, are sleepless at night; they concentrate poorly and have
digestive upsets. The group fought jet lag by avoiding
alcohol on the flight (28%), adopting the sleeping hours of
their destination before embarking on the trip (18%),
exercising daily after arrival (21%) or resting a few days
after arrival (26%).
   Chronobiologists don't quarrel with trying the first three
tactics, but resting is a mistake, they believe. Recent
research in Canada suggests that exercise acts as a time cue
to resynchronize circadian rhythms. Better yet, the experts
say, get the exercise during daylight -- in the midmorning
when you have flown east, in late afternoon or early evening
for a westward flight. Light in the mornings of the new time
zone stops melatonin production, advancing the body clock for
eastward travel; light in the afternoon or early evening
delays the onset of melatonin and thus retards the clock for
a westward trip.
   "The secret is to be immediately active in the new time
zone and to be outside at the right time," says James
Waterhouse, a chronobiologist at England's University of
Manchester. "Strengthen every time cue you can find."
   Direct sunlight isn't necessary for resetting the body
clock; outdoor light no brighter than that found an hour
after dawn will do the job. But what happens if light is
needed after the sun goes down?
   Artificial light is an obvious answer, and
chronobiologists are looking to find practical and economical
ways to deliver it to the body clock. Fluorescent-light boxes
already are widely used to treat a type of winter depression
called seasonal affective disorder, or SAD. They're about the
size of suitcases -- not exactly something one would take
along on a business trip. One possibility: more-compact boxes
and light-delivering goggles that could aim light into the
periphery of the retina while the wearer is reading or doing
paper work.
   Another approach under study is to put the lights in
airplanes or in hotels or conference centers. Harvard Medical
School Prof. Charles Czeisler, considered to be at the
forefront of bright-light research, says he is talking with
two airlines about installing light units.
   Further in the future is a possible jet-lag pill
containing the melatonin hormone itself. Josephine Arendt, a
chronobiologist at the University of Surrey in England, has
been publishing research since 1984 showing that melatonin,
which has no known adverse side effects, alleviates many of
the symptoms of jet lag and helps reset the body's sleep-wake
cycle to new time zones. Recently she started administering
melatonin to men at Britain's Antarctic research base, where
the sun disappears for three months every winter, disrupting
everyone's circadian rhythm.
   Some other chronobiologists have reservations about oral
melatonin; they feel it might improve sleep patterns simply
because it is a soporific. They agree it could use more
study.
   Jet-lagged travelers and shift workers whose schedules
keep changing suffer from the same problem -- out-of-phase
body clocks -- but shift workers are much worse off. The
standard shift rotation in the U.S. is to work a week of
days, followed by a week of nights, then a week of evenings.
In between, rotations usually entail having a few days off --
and, then, workers naturally try to get back on the same
sleep-wake schedules as their families and friends. It is
like spending a week in Denver, a week in Paris and a week in
Tokyo, says Dr. Moore-Ede of the Institute of Circadian
Physiology, adding, "We're talking perpetual jet lag."
   Studies show that shift workers -- at last count some 21
million in the U.S. -- are far more prone than day workers to
heart attacks, ulcers, depression and serious sleep
disorders. On average, they also perform much more poorly on
the job, sometimes drifting off into what researchers' jargon
calls "episodes of microsleep."
   Changing the direction of shift rotation is one
improvement recommended by chronologists, and it is catching
on fast in industry. They suggest switching to a clockwise
rotation, or day-evening-night, from the more-usual
counterclockwise rotation of day-night-evening, thus taking
advantage of the biological clock's natural drift to later
hours. Surveys at companies that have made the change suggest
that workers adapt 50% faster to clockwise-rotating shift
changes, and that productivity rises while accident rates
fall. Specialists also recommend that workers stay on a
particular shift for more than a week at a time, so as to
give their circadian rhythms more time to stabilize.
   But the hottest research in chronobiology today is in
seeking ways to rearrange the circadian rhythms of
night-shift workers by using pulses of bright light. This
differs from bright-light treatment for jet lag, where the
goal is to synchronize a traveler's circadian rhythms to a
new local time. For workers, the idea is to move the
circadian low point -- the trough of body temperature and
alertness that normally occurs between four and five in the
morning -- to a time when workers are off duty and trying to
sleep. That would keep people more alert on the night shift
and also help them get to sleep during the day.
   Several teams of chronobiologists are developing so-called
bright-light work stations. These might be banks of
wide-spectrum fluorescent bulbs clustered around the gauges
or video monitors a control-room operator must watch by
night. A four-hour pulse of bright light on the first
night-shift could well be enough to move the circadian low
point into the daytime hours -- and keep it there until the
worker is back on day shifts. During the light treatment, a
worker could do his usual job, or catch up on paper work. "It
wouldn't be much different from reading a book outdoors,"
says a researcher.
   This sort of bright-light treatment would be practical
only for the minority of shift-workers who have sedentary
jobs, such as monitoring a factory-control panel. But, the
scientists point out, that is just the sort of employee who
is in a position to cause, or prevent, a meltdown.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Eastman Kodak
   Is Pulling Plug
   On Its Ultralife
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   EK MC
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eastman Kodak Co.'s highly touted Ultralife lithium
battery, which was supposed to last 10 years on the shelf,
lasted only four years.
   Kodak said it would stop production by June 30 of the
nine-volt lithium battery, which was introduced amid much
fanfare in 1986 but has been plagued with problems. Despite
the move, the photographic, chemical and pharmaceutical
concern still maintains that its lithium battery is a
technological breakthrough.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kodak is continuing to market its line of Supralife
alkaline batteries, but some analysts believe Kodak will
ultimately get out of the highly competitive consumer battery
business altogether because it hasn't been that profitable.
   The Ultralife battery never caught on with consumers,
partly because its nine-volt size restricted its use; it
represents less than 1% of Kodak's battery sales. In
addition, Kodak had difficulty breaking into a market
dominated by such strong brand names as Duracell and
Eveready.
   "The investment necessary to grow the {Ultralife} market
just wasn't consistent with our financial objectives," said a
spokesman at Kodak, which is in the midst of a cost-cutting
program.
   When Kodak entered the consumer battery business four
years ago, it bragged that its Ultralife lithium battery had
a 10-year shelf life and would last twice as long as its
alkaline counterparts. Ultralife was to be the flagship
battery in a line that also included Japanese-made alkaline
batteries sold under Kodak's Supralife brand.
   Ultralife was the industry's first mass-market lithium
cell, setting Kodak apart from other battery makers.
Previously, longer-lasting lithium batteries had been largely
limited to cameras and hearing aids; lithium hadn't gained
wide acceptance because it's highly combustible. Kodak
overcame that problem by patenting a safety mechanism that
would shut down the cell if it short-circuited.
   But Ultralife, which is mostly used in home smoke
detectors and garage door openers, failed to spark the
battery market. Introduction was delayed until 1987 because
of production problems. Then in 1988, Black &amp; Decker Corp.
pulled thousands of flashlights off store shelves and stopped
shipment on the new line of smoke detectors that carried the
Ultralife after Kodak discovered an unexpected buildup of
material that affected its shelf life. Kodak remedied the
problem quickly, but the snafu hurt the credibility of Kodak,
which is based in Rochester, N.Y.
   Furthermore, there isn't a big demand for the nine-volt
size, which accounts for less than 10% of unit volume and 15%
of U.S. dollar sales of batteries.
   In fact, Duracell decided against making a nine-volt
lithium battery. "We considered it, but you don't need 10
years in such low-drain applications," like smoke detectors,
contends Charles Perrin, president of Duracell North America.
"It doesn't provide a real value to consumers." Duracell,
which was acquired in a leveraged buy-out by Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts &amp; Co., is the world's largest maker of lithium
batteries.
   Kodak said it will maintain its Ultra Technologies plant
in Newark, N.Y., to package the Supralife alkaline batteries.
While it isn't clear whether there will be any write-offs,
Kodak said it doesn't expect any layoffs.
   The Supralife batteries are made at a plant in Columbus,
Ga., that's co-owned by Matsushita Electric Inc. Kodak says
that it is committed to that business, and that Supralife was
the fastest-growing brand of batteries in the U.S. in 1989,
albeit from a small base. "We did meet our expectations for
1989, and we're looking for a good 1990," a Kodak spokesman
said.
   Peter Enderlin, an analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham
&amp; Co., noted that Kodak has had fairly good sales, but
difficulty getting market share. Indeed, the latest industry
figures, for November and December, show Kodak with a 7.6%
brand share of alkaline batteries in food, drug and mass
merchandise outlets. That compares with Rayovac's 8.7%,
Eveready's 35.9% and Duracell's 41.5%. Kodak's share had been
as high as 8.5% in May and June of last year. Alkaline
batteries represent about 82% of the $2.7 billion U.S.
battery market.
   "I think the whole business has been a disappointment to
them," said Mr. Enderlin. "I think they would like to sell
the rest if they could." Kodak has already consolidated its
once separate battery business and sales force into its
consumer imaging division.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Kodak shares closed at $39.75, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR XON
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   S&amp;L AND BANK EXECUTIVES face tough times in the job
market.
   Government takeovers, liquidations and mergers spawn too
many job hunters for too few slots, says placement specialist
Ken Richardson, a Bethesda, Md., placement man. Randy Hill,
now a partner at search firm Heidrick &amp; Struggles, says job
placement for bank and thrift managers is "way down" -- by
50% in the past six months at his former firm. "I have four
resumes on my desk from guys who made $100,000 or more," a
Mellon Bank official says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But high-paid "turnaround" experts, who revive failing
S&amp;Ls, are in big demand, says search firm Korn/Ferry
International. Resolution Trust Corp., the bailout agency,
"is sucking up most of the good liquidators," it says.
Regulators also want to place thrift wizards at
government-run S&amp;Ls, says search firm Spencer-Stuart.
   The job pinch forces many executives to change careers,
says placement firm Carrington Sloane Associates.
                                                                                                       

   SERVICE FIRMS STRUGGLE to measure and boost productivity.
   For most, gauging "output" per bank, hotel or office
worker is tricky, but they try harder. Olsten Corp., a
temporary-help firm; Avis, and Rosenbluth Travel, in
Philadelphia, survey customer views as a productivity proxy.
Meridian Bancorp. uses such results to urge employees to
respond better on the phone and focus on customers' special
needs. Rosenbluth measures how fast phone calls are handled.
   Uno Restaurant Corp. controls eatery staffing closely.
Sonesta International Hotels tries to curb turnover by giving
workers good food and clean locker rooms, but says it can't
make bellhops "work twice as fast." Quality Inns tracks
minutes to clean a room and meals served each hour; it
monitors reservationists, who turned 34.7% of calls into
bookings in 1989, up a bit from '88.
                                                                                                       

   THE PLOT THICKENS in the retiree age-bias controversy.
   Legislation is afoot to overturn a 1989 Supreme Court
ruling that gave employers wide leeway to restrict retiree
benefits. The ruling reversed an appeals court decision
favoring June Betts, who had to retire at 61 after six years
as an Ohio speech pathologist because of Alzheimer's disease.
She was over 59, so the state denied disability.
   On remand, the appeals court has ruled for Mrs. Betts
again, saying she was involuntarily retired. ERIC, an
employer group, says the "Older Workers" bill now isn't
needed. But its backers, saying the latest court ruling won't
hold, want a return to the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission's pre-Betts policy of allowing lower benefits for
older workers only if equal benefits mean higher costs than
for younger ones.
   The EEOC was litigating 32 retiree age-bias cases when the
high court ruled; many cases were dismissed.
                                                                                                       

   GETTING THE MESSAGE: As OSHA gears up for a bigger attack
on workplace cumulative trauma disorders, such as injury from
repeated wrist and arm motions, the Jefferson Group lobbyists
will urge a corporate coalition to tackle the problem.
                                                                                                       

   SUBSIDIZED MORTGAGES will be expanded from high-paid
faculty to include University of Pennsylvania junior faculty
and clerical, maintenance, nursing and technical staff. The
college's $3 million program will initially offer 8.35%
loans, nearly two points below the market.
                                                                                                       

   A MIGHTY TASK faces a coal-mine health-cost commission
named by Labor Secretary Dole, an Employee Benefit Research
Institute report suggests. It shows that Mine Workers'
benefit-funds' medical costs in 1988 were as much as 150%
higher than those of the average U.S. employer; retirees bear
a low share of expenses, and grandchildren are covered, EBRI
notes.
                                                                                                       

   "OPEN WINDOW" early retirement plans were offered since
1983 by 54% of 145 large firms polled by consultant Towers
Perrin, and some 25% more may do so this year. The plans
typically give employees 55 or older a month or so to accept
enhanced offers to leave early. But the age-bias bill may
keep windows shut, Towers warns.
                                                                                                       

   OIL-SPILL CLEANUPS still protect workers poorly, unions
say.
   Over 1,000 untrained workers were sent to clean up the
recent spill off Huntington Beach, Calif., says the Laborers'
union; finding trained people quickly was difficult, OSHA
says. With the Alaska cleanup of last year's Exxon Valdez
spill to resume May 1, Exxon's training falls short of legal
requirements, the union says. Exxon says that it and state
and federal officials agree that it will meet OSHA training
rules this year.
   A team headed by former OSHA chief Eula Bingham, sent to
Valdez a year ago by a Laborers' health fund, found
inadequate protective gear and worksite hygiene; it said
workers wore oil-soaked clothing and had oil on their faces
and hands. Workers compensation claims soared. Breathing
protectors often aren't provided for many spills, the
Operating Engineers union says.
   Oil and its vapors can cause nausea, breathing difficulty,
rash, kidney and nervous-system damage, and cancer.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: 9to5, National Association of Working Women,
starts a contest for stories of good and bad bosses. . . .
Two-tier pay contracts rose to 6% of new labor pacts last
year from 5% in 1988, reversing a three-year decline, the
Bureau of National Affairs says. . . . Ben Burdetsky, a
George Washington University labor-relations professor, gave
seminars for South Korean employers and labor leaders before
their annual bargaining this month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OPEC Output Rose in March
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANAMA, Bahrain -- Crude oil production by the 13-member
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries totaled
24,090,000 barrels a day in March, up from 23,620,000 barrels
daily in February, according to estimates published by the
Cyprus-based oil industry newsletter Middle East Economic
Survey.
   The newsletter said the March output is marginally higher
than last year's monthly peak of 24 million barrels a day,
recorded in December, and represents the highest monthly OPEC
production since 1981.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   OPEC production averaged 23,660,000 barrels a day during
the first quarter, roughly level with the 23.7 million
barrels a day recorded during the final quarter of 1989, the
newsletter said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CBOT Seat Is Sold
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A seat on the Chicago Board of Trade was sold
for $324,000, up $4,000 from the previous sale last Friday.
   Seats currently are quoted at $315,000 bid, $325,000
asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The record price for a full membership on the exchange is
$550,000, set Aug. 31, 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Exodus of Talent
   From Hong Kong
   Crimping Business
   ----
   By Christopher Hunt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Taking his parents' advice, Simon To obtained
a British passport in the days when it was still easy for
Hong Kong Chinese to do so. He then returned to this British
colony, safe in the knowledge that he could run his business
unimpeded by worries about his future.
   Or so he thought. The trouble is, everyone else now seems
to have the same idea. And the scramble for foreign passports
is making Mr. To's business life miserable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. To, the 38-year-old managing director of Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd.'s China-trade division, says every one of his
managers has left or plans to leave. Though he believes that
local people can better handle China business, he is forced
to hire expensive expatriates to fill the openings.
   Emigration is nothing new for Hong Kong families, many of
whom -- including Mr. To's parents -- fled to the colony to
escape communist rule in China. The rate began rising sharply
in 1986, in the wake of the British-Chinese agreement for
China to resume sovereignty over Hong Kong in 1997. Just as
that flood appeared to be ebbing in 1989, Chinese troops
opened fire on their countrymen June 4.
   The bloody suppression of student-led demonstrations in
Beijing and doubts about the colony's future constitution are
widely viewed as having encouraged this year's expected
record number of departures from Hong Kong. The government
estimates that about 55,000 people will emigrate this year --
many of them trained professionals with marketable skills
abroad -- up from 42,000 in 1989.
   "June 4 and what has followed changed a lot of people's
views," says a banker. "All of the assumptions for the next
decade are gone."
   That is creating huge problems for this capitalist
colony's business sector.
   One example is Bank of East Asia Ltd. Last year, K.M.
Chan, the head of the bank's finance and investment
subsidiaries, resigned to go to Canada. Mr. Chan had groomed
a successor -- but he also quit, to take a more lucrative job
as a securities regulator. Mr. Chan's job ultimately went to
an accountant who had been with the bank for only three
years.
   Vacancies are being created as more people move from one
job to another in Hong Kong. Some people are changing jobs
for more money, others to increase their chances of obtaining
a foreign visa.
   Mignonne Cheng achieved both goals. After 18 years in Hong
Kong with Chase Manhattan Bank, where she was a middle-level
executive, Ms. Cheng left in February to join Banque
Nationale de Paris in Hong Kong. She received a substantial
raise, a guaranteed bonus and a promise of a French passport.
   "We can no longer count on replacing people within the
Hong Kong market," says the head of a multinational company's
local office. "And because people are talking to each other
about emigration instead of talking to the clients, there's a
loss of productivity."
   Managers are devoting more time to recruiting and internal
restructuring. The loss of experienced personnel is reducing
efficiency. And because wages are rising faster than profits,
many companies are seeing their profit margins shrink.
   "The brain drain and rising costs are forcing people to
reconsider whether they should be in Hong Kong," says Mark
Michelson, an executive at Business International
Asia/Pacific Ltd., a consultant to multinational companies.
"It doesn't mean a lot of companies are moving, but more are
thinking about it."
   To be sure, Hong Kong isn't the only Asian city facing a
shortage of skills; companies throughout the region are
complaining of how staffing problems are blocking expansion.
"There's a short supply of people wherever you go in Asia,"
says John Chua, managing director of Asia-Pacific operations
for U.S.-based software-maker ASK Computer Systems Inc.
"That's a reflection of the boom times out here." Still, the
problems facing Hong Kong's companies are unique.
   Because of the limited capacity of other countries to
accept Hong Kong residents, annual emigration probably never
will represent more than a fraction of Hong Kong's 5.7
million population. Even so, the flow of departures is
damaging because so many of the emigrants are skilled.
   "The work force of any economy is enhanced by the talent
of its managers," says Simon Murray, Hutchison Whampoa's
managing director and a member of Honour Hong Kong, a group
of businesses and professional organizations trying to
restore confidence in the colony. "If there's an erosion of
that talent, then there's an erosion of the product." A
recent study by Price Waterhouse Management Consultants says
that emigration could slow the growth of Hong Kong's economy
by as much as 45% by 1997.
   "Clearly, {emigration} figures are serious, and I would
not wish to pretend otherwise," says Donald Tsang, the
government's director of administration. "But they must be
put in perspective." Aside from the fact that other countries
limit immigration, Mr. Tsang says Britain's plan to offer the
right of abode to 50,000 skilled Hong Kong professionals and
their families will keep a brake on emigration.
   Many businessmen don't expect Britain's offer -- which
faces an uncertain future in Parliament -- to stabilize the
outflow. China says it won't recognize foreign passports as
protection for ethnic Chinese in Hong Kong. Nor are
businessmen consoled by the Hong Kong government's promise to
produce more university graduates to offset the brain drain.
   The business executives say there is little hope of
resolving the immediate consequences of rising emigration:
the loss of experienced personnel, an increasing number of
mistakes caused by their inexperienced replacements and lost
business opportunities because knowledgeable executives are
leaving. The situation is compounded by the prospect of years
of unstable management and falling profits resulting from the
need to raise wages and increase training.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   We Don't Spend It Till We Get It
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<LP>
   Thank you for conceding the important differences between
New York's fiscal problems and those of Massachusetts
("Cuomo's Ghost," Review &amp; Outlook, March 22).
   In analyzing New York's budget policies, you also
acknowledged that New York must address extraordinarily
serious social problems, such as AIDS and drug abuse.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With agreement on those important points, we differ only
with your commentary regarding the figures you cite.
   You stated New York's spending rose by 104% during Gov.
Mario M. Cuomo's first seven years in office. That figure is
simply inaccurate. The actual increase in New York's spending
supported by state taxes during that period, according to the
National Association of State Budget Officers, was 69%. That
was below the average state budget increase of 71% for the
period. Even if federal aid is included, and NASBO didn't
include it in either New York's or the other 49 states'
figures, New York's growth figure is only 81%.
   In addition, U.S. Census figures show that, in 1988, 12
states took in more revenue as a percentage of residents'
personal income than New York did.
   Furthermore, the increase of 9.3% you cite for this year's
proposed budget is misleading in that it includes federal
aid. The governor's proposed growth in revenues from state
taxes is only 4.49%, a figure below the projected inflation
rate.
   Finally, we could not agree more with your conclusion that
government budgets reflect the political philosophy of chief
executives, and we were pleased that you chose to compare
Gov. Cuomo with President Ronald Reagan.
   President Reagan's philosophy, as reflected in his
budgets, was to spend up to $200 billion a year more than you
are willing to raise in revenue, and leave the bill for your
successors. This philosophy tripled the national debt to $3
trillion during his eight short years in office.
   In contrast, Gov. Cuomo's philosophy, as reflected in his
budgets, is to raise all the revenue you determine is
necessary to meet government's legitimate obligations, and
not spend what you do not raise.
   Which philosophy is sounder? That's easy. Just ask
yourself which one you think President Bush wishes his
predecessor had followed.
   Tom Conroy
   Senior Press Officer to the Governor
   Albany, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Holders Seek
   Independence
   Of Eastern Air
   ---
   Proposal in Chapter 11 Case
   Asks the Court to Wrest
   Carrier From Texas Air
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX AMR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   Eastern Airlines' preferred shareholders, frustrated by
repayment proposals that would nearly wipe out what they are
owed, proposed that a federal bankruptcy court wrest control
of the carrier from its parent, Texas Air Corp., and turn it
into an independent company.
   A committee of preferred shareholders said it filed a
proposed Chapter 11 bankruptcy-code reorganization of
Eastern, now a Texas Air unit, that would create a new,
stand-alone airline. The new company would be 95%-owned by
unsecured and preferred creditors and run by new management.
That management would become eligible for the other 5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unexpected filing is the latest development in
steadily crumbling relations between Eastern and its creditor
groups, and may set the stage for a free-for-all for control
of the ailing carrier.
   Until recently, creditors and the carrier have engaged in
protracted negotiations aimed at reaching agreement on a plan
for the airline to emerge from Chapter 11.
   But the preferred holders' unilateral proposal to make
Eastern into an independent company highlights the breakdown
of those efforts.
   On Friday, Eastern disclosed it intends to propose its own
reorganization plan, forgoing creditor approval, some time
this week. And earlier last week, Eastern's powerful
unsecured creditors committee rejected the airline's last
repayment plan, and said it wants a trustee appointed to run
the carrier and, if possible, sell it.
   Under the plan proposed by preferred shareholders
yesterday, Eastern's unsecured creditors would receive new
preferred stock convertible into 50% of new Eastern common
stock. Current preferred holders would get a 45% stake and
the remaining 5% would be reserved for an as-yet unnamed
management for Eastern. The plan proposes all of the stock be
issued in publicly tradable form.
   The fate of the preferred holders' plan is uncertain. The
court isn't required to respond immediately. But its approval
is unlikely without support from at least Eastern's unsecured
creditors or the airline itself.
   And that, according to people familiar with the case, is
highly improbable. Eastern and Texas Air are certain to
oppose giving away ownership. A spokesman for both declined
comment yesterday. Unsecured creditors didn't say anything
about the plan last night, but it is understood they are
likely to balk, particularly at the provision that gives
preferred holders such a large stake.
   Eastern's unsecured creditors, who are owed roughly $1
billion, are pivotal players in the bankruptcy case and stand
ahead of preferred shareholders in the creditor hierarchy.
Only Texas Air ranks behind preferred holders.
   Accordingly, the plan set forth by preferred holders
yesterday would give unsecured creditors -- in addition to
half-ownership of the company -- proportionate shares in a
new $200 million issue of collateralized Eastern bonds and
$50 million in cash.
   That part of the plan is similar to what Eastern offered
the unsecured creditors last week -- a proposal they quickly
rejected as inadequate. But it differs from Eastern's last
offer by adding an additional $70 million payment in the form
of notes to be paid out of proceeds, if any, from lawsuits
that would be filed against Texas Air. The suits would allege
damages for pre-bankruptcy transfers of Eastern assets by
Texas Air.
   Last month, a bankruptcy court examiner concluded that
between $285 million and $403 million in claims could
possibly be pressed against Texas Air for a dozen such
transactions. But Texas Air and the examiner negotiated a
settlement valued at $280 million. The fate of that pending
settlement is unclear under the preferred shareholders'
proposal.
   Eastern's preferred holders have been increasingly
irritated by the carrier's repayment plans. "You needed a
microscope to see what they were offering us," charged Robert
Miller, attorney for the preferred committee, yesterday. Five
classes of preferred stock with a liquidation value of $680
million would have received various new preferred shares with
a liquidation value of about $50 million under the latest
Eastern plan.
   Separately, Eastern asked for bankruptcy court approval to
withdraw $80 million from its escrow account to support
second quarter operations.
   Eastern's request for money follows U.S. Department of
Transportation tentative approval last week of the proposed
sale of the carrier's Latin American routes to AMR Corp.'s
American Airlines unit.
   The Transportation Department also approved a related
transaction in which American would acquire Continental's
Miami-London route and other assets for $102 million.
However, it rejected for now Eastern's proposal to sell
American its Miami/Tampa-Toronto route, saying that it will
start a proceeding to see whether the route should be sold to
American or another carrier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Exports Fall
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Hong Kong's total exports contracted 2% in
volume terms in January from a year earlier, pulled down by a
contraction in domestic exports, according to government data
released Monday.
   While re-exports grew 1% in January, exports of items
produced in the colony fell 5%. Meanwhile, imports decreased
7%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In value terms, domestic exports rose 2% in January from a
year earlier, while re-exports climbed 5%. The price of
imported goods rose 3%. Actual cash values weren't provided.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Time Warner Pledges to Arrange Half
   Of Funds to Help Pathe Buy MGM/UA
   ----
   By Kathleen A. Hughes and Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PCC TWX MGM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Time Warner Inc. agreed to help arrange financing for
about half of the $1.2 billion that Pathe Communications
Corp. will need to complete its acquisition of MGM/UA
Communications Co. -- even if the debt-laden Time Warner must
provide the money itself.
   Time Warner's Warner Bros. studio said it would "arrange
for or provide on a bridge loan basis" a $650 million bank
loan to MGM/UA. The sum would be guaranteed by Time Warner,
which itself already carries $10.6 billion in debt from its
recent merger, and would be secured by the UA film library.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The announcement lessened concern that Pathe, headed by
Italian financier Giancarlo Parretti, wouldn't be able to
complete the financing for the acquisition. Yesterday, Pathe
made the second of four $50 million payments that are
required by the purchase agreement.
   MGM/UA shares closed at $18.25, up $1.675 in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Pathe, an
entertainment company, is offering $20 a share.
   "It certainly removes a great deal of the skepticism that
the transaction could be completed," said Jeff Logsdon, an
analyst at Crowell, Weedon &amp; Co. in Los Angeles. "Now half
the foundation is in place, and Pathe has a better-than-even
chance of buying the company."
   The financial assistance apparently was offered in return
for what could grow into a lucrative "support services"
agreement for Warner Bros. The studio will handle Pathe and
MGM/UA releases for theatrical, television and home-video
distribution. Warner would take what some sources said may
amount to about half the usual 25% to 30% distribution fee
used in most movie-distribution deals, while bearing none of
the risks of promoting a film that ends up as a flop.
   Moreover, Time Warner also obtained the right to acquire
warrants that would amount to a 20% stake in the combined
Pathe-MGM/UA company at some point in the future. Specific
terms and prices weren't disclosed.
   But some Wall Street analysts privately questioned why a
company with a large debt burden of its own would risk
getting involved in the takeover of MGM/UA, which has been
the target of several scuttled merger attempts in the past.
   Moreover, Time Warner's involvement may include an
additional $200 million -- above and beyond the $650 million
in bridge-loan money. In an interview that appeared Monday in
Les Echos, France's leading business daily, Mr. Parretti was
quoted as saying he expects Time Warner to contribute a total
$850 million to the bid for MGM/UA. Executives close to the
transaction explained the higher figure by saying Time Warner
is expected to provide an additional $200 million for movie
production at MGM/UA after the acquisition is completed.
   A Warner spokesman had no immediate comment on the $200
million sum. He also countered analysts' doubts about Time
Warner's role by saying that the distribution deal would
generate substantial cash flow and help Time Warner finances.
   In addition, some industry observers noted that by having
the $650 million secured by the United Artists film library,
Time Warner could pick up the entire film vault for that
price -- about half its actual worth -- should the merger go
through and the combined companies later collapse.
   The Les Echos interview also quoted Mr. Parretti as saying
Pathe is currently talking to European and U.S. banks about
arranging $300 million in loans for the acquisition. And the
story notes that Pathe recently sold British and Dutch
theaters for more than $200 million.
   The Time Warner announcement yesterday describes a
convoluted three-step process for the loan. First, Time
Warner would make the loan to MGM/UA, which in turn would
acquire certain assets of Pathe Communications. Pathe would
then use the money MGM/UA paid it to turn around and acquire
all of MGM/UA.
   "It's a classic American leveraged buy-out," Mr. Parretti
said in the French interview. "You pay with what you buy. I
don't understand why all the press is wondering how we will
finance the operations."
   The announcement seems to end the recent confusion over
which studio would be distributing films made by the Pathe
Entertainment unit of Pathe Communications. The Pathe unit is
headed by Alan Ladd Jr., a former top executive at MGM/UA,
and has been working on a string of new movies.
   This isn't the first time Warner has backed Pathe,
formerly called Cannon Group Inc. Four years ago, Cannon
received a $75 million investment from Warner, saving the
company from a financial crisis. In return, Warner received
certain shares, warrants and options. Moreover, Steve Ross,
co-chairman of Time Warner, and Mr. Parretti are friends.
   ---
   E.S. Browning contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   AMR Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMR Corp. (Fort Worth, Texas) -- American Airlines, a
unit, said it filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission an offering of about $220 million of equipment
trust certificates relating to the lease of McDonnell Douglas
MD-80 and Boeing 757 aircraft. American is in the midst of a
multiyear, multibillion-dollar expansion of its aircraft
fleet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Wolverine Exploration Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   WEXC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WOLVERINE EXPLORATION Co. said it completed an offering of
1.8 million new convertible exchangeable preferred shares at
$25 each, raising $44.2 million. The Fort Worth, Texas, oil
and natural gas concern said proceeds will be used to
repurchase $25 million in subordinated notes, for oil and gas
exploration and development and to purchase 405,688 of its
common shares from Investment Limited Partnership, an
investment group controlled by Dort A. Cameron III of
Greenwich, Conn. Alex. Brown &amp; Sons led the underwriting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Bulls, Bears Both Resort
   At Times to Dirty Tricks
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JBM PCLB WMT GVMI CWLD SB
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
SHORT SALES AND SHORT INTEREST (SHO)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors who buy stock and those who bet on
price declines by selling short often accuse each other of
dirty tricks. From time to time, they're both right.
   The stock market in recent weeks has seen plenty of
questionable ploys -- from false rumor-mongering to what some
pros term "mull jobs."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Take Jan Bell Marketing. Its shares, several money
managers say, have been hurt by vicious rumors. Based in Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., Jan Bell sells jewelry through membership
warehouse retailers such as Price Co. and Sam's (a unit of
Wal-Mart Stores). Jan Bell's stock, which traded above 30
last fall, closed at 9 7/8 yesterday.
   To be sure, Jan Bell's horizon isn't cloudless. It is
losing most of the business it used to do with Price Co., for
example. But part of the stock's decline has been fed by
rumors with no substantiation. Among them: that Jan Bell had
paid kickbacks to employees at Price Co. and Sam's; that it
had sold zirconium disguised as diamonds, and that it had
sold diamonds containing fewer carats than represented. The
company denies each of these rumors, and several money
managers who follow Jan Bell closely say they are untrue.
   "It gets me mad, to see people lie maliciously about it,"
says Richard Welty, senior portfolio manager at Lateef
Management Associates in San Francisco. He says Jan Bell's
contract with Sam's allows Sam's to conduct surprise audits
of merchandise three or four times a year. "Those have always
proved Jan Bell erred on the side of quality," he says. Mr.
Welty looks for Jan Bell to earn 90 cents to $1 a share this
year, compared with 80 cents in 1989.
   "Jan Bell is revolutionizing the way jewelry is sold in
this country," says Dana Telsey, retail analyst at Baron
Capital Inc. in New York. "They're giving consumers a better
deal" and achieving unusually high sales per square foot of
retail space, she says. "We like the management and think
they're smart."
   One rumor named a specific employee of Sam's who
supposedly was fired for taking kickbacks from Jan Bell. In
fact, the employee left for a better-paying job at another
firm, according to Mr. Welty and other people familiar with
the situation.
   Another type of rumor, which has affected the stocks of
several companies and is almost impossible to disprove, is a
whisper that executives use cocaine. This one works best
against companies with high-style, fast-track executives. Of
course, many short-sellers are as revolted by such tactics as
other investors are.
   Just as stocks can be pushed down by tricks, they can also
be pulled up. "One generic April fool's joke . . . is the
buy-out rumor," says Jim Grant, editor of Grant's Interest
Rate Observer. "Before Integrated Resources tragically hit
the wall, it was rumored that the company was going to be
taken over at some high premium."
   Stock prices can also be boosted by tactics aimed at
twisting short sellers' arms. Shorts borrow stock and
immediately sell it. Eventually, they must buy shares to
replace the ones they borrowed. That's called "covering." If
a stock falls a lot before they cover, short sellers profit.
But a "buy-in" can make shorts cover before they want to.
   In a buy-in, someone who has lent stock to a short seller
demands its return. (Lenders are often institutions, which
get a 1% fee for lending the shares.) Sometimes, buy-ins can
be deliberately orchestrated, as a company -- or people who
own its stock -- press stock lenders to call back their
shares.
   In some cases, traders know or sense that a buy-in is
imminent. They can make a short-term profit by loading up on
the stock and bidding up its price, knowing that short
sellers will soon be forced to buy it.
   "There seems to be a remarkable coincidence of stocks
appreciating intraday just before a buy-in," says David
Rocker, head of Rocker Partners, a New York investment firm
that takes both short and long positions. He says the trend
has accelerated lately.
   Mr. Rocker was irked when GV Medical shares rose 40% in a
single day last month, the day he was bought in. The shares
fell the next day and have since hit a new low.
   GV Medical's president and chief executive, James R.
Grabek, says he doesn't know what caused the March 20 jump,
or whether word leaked out in advance that a buy-in was about
to happen. But he wasn't shedding any tears for the shorts.
"I like to hear about cases where they are the victims," he
said. "In the majority of cases, the small high-tech
companies are the victims." He said GV Medical stock has been
buffeted by rumors "that I'm leaving, that I'm sick, that
we've altered data," none of which was true.
   Shorts also complain about what Mark Cohodes of Rocker
Partners calls "mull jobs," in which a company trying to
offset bad news says it is "mulling" a leveraged buy-out or
is in discussions with unidentified parties who may be
interested in buying the company. Typically, he says, no
transaction ensues.
   At the moment, Mr. Cohodes is indignant about a late-March
announcement by Child World that its parent company has "been
approached by and (has) held discussions with various third
parties including potential acquirers of Child World."
   The announcement said "there is no assurance" that any
transaction will occur. But Mr. Cohodes wonders why the
announcement came almost simultaneously with the release of
disappointing earnings news. Why, he asks, did Child World
wait until March 29 to announce that it was having
discussions with potential acquirers, if those discussions
began some time earlier?
   Child World's chief executive, Peter J. Hayes, couldn't be
reached for comment. Another company official declined to
comment; a third didn't return calls.
   ---
   A bitter rival of Drexel Burnham Lambert Group has scooped
up the firm's coveted list of junk bond clients.
   The list is going to Salomon Brothers, which has been
striving to bolster its clout in the $200 billion market for
publicly traded junk bonds.
   The price wasn't disclosed, but Wall Street traders said
they believe it was in the neighborhood of $2 million. Drexel
had put the list up for sale to raise funds to satisfy
creditors after filing for bankuptcy-law protection in
February.
   Salomon Inc.'s securities unit outbid 14 other Wall Street
firms for exclusive use of Drexel's computer data bases and
integrated software system. The data, which include names,
contacts and trading histories for about 3,000 junk issues,
was a critical cog in Drexel's junk-bond prowess.
   "It gives them a diary on how to do deals," says Kevin
Risen, financial services analyst at Banc One Asset
Management Corp. The select list, Mr. Risen notes, includes
the critical element of "who to look for to do business
with."
   The purchase is part of a broad move by Salomon to
establish itself as a force in the high-yield junk market.
Besides the data base system, Salomon in recent weeks has
hired several former junk-bond experts from Drexel, including
research head Joseph Bencivenga -- a chief architect of the
data base system while at Drexel -- and top salesman Donald
Mullen.
   The connection between the two firms raised eyebrows on
Wall Street. Salomon, never a heavy hitter in junk, at times
criticized Drexel's heavy use of junk bonds. And some
analysts question how important the data are now that the
junk-bond market has collapsed.
   Salomon officials say the information will beef up their
firm's service to clients and ability to make markets in the
secondary, or resale, sector. Drexel has assured Salomon that
it purchased exclusive rights to the system, they add. Some
traders question the data's usefulness, however, noting that
many laid-off Drexel employees saw at least some of it before
leaving the firm.
   The data base will give Salomon salesmen, traders and
research staffers on-line access to a wide range of
information on Drexel's junk-bond clients. These include the
descriptions of the issuers and Drexel's guide to pricing
junk bonds -- a ticklish matter amid the recent turmoil in
the junk market.
   The data "includes where the bonds are and who the
customers are," says Mark Field, managing director and head
of Salomon's high-yield sales group. Mr. Field says the
system includes data on about 500 private transactions and
the portfolios of about 1,000 institutions.
   "This will help Salomon in its attempt to build better
longer-term relationships," says Perrin Long, senior
securities analyst for Lipper Analytical Securities Corp. "If
nothing else, it lets them know who exactly makes the
decisions -- and that in many instances is a hard thing to
come by."
   -- Michael Siconolfi
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   American Air's
   Weight Standard
   Is Cited by EEOC
   ----
   By Katherine Walsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued American
Airlines Inc., charging that the company's weight-standard
policy discriminates against women over the age of 40.
   The class-action suit against the AMR Corp. unit was filed
in federal court in Los Angeles by the EEOC's office there.
The plaintiffs are Patt Gibbs, Sherri Cappello and Linda
Prosser, all members of the Association of Professional
Flight Attendants. The suit, which covers all women over the
age of 40 who have been hurt by the company's policy, calls
for reimbursement of lost earnings as well as the elimination
of a weight standard for all employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tommie Huttow-Blake, a member of the weight-issue task
force for the flight attendants union, said elimination of
the standard would benefit not only women over 40, who, she
said, require greater body weight to maintain necessary
minerals and protein, but flight attendants who want to
return from maternity leave.
   Flight attendants who take time off to have children are
placed on disability for six weeks and must lose the excess
weight in that time or are suspended without pay and health
care, said Ms. Huttow-Blake.
   American Airlines is the only major airline with an
inflexible weight policy, said Ralph Fertig, supervisory
trial attorney of the EEOC's Los Angeles office. American's
standard sets weight-to-height ratios 17.5% below the
standards in the 1959 Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. tables
on average adult ratios.
   "The idea they can't weigh more than a certain amount is
ridiculous," said Mr. Fertig. He added that the company's
policy is "a very humiliating and discriminatory policy."
   According to American's weight policy, "a firm, trim
silhouette, free of bulges, rolls or paunches, is necessary
for an alert, efficient image."
   Under a 1977 court settlement, the American Airlines
Flight Attendant Weight Program was established. This program
prohibited the company from arbitrarily weighing its flight
attendants. However, it allowed the company to give only one
deadline date to lose extra weight for employees who wanted
to return from leave. Active flight attendants are given
three chances to lose weight.
   Ms. Huttow-Blake, who has been a flight attendant for 20
years, said, "We're talking about women in a size 10 losing
their jobs."
   This is the third suit pending against American Airlines
related to its weight standard. The two other cases, filed by
the flight attendants union, are in federal courts in New
York and Texas.
   "The company tries to say it's a bona fide occupational
qualification," said Ms. Huttow-Blake. "But that's baloney.
These appearance standards have nothing to do with
proficiency."
   American Airlines officials in Fort Worth declined to
comment, saying they hadn't seen the lawsuit yet.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sir James Is Set Back in Effort to Buy
   B.A.T; as Farmers Transfer Is Denied
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   BTI EUROP F.AXA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sir James Goldsmith was dealt a blow in his attempt to
acquire B.A.T Industries PLC, as California insurance
regulators declined to approve a change in control of B.A.T's
Farmers Group Inc. insurance unit.
   Sir James and his Hoylake Investments Ltd. have proposed
that if his acquisition of B.A.T goes through, the Farmers
unit would immediately be sold to Axa-Midi Assurances of
France for $4.5 billion. Sir James has proposed to offer 13
billion pounds (US$21.35 billion) for B.A.T, the British
tobacco, retailing, paper and financial services giant. He
brought the French insurer on as a partner last summer in the
hopes that U.S. insurance regulators would be more likely to
approve a transfer of ownership of Farmers to another
insurer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In denying the applications of Hoylake and Axa, California
insurance commissioner Roxani Gillespi noted that Hoylake has
"no real offer" for B.A.T on the table, having dropped its
formal bid last September because of complications with
British takeover law.
   As for Axa-Midi's application, Ms. Gillespi said that
"while Axa-Midi has an outstanding European record, the
leverage of this deal is such that it would endanger"
Farmers.
   Axa chairman Claude Bebear said he was encouraged that
"California recognized our competence as an owner for
Farmers," even though it had "reservations for our plan of
financing." He declined to say whether Axa would appeal the
decision to California state court, though he said "we are
continuing to seek approvals in the other states." Hoylake
said it would study the California decision and make an
announcement in a few days as to how it will proceed. "We are
committed to aggressively pursuing the regulatory approval
process in the U.S.," a Hoylake spokesman said.
   Meanwhile, B.A.T and Farmers were celebrating the victory.
"We look forward to getting on with managing our business," a
B.A.T spokesman said.
   However, the negative ruling is by no means a death knell,
as B.A.T and Farmers well know. When B.A.T was trying to
acquire Farmers in 1988, the California insurance
commissioner ruled against its $4.5 billion hostile tender
offer, but a state court later overturned the ruling on
appeal by B.A.T. Once Farmers agreed to accept a sweetened
$5.2 billion offer from B.A.T, regulators in other states who
had rejected B.A.T readily gave their approval.
   Hearings on the proposed change in control of Farmers have
already been conducted in Illinois, Oregon, Idaho and
Washington, but no decisions have been issued. Texas
regulators began hearings yesterday, and regulators in
Kansas, Ohio and Arizona haven't yet scheduled hearings.
   The regulatory hurdles have proved a linchpin in B.A.T's
takeover defense. In September, Sir James was forced to
shelve his original #13.4 billion bid for B.A.T, as the
lengthy regulatory process promised to drag on well beyond
Britain's usual 60day takeover timetable. Sir James received
an unusual extension from Britain's Takeover Panel allowing
him to bid again within 21 days of receiving approval from
the U.S. regulators.
   B.A.T has also embarked on a major divestiture plan to
fight off Sir James, with plans to shrink itself to just
tobacco and financial services operations by spinning off or
selling more than #3 billion in assets by the end of June. It
is auctioning off its U.S. retail chains Saks Fifth Avenue
and Marshall Field.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Turner Joins
   Tribune Co.
   In Venture
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach and Laura Landro
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TBSA TRB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- In the latest step bringing cable operators and
broadcasters closer together, Turner Broadcasting System Inc.
and Tribune Broadcasting Co. entered into a 10-year pact to
produce and share both news and entertainment programming.
   While the cable and broadcasting industries traditionally
are adversaries, the two sides increasingly are cooperating
in order to improve programming and cut costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Turner-Tribune pact provides for the two companies to
collaborate on news, documentaries, specials and original
long-form productions, including two miniseries a year.
Financial terms of the agreement weren't disclosed.
   The two companies said they plan to produce quarterly news
specials on a wide range of subjects, including environmental
issues, drugs and crime. "Hopefully, there will be an attempt
to provide stories with both local and national interest,"
said Russell Barry, president of Turner Program Services, the
world-wide distribution subsidiary of Turner Broadcasting.
   The agreement also calls for all Tribune television
stations to become CNN television affiliates, in which both
companies will be able to share news services and stories.
   The two miniseries, according to the agreement, would be
produced for Turner's TBS Superstation and the Tribune
stations, as well as for general domestic syndication. While
Turner previously has worked with independent producers in
developing entertainment programming, "This is the first time
we've worked with a station group," said Mr. Barry.
   The venture isn't the first time that a cable company and
a broadcaster have joined forces. In late 1988, General
Electric Co.'s National Broadcasting Co. unit and Cablevision
Systems Corp. formed a joint venture to develop entertainment
programming and regional sports and news networks for cable.
NBC contributed its fledgling cable network, Consumer News
and Business Channel (CNBC), to the venture and provided
capital to Cablevision as well.
   The cable industry and the broadcast industry are
adversaries on many issues -- in Washington, for example,
broadcasters are lobbying hard for re-regulation of the cable
industry. But increasingly, as cable reaches more households
and needs higher quality programming, both sides are finding
it advantageous to team up to produce and distribute
programming.
   Tribune Broadcasting, a unit of Chicago-based Tribune Co.,
has used its own station group, the largest in the country,
to launch new programming. But the company also sells its
programs to other independent and network-affiliated or
network-owned stations and has also supplied programs to
cable networks, home video and international markets. Its
shows run the gamut from "U.S. Farm Report" to "Soul Train."
   For its part, Turner held talks this year with both CBS
Inc. and NBC concerning possible joint news-gathering
operations. Neither set of talks, however, has yielded any
agreements.
   The companies announced their joint venture after the
markets closed yesterday. In New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, Tribune Co. rose $1.875 to $43.50. In
American Stock Exchange composite trading, Turner's Class A
shares closed at $44.875, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medco Research Asks
   Adviser to Explore
   Sale of the Company
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MEDR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Medco Research Inc. said it asked its
investment banker, Oppenheimer &amp; Co., to explore the
possibility of selling the company.
   Medco, a drug company that develops treatments and
diagnoses of cardiovascular diseases, said that "there is no
assurance" that the company will commence negotiations or
that a sale of the company can be completed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Medco disclosed in November that it retained Oppenheimer
to consider alternatives to "maximize shareholder value" but
hadn't said that these might include selling the company,
said William C. Govier, director of research and medical
affairs.
   Medco issued a news release yesterday to announce the
possible sale and other corporate news after hearing from
market sources that false reports were spreading about the
company, Dr. Govier said. "We were hearing rumors running
around and thought we'd better put out the facts."
   The National Association of Securities Dealers halted
quotes on Medco stock yesterday pending the company's
release. Medco shares resumed trading and finished the day at
$14.375, off 50 cents.
   Medco also said it earned about $224,000 in royalty income
from December through March from U.S. sales of a new drug,
Adenocard. "These are the company's first actual
product-related earnings," Dr. Govier said. Under a patent
agreement, Medco must pay 50% of the royalty income to the
University of Virginia Alumni Patents Foundation.
   Late last year, Adenocard was approved by the Food and
Drug Administration for use in the diagnosis of coronary
artery disease. Medco has licensed Adenocard to Lyphomed
Inc., a unit of Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., for sale in the
U.S. and Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southwest Airlines
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   LUV
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southwest Airlines said it flew 861.6 million
revenue passenger miles, up 6% from March last year. A
revenue passenger mile is the equivalent of flying one paying
passenger one mile. The carrier's March load factor, or the
percentage of seats filled by paying passengers, decreased to
64.4%, from 68.7% a year ago.
   For the first quarter, Southwest flew 2.3 billion revenue
passenger miles, up 5.1% from the same 1989 period. Its
first-quarter load factor was 60.4%, off from 65.3% a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GF Corp. Financing Agreement
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GFB
</CO>
<LP>
   YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio -- GF Corp. said its financing agreement
with a third party investor has expired.
   The maker of office furniture said it is continuing
negotiations on arranging equity or debt-funding for the
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GF didn't offer further details on the plan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cox to Resume Work
   In Investment Banking
   With CS First Boston
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CSU WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- CS First Boston Inc. said Archibald Cox Jr.
would join the firm as a member of senior management after a
two-year hiatus from investment banking.
   Mr. Cox resigned as a managing director and head of Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co.'s London unit in early 1988. He built the
London operation to 1,000 people in 1987 from only 25 people
when he began in 1977.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the past two years, Mr. Cox, 49-year-old son of former
Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox, has been "dealing with
some family business," and has had two operations on his
right knee. His love of sports, particularly bicycling, also
led him to acquire most of the stock of Serotta Sports Inc.,
Middle Grove, N.Y., a closely held maker of racing bicycles.
   But now Mr. Cox says he is "anxious to get back into the
swing of things." His new job has him coordinating CS First
Boston's European operations with its Pacific unit and its
First Boston Corp. unit in the U.S. CS First Boston is
44.5%-owned by the parent company of Credit Suisse, the giant
Swiss bank.
   CS First Boston President John M. Hennessy has been
reshaping the firm by bringing in outside talent with
established reputations. In January, he shook up the firm's
bond-trading operations by hiring William J. Voute and four
other former top officials of Salomon Brothers Inc. The
Salomon officials, like Mr. Cox, had left their former firms
two years ago.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Hennessy's deputy William E. Mayer in
January was demoted from First Boston chief executive to head
a newly created merchant banking unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bombardier Inc. Agrees to Buy Assets,
   Operations of Learjet for $75 Million
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   IRE BBD.A
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Bombardier Inc. said it definitely agreed to
acquire Learjet Corp.'s assets and operations for US$75
million, a move that will boost the Canadian company's share
of the world market for corporate jets.
   Learjet is a unit of Integrated Resources Inc., which is
under Chapter 11 protection from creditors. The sale is
subject to bankruptcy court approval. An Integrated
spokeswoman said the New York insurance and mutual-fund
concern will apply this week for court approval of the
transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bombardier also agreed to assume Learjet's short-term
debt, which won't exceed $38 million, a Bombardier official
said. Integrated will retain responsibility for certain legal
actions and other liabilities.
   "That sounds like a bargain," said Al Conklin, an aviation
consultant in Orleans, Mass. Mr. Conklin said Learjet is "at
the bottom of the ladder" in the business-jet market but an
acquisition by Bombardier would give the company "a big
boost" by simply providing stability. "One of the things
that's hurting {Learjet} more than anything else is the
instability of their parent," Mr. Conklin said.
   The acquisition of Learjet would make Bombardier a more
formidable player in the business-jet market by "providing us
with a much broader range of customers," said Andre
Bombardier, vice chairman of the transportation equipment,
defense products and aerospace concern.
   "The product lines complement each other very well," said
Brian E. Barents, chairman, president and chief executive
officer of Learjet, which is based in Wichita, Kan.
   Bombardier's Canadair division produces the Challenger, a
large business jet that seats as many as 19 people and sells
for about $15 million. Bombardier delivered 27 Challengers in
the year ended Jan. 31 and plans to deliver 27 or 28 jets
this fiscal year.
   Learjet's small and medium-sized jets seat as many as 10
people and sell for $3.8 million to $7.2 million. Learjet
delivered 25 planes last year and plans to deliver 30 this
year.
   After several bad years the market for corporate jets has
"bottomed out and turned up again," Mr. Conklin said. He
added that the market for bigger business jets such as
Bombardier's Challenger is in better shape than the market
for smaller planes such as Learjet's aircraft. Competition is
fierce, with a half-dozen U.S. and foreign manufacturers
chasing a market of 250 planes a year.
   After posting losses in the late 1980s, Learjet has been
profitable in the past two years, Mr. Barents said. Annual
sales are about $260 million, with a majority from aircraft
sales and the rest from defense subcontracting and aircraft
servicing.
   For the nine months ended Oct. 31, Bombardier reported net
income of $61.2 million Canadian dollars (US$52.4 million) or
91 Canadian cents a share, after including a special gain of
C$9.9 million. Revenue was C$1.26 billion.
   Analysts said the acquisition fits Bombardier's
bargain-hunting strategy. Bombardier got into the aerospace
industry by buying Canadair from the Canadian government.
Last year, Bombardier bought Northern Ireland's Short
Brothers PLC for about US$50 million from the British
government.
   Integrated, which bought Learjet in 1987, put the company
on the block seven months ago. At least one other possible
buyer lost interest after Integrated filed for protection
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
   Learjet is one of the bigger assets left that Integrated
has been trying to sell to raise cash to pay off creditors,
who are owed a total of about US$1.8 billion.
   Just before Integrated sought Chapter 11 status Feb. 13,
Stephen D. Weinroth, chairman of Integrated, said the company
was on the verge of signing a letter of intent to sell
Learjet to Allen E. Paulson, founder of Gulfstream Aerospace,
for US$60 million. The filing apparently scuttled those
negotiations.
   On the Montreal Exchange, Bombardier Class A and Class B
shares closed at $15.625, up 12.5 Canadian cents. In New York
Stock Exchange composite trading Integrated closed at 25
cents, down 1/32.
   ---
   Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal in New York contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raw-Steel Production
   Rose 4.9% Last Week
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by the nation's mills
increased 4.9% last week to 1,998,000 tons from 1,904,000
tons the previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute
said.
   Last week's output fell 1.5% from the 2,029,000 tons
produced a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry used 88.9% of its capability last week,
compared with 85.0% the previous week and 91.7% a year ago.
                                                                                                       

   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                                    Net tons   Capability
                                    produced   utilization
                                                                                                       

   Week to April 7 ..............  1,998,000      88.9%
   Week to March 31 .............  1,904,000      85.0%
   Year to date ................. 26,540,000      85.5%
   Year earlier to date ......... 27,631,000      89.3%
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   GM EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, April 9, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 1/8% near
closing bid, 8 3/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.225% 15 to 44 days; 8.20% 45 to 59 days;
8.175% 60 to 89 days; 8.125% 90 to 119 days; 8.10% 120 to 149
days; 8.05% 150 to 179 days. 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.30%
30 days; 8.28% 60 days; 8.25% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.83% two
months; 7.86% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.20% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.25% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.47% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.20% 30 days; 8.15% 60 days; 8.14%
90 days; 8.12% 120 days; 8.12% 150 days; 8.09% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/8% to 8 1/4% one month; 8
7/16% to 8 5/16% two months; 8 1/2% to 8 3/8% three months; 8
1/2% to 8 3/8% four months; 8 9/16% to 8 7/16% five months; 8
9/16% to 8 7/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 7/16% one month;
8 1/2% three months; 8 5/8% six months; 8 7/8% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.25%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11%; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 9, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.80%, 13 weeks; 7.80%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.27%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.20%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.95%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.66%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GLI Holding's Greyhound Unit Files
   Suit Against Union Over Strike Violence
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TRANSPORTATION, TRUCK AND SHIP LINES, RAILROADS (TRA)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Greyhound Lines Inc. filed a $30 million federal
racketeering suit accusing Amalgamated Transit Union and
various union officials of trying to "extort wages and
benefits from Greyhound through violence, disruption of
interstate commerce and threats."
   The litigation came amid an escalating war of nerves
surrounding the bus company and its striking workers. As the
walkout by 9,300 Greyhound drivers, mechanics and clerks
entered its fifth week, the company refused to return to the
bargaining table until a week passes without violence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit was filed under the federal Racketeer Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations law, which is being employed more
and more by companies with labor troubles.
   In a statement, union President James La Sala again
decried the violence surrounding the strike, referring to the
perpetrators as "common criminals." But Mr. La Sala also
condemned the company's charges against his union as
"outrageous" and said management was using the violence as "a
smokescreen to avoid its legal and moral responsibility to
negotiate in good faith."
   Greyhound filed its RICO suit in federal court in
Jacksonville, Fla., which was the site of a March 11 sniping
incident that injured seven Greyhound passengers. Since the
strike began March 2, more than 30 Greyhound buses and
terminals have been hit by gunfire, and the company has
received 80 bomb threats.
   The company previously obtained individual court orders
against union violence in 20 cities. But in an interview, P.
Anthony Lannie, Greyhound executive vice president and chief
labor negotiator, said that strategy has failed to stem the
violence. "Perhaps they will stop it if the court is imposing
liability on them for doing so," said Mr. Lannie, adding that
the company hopes to obtain a nationwide injunction through
the RICO suit.
   The court filing lists more than 100 incidents of alleged
violence, harassment and intimidation nationwide and contains
specific allegations of incidents in Florida and Alabama
involving alleged death threats and assaults aimed at
replacement drivers, intimidation of passengers and
destruction of company property. The suit also alleges that a
cartoon appeared on certain union bulletin boards depicting a
replacement driver being shot by man with a rifle.
   Despite numerous statements by union officials condemning
the violence, the lawsuit also alleges that union leaders
haven't acted to halt the attacks and that people engaged in
such activity have continued to receive union strike pay.
   Named as defendants in the suit were Amalgamated Transit;
its bargaining unit, Amalgamated Council of Greyhound Local
Unions; and locals in Atlanta and Charlotte, N.C. Several
Amalgamated Council officials were also named, including
President Edward M. Strait and the presidents of the two
locals.
   The suit claims the defendants' actions have cost the unit
of GLI Holding Co. at least $10 million and seeks treble
damages, court and attorney fees and unspecified punitive
damages under Florida law. In addition, Greyhound asked the
court to appoint receivers to take over the two locals,
described by Mr. Lannie as "the two most closely linked to
the violence."
   Meanwhile, at least one union offical named in the suit
hinted that he might file a countersuit against Fred Currey,
Greyhound chairman and chief executive. "I hope he can prove
all that," said Rafael Rivera, president of the Atlanta
local. "He's been going around the country calling union
officials `terrorists.' As far as I'm concerned, he's damaged
my reputation, and he's going to have to answer for that
somewhere down the road."
   Mr. Rivera also said an increasing number of drivers and
union officials would rather drive the current Greyhound
ownership, led by Mr. Currey, into bankruptcy and hope for
new ownership or perhaps an employee buy-out. "Even if there
is a contract, I don't think we could live with him anymore,"
said Mr. Rivera. "The only way this bus line can survive is
for Currey to be gone."
   Greyhound officials said the company isn't for sale.
   ---
   Katherine Walsh in Washington contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank:
   Bank, Jay Dickson Brown
   Set Financial Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank said it agreed with Jay Dickson
Brown &amp; Co. to form a joint venture for making markets in
swaps, options and other financial transactions.
   The venture will have initial capital of $2.3 million,
two-thirds of which will be provided by the Japanese bank and
the rest by Jay Dickson Brown, a closely held
financial-services concern. Its total net worth, however,
will be $20 million, a Mitsui spokesman said. The venture, to
be based in New York, plans to open offices in Tokyo and
London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Swaps are financial and currency transactions in which,
for example, fixed-rate claims and liabilities are exchanged
for floating-rate claims and liabilities. Option trading is
trading in the right to conduct a financial transaction.
Options and swaps are both designed to avert risks related to
fluctuations in interest or foreign-exchange rates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Highland Superstores Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   HIGH
</CO>
<LP>
   PLYMOUTH, Mich. -- Highland Superstores Inc. reported
March sales of $68.2 million, down 2% from sales of $69.6
million a year earlier. Comparable-store sales declined 9%.
   The consumer electronics retailer said its sales for the
first two months of the year were $127.5 million, down 4%
from $133.2 million in the year-earlier period.
Comparable-store sales dropped 11%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   USAIR GROUP Inc.'s fleet includes 193 aircraft classified
as the quieter Stage 3 jets, or 43.8% of the airline's total.
In yesterday's edition, a chart provided by Avmark Inc.
incorrectly placed USAir's Stage 3 share at 175 planes and
39.4% of its fleet.
   (See: "Environment: Public Outcries Move Airports to Cut
Noise" -- WSJ April 9, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES Corp. clarified a growth
estimate it made in yesterday's edition. The company expects
revenue from its Personal System/2 business, not its
personal-systems business, to grow by a percentage in the
midteens or better, a spokesman said. The personal-systems
business includes both PS/2 personal computers and
workstations.
   (See: "Technology: IBM Expects Growth in Personal-Systems
Business to Be Strong" -- WSJ April 9, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Rise Nearly 4% in Heavy Trading
   As Yen Surges Amid Mixed Signals on Currency
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli and Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo share prices soared nearly 4% in heavy trading and
the yen strengthened amid conflicting Japanese news reports
suggesting Group of Seven countries would seek to bolster the
yen.
   The Nikkei index, an average of 225 key issues, climbed
1119.15 points, or 3.8%, finishing at 30397.93. It was the
index's fourth-biggest point gain ever, and extended Friday's
1029.72-point advance. Even though analysts expect the market
to turn lower again soon, droves of buyers were in the
market. An estimated 800 million shares were traded, off
slightly from 838.6 million shares Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At midmorning Tuesday, the Nikkei average was down about
557 points, to 29,840.
   Stockbrokers said the main impetus of Monday's rally was a
sharp increase in the yen after some national newspapers here
reported that finance ministers from the Group of Seven
industrialized countries had agreed at a meeting Saturday in
Paris to support the currency.
   That interpretation of events, implicitly ascribed by the
newspapers to sources in the country's Finance Ministry,
doesn't jibe with accounts in other Japanese papers or the
U.S. and European press. Those stories, quoting a communique
from the Group of Seven promising to keep the yen's steep
decline this year "under review," indicated that the
countries weren't in accord on a plan of action to stop the
yen's depreciation.
   Some analysts warned that Tokyo's obvious difference of
views with the group's other countries threatens to undermine
the credibility of Japanese financial policy makers. Already,
they have been frustrated in attempts to stem the yen's
decline, either by talking the currency lower, or by raising
interest rates and intervening in the currency market.
   Most market participants in Tokyo hewed to the optimistic
Japanese interpretation. Early dollar selling, spurred on by
light intervention by the Bank of Japan, was enough to drive
the dollar as low as 155.60 yen yesterday morning. In the
afternoon, the currency came back a bit to close at 156.45,
off from 157.70 late Friday in New York.
   "Our reading of the G-7 communique is that it's relatively
weak and noncommittal," said Kermit L. Schoenholtz, an
economist at Salomon Brothers Inc.'s office here. "The bottom
line is that the G-7 statement didn't promise" what the yen
needs to recover -- either coordinated interest-rate
increases in the seven countries or orchestrated yen-buying
by central banks other than the Bank of Japan.
   Indeed, Finance Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto undercut those
hopes further when he pledged over the weekend to avert
further interest-rate increases in Japan. "That just invites
further speculative attacks on the yen," Mr. Schoenholtz
said.
   For the time being, stockbrokers see the yen's
appreciation as an opportunity to sell unwanted stocks. "As
long as people are willing to buy stock, we are willing to
sell," one U.S. broker in Tokyo said.
   Many market players expect that kind of profit-taking
eventually to bring a halt to the market's recovery. "It's a
mere rebound" from the market's dramatic decline of 27% from
the start of the year through last Thursday, said Katsumi
Nishikido, a senior analyst at Nippon Kangyo Kakumaru
Securities Co. He predicts that buying will turn to selling
again as the index approaches the 31000-point level.
   Others said the yen's direction could set the market tone,
and might carry the market below the 30000-point mark again.
Hironobu Hagio, a fund manager at Nippon Life Insurance Co.,
the single biggest investor in the Tokyo market, said the
market's direction will depend heavily on the exchange rate.
   Investors' attention to earnings outlooks pushed up
high-tech shares such as Sony, which advanced 250 yen to
8,650 yen ($55.10). Hitachi was up 40 yen to 1,710.
   Also sharply higher were mining and construction shares
such as Dowa Mining, which gained 100 yen to 850 yen and
Kajima, which increased 50 yen to 1,700.
   Some domestic demand-related shares such as railways and
real estate companies were among Monday's outstanding
winners. Keisei gained 190 yen to 1,740 yen, and Heiwa Real
Estate gained 120 yen to 1,530.
   Steel shares were actively traded throughout the day. They
failed to sustain their morning gains, however, under strong
selling pressure in the afternoon. Nippon Steel was down 10
yen at 575 yen, while Sumitomo Metal gained 21 yen to 586.
   West German share prices tumbled 1.2% in nervous trading
in Frankfurt, as fears about an apparent rift between the
central bank and government over East German monetary union
frightened investors and triggered a wave of profit-taking.
   The German Stock Index plunged 23.98 points to 1923.86,
its lowest level since March 22.
   Comments last week and over the weekend by Bundesbank
officials that indicate the central bank will push interest
rates up if the government tries to introduce an even
exchange for all East German marks in savings has shaken the
market, traders said. To minimize the inflationary impact of
the currency conversion, the Bundesbank has suggested a limit
of 2,000 marks per person at the 1-for-1 rate and a 2-for-1
conversion rate above that level.
   Shares of Daimler-Benz dropped 19 marks ($11.20) to 936
marks ($552.20), leading the market lower. Traders said the
decline was triggered by diminishing expectations that
Mitsubishi of Japan is preparing to buy a large stake.
   Daimler had gained strongly late last week on rumors that
Deutsche Bank was planning to sell 10% of its 28% stake in
Daimler to Mitsubishi and speculation that the Japanese
company would seek to expand that stake through market
purchases.
   Volkswagen AG slid 9.50 marks to 601.50 marks, Bayerische
Motoren Werke dropped six marks to 604 and Porsche dropped 25
marks to 1120.
   Machinery-maker shares tumbled, as Linde fell 22 marks to
985, MAN lost 20 marks to 500 marks and
Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz dropped seven marks to 279.
   London shares closed modestly firmer amid light volume, as
a number of factors contributed to sluggish trading and
allowed the market to drift lazily upward, traders said.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index closed
6.6 points higher at 2227.7. The key index settled just off
its intraday high of 2227.9, which it posted in the first
hour of trading. The session's low was 2218.8.
   The narrower 30-share index was up 2.1 points at 1742.3.
Volume was a thin 304.6 million shares, compared with 578.6
million shares Friday.
   Dealers noted an absence of fresh features in the day's
trading, although a number of ex-dividend stocks provided
some movement.
   Among companies which went ex-dividend: brewing and
distilling concern Guinness lost 16 pence to close at 653
pence ($3.98) a share; Prudential, the insurance and
financial services company, shed six pence to 199; General
Accident, another insurer, plunged 44 to #10.19 ($6.20) and
Reckitt &amp; Colman, the diversified manufacturer, slid 19 pence
to #11.50.
   Elsewhere, financial services and tobacco conglomerate
B.A.T Industries gained 12 pence to 755 on anticipation
California state insurance regulators may support Sir James
Goldsmith's plans to sell off B.A.T's U.S. insurance assets
once he gains control of the company. A decision by
California regulators was expected late yesterday.
   In other European markets, Paris shares posted their third
consecutive record close. Amsterdam shares closed mostly
lower and were narrowly mixed in Brussels. Stockholm edged
higher, Milan ended mostly higher and Zurich finished easier.
   In other Asian and Pacific markets, shares were higher in
Wellington and lower in Seoul. Manila's stock market was
closed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                                  Apr 6    Apr 5    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ........................  313.6   314.2   -  3.5
   Britain .....................  660.0   664.3   -  8.5
   Canada ......................  398.0   397.5   -  8.0
   Japan ....................... 1235.3  1186.0   - 25.4
   France ......................  578.1   568.1   +  2.0
   Germany .....................  314.8   314.0   + 10.3
   Hong Kong ................... 2197.7  2203.6   +  4.8
   Switzerland .................  207.3   205.6   -  6.1
   Australia ...................  305.1   303.5   -  7.9
   World index .................  484.7   478.5   - 14.6
   ---
                   Weekly Percentage Leaders
                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

   ISSUE (COUNTRY)                       CLOSE     %CHG
                                                                                                       

                        WINNING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

   Incentive A (Sweden) ..............   263.0   + 42.2
   Incentive B Fria (Sweden) .........   263.0   + 38.4
   Sankyo Co (Japan) .................  2600.0   + 20.9
   Fischer (Georg) Namen (Swiss) .....   415.0   + 20.3
   KBB Ord (Dutch) ...................    84.0   + 19.1
   Bouygues (France) .................   683.0   + 17.0
   Bell Resources (Australia) ........     0.35  + 16.7
   Bond Media (Australia) ............     0.14  + 16.7
   Schneider SA (France) .............  1090.0   + 15.8
   Massa (W. Germany) ................   388.0   + 15.8
                                                                                                       

                        LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

   Shinagawa Refract (Japan) .........   990.0   - 41.4
   Nippon Chemical Ind (Japan) .......  1460.0   - 37.6
   Northern Star Holdings (Australia).     0.11  - 35.3
   Showa Line (Japan) ................   800.0   - 33.9
   Shimura Kako (Japan) ..............  1060.0   - 32.9
   Nippon Soda (Japan) ...............   631.0   - 29.9
   Iwatani International (Japan) .....   780.0   - 28.4
   Nihon Unisys (Japan) ..............  1600.0   - 27.6
   Nissan Chemical Ind (Japan) .......   760.0   - 26.2
   Mitsui Warehouse (Japan) ..........   961.0   - 26.1
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Abbott Laboratories:
   Net Rose 14% on Increase
   In Sales in First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   ABT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Abbott Laboratories reported a 14% rise in net income for
the first quarter on an 11% sales rise, continuing the recent
solid growth by the North Chicago, Ill., maker of hospital
products and pharmaceuticals.
   Net income was $225 million, or $1.02 a share, up from the
year-earlier period's $198 million, or 88 cents a share.
Sales rose to $1.44 billion from $1.3 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Abbott said the introduction of products with higher
profit margins, as well as productivity increases contributed
to the upturn.
   The company's international sales increased more than
domestic sales, climbing about 12% compared with 10% growth
in the U.S.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Abbott rose 50 cents to $68.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Western Co. of North America:
   Norwegian Firm Buys Stake
   Of 5.9% in Texas Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   WSN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Arcade Shipping AS, a Norwegian offshore drilling
investment company, said it acquired a 5.9% stake in Western
Co. of North America, Fort Worth, Texas, and may seek board
representation.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Arcade said it holds 740,000 Western common shares, all
bought between Jan. 4 to March 15 for $13.425 to $17.70 a
share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Western official declined to comment.
   In the filing, Arcade said it may seek to buy more shares,
dispose of them or seek to elect one or more of its designees
to Western's board.
   Another Norwegian company, Viking Supply Ships AS, has
acquired a 10.68% stake in Western and is considering seeking
support from other shareholders for a special meeting to
replace Western's board.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Amre Inc.:
   Management Group Won't
   Make Bid for Dallas Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   AMM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Amre Inc. said that a management group that for several
months has been considering making an offer to take the
company private won't make a bid after all.
   The Dallas-based direct marketer of home-improvement
products said that its president, Steven D. Bedowitz; its
executive vice president, Robert Levin; and its senior vice
president, Ronald L. Wagner decided over the weekend that an
offer for the company wasn't in the best interests of Amre's
minority shareholders, the company itself or the management
group. The group said its decision wasn't influenced by
questions about whether it could get financing for an offer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Just last week, the group said it planned to make an offer
to acquire the 44% of Amre it didn't already own for $8.75 a
share, or roughly $54.3 million. The group met with a special
committee of the company's directors to discuss its expected
bid.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                          Week Ended:
                                      Apr. 6,     Mar. 30,
                                        1990        1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a     8.30        8.30
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day)   8.37        8.35
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b ......   8.33        8.26
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b ...........   8.40        8.38
   Treasury bills (one year)-c ......   8.29        8.34
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ....   8.62        8.63
   Treasury notes (five year)-c .....   8.59        8.57
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c ......   8.59        8.56
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c .......   8.56        8.53
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, April 4, 1990
and Wednesday March 28, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted for constant
maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hong Kong Stock Exchange:
   Market to Drop a Proposal
   For Late Settlement Fines
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Hong Kong Stock Exchange said it will drop a proposal
to fine brokerages that fail to settle securities trades
within two days of their execution, even after a proposed
automatic clearing and settlement system is put into place.
   Sir Q.W. Lee, the exchange's chairman, portrayed the
decision as a compromise intended to still more than a year
of debate over details of a settlement plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We've talked at length about this and we're very pleased
that it's been satisfactorily resolved," Sir Q.W. said.
   While the exchange's governing council embraced a two-day
settlement period in October, the plan drew criticism by
foreign brokerages that argued that three days were needed to
settle trades with overseas customers and would be in line
with international standards.
   In February, the exchange relented somewhat, saying that
it was considering postponing a system of penalties until
after the automatic system is in place, which is expected to
be in the second half of 1991. But, with major brokerages
still dissatisfied, the debate persisted.
   The two-day settlement system is to replace a 24-hour
settlement period that is routinely flouted without penalty.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Outboard Marine Corp.:
   Firm Expects to Post Loss,
   Cites Softening in Demand
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   OM
</CO>
<LP>
   Outboard Marine Corp., citing softening demand
"industrywide," said it expects to post a loss of as much as
$5 million for its second quarter, ended March 31, on sharply
lower sales.
   The Waukegan, Ill., maker of marine engines and
recreational power boats said it anticipates a loss of from
$1 million to $5 million, or five cents to 25 cents a share,
on sales "as much as 25% below" the year-ago period's $403
million in sales from continuing operations. Net from
continuing operations in the year-earlier period was $9.2
million, or 47 cents a share, Outboard Marine said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-ago second quarter, the company had net income
of $11.9 million, or 62 cents a share, on sales of $474.9
million. Those figures included results from Outboard's
Lawn-Boy and Cushman operations, both of which it sold in the
latter part of 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Transcon Inc.:
   Truck-a-Way Inc. Group
   Has 5.2% Stake in Common
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   TCL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A group including Truck-a-Way Inc., a Vacaville, Calif.,
trucking concern, said it holds a 5.2% stake in Transcon
Inc.'s common shares outstanding.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the group said it holds 329,000 Transcon common shares,
including 266,900 bought from March 22 to March 30 for 93.75
cents to $1.375 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group said it acquired its Transcon stock for
investment purposes, but that its intentions are "subject to
continual review and re-evaluation."
   Other group members are James D. Burke, president of
Truck-a-Way, and Andrew J. Collins Jr., an officer and
director of Metropolitan Trust Co., a Sherwood, Ark.,
diversified real estate concern.
   In Beverly Hills, Calif., Transcon officials couldn't be
reached to comment on the Truck-a-Way stake. Transcon, a
trucking company, earlier this month said it sold its
Transcon Lines carrier to closely held, Miami-based Growth
Finance Corp. The price wasn't disclosed. It said the unit in
1989 had revenue of $226.5 million and operating losses of
$31.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   Hiltons' Chief Says Firm Is Off the Block
   ---
   Giant Hotel Company
   Faces Image Rebuilding
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   HLT NWA
</CO>
<IN>
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Barron Hilton has checked back
into Hilton Hotels Corp.
   Mr. Hilton says he's left the auctioneer's stand
permanently to reclaim his seat as chairman, chief executive
officer and largest shareholder of the hotel and casino
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I have no plans to put the company back up for sale," he
says.
   The venerable Hilton name could stand some burnishing in
the aftermath of the frustrating 10-month auction. The
company faces tough times in the domestic lodging market and
unprecedented competition among Nevada casinos. But even
before he gets back down to business, the 62-year-old
executive must persuade everyone that the company is no
longer on the block.
   Persons close to Hilton bidders Alfred Checchi, Frederic
Malek and Gary Wilson say that the NWA Inc. owners are still
trying to obtain financing to salvage a deal for Hilton
Hotels. People close to Chicago-based JMB Realty Corp. say
they might consider picking up the pieces of their proposal,
valued at about $76 a share or roughly $3.7 billion.
   But according to Mr. Hilton, that won't happen. "We have
no interest in that," he says. "We are off the market."
   Hilton's stock, which peaked at $115.50 during a
speculative frenzy last August, came down to earth when the
negotiations were spiked March 7. But it still reflects a
healthy takeover premium as die-hard market players and
others load up. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading
Monday, Hilton's stock closed at $52.875,down 12.5 cents.
   Despite rumors on Wall Street, Hilton apparently doesn't
have any debt-financed special dividends, restructurings or
single-property sales in the works. Although many investors
and Wall Street observers accuse Hilton's board of scuttling
the negotiations through their indecisiveness, the company
doesn't seem willing to appease them by piling on debt or
making other drastic moves.
   Mr. Hilton says the company isn't considering a share
buy-back, although the company may consider that from time to
time. Nor does he seem anxious to part with crown jewels such
as the 50%-owned Hilton Hawaiian Village, which he deems
irreplaceable, or New York's famed Waldorf-Astoria.
   But Hilton faces a pitched battle to maintain its ranking
as a top operator. On the hotel side, aggressors such as
Marriott Corp. and Hyatt Hotels Corp. have muscled in to
challenge Hilton's traditional dominance of the domestic
upscale hotel segment. Others, such as Promus Cos., have
gotten off to a fast start in other segments, such as
all-suite properties.
   Mr. Hilton says his company plans to ride out the
much-publicized overbuilding in the domestic market by
moderate growth in its all-suite and franchised CrestHil
hotel lines. Last year, Hilton completed a $1 billion-plus
renovation of its classic properties, including the Waldorf
and Chicago's Palmer House.
   Hilton's future seems inexorably tied to the international
market. Although overseas investors didn't want to pay top
dollar for its assets, foreigners have a real taste for
Hilton accommodations that the company wants to exploit to
the fullest.
   Foreign guests accounted for 22.2% of total occupancy at
Hilton's top 15 destination hotels in the U.S. in 1989, up
sharply from 12.8% in 1985. Hilton says it expects that trend
to continue, with international travelers accounting for more
than 30% of total occupancy by 1995.
   Hilton also boasts extraordinary consumer recognition. A
recent independent study of world-wide consumer product brand
recognition ranked Hilton as the 12th most esteemed brand in
the world.
   The company is expanding its overseas hotel unit, Conrad
International Hotels, to tap that visibility and snare its
share of global travel growth. One rub that analysts forsee,
though, is getting customers to realize that Conrad hotels --
named for company founder Conrad Nicholson Hilton -- are
indeed Hilton properties. The company sold off the Hilton
International chain years ago, and is prohibited from using
the name overseas.
   The Conrad hotels expansion, engineered in part by Barron
Hilton's brother, Eric, will take some time to reach the
"critical mass" deemed necessary to establish a hotel chain,
analysts say. Mr. Hilton says the unit currently is in
discussions on several possible projects, some of which may
play off of its casino expertise.
   The Nevada gambling business is anything but a sure bet
these days, even for old hands like Hilton. Las Vegas is in
the midst of explosive growth amid huge expansions and
splashy new resorts such as Golden Nugget Inc.'s Mirage and
Circus Circus Enterprises Inc.'s Excalibur.
   Competitors and Wall Street observers say the lengthy sale
negotiations so distracted management last year that the
casinos made some uncharacteristic slips. Hilton admits that
O'Shea's, its new budget-gambler's mecca along the Las Vegas
Strip, was opened before it was ready last year, and that
construction at the Flamingo Hilton next door took its toll.
Those factors, as well as bad luck at the gaming tables,
caused the casinos' operating income to slide to $102.6
million in 1989 from $128.6 million in 1988.
   Hilton has launched a new marketing program for its
Flamingo casinos, and is slated to open a new 2,000-room
Flamingo Hilton casino in burgeoning Laughlin, Nev. this
summer. The company expects stronger gambling results this
year now that most of the extensive remodeling and
construction are completed.
   Outwardly, Hilton and its business plan appear untouched
by the recent corporate drama. But one imponderable will be
the long term effect on Hilton's reputation and investor
confidence, both of which were bruised.
   In hindsight, Mr. Hilton recognizes the problems with
timing and approach. "I'm the first to admit that we missed
the window," Mr. Hilton says. "Had we had a crystal ball, we
would have targeted a strategic buyer" instead of opting for
the auction process.
   Even so, he adds, the company would probably have been
criticized by observers questioning whether the company got
the best price by negotiating exclusively with one bidder.
The bids the company did receive were contingent on financing
and licensing, he says, which posed a risk the board finally
deemed unacceptable.
   Mr. Hilton is still smarting from the barbs over the
potential for increasing his net worth, as he owns 24.5% of
Hilton's stock outright. "Some analysts said Barron Hilton
can't afford not to accept an offer for this company," he
says with a trace of anger. "A lot of people thought I'd go
for the money. I felt a responsibility to our shareholders
not to sell in an unfashionable climate."
   Business climate, like investor confidence, has a way of
coming around in better times. Most experts say foreign
investors' appetites for hotels and real estate eventually
will rebound. So might Hilton sport another for-sale sign in
the near future?
   "I'm staying in the saddle," Mr. Hilton responds.
   ---
   Neil Barsky in New York contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   G-7 Remarks
   Fail to Bolster
   Sagging Yen
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN CANDA EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar rose against the Japanese yen
yesterday, shrugging off modest intervention by central banks
and a weekend statement of concern about the yen's weakness
from the major industrial nations.
   Most of the big action occurred in early Far Eastern
trading, where the dollar bounced like a yo-yo because of
differing interpretations of a Saturday communique from
finance ministers and central bank heads of the Group of
Seven countries. The dollar was mixed against other
currencies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dollar initially jumped 1.3% to 159.65 yen in very
early New Zealand trading, on initial disappointment that the
communique wasn't more forceful in supporting Japan's
currency. Later in Tokyo, the dollar tumbled as low as 155.70
on Japanese newspaper reports that the G-7 would intervene
heavily to boost the sagging yen.
   It didn't happen.
   In late New York trading, the dollar wound up just 0.4%
ahead at 158.23 yen, compared with 157.65 yen late Friday.
The U.S. currency was marginally lower at 1.6935 West German
marks, compared with 1.6950 marks before the weekend. The
British pound fell to $1.6338 from $1.6425 on Friday.
   Early Tuesday in Tokyo, the yen quickly gave up gains it
had made Monday in Tokyo, plus some. The dollar was trading
at 158.08 yen at midmorning, down slightly from the New York
close but up sharply from the Monday close of 156.45 yen in
Tokyo and even higher than last Friday's close of 156.47 yen.
Monday's optimistic expectations of coordinated central bank
intervention were gone by the market's opening because such
action failed to materialize overnight, and Tokyo traders
were much more cautious.
   Following a one-day meeting in Paris, representatives of
the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and
Canada said that the yen's recent decline against the dollar
and European currencies has "undesirable consequences." The
G-7 also reaffirmed their commitment to economic policy
coordination, including "cooperation in exchange markets."
   The G-7, however, failed to agree on a Japanese request
for a coordinated interest-rate package to support the yen.
This package would have included lower U.S. and West German
rates, steps that theoretically would reduce the allure of
the dollar, the mark and other European currencies tied to
the mark.
   The Bank of Japan did sell dollars for yen, and the
intervention was followed later in the day by the central
banks of Britain, West Germany, France and Switzerland and
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Currency traders
weren't especially impressed.
   They said the sales -- including those by the Bank of
Japan -- were small, looking more like a sign of central-bank
solidarity and an attempt to smooth markets than a campaign
to push up the yen.
   Dealers estimated the combined intervention at a few
hundred million dollars, and the Bank of Japan's dollar sales
at less than $200 million. That's one-fifth of the estimated
$1 billion a day that Japan had been throwing at the rising
dollar in past weeks.
   Several dealers speculated that Western central banks may
have been acting primarily on behalf of the Japanese central
bank. "The odds are better than 50-50 that it was Bank of
Japan money," said James T. McGroarty, a senior vice
president at Greenwich Capital Inc., a Greenwich, Conn., unit
of the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan.
   Nonetheless, he said the G-7 communique shouldn't be read
as negatively as it has been by many traders. "The joint
statement does mean that {the G-7 countries} are concerned,"
said Mr. McGroarty. "It doesn't necessarily mean they want
the dollar at 130 {yen}, but they are concerned about the
yen's level and its potential to unsettle world-wide
financial markets." Thus, he believes the dollar could
decline to about 153 yen.
   Richard Witten, head of foreign exchange trading at
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., isn't so sanguine. "It seems that all
the references to Japan and the yen were strained and the
product of strained negotiations," he said of the joint
statement. "So on its face, reading the communique -- in
contrast to other communiques -- shows there is less
agreement that markets are incorrectly pricing currencies.
And there is less will expressed to make a change in the
currency markets."
   Since mid-February, the dollar has risen 10% against its
Japanese counterpart. Behind the weak yen are a combination
of factors, including the recent plunges in Japanese share
prices, increased capital flows from Japan to foreign markets
and bickering between the Japan's Ministry of Finance and
Bank of Japan over whether to raise interest rates.
   Confidence in Japan's currency and its monetary
authorities also has been eroded as U.S. officials several
times rebuffed Tokyo's requests for aid in supporting their
currency.
   Despite the threat that a weak yen poses for a wider U.S.
trade deficit, analysts believe the U.S. is more concerned
about domestic inflation. The yen's weakness is viewed
primarily as a Japanese problem. That same view appears to be
held by West German authorities. A strong dollar helps damp
inflationary pressures by reducing import prices, as well as
those charged by domestic companies that compete with
imports.
   Even so, traders don't expect the yen to fall much
farther.
   After perhaps drifting for a couple of weeks, "the dollar
will resume its upward path to the low 160 {yen area}," said
Mr. Witten of Goldman Sachs. "Most of the upward movement in
the dollar has happened already; there's more, but not a heck
of a lot more."
   Yoichi Sakaguchi, chief trader at Sanwa Bank Ltd. in New
York, said that "people are buying dollars but very
cautiously," because they remain fearful of central bank
intervention.
   He added that although many U.S. banks are focusing on the
U.S. currency's positive aspects, "Japanese investor attitude
is changing toward the dollar from bullish to cautiously
bullish or flat."
   Mr. Sakaguchi said that since the April 1 start of the new
Japanese fiscal year, "we expected a lot of Japanese interest
in buying dollars. But it hasn't occurred, at least so far."
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery dropped $4.70 to $376 an ounce. Estimated volume was
a moderate 3.2 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong, gold opened Tuesday at $376.69 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News:
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   MCI AGREED TO BUY the fourth-largest long-distance
carrier, Telecom USA, for $42 a share, or about $1.25
billion. The acquisition will give MCI more strength in the
midlevel business market as well as access to several
innovative Telecom products, such as its calling card and
voice messaging service.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sir James Goldsmith received a big setback in his attempt
to buy B.A.T as California regulators rejected a change in
control of B.A.T's Farmers Group insurance unit.
   ---
   Insurers were dealt a setback as a New Jersey judge ruled
that Owens-Illinois's insurance companies will have to pay as
much as $960 million to cover asbestos-related claims.
   ---
   Ames Department Stores plans to close 74 stores and will
post a loss of $228 million for its fiscal year.
   ---
   Eastern Air's preferred shareholders asked a federal
bankruptcy court to wrest the carrier from parent Texas Air
and turn it into an independent firm. The surprise move may
set the stage for a battle for control.
   ---
   U.S. computer maker AST Research plans to turn the tables
on Japanese giant NEC by cloning the company's most-popular
personal computer and selling it in Japan.
   ---
   The dollar rose against the yen, shrugging off
central-bank intervention and a weekend statement of concern
by the Group of Seven. Stocks rose and bonds edged lower.
                                                                                                       

   Oil prices plunged again on new fears of a glut. Crude
futures fell to the lowest levels since the summer.
   ---
   Turner Broadcasting and Tribune Broadcasting reached a
10-year accord to produce and share news and entertainment
programs, the latest such cable-broadcast agreement.
   ---
   The thrift-bailout agency is now promising to sell or
liquidate 140 insolvent S&amp;Ls in the next 90 days. The rapid
pace is possible, officials said, under a broad new plan to
unload the thrifts in smaller pieces.
   ---
   An East Europe development bank will be set up by major
industrial nations with $12 billion of capital. A pact was
reached after the U.S. won a strict limit on Soviet
borrowing.
   ---
   Learjet's assets and operations will be sold by Integrated
Resources to Bombardier for $75 million. The move will boost
the Canadian firm's share of the corporate jet market.
   ---
   Computer industry talks on establishing a single version
of the Unix operating system have broken off, a setback for
Unix proponents.
   ---
   Time Warner agreed to help arrange financing for about
half the $1.2 billion Pathe Communications needs for its
takeover of MGM/UA.
   ---
   Kodak is discontinuing its highly touted Ultralife lithium
battery because of slow sales. Some analysts believe Kodak
will ultimately get out of consumer batteries altogether.
   ---
   Network Equipment Technologies said quarterly results will
be worse than expected due to improprieties with certain
orders and shipments.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 114,970,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2722.07, up 4.95; transportation 1171.05, off 3.03; utilities
214.10, up 0.44.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3337.68, off
7.99.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.89, off 0.42;
spot index 134.37, up 1.12.
   Dollar: 158.23 yen, up 0.58; 1.6935 marks, off 0.0015.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   SOVIET OFFICIALS PLEDGED to increase pressure on
Lithuania.
   A presidential advisory group chaired by Gorbachev vowed
to escalate economic, political and other pressure to prompt
the Baltic republic to rescind its March 11 proclamation of
independence. The panel accused Lithuania's leaders of
"anti-constitutional actions." In the republic of Georgia, as
many as 200,000 people attended three separate rallies to
commemorate the first anniversary of a bloody clash with
Soviet troops that sparked the republic's independence
movement. The protesters demanded that the Kremlin's forces
be withdrawn from Georgia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Czechoslovakia convened a meeting of Central European
nations. The ministers indicated that the Lithuanian
situation should be settled through talks.
   ---
   EAST GERMAN LEADERS PROPOSED a diverse governing
coalition.
   Prime Minister-designate de Maiziere, leader of the
Christian Democrats, unveiled the tentative composition of
the country's first non-Communist government that includes
the major political parties and has a peace activist as
defense minister. The Parliament in East Berlin is expected
to vote today on the nominations to the 24-member cabinet,
which would be Eastern Europe's first freely elected
government.
   Differences between East Germany's two main political
parties still exist over the pace and form of the nation's
eventual reunification with West Germany.
   ---
   Peru's Mario Vargas Llosa faced a challenge from political
independent Alberto Fujimori, whose second-place finish in
Sunday's balloting forced the country's most famous novelist
into a runoff. Unofficial returns showed Fujimori, who
currently is favored to win the presidency, capturing about
29% of the vote to Vargas Llosa's 34%.
   ---
   Hungary's conservative party began working to form a
center-right governing coalition following its victory in
elections Sunday that ended 43 years of Communist rule. The
Democratic Forum won nearly 43% of the vote, securing 165 of
the 386 parliamentary seats contested in the balloting.
   ---
   NASA said there was a 40% chance that weather would delay
today's launch of the shuttle Discovery from the Kennedy
Space Center in Florida. The spacecraft is to place into
orbit the Hubble Space Telescope, which scientists hope will
enable them to study the edge of the universe.
   ---
   A Palestinian terrorist group said it would free three
European hostages this month. But the group led by Abu Nidal
linked the freedom of four other Europeans to the release of
an Arab imprisoned in Belgium. In Damascus, GOP Sen. Dole
said Syria's Assad was making efforts to win the release of
Western captives in Lebanon.
   ---
   The White House said snags in talks to cut long-range
nuclear missile arsenals won't affect plans for next month's
summit between Bush and Gorbachev. The signing of a treaty
reducing superpower strategic weapons was expected to be the
centerpiece the meeting, but little progress was reported in
U.S.-Soviet talks last week.
   ---
   Authorities in Norway said the death toll from a weekend
fire aboard a Danish ferry in the North Sea could reach as
many as 200, as rescuers reached the midship cabins and found
the bodies of families who died in the blaze. The casualty
estimate came as fires were reported aboard an Irish Sea
ferry and on a French passenger vessel.
   ---
   Thousands of people in Nepal rallied across the country to
celebrate King Birendra's pledge Sunday to re-establish a
multiparty political system. Despite the concession to the
pro-democracy opposition, doubts remained over the formation
of an interim government in the Himalayan kingdom.
   ---
   Delegates from 112 nations gathered in London for the
opening of a three-day conference to seek a global strategy
aimed at reducing the demand for illegal narcotics. A draft
declaration presented at the meeting, which was organized by
the U.N. and Britain, rejects the legalization of drugs.
   ---
   Four British soldiers were killed when a land mine
destroyed their armored vehicle in Northern Ireland's County
Down. The Irish Republican Army claimed responsibility for
the blast, considered the worst guerrilla attack of the year
in Ulster.
   ---
   Iraq ordered a U.S. diplomat to leave the country in
retaliation for Saturday's expulsion by Washington of an
Iraqi envoy accused of involvement in a murder plot. The
identity of the American wasn't disclosed.
   ---
   A Western diplomat in Beijing confirmed that ethnic
disturbances have taken place recently in Moslem areas of
China's far western border with the Soviet Union. Details of
the unrest weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Aileen Inc.:
   Plans to Look for Buyers
   Of Business Are Abandoned
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   AEE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aileen Inc., New York, said it abandoned plans to look for
buyers of all or part of its business, because of improved
prospects for growth and profitability.
   The women's apparel manufacturer and retailer said it may
continue to dispose of plants, machinery and equipment that
aren't necessary for its operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At its annual meeting, Abe Oberlin, chairman, said Aileen
adopted a program to reduce overhead, simplify manufacturing
operations and manage inventories more efficiently. He said
Aileen had hired a merchandising manager, whom he didn't
identify.
   Mr. Oberlin said he anticipates a return to profitability
in the fiscal second quarter, based on a 28% increase in
retail sales for the first nine weeks of the quarter. For the
fiscal first quarter ended Jan. 27, Aileen had a net loss of
$1.2 million, or 22 cents a share, on sales of $10.6 million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Aileen closed at $2 a share, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Freeport-McMoRan Inc.:
   Distribution Period Extended
   For Affiliated Partnership
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FRP FTX
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Freeport-McMoRan Inc. said it is extending the period for
assured minimum 60-cent quarterly cash distributions on
publicly held units of Freeport-McMoRan Resource Partners
L.P. through the second quarter of 1993. The
minimum-distribution period initially was scheduled to
conclude with the second quarter of 1991.
   James R. Moffett, Freeport-McMoRan Inc. chairman and chief
executive, said the New Orleans exploration and mining
company feels confident in extending the minimum distribution
for two years because the partnership's previously announced
asset sales are expected to generate about $575 million in
1990 that will help reduce debt and fund development of its
major sulfur discovery.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Freeport-McMoRan Oil &amp; Gas Co., an affiliate
of Freeport-McMoRan Inc., said directors approved a policy of
paying a 10-cent annual dividend. It said the initial
dividend will be declared in December, payable in January
1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Oil Prices Plunge Again on Concerns About Glut
   As Some Futures Fall to Summer 1989 Levels
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Oil prices plunged again on new worries of a glut.
   The declines were world-wide -- and the price erosion that
had begun a few days ago and dropped U.S. crude futures more
than $1 a barrel last week appeared to be accelerating. Crude
futures were down yesterday to some of the lowest levels
since last summer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   West Texas Intermediate crude for May delivery fell 71
cents a barrel to settle at $18.44 on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The June crude contract was down 61 cents to
$18.95. Futures prices of fuels also were off sharply, with
the May contract for unleaded gasoline down 1.22 cents a
gallon.
   Prices of petroleum outside the futures market also
continued to slide. U.S. refiners yesterday generally reduced
the prices they pay for West Texas Intermediate crude in the
field by 75 cents a barrel, to $17.50.
   Meanwhile, bearish sentiment swept through European spot
markets. North Sea crudes declined between 45 cents and 60
cents a barrel from Friday's closing prices.
   Analysts agree the reason for the sell-off was further
evidence of a surplus of crude oil. They said it's due to two
factors: The seasonal slackening in demand for oil at this
time of the year -- underscored by the large number of
refineries that are buying less crude because of maintenance
schedulings -- and the continued high production by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
   The Middle East Economic Survey is the latest industry
publication to cite high OPEC output. It reported that OPEC
produced nearly 24.1 million barrels of crude oil a day in
March, the highest monthly output since 1981.
   But more oil analysts are beginning to look for a price
recovery before the end of the second quarter, which is
traditionally a sluggish oil-demand period.
   At the least, "the declines in prices should slow down by
the second half of the quarter," said George F. Friesen, oil
analyst with Deutsche Bank Capital Corp., New York. By then,
he said, most refineries will have completed their spring
maintenance and will be back in the market for crude.
   Also, some oil analysts expect OPEC soon to try to do
something about the price fall. "OPEC overproduction has
begun to hurt, but not yet enough to bring back production
discipline," said Fereidun Fesharaki of the Resource Systems
Institute of Honolulu's East-West Center.
   He looks for an $18 West Texas Intermediate price next
month to trigger a heated OPEC conference when the oil
ministers meet May 25. "We see a sharp rebound after the OPEC
meeting for the month of June," he said.
   Philip K. Verleger Jr., an oil-price authority at the
Washington-based Institute for International Economics, also
sees prices rebounding within a few weeks to $20 or $21 a
barrel for West Texas Intermediate -- but for a different
reason. He said it's very profitable for refiners to build
crude inventories at today's prices and then sell futures.
"It's a great hedging market for the refiners," he said.
"Crude prices will be stronger between now and the end of the
second quarter," he added.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices fell from Friday's gains and ended
near the low of the day. The May contract settled at $1.1670
a pound for a loss of 4.40 cents a pound, slightly above the
day's low of $1.1650. London Metal Exchange warehouse stocks
of copper last week fell to 55,225 tons, down 3,900 tons, the
lowest level since May 1988. But analysts said the figure was
a disappointment to traders who had expected a decline of
between 7,000 and 8,000 tons. Another price-depressing
development, analysts said, was a Reuter news-service report
that quoted Codelco, the Chilean state-owned copper company,
as saying it would produce almost 1.3 million tons of refined
copper this year, a 3.8% improvement from last year. The
company also was reported as saying that 1991 output would
total 1,350,000 tons. Chile is the world's leading copper
producer. Meanwhile, analysts said striking miners and
smelter workers of Southern Peru Copper Corp. rejected the
company's latest offer, continuing the strike that began on
March 12. Peru is the world's sixth-largest copper producer.
Traders seemed to ignore the development, analysts said. One
analyst observed that despite the market's action,
price-supporting underlying factors remain in place. The drop
in London supplies still indicates tight inventories, and the
continuation of the Peruvian strike is also bullish, he said.
At the moment, technically inspired selling appears to
prevail. The analyst noted that the May futures price on
Friday dipped below $1.19 a pound before recovering at the
close, and then fell sharply below that yesterday and failed
to rebound. Another analyst said he felt that traders still
hadn't recovered from the sharp drop that followed
Wednesday's incorrect report that the Peruvian strike had
been settled. "It took some wind out of potential buyers'
sails, and they've remained cautious," he said.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Gold-futures prices declined on the
perception that the dollar will continue to remain strong,
despite expressions of concern about the yen by the major
developed nations after their meeting in Paris during the
weekend. June-delivery gold was off $4.80 an ounce, to
$380.40. May silver fell 6.2 cents an ounce, to $5.1280. July
platinum slipped 90 cents an ounce, to $481.70. European
central banks and the U.S. Federal Reserve yesterday
intervened to support the yen, an analyst said, but traders
regarded this action as mostly aimed to give credibility to
the Group of Seven nations' concern over the Japanese
currency, and it didn't really create gold demand. Another
analyst observed that the G-7 meeting failed to produce
anything concrete that would stem the firmness in the U.S.
currency, "so the dollar is expected to continue to rise."
Some of the selling was by producers, he said. Among
price-depressing factors: The dollar firmed later in the day
and oil prices were sharply weaker. Peter Cardillo,
futures-trading adviser for Josephthal &amp; Co., New York, said
that, with the negative factors currently prevailing in gold,
"there could soon be a test of the $367.00 life-of-contract
low of the June contract."
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Price action remained subdued and
trading volume light ahead of this afternoon's release of two
Agriculture Department reports. The department's report on
world crops is likely to be read especially for its comments
on the soybean harvest in Brazil, a major U.S. competitor in
the export market for soybeans. Another report will detail
U.S. crop supply and demand figures as of April 1. Wheat
futures for May delivery slid 4.5 cents a bushel to close at
$3.6075 a bushel, and May soybean futures declined 3.75 cents
a bushel to close at $5.9175 a bushel. Corn futures for May
delivery gained 0.25 cent a bushel to close at $2.6950 a
bushel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Development Bank for East Bloc to Start
   Soon, as Meeting Allays U.S. Concerns
   ----
   By Peter Truell and Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   PARIS -- A development bank for the East bloc, with $12
billion of capital, will be set up shortly, following a
two-day meeting that resolved U.S. concerns about Soviet
borrowing and the institution's capital.
   The 42 shareholders -- including the U.S., European
nations, the Soviet Union and Japan -- have finally agreed on
all articles of the constitution of the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, according to Jacques Attali,
special adviser to French President Francois Mitterrand. At a
news conference here late yesterday, he said that the
shareholders plan to sign the articles on May 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By that date, the group expects to have decided on the
bank's location and its president, he added. Mr. Attali and
former Dutch Finance Minister Onno Ruding are leading
contenders for the job. And as many as 10 countries,
including the Netherlands, Britain, Denmark and Austria, have
expressed interest in having the development bank based
there.
   The U.S. wanted -- and obtained -- strict limits on Soviet
borrowing from the bank. It also sought -- and ensured --
that it could subscribe its own capital contribution in
dollars. Under a formula worked out in the talks here,
capital contributions can be made in either European currency
units, dollars or yen. The so-called ECU, which represents a
basket of European currencies, is worth about $1.20.
   "All our major objections have been addressed," said David
Mulford, Treasury undersecretary for international affairs
and the U.S. negotiator, after the meetings ended. As the
U.S. has argued, the bank also "will have a private-sector
emphasis and be focused on the transition to market-oriented
economies," he said.
   "This was the breakthrough meeting," said Mr. Mulford, who
has visited Paris several times this year to discuss the
bank, which began as a French idea, was later embraced by the
entire European Community, and is now becoming a broadly
international organization.
   The U.S., with a 10% share, will be the largest single
shareholder. Britain, France, Italy, Japan and West Germany
will each have shares of 8.52%. Altogether, European nations
will hold a majority stake in the bank.
   The U.S. has been eager to ensure that it is the largest
shareholder and has significant influence over the new
institution. There was a row in the Bush administration when,
in complex negotiations, the U.S. share temporarily dropped
to 8.5%, although Treasury officials have strenuously denied
this. A large role is important to the U.S. goal of ensuring
a strong private-sector orientation for the bank.
   The Soviet Union's role in the bank also has been
controversial. Some shareholders opposed strict limits to
Soviet borrowing. But after long negotiations, the Soviets
wrote a letter setting out a compromise that includes
considerable borrowing restraint, negotiators said.
   Under a compromise that was completed yesterday, the
Soviet Union will be a full member of the bank. But for the
first three years, it will be allowed to borrow only up to an
amount equal to its paid-in capital contribution.
Furthermore, Soviet borrowings will be limited to financing
technical assistance, the private sector and state-owned
companies that are "in the competitive sector," or that are
privatizing.
   The Soviet Union, with a 6% share in the bank, will have
paid-in capital of about $216 million. All of the
shareholders, including the Soviet Union, will pay in only
30% of their capital contributions. The rest of their capital
will be callable. After three years, an 85% majority vote of
the bank's shareholders will be required in order to expand
Soviet borrowing powers.
   Under the other main compromise reached yesterday, share
contributions, which will cover the bank's first five years,
may be made in dollars or yen as well as in ECUs The U.S. had
been unwilling to pay its share in ECUs partly because
Congress makes appropriations in dollars.
   Contributions in dollars and yen will be made at a fixed
exchange rate against the ECU, which will be calculated by
taking the average exchange rate for each currency over the
six months ending next September, the bank's member nations
said at a news conference yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Ford Switches Investment
   To Germany From Britain
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   F EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Ford Motor Co.'s British unit said it decided to
reduce its proposed #725 million ($1.19 billion) investment
in an engine plant in South Wales to #500 million.
   Ford said the outstanding #225 million will be diverted to
the company's production plant in Cologne, West Germany. The
company cited the "unreliability" of supplies from the United
Kingdom engine plants and other factors as the reason for its
decision to switch the investment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a result of the switch, the South Wales plant, which
was initially expected to produce 850,000 of the company's
new multivalve lean-burn engines, will now produce only
300,000 engines a year.
   Ford's South Wales plant employs 14,000 hourly workers and
produces 50,000 Escort, Orion and Fiesta car engines a year.
The spokesman said jobs at the plant won't be put at risk due
to the decision to switch the investment.
   Commenting on Ford's proposal to create more than 3,000
new jobs from the investment plan, a company spokeswoman said
only that "the position of those jobs is as yet unclear."
   She repeated company claims, however, that the British
plants affected may still be granted fresh production
contracts if supply and productivity problems that have
afflicted the unit can be ironed out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Kellogg Plans to Introduce
   Sweetened Cereal for Kids
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   K
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   BATTLE CREEK, Mich. -- Kellogg Co. soon will introduce its
first presweetened cereal for kids in 15 years, a four-grain
flaked product called Bigg Mixx.
   The ready-to-eat product includes rolled oats, rice,
toasted corn flakes and whole-grain wheat, flavored with
brown sugar and cinnamon. One variety also comes with
raisins.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most of Bigg Mixx's $22 million rollout budget will focus
on a fanciful creature -- part chicken, wolf, moose and pig
-- that will speak for the product. The character, named for
the cereal, joins Tony the Tiger and Toucan Sam in Kellogg's
marketing menagerie.
   The last successful presweetened item from the world's
largest maker of ready-to-eat cereals was Frosted Krispies, a
1975 rollout.
   Kellogg's hopes for a new hit with kids and their parents
last year was S.W. Graham, a graham-flour cereal with a
nostalgia advertising campaign. But when initial sales didn't
meet expectations, the company quietly took it off the
market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Development Corp.:
   Homesite-Development Unit
   Is Closed; 239 Are Laid Off
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   GDV
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Development Corp., which filed for bankruptcy-law
protection Friday, said it closed its homesite-development
division, laying off its 239 workers.
   The cash-short Miami developer, which wasn't able to pay
more than $10 million in property taxes due April 1, said
"until we get our reorganization plan approved, we can't
spend any money on home-site construction." In recent months,
the company has laid off or fired approximately 1,600 other
workers, or more than one quarter of its work force.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Development's troubles stem from a grand-jury
investigation of its selling practices. Last month, the
company pleaded guilty to a federal charge of conspiracy to
defraud about 10,000 home buyers by charging inflated prices
based on improper appraisals. The company's former top two
executives also pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy.
   Separately, citing the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing,
Moody's Investors Service lowered its ratings on about $275
million of the company's senior subordinated and subordinated
debt to Ca from Caa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thyssen's Budd Co. Unit
   Agrees to Pay $1.5 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   G.THY LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Budd Co. agreed to pay $1.5 million to
settle Labor Department charges of workplace noise and other
safety and health violations at the company's Philadelphia
automotive-panel plant.
   Budd also agreed to set up corporatewide worker-hearing
conservation and record-keeping programs, the department's
Occupational Safety and Health Administration said. Budd,
based in Troy, Mich., and a unit of Thyssen AG in West
Germany, agreed to the settlement without admitting the
alleged violations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   OSHA last December proposed penalties totaling $3.3
million against Budd for the alleged Philadelphia violations.
But as with many accords, the regulatory agency agreed to the
smaller fine in return for a commitment for corporatewide
abatement of the alleged unsafe practices.
   At the time, the $3.3 million was the fourth-largest
proposed penalty for a company in OSHA history. The agency
had charged Budd with noise-rule violations, including
failure to tell workers they had suffered hearing loss and to
have doctors review problem cases; with violations of
engineering-control regulations; and with willful violations
of record-keeping rules, such as the required notation of
medical treatment for injuries.
   The agreement calls for Budd to reduce excessive noise at
the Philadelphia plant by April 30, 1991, and to begin a
hearing-conservation program at all its facilities by Sept.
1, 1990.
   Budd also will audit injury and illness record-keeping
since Jan. 1, 1987, to see that the records comply with
federal requirements, and to keep future records in
compliance, OSHA said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Nail-Biting
   By Investors
   Sets Tone
   ---
   Dow Edges Up 4.95
   But Bonds Decline;
   Trading Is Uninspired
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Stock and bond prices moved in narrow ranges as investors
started a new week worried about first-quarter earnings and a
hefty new supply of government debt scheduled for auction
this week.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average edged up 4.95 points, to
2722.07. But declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange
were ahead of gainers and volume was anemic. Long-term
Treasury bond prices slipped in thin trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While currency traders scrambled to interpret the outcome
of the weekend meeting of the Group of Seven industrial
nations, neither bond nor stock investors were much
influenced by the dollar's gyrations. Instead, analysts said
investors in each market had enough to worry about without
trying to track the currency.
   The stock market's overriding concern remains
first-quarter earnings. Last week, bank stocks were hammered
by prospects of disappointing quarterly results, providing a
preview of what is in store for companies that surprise
shareholders with less-than-expected profits. Those stocks
rebounded somewhat yesterday after some analysts indicated
conditions affecting banks don't warrant the gloomy outlook.
   Nevertheless, the stock market probably has some rough
going ahead. Although analysts have been steadily revising
estimates of corporate earnings lower during recent weeks,
investors have reacted mostly with caution, standing pat with
their holdings rather than selling.
   One indication of the deep uncertainty afflicting
investors is that stock prices barely budged in New York
after a sharp rally in Tokyo. The Nikkei Index of 225 stocks
rose 1119.15, or 3.8%, to 30397.93 in a broad-based rally.
The best the Dow Jones Industrial Average could muster in
early trading yesterday was a gain of about 12 points, much
of it because of computer-assisted buy programs, that faded
later in the morning.
   Bond prices didn't fare as well. An early plunge in the
dollar in Far East trading set the stage for some selling as
trading opened in New York. But as the currency rebounded,
bond prices recouped some of their losses.
   The big factor overhanging the bond market, however, is
the auction today of $3.5 billion in Resolution Funding Corp.
40year bonds, followed tomorrow by the sale of $7.5 billion
in seven-year Treasury notes. Traders said prices fell
because market participants aren't sure how wellreceived the
two auctions will be.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in light trading. Volume on the New York
Stock Exchange totaled 115.0 million shares. Declining issues
on the Big Board were ahead of gainers 839 to 652.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were off. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bond fell a little more than a quarter of a point, or more
than $2.50 for each $1,000 face amount. The yield on the
issue rose to 8.54%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Takeover Lawyer Suggests
   Delay in Voting by Holders
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<LP>
   With proxy fights proliferating, takeover defense lawyer
Martin Lipton has a new idea for companies worried about
their directors being voted out of office: don't let
shareholders vote as often.
   Mr. Lipton, a partner at Wachtell Lipton Rosen &amp; Katz,
suggests that directors ought to be elected to terms of five
years, instead of one or three, in what he calls a
"quinquennial system." Under his proposal, the annual meeting
would be eliminated, and shareholders would only meet every
five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Currently, most companies either elect all their directors
annually, or have staggered boards, with one-third up for
election each year. Staggered boards came into widespread use
early in the 1980s as an anti-takeover defense.
   "We need to strike a balance," Mr. Lipton said in a memo
to clients. "A balance that facilitates long-term planning by
corporations but does not entrench bad management." With such
a system, he added, "directors would run on the corporation's
record for the past five years and the corporation's
strategic plan for the next five years."
   However, Mr. Lipton acknowledged the idea would require
changes in state laws, federal securities laws and stock
exchange rules.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Centocor to Report
   Bacteria Drug Cuts
   Mortality Rates
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   CNTO
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Centocor Inc. plans to report that its drug for treating
certain potentially fatal bacterial infections clearly
reduces mortality rates.
   According to a summary of a Centocor report to be made at
a scientific conference in May, the mortality rate fell 39%
when patients whose blood was infected with so-called
gram-negative bacteria were treated with the Centocor drug,
as against patients who receive a placebo. The summary calls
this reduction "highly significant" statistically.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of 200 patients studied, 49% of those on the placebo died
within 28 days, while only 30% of those on the drug died.
Moreover, the summary says, the drug reduced mortality 42%
among those patients who had gone into septic shock.
   The summary was prepared as a help for the press at the
May conference but made available by the journal Clinical
Research. The lead investigator, Elizabeth Ziegler of the
University of California at San Diego, and Centocor officials
said they hadn't intended that the summary should be released
so soon and declined to comment. Clinical Research today will
publish the official, more technical abstract of the report
to be made in May.
   The summary, though sketchy on details, suggests how
Centocor, based in Malvern, Pa., hopes to answer a report by
rival Xoma Corp., issued last September. Like Centocor, Xoma,
based in Berkeley, Calif., is still seeking marketing
approval from the Food and Drug Administration for a drug to
treat gram-negative infections, which can follow abdominal
wounds, surgery and contamination of the catheters used in
hospitals.
   Any information divulged by the two biotechnology
companies is intensely scrutinized by Wall Street because
their similar products could be the first big-selling drugs
made from monoclonal antibodies, or proteins like those the
body produces naturally to fight disease. Mark Simon, an
analyst at Robertson Stephens &amp; Co., estimates that the U.S.
market for the drugs could total $350 million in 1993.
   According to some estimates, 200,000 people in the U.S.
develop gram-negative infections each year, and some 80,000
people die from them. The infections today are treated mostly
with antibiotics.
   The earlier report by Xoma indicated that its own drug,
for now called E5, also reduced mortality rates, but only
before patients entered what Xoma calls "severe refractory
shock," defined as sharply lower blood pressure and other
conditions. Yesterday, Patrick Scannon, Xoma's president,
noted that the summary of the Centocor study doesn't explain
how it defined shock -- a key part of the scientific debate.
   Dr. Scannon also noted that the Centocor study, at least
as presented in the summary, looked only at patients whose
blood was infected. He said the Xoma study had looked also at
other types of infection by gram-negative bacteria and so
that study is difficult to compare with the Centocor study.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- BayBanks Inc.:
   Bank-Holding Firm Reports
   A Deficit for First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   BBNK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   BayBanks Inc., Boston, reported a first-quarter loss of
$13.8 million, or 87 cents a share, in line with its previous
projections, after providing $68 million for possible loan
losses in the quarter.
   In the year-earlier quarter, the bank-holding company had
net income of $20.8 million, or $1.30 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said nonperforming loans and other real estate
owned totaled about $246 million, up from $156 million at
year end. Other loans 90 days or more past due were $100
million at March 31, down $14 million from Dec. 31. It said
reserves at March 31 equaled 52% of nonperforming loans and
other real estate owned.
   Separately, BayBanks said a holder has filed a lawsuit
against the company, its directors and certain officers in
federal court in Boston, charging that the company made
misleading disclosures in past public statements and reports.
Chairman William M. Crozier Jr. said "BayBanks believes that
it has reported its affairs properly and will vigorously
defend against this complaint.
   In national over-the-counter trading, BayBanks closed at
$15.25, up $1.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   STATE OF CONNECTICUT -- Moody's Investors Service lowered
its ratings on the state's general-obligation bonds to
double-A from double-A-1. It pointed out that "a
third-successive operating deficit will fully eliminate the
state's remaining budget reserve and leave the state with a
sizable operating imbalance for the fiscal year ending June
30." Last week, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. lowered its ratings
on $28 billion of Connecticut's general obligation bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Movie Introducing Series
   `Twin Peaks' Beats Rivals
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS CCB GE NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The two-hour movie that introduced Capital
Cities/ABC Inc.'s dramatic series "Twin Peaks" blew away the
competition Sunday night. In A.C. Nielsen Co.'s overnight
ratings from 23 markets, "Twin Peaks" pulled in a 22% rating,
while CBS Inc. had a rating of 11.3%, General Electric Co.'s
NBC had a 10.8% rating and the Fox Broadcasting Co. network's
rating was 10.4%. A rating point equals 921,000 households.
   The first television series by movie director David Lynch
got rave reviews for its surreal mood and lurid images, but
some ABC insiders were worried that "Twin Peaks" might be too
weird to be popular. "There was certainly concern about
mainstream appeal," said an ABC spokeswoman. "We're gratified
by the response, but we're waiting to see how it does in its
regular time period." Starting this Thursday night, "Twin
Peaks" will be up against tougher competition: NBC's popular
"Cheers."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kinburn Corp.:
   Firm Is Forced to Give Up
   Control of Its SHL Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SHKIF BCE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kinburn Corp., an Ottawa industrial holding company, said
it was forced to give up its control of SHL Systemhouse Inc.,
a major Canadian computer-systems integration company.
   Kinburn previously had announced it wouldn't be able to
repay 831 million Canadian dollars (US$713.1 million) of
loans outstanding, which became payable yesterday. The loans
included about C$415 million due to BCE Inc., a
Montreal-based holding company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BCE, which owns 12.4% of Systemhouse shares, had an option
to acquire 49% of Kinburn between 1993 and 1996. Kinburn said
discussions between Kinburn and BCE broke down Friday.
   Kinburn owns 50.1% of Systemhouse through its subsidiary
Kinburn Technology Corp. Kinburn Technology had guaranteed
the loans that were made to its parent, pledging its
controlling interest in Systemhouse as well as other assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sears Credit-Card Issues
   Are Downgraded by Fitch
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Fitch Investors Service, which has been
struggling to become a power in the credit-rating business,
stunned traders with a downgrade of securities backed by the
credit cards issued by Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.
   The downgrade startled the market because Sears is
considered one of the premier issuers in the $30 billion
credit-card securities market. The move marks the first time
a credit-card issue has been downgraded.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fitch lowered its ratings on two Sears issues, Sears
Credit Account Trust Certificates 1988-C and 1989-A, to
double-A from triple-A. The action reflected Fitch's
downgrade of Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. to single-A from
double-A-minus, and concerns about the structure of the
credit-card deals.
   But the two credit rating giants, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
and Moody's Investors Service Inc., affirmed the triple-A
ratings on the more than $5 billion of Sears credit-card
deals. Duff &amp; Phelps also maintains a triple-A rating on the
Sears issues.
   Some dealers said the Fitch downgrade hasn't yet had much
impact on the market, in part because the agency still
doesn't carry as much clout as its larger rivals.
   But the downgrade does raise question about the
"bullet-proof" status of some asset-backed securities
offerings. Fitch said one reason for its move was uncertainty
about whether asset-backed securities investors would be
fully protected if Sears Roebuck were ever forced into
bankruptcy proceedings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAGAZINES: Sampler Publications Inc., St. Charles, Ill.,
acquired Creative Ideas for Living magazine from New
York-based PSC Publications, a closely held company. Terms
weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   WordPerfect, Novell,
   Lotus to Combine
   Customer Services
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   LOTS NOVL
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Lotus Development Corp. and Novell Inc.,
which previously announced plans to merge, said they intend
to combine customer-service operations with that of
WordPerfect Inc., a closely held firm based in Orem, Utah,
that dominates the market for word-processing software.
   The move is further evidence that Lotus and Novell intend
to compete aggressively against Microsoft Inc., generally
viewed as the most influential software supplier in the
computer industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jim Manzi, Lotus chief executive officer, said the joint
service operation makes sense because each of the three firms
share many customers. "Wouldn't it be wonderful if a customer
gets to call one place and gets an answer to their question,"
Mr. Manzi said.
   Lotus already exchanges technology with WordPerfect, but
Mr. Manzi said WordPerfect isn't interested in merging with
Lotus and Novell.
   Nevertheless, Lotus and Novell say cooperating with
WordPerfect will benefit them. The trio of companies "are now
in a position where they can help guide the {personal
computer} industry," said Raymond Noorda, Novell chief
executive.
   Mr. Manzi predicted that the deal between Lotus and
Novell, which would give the combined company greater revenue
than that at Microsoft, should be completed in 90 days. He
said he expects shareholders of both companies to vote on the
proposed deal in early July.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   LOTUS DEVELOPMENT Corp., Novell Inc. and WordPerfect Inc.
will assist one another in answering questions from
customers, but the service operations of each software
company will remain independent. In last Tuesday's edition
such efforts were described incorrectly.
   (WSJ April 16, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Semiconductor Indicator
   Climbed Again in March
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The semiconductor industry's leading indicator rose for
the third consecutive month in March, signaling that the
industry's modest rebound from depressed sales in the last
half of 1989 is continuing.
   Doug Andrey, director of statistics for the Semiconductor
Industry Association, which compiles the widely watched sales
indicator, called April's improvement "mild" and said chip
sales for the year are still expected to be about 3.5% below
last year's levels. "We won't see strong growth until 1991,"
he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The association said the so-called "book-to-bill" ratio
for April climbed to 1.09 from 1.05 in February. Chip
billings for March totaled $1.3 billion, 15.2% higher than
February's $1.1 billion and 5.3% lower than a year earlier.
   Average monthly orders for the three months ended in March
totaled $1.27 billion, 5.4% above February's figure and 0.2%
higher than a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan Oil Company
   Set to Buy Huffington
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- A longtime Texas oil company, Huffington Corp.,
agreed to be acquired by Taiwan's national oil company.
   Terms weren't disclosed, but an industry official familiar
with Huffington's assets valued them at $700 million to $900
million. Huffington's primary asset is a 20% interest in an
Indonesian joint venture, which supplies natural gas to one
of the world's largest liquefied-natural-gas facilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chinese Petroleum Corp., the Taiwan oil company, said it
recently began receiving liquified-natural gas, or LNG, from
the facility. The company said that under a sales accord with
Indonesia's state oil company, Pertamina, it imports 1.5
million tons a year of LNG from that country.
   Roy M. Huffington, founder of Huffington about 30 years
ago, said in a statement that "this acquisition represents a
very promising strategic opportunity" for Chinese Petroleum.
   It is believed that a group from Japan, another a big
importer of LNG, was interested in acquiring Huffington. The
company put itself up for sale in November.
   In addition to the energy assets, Huffington owns about 11
blocks in downtown Houston and 419 acres of undeveloped
Houston real estate. Huffington sold its domestic oil and gas
reserves in August 1988 to France's Elf Aquitaine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Exxon, Shipping Unit Enter
   Innocent Pleas in Oil Spill
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   XON
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) -- Exxon Corp. and its Exxon
Shipping Co. unit pleaded innocent to five-count criminal
indictments charging them with violating various federal laws
in the nation's worst oil spill a year ago.
   Exxon and Exxon Shipping entered their pleas in separate
arraignments before U.S. District Judge John E. Roberts late
yesterday afternoon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two Feb. 27 indictments stem from the March 24, 1989,
spill of nearly 11 million gallons of North Slope crude oil
from the tanker Exxon Valdez, which ran aground and ripped
its bottom open on a charted reef outside shipping lanes in
Prince William Sound.
   The oil coated hundreds of miles of coastline and killed
countless fish, birds and other marine life.
   Justice Department officials have said the indictments
could result in penalties of $700 million or more.
   Exxon said it would vigorously defend itself against the
charges, which range from violating clean water and refuse
acts to negligently and unlawfully discharging oil into a
navigable waterway.
   More than 160 civil suits are pending against Exxon by the
state of Alaska, environmentalists and private individuals
for unspecified damages.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T Set to Announce
   Memorex Computer Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   T N.MTE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. is expected
to announce today an agreement to transfer its computer
terminal business to Memorex International N.V. in return for
a minority stake in the computer company, according to
individuals close to the negotiations.
   Under the agreement, AT&amp;T will transfer its IBM compatible
dumb terminal business to Memorex-Telex, Tulsa, Okla. In
return, AT&amp;T could receive 5% to 10% in the unit's parent,
Memorex. These individuals also say AT&amp;T will get a seat on
Memorex's board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Use of dumb terminals, which need to be hooked to powerful
central computers to operate, has been slowing as corporate
customers have begun to switch to personal computers linked
to networks.
   But the real attraction for AT&amp;T may be Memorex's
international presence. AT&amp;T has been eager to boost its
share of the international computer market where AT&amp;T is
almost invisible. And Memorex, which posted revenue of $2.24
billion for 1989, has extensive overseas distributions, and
has 10,000 employees world-wide.
   AT&amp;T's computer business mostly involves minicomputers,
personal computers, networking products and software.
Terminals account for a small percentage of the company's
business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McHaffie Inc., Owner
   And 2 Workers Plead
   Guilty in Fraud Case
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- McHaffie Inc., its owner, and two employees
pleaded guilty to criminal charges involving a scheme to
falsify test data on bolts the Sylmar, Calif., defense
contractor made for use in various military jet-aircraft
engines.
   The company and its 56-year-old owner, Norman McHaffie,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy and two false-statement counts,
the U.S. attorney's office said. James Hicks, 45, pleaded
guilty to conspiracy and one false-statement count. William
Whitham, 37, pleaded guilty to two false-statement counts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The defendants admitted that they failed to test the bolts
and submitted fraudulent certifications to the government,
said an assistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted the case. The
certifications indicated that the bolts had been tested and
met all manufacturing standards and other specifications. The
scheme continued during an eight-year period beginning in
1979.
   The company faces a maximum fine of $1.5 million. Mr.
McHaffie faces a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison and a
$750,000 fine. Messrs. Hicks and Whitham, who cooperated with
the government in its inquiry, each face a maximum sentence
of 10 years in prison and a $500,000 fine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Tailoring Treatment for Black Addicts
   ----
   By Joseph N. Boyce
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- In the process of kicking a bad habit, Kenneth
Beverly and Nate Mack found a role in the business of
treating drug and alcohol addiction.
   Mr. Beverly, 41, and Mr. Mack, 33, both black and admitted
former drug-abusers, met by chance at a Narcotics Anonymous
meeting here in 1988 and found they were concerned about the
same problem: the large numbers of black alcohol and drug
addicts for whom traditional rehabilitation programs just
didn't seem to stick.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The result is Coalesce, a for-profit partnership that Mr.
Beverly and Mr. Mack formed with health-care professionals
last May. Coalesce specializes in "culturally specific"
therapies for black substance-abusers.
   A close look at Coalesce -- whose name is meant to suggest
a uniting of the black community to fight addiction -- shows
that even severe personal problems can be transmuted into a
promising business. Coalesce is attracting patients -- and
their money -- by regarding blacks as special while most
substance-abuse centers treat members of all races
identically. On the basis of their firsthand experience as
blacks with drug problems, the founders think their approach
will work better.
   Other substance-abuse professionals agree. Peter Bell, the
founder and former executive director of the Institute on
Black Chemical Abuse in Minneapolis, says standard treatment
programs in this country -- which number more than 2,000 --
have been most successful with those blacks "who either don't
come from the black community or don't return to it" after
therapy. But most black substance-abusers, authorities say,
do return to a black community.
   In treating blacks differently, Coalesce is on the cutting
edge of a trend in drug and alcohol treatment. A. Thomas
McLellan, a psychologist and scientific director for the
Philadelphia Veterans Administration Center for Studies of
Addiction, says several "culturally specific" programs have
emerged in recent years -- for such groups as American
Indians, Hispanics, pregnant women, even night-shift (as
opposed to day-shift) workers. Mr. McLellan cautions that
although such programs "make sense," the jury is still out on
whether or not they actually get better results than
conventional approaches.
   To serve blacks, Coalesce has contracts with three
Atlanta-area hospitals -- Physicians &amp; Surgeons, Decatur, and
Ridgeview Institute -- that use its program to supplement
their own treatment of black patients. So far, there have
been about 300 Coalesce patients, some from as far away as
Michigan and New York. About nine of every 10 are insured or
otherwise able to pay the $13,000 fee for the program's
required 30 days of hospitalization and 90 days of outpatient
care. Mr. Mack says that a portion of revenue is set aside
for the remaining 10% that cannot afford the treatment.
   About 20% of the Coalesce patients are treated only for
alcoholism, another 20% only for drug addiction; some 60% are
treated for "cross-addiction" to both. Three of four patients
are male. Most, but not all, of the patients are black.
   Once in the hospital, the Coalesce patient meets regularly
with a black therapist in both one-on-one and group sessions
directed at discovering the extent to which the patient's
experience as a black person influences addiction and
recovery.
   In that setting, Mr. Beverly says, blacks are more likely
than in conventional treatment programs to talk freely about
such personal issues -- which, if pent up, are thought to
contribute to substance-abuse -- as low self-esteem or sexual
problems. He recalls one man who had been in a standard
treatment program without success, but who made progress
after Coalesce got him to talk about having been raped in
prison. Says Mr. Beverly: "Incest, homosexuality? Most blacks
aren't going to bring those issues up around white people."
   Bringing out such issues is an important part of the
Coalesce approach. "We have to evaluate whether there is
racial self-hate and create a forum for our patients to be
able to process these feelings, which may be suppressed but,
if not resolved, make people relapse," Mr. Beverly says.
   Another aspect that distinguishes Coalesce from many other
programs is its strong emphasis on involving the addict's
family in treatment. Counselors visit family members and
others close to the patient and make an extensive evaluation
of the home environment. Family members are included in a
counseling process that begins before the patient enters
treatment and continues throughout both the hospital stay and
outpatient period.
   "Too frequently, black patients go back into communities,
neighborhoods and families that are drug-infested," Mr. Mack
says. "We evaluate the families and the home situation."
   So far, Coalesce is getting good marks from its client
hospitals. "I've seen a change in attitude among blacks in
treatment: They feel more a part of the program," says Rick
Nelson, director of rehabilitation programs at Decatur. "For
a long time, we used to downplay differences and emphasize
similarities. For some specialty groups that hasn't worked in
the long run for us."
   Tom Douglas, director of adult and chemical dependence
services at Ridgeview, says it is premature to judge
Coalesce's long-term effectiveness. But he says: "At this
point, it looks good. Their staff seems very knowledgeable
and dedicated."
   In a tough industry, Coalesce will need all that and more.
Rehabilitation specialists say demand for for-profit,
inpatient care seems to be ebbing. They cite recent declines
in the number of people abusing drugs and alcohol, employer
cutbacks in employee health benefits, and a trend favoring
outpatient treatment. But Mr. Beverly and Mr. Mack wax
optimistic, with talk of expanding Coalesce to other cities.
Recently, they leased eight three-bedroom apartments here
that they plan to use as residences for patients needing
extended care.
   Before founding the business, Mr. Beverly had worked for
15 years in clinical and administrative positions with drug
and alcohol treatment programs, and Mr. Mack had years of
sales and marketing experience with a British pharmaceutical
company, but the duo lacked capital. A third partner, Loul
Asfaw, provided the start-up financing. (Coalesce won't
disclose the amount.) And recently, Coalesce obtained a
$50,000 line of credit with Trust Co. Bank of Georgia.
   The founders expect to profit eventually, though they say
Coalesce, which projects $1.5 million in revenue for the
year, is only at the break-even point for now. The company
has a staff of 18 that includes certified counselors, a
nutritionist and a recreational therapist.
   Even without proof that "culturally specific" programs get
better results for patients, Coalesce's pitch to blacks is
clearly a draw for some people who might otherwise avoid
treatment. Says Michael Ford, chief executive officer of the
National Association of Addiction Treatment Providers,
"Anything that helps people get into, complete and be
successful in treatment is great."
   ---
                      Drug Abuse by Race
                                                                                                       

     Percentage of males and females -- 12 years and
    older -- who have used illicit drugs at least once
                                                                                                       

   White males                               39.4%
   Black males                               43.6
   White females                             34.8
   Black females                             29.6
                                                                                                       

   Sources: National Institute on Drug Abuse; Nat. Household
Survey on Drug Abuse 1988
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<LP>
   One-on-One
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ("Survey Finds 25% of Work Force Has Anxiety Disorder,
Stress-Linked Illness." -- WSJ headline)
                                                                                                       

   Sometimes it's fellow workers
   Who can have one annoyed;
   Sometimes it's the surroundings
   That one cannot avoid;
   Sometimes it is the boss
   In whom faith is destroyed --
   None of which explains my case,
   Since I am self-employed.
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   Shorter Is Better
                                                                                                       

   Clergy should know that their sermons,
   Which guide to heaven's portal,
   Need not be eternal
   In order to be immortal.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Finish Mixed in a Session
   That Is Second Lightest of Year
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stocks closed mixed in one of the lightest
trading days of the year.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 4.95 points to
2722.07. Broader averages also gained: Standard &amp; Poor's
500-stock index rose 1.29 to 341.37. But 839 issues declined
on the New York Stock Exchange while only 652 advanced. Big
Board volume totaled 114,970,000 shares, the second-lightest
trading day of the year. The lowest volume in 1990 so far
occurred March 12, when 114,790,000 shares changed hands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The slow trading reflected in part the absence of many
investors because of Passover and Good Friday observances
this week, traders said. U.S. exchanges will be closed on
Friday for the latter.
   But concerns about first-quarter earnings reports are also
keeping some investors away from stocks, said Eugene Takach,
fund manager at Eagle Investment Associates, a
money-management subsidiary of the First National Bank of
Boston.
   Goodyear said yesterday it would report lower
first-quarter earnings and the stock slipped 1/2 to 35 3/4.
The company cited a drop in sales to auto makers, "severe
pricing competition" in both North America and Europe, and "a
sizable drop" in profit from Brazil.
   Investors looking for a place to hide from bad earnings
reports bought shares of consumer-products and food
companies.
   Quaker Oats gained 1 1/4 to 50 3/4. First Boston boosted
the stock's investment rating to "buy" from "hold." Elsewhere
in the food group, Hershey Foods rose 1 to 33 5/8, Kellogg
gained 1 1/2 to 63 5/8, CPC International added 1 1/8 to 70
7/8, and Ralston Purina rose 1 to 85 3/8.
   Bank stocks formed another leading industry group. A Heard
on the Street column in yesterday's Wall Street Journal
suggested that many bank issues were oversold. Also, Charles
Peabody, senior bank analyst at Kidder Peabody, raised
investment ratings on several bank stocks yesterday, with buy
recommendations on J.P. Morgan, Mellon Bank, and Norwest
Corp.
   "We decided {the bad news} was well washed out," said Mr.
Peabody. "A stronger economy in the second half of the year
should allow credit quality fears to recede and earnings
momentum to pick up."
   Some investors remained cautious, however. "I think bank
stocks deserve a bounce, but we haven't heard all the bad
news yet," warned Richard Pike, bank analyst at Chancellor
Capital Management.
   J.P. Morgan jumped 1 1/8 to 35 3/4, Mellon Bank gained 7/8
to 25, but Norwest slipped 1/4 to 18 3/8.
   Citicorp rose 3/4 to 23 5/8 on volume of 1.5 million
shares, Chase Manhattan gained 1/2 to 28 1/8, and Chemical
Banking rose 3/8 to 23 1/4, Manufacturers Hanover climbed 5/8
to 31 5/8, and BankAmerica gained 7/8 to 26 3/8 on one
million shares.
   Regional bank stocks followed suit.
   Bank of New York climbed 1 to 31, First Fidelity Bancorp
advanced 1/2 to 19, NCNB rallied 3/4 to 36 1/8, and MNC
Financial rose 7/8 to 16 7/8.
   Federal National Mortgage Association climbed 1 3/8 to 33
3/8 on 1.2 million shares and Federal Home Loan Mortgage
gained 1 3/8 to 66 5/8. The concerns about shaky real-estate
loans that spurred last week's selling in the banking sector
had also buffeted those issues.
   PepsiCo climbed 1 1/2 to 66 1/2. The company extended its
reciprocal trade agreement with the Soviet Union through the
year 2000 and said it plans to boost its sales in the country
by upgrading and expanding its operations there.
   Coca-Cola, Pepsi's principal rival, gained 1 3/8 to 79 1/4
to contribute to the advance in the industrial average. Other
consumer stocks that lifted the average included Philip
Morris, which went up 5/8 to 41 7/8; Merck, up 5/8 to 73 3/8,
and Procter &amp; Gamble, up 1 1/8 to 69 3/4.
   Household International fell 1 1/4 to 49 1/2 on
speculation that its first-quarter results would include a
write-off related to its commercial real-estate portfolio.
The company denied the rumors.
   Telecom USA soared 16 1/4 to 38 1/8 as 3.6 million shares
were traded. MCI Communications agreed to acquire its
long-distance competitor for $42 a share, or about $1.25
billion. MCI eased 1 1/8 to 35 3/4 on the national
over-the-counter market.
   Windmere, which won a $30 million judgment in an antitrust
case against N.V. Philips, added 1 to 8 1/8. Under antitrust
law, the damage award will automatically be tripled. Philips
slid 1/4 to 21 1/4.
   UAL fell 2 1/2 to 161. In reiterating a sell
recommendation on the stock, Goldman Sachs analyst Glenn D.
Engel said the buy-out offer by the three main unions at
United Airlines doesn't have a high probability of succeeding
unless the unions can install "a proven management team" or
find a substantial equity partner, according to Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report.
   MGM/UA Communications climbed 1 5/8 to 18 1/4 on news that
Time Warner's movie unit would arrange a $650 million bridge
loan for Pathe Communications' use in its $20-a-share
takeover offer for the company. Pathe gained 1/2 to 4 3/4;
Time Warner added 7/8 to 93 7/8.
   Network Equipment Technologies plummeted 5 3/4 to 15 1/8.
After saying last week that earnings for the fiscal fourth
quarter ended in March could fall short of the year-earlier
33 cents a share, the company gave its specific forecast for
the latest period: about 10 cents a share. Also, the company
noted that shipments made in connection with an order found
to be invalid would depress its latest results.
   Ames Department Stores fell 1/4 to 3 1/4 and traded as low
as 2 3/4, a 52-week low, as 4.1 million shares changed hands.
The company has delayed its earnings report for fiscal 1990
at least twice; analysts have said uncertainty tied to the
delays is behind the stock's fall.
   De Soto dropped 1 1/8 to 43 1/8. Sutton Holdings, which is
offering $50 a share for the company, said a commitment from
Creditanstalt to provide $215 million in financing for its
tender offer expired over the weekend.
   Amre fell 5/8 to 6 7/8. The company said a management
group that holds 56% of its common shares decided against
making a planned offer of $8.75 a share for the rest.
   Tucson Electric Power slipped 3/4 to 13 after its
auditors, Deloitte &amp; Touche, said in a letter to shareholders
that the company faces a number of contingent liabilities and
other uncertainties.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 1.33
to 359.68. Volume totaled 12,560,000 shares, compared with
15,060,000 shares Friday. There were 240 issues advancing,
330 declining and 247 were unchanged.
   Frederick's of Hollywood gained 7/8 to 15 7/8. The company
reported net income of 54 cents a share for the fiscal second
quarter ended March 3, compared with 41 cents a share a year
earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Top Salaries Rose,
   But Bonuses Fell
   At GM, Ford in '89
   ---
   Lower Net Cuts Extra Pay
   For Auto Firms' Officers;
   Petersen Beats Out Smith
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz and Melinda Grenier Guiles
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Salaries went up but bonuses went down for top
executives at General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. last
year, according to the auto makers' 1990 proxy statements.
   The lower bonuses reflect lower earnings in 1989, with
GM's net income off 13% and Ford's down 28%, after a
write-off from the sale of its steel subsidiary. Both
companies have changed their bonus programs over the past few
years to tie compensation more closely to achievement of
long-range goals. Last year was the second in a row that
Ford's highest officials saw their bonuses decline from
year-earlier levels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, recently retired Ford Chairman Donald E. Petersen
once again outearned his GM peer, Roger B. Smith, in total
compensation: Mr. Petersen received nearly $6.6 million to
Mr. Smith's $2.5 million. Some $3.5 million of Mr. Petersen's
compensation total came from the exercise of stock options;
Mr. Smith didn't exercise any stock options in 1989.
   The $1,530,874 salary Mr. Petersen received last year
represented a 34% increase from his 1988 salary. But his
$1,518,800 in 1989 supplemental compensation -- or bonus --
was 31% less than he pulled down a year earlier.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Smith received $1,092,000 in salary in
1989, an 11% increase from $983,000 in 1988, while his 1989
bonus fell about 7% to $1.4 million from $1.5 million in
1988.
   "The big buck syndrome in Detroit is a disease that's
still in need of a cure," complained United Auto Workers
union officials. GM, Ford and Chrysler Corp. all face
difficult contract negotiations with the UAW this summer. The
union has already criticized reduced profit-sharing payments
to hourly workers at GM and Ford.
   Chrysler, which will disclose its proxy statement Friday,
didn't pay any bonuses to its top managers because it didn't
make enough money to pay profit sharing to its hourly
workers. The agreement that triggered Chrysler's move was
negotiated with the union in 1988. "GM and Ford can expect to
hear more from us on this subject during forthcoming contract
talks," the UAW leaders said.
   Harold A. Poling, Ford's chairman since the Feb. 28
retirement of Mr. Petersen, outearned his counterpart, Robert
C. Stempel, currently GM's president and the man slated to
succeed Mr. Smith on Aug. 1. Mr. Poling, who was Ford's vice
chairman last year, received $2,934,688 in total compensation
for 1989, with his salary rising 25% to $1,188,594. His bonus
fell 40% however, to $960,000.
   Total compensation for Mr. Stempel rose 12.5% to
$2,096,820 in 1989, which included a 15% increase in salary
to $725,000 and a 5% decline in bonus payments to $1,050,000.
Mr. Poling received $786,094 from the exercise of stock
options; Mr. Stempel received $321,820.
   Ford also disclosed in its proxy statement a new board
policy that automatically defers the portion of executive
bonuses that exceed $600,000 or 150% of base salary,
whichever is greater. The excess is converted into rights to
common stock that can't be claimed until after the executives
turn 62 or 18 months after they leave the company. The
executives also can lose the rights by, among other things,
immediately going to work for a competitor.
   As previously reported, Mr. Petersen isn't standing for
re-election as a director. Former Chairman Philip Caldwell,
who has reached the mandatory retirement age of 70, also
isn't up for re-election.
   In its proxy statement, GM said it is asking holders to
approve a plan that would increase to 500 million from 190
million the number of authorized Class E shares, which
reflect a dividend interest in GM's Electronic Data Systems
computer services unit. The company said it hasn't any
immediate plans to issue additional Class E shares but
believes the authorization increase "is needed to provide
flexibility for possible future actions such as additional
stock dividends, splits or acquisitions."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Y&amp;A Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   YGRP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   Y&amp;A GROUP Inc. (St. Louis) -- Laura J. Rittenhouse,
president of UtiliVentures, was named a director of this
provider of engineering services to the electric utility
industry, increasing board membership to seven.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pure Plays:
   Investments Promoted
   As Ecologically Clean
   Pop Up Like Weeds
   ---
   Managers Either Are Virtuous
   Or Are Leaping on a Fad;
   Either Way, Money Flows
   ---
   What Makes a Stock Eligible?
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   WMX MER
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
the big Boston-based insurance and financial-services group,
boasts that its $53 million Freedom Environmental Fund is a
great way to participate in "the coming environmental
mobilization."
   But in Oakland, Peter Camejo, the president of Progressive
Asset Management Inc., calls that "an outrage." He says: "I'm
fed up with investment firms that are trying to cash in on
the environmental movement, and not really caring."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Camejo, a 50-year-old onetime anti-Vietnam
demonstrator turned stockbroker, recently fired off letters
to the Securities and Exchange Commission charging that the
Hancock fund is misleading the public by advertising that
investors "could make a positive contribution toward cleaning
up the Earth" while investing in companies with what he
considers poor pollution records. He complains that one of
the fund's biggest holdings is Waste Management Inc., a
company with a long list of Environmental Protection Agency
violations.
   The reply from the Freedom Environmental Fund's portfolio
manager, David Beckwith, is equally intense. "There are no
pristine companies," he says, insisting Waste Management is
part of the solution instead of the problem. "They run the
cleanest landfill dumps in the business and have received a
lot of violations because they're easy to target," he says.
   As for Waste Management itself, it figures that "the scale
of our organization increases our chances to be in technical
noncompliance" with environmental laws, as William Plunkett,
a vice president for corporate communications, puts it. "We
are deeply committed to be in total compliance," he says --
adding that neither Progressive Asset nor Mr. Camejo "has
ever called on management or visited our facilities, although
they have a standing invitation to do so." He says analysts
and environmentalists "who've taken the time to get to know
us realize that our interests and interests of environmental
groups coincide."
   So it goes in the brave new world of "the Wall Street
greens," a fast-growing collection of brokers and investment
managers at the center of a booming investment field. Ever
since the Exxon Valdez hit a reef a year ago and oil-soaked
sea otters started washing up on the Alaska coast, many
investors have been seeking ways to make money and help save
the environment, all at the same time.
   Sometimes, however, environmental-fund operators seem to
spend much of their time arguing about who is greener than
whom -- and getting bogged down in abstruse scientific
debates.
   Some investment professionals suspect that such portfolio
managers' motives are a bit polluted themselves -- by
eagerness to make a buck. Environmental investing "is just
the latest marketing gimmick in a business with too much
competition," says Michael Stolper, a San Diego consultant
who selects money managers for wealthy clients. "It further
complicates the already-complicated process of picking
investments."
   The boom in environmental mutual funds is "a case where
marketing hoopla overrides investment good sense," adds Kurt
Brouwer, a partner in Brouwer &amp; Janachowski, a San Francisco
investment-management firm. Mutual-fund marketers "are trying
to jam these funds down people's throats because the
environment is a hot item," he says. Instead of investing in
these funds, people who want to help the environment should
donate 10% of their investment profits to organizations that
are cleaning up their local areas, he says.
   Many of the greens are former Vietnam-war protesters and
other 1960s people who have turned in their blue jeans and
tie-dyed T-shirts for button-down collars and jobs in the
investment business. They still believe passionately in their
causes, but now their arena is the investment business
instead of a university sit-in.
   Freedom Environmental, which was offered to the public for
the first time last fall, is one of four mutual funds riding
the environmental wave. Fidelity Investments' Select
Environmental Services Fund, which has raised $89 million
since it started last June, is the largest. At least three
more funds are opening soon.
   Other environmental investment vehicles include Merrill
Lynch Environmental Technology Trust, a unit trust of
pollution-cleanup stocks. It reached its $50 million goal in
a few days last fall, and $123 million flooded in before the
trust could be closed. A second trust -- which, like the
first, buys a portfolio of stocks but then doesn't trade them
-- has been opened and already has assets of $6.7 million.
   "We are giving the investor a direct play on the fastest
growth industry of the 1990s," says Larry Greenberg, manager
of Fidelity Environmental Services Fund.
   The surge of interest in environmental investing isn't
confined to individuals. More and more foundations, public
and private pension funds, universities, labor unions,
churches, insurers and banks are questioning their portfolio
managers about companies' environmental records. "The
environment is the social issue for institutional investors
now," says Suzanne Harvey, director of Prudential-Bache
Capital Funding Group's social-research service.
   Legislation requiring state pension-fund managers to "give
preference" to companies that comply with a corporate
environmental code known as the Valdez Principles has been
introduced in New York and New Jersey. A bill is expected
soon in the California legislature, and several other states
are studying this approach.
   Track records on environmental investing are scarce
because most of the funds are so new. But New Alternatives
Fund, which has been investing in alternative-energy
companies for five years, has a "pretty fair record," says A.
Michael Lipper, the president of Lipper Analytical Services,
which tracks mutual funds. In the 12 months through March 12,
New Alternatives achieved a total return of 12.9%, compared
with 12% for the average stock fund. In the past five years,
the fund has racked up a cumulative total return of 129.8%,
compared with 110.1% for the average equity fund.
   "In general, screening out environmental polluters
shouldn't affect your return," says William Constantine,
managing director of Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark, a New York
investment firm. "There are plenty of stocks to accomplish
your investment results." In fact, avoiding companies
vulnerable to environmental lawsuits might be a way of
avoiding investments vulnerable to major, unpredictable
costs.
   The greatest interest from individual investors is in
California, the Pacific Northwest and New England. Brokers
and financial planners there who specialize in
environmentally conscious investments are thriving while much
of the retail brokerage business is in the doldrums.
   Carsten Hennigsen, the president of Progressive Securities
Inc., a Portland, Ore., brokerage firm specializing in
environmental investing, has opened two new offices in the
region. Gross revenue is up 160% from a year ago, he says.
First Affirmative Financial Network, of Colorado Springs,
Colo., says January was the "best month ever" because of
investor interest in the environment.
   Many "green" brokers are environmental activists who do
things that would turn a traditional broker's hair gray. For
example, David Hills, 35, a broker at A.G. Edwards Inc. in
Portsmouth, N.H., says he has been arrested four times for
demonstrating against the Seabrook nuclear-power plant in New
Hampshire. "I believe in environmental activism on the
weekend as well as shareholder activism," Mr. Hills says. "I
may climb over the fence at a nuclear plant, but I'm wearing
a tie and coat when I do it."
   Mr. Henningsen says he tries to talk customers out of
buying a stock if he thinks it doesn't measure up on
environmental grounds. If clients want to debate the issue,
he refers them to a staff member with a doctorate in business
ethics.
   Some environmentalist financial planners don't even go
into the office. Helene Robertson, 45, a Financial Network
Inc. planner, operates out of her Seattle home. In a room
filled with Northwest Indian art, she and three associates
screen investments for her 600 clients. You won't find any
Styrofoam cups or plastic spoons there. "We try to live it as
much as we can," she says.
   Typical clients of the Wall Street greens tend to be
professionals such as educators, therapists, nurses,
engineers, designers, attorneys, social workers, computer
programmers and doctors. Many are 35- to 45-year-old baby
boomers who may not have high-paying jobs but have inherited
portfolios of stocks that, for environmental reasons, they
dislike.
   "I am a child of the '60s, and I received an inheritance
which included stocks of agribusiness companies that made
chemical fertilizers and hormones for cows," says Susie
Dexter, a 40-year-old Seattle educator. She went to Ms.
Robertson for advice on how to clean her portfolio.
   Some investors don't even want to have their money-market
funds invest in the commercial paper -- the IOUs -- of
companies that allegedly pollute the environment. Lea Kouba,
45, a psychiatric social worker in Freeland, Wash., says she
has switched to Working Assets, a San Francisco money-market
fund that screens out commercial paper from such companies.
   "My amount won't change the world, but I feel I can be
part of a shift of consciousness toward the environment," she
says. "In the 1960s, we rebelled against the system. Now,
we've mellowed and are trying to work for change from
within."
   Environmental screening is complicated. Ms. Robertson
eliminates funds that invest in companies that own any of the
150 most toxic plants in the U.S. as defined by the National
Wildlife Federation. She says she ends up with a data base of
15 funds that are "clean" either "by design or by default."
Clean by default are small-stock funds such as Putnam OTC
Fund, Royce Value Fund and Review Management OTC Fund, she
says. Companies in these funds are in nonpolluting
industries. Clean by design funds include Calvert Ariel
Appreciation Fund and New Alternatives Fund.
   While many individual investors like to purge their
portfolios of companies with many environmental violations,
institutional investors want to look at the issue in more
depth, says Stephen Moody, senior portfolio manager of U.S.
Trust Co. in Boston. Sometimes they want to hold stock in a
company that is both part of the problem and the solution, he
says.
   Du Pont Co., for example, is the largest manufacturer of
chlorofluorocarbons, a gas used in auto air conditioners,
refrigerators, aerosol sprays and cleaning agents. CFCs have
been blamed for the Antarctic hole in the ozone layer that
protects the Earth from ultraviolet rays. That does it for
some individual investors.
   But Mr. Moody says some institutional clients continue to
hold Du Pont because they deem it the company most likely to
solve the problem. Du Pont has said it will suspend all CFC
production by the year 2000 or sooner, if possible. It is
developing substitutes for CFCs.
   Environmental investment people say environmentalists line
up on both sides of many such issues. "The decision comes
down to balancing trade-offs -- long-term and short-term
costs," says Mr. Henningsen, the Portland broker. "But we've
got to look at the environmental bottom line as well as the
financial bottom line."
   In the end, the future of environmental investing may
depend heavily on people such as Stuart Ruddick, a
31-year-old Bear Stearns broker in San Francisco. An avid
windsurfer, he has started a group called "Windsurfers for
Clearer Water." Munching on a hearts-of-lettuce salad in a
San Francisco restaurant, he comments: "San Francisco Bay is
almost dead because of toxic pollutants dumped into the
water."
   But in investing, "my bias is to make money for my
clients," Mr. Ruddick says. "I'm not a socially responsible
investor. I'm looking for companies with good products that
are well-positioned to take advantage of the clean air and
water acts."
   As the U.S. and other countries gear up to tackle such
problems, many more people may discern a confluence of
self-interest and social good. "Investment professionals have
a choice," says Ms. Harvey of Prudential-Bache. "They can
either view it as a dreadful bother that interferes with the
free flow of capital -- or a fantastic new business
opportunity."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MCI to Acquire
   Telecom USA
   For $1.25 Billion
   ---
   Acquisition Would Speed
   Consolidation Among
   Long-Distance Firms
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale and Rick Christie
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MCIC TTT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- MCI Communications Corp. said it signed a
definitive agreement to acquire Telecom USA Inc., the
nation's fourth-largest long-distance carrier, for $42 a
share, or about $1.25 billion.
   The friendly acquisition will give MCI greater strength in
the midlevel business market as well as access to several
innovative Telecom products, such as its calling card and
voice-messaging service. Telecom, with 1989 sales of $713
million, has been growing 25% to 30% a year, and at the end
of last year had a little more than 1% of the $55 billion
long-distance market. MCI, with 1989 revenue of $6.47
billion, has about 12% of the market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is going to prove to be a powerful combination,"
said Lap Lee, a telecommunications analyst for Gordon Capital
Inc. Telecom, he said, adds not only new customers but also
several important products, including voice messaging and
other enhanced services, that MCI can sell to its existing
customers and use to attract new business.
   With Telecom, MCI will pick up about 450,000 business
customers in smaller cities in the South and Midwest. Among
its innovative products is its credit card, which allows
users to check stock quotes over the phone and set up
conference calls. "This strategic alliance and critical mass
we pick up will be important as we look to competition over
the next few years," MCI President Bert Roberts said in an
interview.
   Mr. Roberts said the acquisition of Telecom will dilute
MCI earnings up to 5% in the first year, but will add to
earnings after that. "By the second year, we will have
totally turned the corner," he said.
   The company is financing the acquisition with bank loans,
but a spokeswoman said details weren't available. She also
said the companies are working on a plan to mesh their
management teams.
   The proposed merger sent shares of Telecom soaring and
shaved MCI's price by $1.125. In New York Stock Exchange
Composite trading, Telecom closed at $38.125, up $16.25. In
over-the-counter trading, MCI closed at $35.75.
   O. Gene Gabbard, chairman and chief executive officer of
Telecom, said the merger announcement is the next step in the
industry's consolidation. "We've seen some 1,000 companies
shrink down to about 200 since 1982," he said. "Now, we will
begin to see even fewer -- but stronger -- entrants in the
marketplace."
   Indeed, some analysts said the merger could accelerate the
three-year industry consolidation -- a result of greater
regulatory freedom for American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. "If
you're going to compete against AT&amp;T, the bigger you are, the
better you are," said Jack Grubman, an analyst with
PaineWebber Inc. With the Federal Communications Commission
preparing to further loosen regulatory reins on AT&amp;T, Mr.
Grubman said, "the competition is going to get tougher, and
the MCI-Telecom USA announcement begs the question: Who's
next?"
   The stock market seemed to answer that. The news pushed up
shares of some smaller carriers, including Advanced
Telecommunications Corp., which was up $3.25 to $16.75, and
Rochester Telephone, which has a long-distance division, up
$1.125 to $36.875. Analysts also said possible targets for
acquisition are Williams Cos., a gas company that has
threaded fiber-optic cable through abandoned pipeline;
Telesphere International, of Oakbrook Terrace, Ill., and
International Telecharge Inc. of Dallas.
   Jim Smith, president of the Competitive Telecommunications
Association, a trade group representing 120 regional
long-distance carriers, said the proposed merger "may bode
ill for the future of competition in the long-distance
industry and for the American public." Mr. Smith warned that
consolidation "could accelerate to the point of oligopoly,"
leaving customers with little price competition and little
innovation.
   In recent years, MCI's strategy has been to shape the
company's business to more closely mirror AT&amp;T's. It started
with a push into the big-business segment, then with
increased emphasis on the international and residential
segments and now with a merger that gives it a solid block of
medium-sized business customers.
   "There's a market-share war going on," said Joel Gross, an
analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. "It was a build
versus buy decision for MCI, and they decided it was cheaper
to buy Telecom USA rather than build up business in the
middle market."
   The MCI-Telecom merger must pass shareholder and
regulatory muster, and Mr. Roberts said he hoped to complete
the process by midsummer to late summer, but acknowledged the
process could take longer. The merger requires approval from
Telecom shareholders, the Justice Department under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust act, the Federal Communications
Commission and from public utilities commissions in states
where both MCI and Telecom operate.
   An FCC spokeswoman indicated the approval process would
last at least six months but could take upward of a year.
   Mr. Roberts, who emphasized the friendliness of the merger
negotiations and the similarities in corporate cultures, said
he anticipated "no major displacement of people" as a result
of the merger. MCI employs 19,500 while Telecom employs
5,000. Both Telecom and MCI have reputations as
product-innovators and strong marketers. Analysts give both
companies very high marks for management and cost controls.
   Meantime, Standard &amp; Poor's placed MCIs
triple-B-plus-rated senior secured debt, triple-B
subordinated debt and single-A-2 commercial paper on its
credit watch list "with negative implications," pending
review of the merger. S&amp;P said it anticipates a "sharp
deterioration in the capital structure and significantly
higher fixed charges." Moody's Investor Service also placed
MCI (P) Baa-1 senior debt rating and Prime-2 rating for
commercial paper under review for a possible downgrade.
   Several analysts said they were surprised by the merger
announcement, largely because of Telecom's acquisitive
nature. "Quite frankly, we'd gotten used to Telecom playing
the role of the consolidator rather than the object of
consolidation," said W. Mark Dunkel, an analyst at
Robinson-Humphrey Co.
   Telecom, itself the product of a 1988 merger of
SouthernNet Inc., based in Atlanta, and Teleconnect Co. of
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, has been on an acquisition binge. Before
the merger and after, the companies purchased about 30
concerns since 1985.
   Mr. Gabbard, and the rest of Telecom's officers and
directors, stand to benefit handsomely from the proposed MCI
acquisition, according to the company's latest proxy
statement. The officers and directors hold about 30% of
Telecom's common stock outstanding, which at $42 a share
translates into about $375 million going to that group.
   Analysts said Telecom USA holders benefited from a
shareholder-rights plan that allowed them to buy additional
shares at below-market prices in the event of an unwanted
takeover. "In hindsight, it looks like a wise move on {Mr.}
Gabbard's part," said Stephen J. Shook, an analyst at
Interstate/Johnson Lane Inc. "It translated into one heck of
a price for Telecom shareholders."
   This year, Telecom stock has traded as low as $15.75 a
share, mainly because of an ill-fated proposal to acquire
troubled ALC Communications Corp. of Birmingham, Mich.
Telecom called off discussions with ALC less than a month
after announcing the deal.
   ---
                     Can You Hear Me Now?
                                                                                                       

                1989 U.S. long-distance market
                Share of 206.8 billion minutes

   Company                               Market Share
                                                                                                       

   MCI                                      14.9%
   Telecom USA                               1.6%
   US Sprint                                 9.7%
   Other                                     7.2%
   AT&amp;T                                     66.6%
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boulle Group Files
   $195 Million Lawsuit
   Against Sunshine
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SSC
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- A French diamond-exploration company has filed a
$195 million lawsuit against Sunshine Mining Corp., alleging
breach of contract and failure to perform duties associated
with a joint venture in a diamond mining project in Sierra
Leone.
   The Boulle Group, a partnership based in Troyes, France,
alleges that it began a relationship with the Sierra Leone
government in 1971 and developed a diamond-mining prospect
there. In 1989, the brothers Jean-Raymond and Franco Boulle
signed a joint venture agreement with Sunshine Mining, a
Dallas-based precious metals mining company, to develop the
project.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the lawsuit filed in federal court in Dallas, the
Boulles allege that Sunshine officials withheld information,
executed exclusive agreements and misappropriated funds in an
attempt to take the project for themselves, excluding the
Boulles. Sunshine also evicted the Boulles from the joint
venture offices in Dallas, the brothers allege.
   The brothers attempted to work out the problems with
Sunshine to save the venture, said their attorney, Robert C.
Odle Jr. of Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges in Washington, D.C. But
when that attempt failed, they filed suit, asking the federal
court to either dissolve the disputed joint venture or enjoin
Sunshine from interfering in the project. The Boulles are
also asking for $65 million in actual damages and $130
million in exemplary damages.
   The two parties are still partners in the Arkansas Diamond
Development Co., which has proposed a diamond exploration
project in southwestern Arkansas. That project has been
controversial because it would convert a publicly owned state
park to private use.
   Several officials from Sunshine Mining weren't available
for comment, and others didn't return phone calls.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Germanys Rate a One-to-One Exchange Deal
   ----
   By Jude Wanniski
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl wisely ignored the
advice of all his economists, and of Bundesbank chairman
Karl-Otto Poehl when he campaigned in March in East Germany
on behalf of his Christian Democratic Party's eastern
partner, the East German Christian Democrats. In a brilliant
stroke, Mr. Kohl promised a monetary union with the East that
would preserve the hard-earned savings of the people of East
Germany. His learned advisers argued such a promise would be
inflationary. The East German people showed their support for
Mr. Kohl with a dazzling mandate for his conservative
partners.
   Now we hear that the economists may have won after all.
Where Chancellor Kohl had clearly pledged to honor an
exchange rate of one East German mark for one West German
mark in the new union, the Bundesbank now proposes a
two-for-one rate for all savings above 2,000 marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That is, an East German's life savings of 50,000 East
German marks will be worth only 26,000 West German marks
($15,288), not 50,000 West German marks ($29,400) as
promised. "It's a swindle, pure and simple," said an East
Berliner quoted by Reuters. Of course it is.
   Just as Western capitalists are inviting the Eastern
communists to enjoy the benefits of a system that rewards
effort, powerful financial institutions in Europe are playing
Robin Hood with the savings of the most industrious of East
Germans. Why bother changing communists for capitalists?
   In the uproar, Chancellor Kohl has at least appointed a
commission to mull this over. The commission should discover
that there is no reason that the one-for-one exchange should
be inflationary. It could easily recommend that all East
German savings that can be legally accounted for be converted
at that rate. The move would energize the East German economy
and set an example for the entire East bloc, including the
Soviet Union.
   There are other ways to organize the mark-mark exchange.
No inflation would occur if the government issued bills,
notes and bonds in a combination that satisfied demands for
these in the new monetary union. The Bundesbank would know
the right combination by observing the price of gold against
West German marks as exchanges were made, or by observing the
price of U.S. dollars in West German marks. This is because
all inflations, everywhere, have begun by a rise in the gold
price, or a fall in the value of the currency in question
against a foreign currency of stable value.
   The bank would begin by issuing 10-year bonds in exchange
for East German marks. Most East German marks are held as
savings, and in an exchange, the recipients would continue to
wish to hold interest-bearing instruments, not cash. If they
desired cash, the citizens who acquired the 10-year bonds
would be able to get cash for them in the marketplace, from
those willing to give up cash for bonds.
   This activity would stretch the supply of currency,
causing an incipient deflation that pressed down the DM price
of gold. This would send a signal to the bank to buy bonds
with new currency until the gold price returned to its
original level. What bonds would it buy? It would buy East
German bonds.
   During the conversion period, creditors in East German
marks would be pulling their savings from East Germany to buy
the West German bonds. East Germany would then have to retire
obligations denominated in East German marks and float new
bonds denominated in West German marks.
   Will the market buy DM bonds issued by East Germany? Of
course it will. West Germany, in fact, will buy them as a
means of injecting currency into the economy to prevent the
price of gold from falling, as the currency supply is
stretched. The public inside and outside the Germanys will
also buy the bonds, observing that the process of political
integration is now underway, and that as it is completed, the
assets of East Germany will be added to the balance sheet of
West Germany.
   As long as the marketplace understands by word and deed
that the Bundesbank is carrying out this strategy with a
determination to keep the West German mark steady against
gold, commodities and the G-7 currencies, matters will
proceed smoothly. The bank can issue five-year bonds and a
schedule of notes as well, to satisfy all the liquidity
demands. With computers and a little creativity, the whole
thing could be done in a matter of weeks. If Ludwig Erhard,
the man who engineered the first steps to West Germany's
economic miracle, were still around as finance minister,
computers would not be needed.
   Western economists are concerned that the one-to-one ratio
would cause massive unemployment in East Germany, because
East German exporters would be unable to sell at that ratio.
This, we're told, is because East German workers would be
"paid too high a wage." But these are textbooks assertions
that have validity only in countries where workers are
debtors as well as creditors.
   In East Germany, workers have no debts in East German
marks to speak of. Thus, they could readily readjust their
wages downward. They would not have to worry about
liquidating debts while earning a nominally lower wage. They
would accept the nominal change, as their real wages would be
higher than before. And the cost of capital would have fallen
dramatically.
   The greatest benefit to the unified economy of a
one-for-one exchange is that it preserves a pool of capital
in the hands of those most likely to make good use of it --
the people who scraped it together bit by bit by the sweat of
their brows. The quickest way to get East Germany running is
by putting liquid assets into their hands, not enriching the
state by having it repudiate its obligations. The accumulated
savings of the East German workers is the stuff of
enterprise, stuff to be preserved.
   ---
   Mr. Wanniski is president of Polyconomics Inc., based in
Morristown, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What We Really Know About the Homeless
   ----
   By Randall K. Filer
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<LP>
   Most Americans would like to believe that rationality
underlies public policy. Given the seriousness of
homelessness, we might suppose that policy decisions are
based on an understanding of the issues.
   But this is not so, as a colleague, Marjorie Honig, and I
found in surveying the research on homelessness in the U.S.
Many assertions have gained credibility merely through
repetition, while basic issues regarding the causes of
homelessness have rarely been addressed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What do we know, then, about homelessness in America?
   ---
   How Big Is the Problem?
                                                                                                       

   We have only a ballpark estimate of the number of people
currently living in public places or shelters (including
hotels). In 1984 the Department of Housing and Urban
Development estimated a homeless population of about 350,000,
a figure confirmed by several other studies. In every city
with an actual count, this count was equal to or less than
the HUD estimate for that city.
   These numbers fall far short of the three million to four
million claimed by advocacy groups, which often expand the
definition to include those they call the "hidden homeless"
-- that is, those who do not have their own dwellings
(including people sharing housing with friends and
relatives). One group of congressmen has defined the homeless
as including everyone on a waiting list for any federally
assisted housing program. Such definitions are so imprecise
that they have little relevance for homeless policy and have
not found wide acceptance. Estimating the current number of
homeless requires combining the HUD figure for 1984 with an
assumption about growth rates since then, something we know
little about.
   ---
   Are Things Getting Worse?
                                                                                                       

   Although many believe homelessness has been increasing in
recent years, there is little evidence to support this
assertion. We know that more people are sleeping in shelters.
The number of shelters, however, has increased rapidly. Thus
we may be observing an increase in the total homeless
population, or a constant population may be more likely to
sleep in shelters. Reliable estimates of growth are available
for only one city, Nashville. Researchers at Vanderbilt
University have counted the homeless there every six months
for the past several years and found no increase in
homelessness. Replication of earlier counts elsewhere is
needed to determine what has happened in larger cities.
   ---
   What Do the Numbers Mean?
                                                                                                       

   The number living in the streets or in shelters may mean
less than it appears. Many homeless (particularly families)
enter shelters directly from sharing housing with friends and
relatives. The importance of focusing on this group is to
remind us that the scope of the problem is ambiguous. Some of
the poor who currently make other housing arrangements may
become homeless in the future. Furthermore, the more generous
the programs for the homeless are, the greater this number
will be as people respond to the incentives created.
   We do not know how the behavior of the potential homeless
will differ if either the economy or public policies change,
since we know little about the alternative arrangements of
the near-homeless -- including the conditions in which they
are living. We also do not know how many of those now in
shelters would be thrown into the streets, as opposed to
being taken in by their families and friends, if there were
no shelters. Ultimately, the homeless problem is difficult to
distinguish from the problem of the very poor in general.
   ---
   Who Are the Homeless?
                                                                                                       

   We know a great deal about who is homeless. The bulk
(between 60% and 80%) are single men. Most suffer from one or
more pathologies, especially mental illness and substance
abuse. The widely cited figure that a third of the homeless
are mentally ill is roughly the percentage who claim prior
treatment in a mental hospital. This is undoubtedly a lower
bound on the extent of mental illness among the homeless. Our
knowledge of the current mental health of the homeless is
hampered by the wide range of definitions used and the fact
that few studies involved professional diagnoses. Those that
did use such diagnoses show rates of mental illness
substantially greater than one-third.
   Perhaps the best data come from a 1989 study of adult
homeless people (most of whom were single) in Baltimore
conducted by clinicians from Johns Hopkins University. In
this study, 42% of the men and 49% of the women were found to
suffer from "major mental illness (including schizophrenia
and dementia)." An additional 30% of the men and 46% of the
women suffered from other mental illnesses, such as phobias
and anxiety disorders.
   We also know that substance abuse is common. Many
published estimates of its extent are low because they
include only people institutionalized for treatment and deal
only with those in shelters, many of which explicitly exclude
the intoxicated. Once again, the rare studies with actual
diagnoses provide the best data. In Baltimore, 75% of the men
and 38% of the women were found to be substance abusers.
Contrary to popular impression, alcohol remains the drug of
choice among the homeless. The Baltimore study is typical of
many others, with 53% of the men abusing just alcohol, 7%
abusing other drugs only, and 15% addicted to both alcohol
and another drug.
   Although the common perception is that mental illness and
substance abuse cause homelessness, homelessness itself may
also contribute to mental illness and substance abuse. The
same applies to crime. Homeless men have more convictions
than other low-income men. We do not know, however, whether
this is because some men have characteristics that make them
more likely to commit crimes and to become homeless, whether
a criminal record makes it harder to get and hold a job
(increasing the probability of homelessness), or whether
homelessness itself makes men more likely to commit crimes.
   Homeless families are very different. They are almost
exclusively headed by women. Most enter homelessness directly
from shared housing, but very few have lived recently with
either a husband or boyfriend. Most are eligible for public
assistance, but only a minority receive benefits. Mental
health, drug and alcohol problems, and criminal records are
more common than in the general low-income population but do
not approach levels among homeless single men. Heads of
homeless families are, however, more likely than very poor
mothers with homes to have had traumatic childhoods,
including being abused and living in foster homes.
   ---
   What Causes Homelessness?
                                                                                                       

   Our understanding about who the homeless are is much
better than our knowledge about what causes homelessness.
Despite the implication of the word "homeless," we know
almost nothing about the connection between homelessness and
housing markets. There is no reliable evidence that
homelessness is more extensive in cities with tight housing
markets. The assertions that homelessness is linked to rent
control or low vacancy rates are intuitions with little
empirical support. We do not know the role that changes in
housing markets (including the replacement of public housing
programs with housing vouchers, stricter building and zoning
codes, and the explicit policies designed to reduce the
number of single-room occupancy hotels) have played in
creating homelessness.
   Although few of the homeless currently work, we know
little about their work histories. Neither do we know if
their non-participation is because of lack of interest or
inability to find work. If the latter, we do not know if the
reason is lack of skills or personal characteristics that
make it hard for some to adapt to an increasingly structured
labor market with fewer day-labor jobs. We also do not know
whether these problems are mitigated by tight labor markets
and whether, therefore, homelessness would decline if
macroeconomic policies became more stimulatory.
   Although many homeless individuals and most homeless
families are eligible for public assistance, these programs
have not enabled them to avoid homelessness. We do not know
if this is because benefit levels are inadequate, or if
severely dysfunctional people do not take advantage of
available programs.
   Issues of causality are complicated by the fact that many
factors are interrelated. We cannot yet disentangle these to
discover the most cost-effective points for policy
intervention. For example, whether mental illness or
substance abuse renders an individual incapable of working
depends on the nature of the illness and the structure of the
available jobs. People with functional problems may be unable
to cope with a tight housing market or slack labor market but
might, in other circumstances, earn enough to purchase
shelter.
   ---
   When facing a crisis, the impulse to adopt policies
quickly rather than wait for the slow pace of research to
help design these policies is understandable. But in a time
of budgetary stringency, every dollar must count. Although we
should not wait for a full understanding of the causes of and
cures for homelessness before we begin to act, it is
imperative that we begin to ask the right questions before we
waste resources on ineffectual solutions.
   ---
   Mr. Filer is in the economics department at Hunter College
and the CUNY Graduate Center. This is based on research
sponsored by the Manhattan Institute.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   CQB GACC DVL IDA MIAM PWJ TXT DRY VLMR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chiles Offshore Corp., initial offering of five million
common shares, of which 4.2 million will be sold by Chiles
and the balance by holders, via Bear, Stearns &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Chiquita Brands International Inc., offering of 6,183,468
common shares, of which one million will be sold by the
company and the balance by Great American Communications Co.,
via Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Del-Val Financial Corp., proposed offering of 1.2 million
shares of common stock, via Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Dreyfus Investment Grade Municipal Fund Inc., initial
offering of seven million common shares, via Prudential-Bache
Capital Funding.
                                                                                                       

   First New Zealand Fund Inc., initial offering of five
million common shares, via Prudential-Bache.
                                                                                                       

   Gamma International Inc., initial offering of 1,075,000
units, each unit consisting of two common shares and one
redeemable common stock purchase warrant, via Commonwealth
Associates.
                                                                                                       

   Idaho Power Co., shelf offering of up to $100 million of
first mortgage bonds.
                                                                                                       

   Mid Am Inc., offering of one million common shares, via
Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Orbot Systems Ltd., initial offering of three million
common shares, via Shearson Lehman.
                                                                                                       

   Paine Webber Group Inc., offering of five million Nikkei
Stock Average Put Warrants and 3.5 million Nikkei Stock
Average Call Warrants, via PaineWebber Inc., Lazard Freres &amp;
Co. and Nomura Securities International Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Textron Inc., shelf offering of $250 million of unsecured
debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Value Merchants Inc., proposed offering of 1.8 million
shares of common stock, of which one million shares will be
sold by the company and the rest by a holder, via William
Blair &amp; Co. and Robert W. Baird &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   In Terms of Stature,
   The Japanese Are
   Almost American
   ---
   National Growth Spurt Makes
   For Pride and Discomfort;
   Intestine Rice Theory
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.ANA JAPNY
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- For Tetsuro Ozawa, daily life in Japan can be a
real pain. Mr. Ozawa is forever bumping his head. He also has
trouble scrunching his legs under dinner tables while sitting
on the floor. He is more than six feet tall, 6-feet-1 in
fact.
   Not only is he particularly tall, as Japanese men go, he
has big feet, which are hard to squeeze into the smallish
slippers people provide guests to wear indoors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 31-year-old lawyer dreads business trips. The beds in
Japan's compact business-hotels are too compact for him. "My
feet are always dangling over the edge," he complains.
Ryokans, the traditional Japanese inns, aren't much better.
The futons are too short. So are the bathrobes. "I always
have to call the desk and ask for an extra-large," he says.
   For centuries, the Japanese have thought of themselves as
short people, and that is part of the stereotype foreigners
have of them. They have always built houses with low ceilings
and doorways that Westerners tend to knock their heads on.
   But truth to tell, the shape of this little island nation
is changing: The Japanese are getting bigger. By turning
small things into something big (from Hondas to the Sony
Walkman to semiconductors), the Japanese earned fame and
fortune. The latter has afforded more protein in the diet.
   Today's average 17-year-old boy is 5feet-8-inches tall,
some four inches taller than a fellow of that age was in
1926, and only an inch shorter than the average adult
American male (according to insurance-company statistics).
Japanese girls, too, are topping the charts, at 5-feet-3, up
three inches from 1926, according to the Ministry of
Education, which measures every schoolchild every year
through high school. How much taller they get after that
isn't tracked.
   "There are a lot of tall people now," says Toshinobu Sato,
a physician with the education ministry's school health
division -- and a man of 5-feet-11 1/2 inches.
   The growth would seem to be easily explained. The protein
and additional calcium make for longer, stronger bodies,
doctors say. But there is a more popular explanation, one
that even some Japanese doctors buy: the tatami-mat-to-chair
theory, according to which the shift from sitting, eating and
sleeping on the floor to using modern, Western-style chairs,
tables and beds has given people more room to stretch out.
   Whatever the explanation, the growing pains are real. "I
can't sit with my legs tucked under me on the tatami mat too
long," says Katsumi Kusuhara, a 5-foot-11-inch advertising
executive at Dentsu Inc. "When I go to a Japanese funeral, I
have to excuse myself and sit cross-legged." Kneeling at
length puts his feet to sleep.
   In the schools, where students are bursting out of old
classroom furniture and towering over their teachers, the
discomfort is more acute. The education ministry is studying
whether the time has come to make chairs and desks a little
bigger, as it has done three times since World War II. Jiro
Kohara, a professor of human engineering at Chiba Institute
of Technology and a specialist in chairs, says the government
can no longer ignore the growing number of students who are
pushing six feet.
   Seating tall people isn't just a problem in classrooms.
Japanese baseball stadiums, theaters and concert halls have
narrow seats with little legroom between rows -- very hard on
the knees. Airlines get complaints about close quarters on
domestic flights, which have half the space between rows that
international flights do. While cramped planes are hardly
unique to Japan, the carping here is of recent vintage. "I
guess we can't cram people into the seats anymore," says Yuko
Kitano, spokeswoman for All Nippon Airways Co.
   Public-relations-conscious All Nippon last year raised the
minimum-height requirement for female flight attendants more
than an inch, to 5-feet-4. "If everyone is getting taller, it
doesn't look good if the flight attendants are too short,"
says Ms. Kitano. Meanwhile, rival Japan Airlines says it is
going to increase the distance between business-class seats
on domestic flights.
   Attention always seems to be focused on the lower body.
The education ministry, which closely monitors changes in
seated heights, says most of the change in the dimensions of
Japanese schoolchildren is in the legs, not the torso. A
peculiarly Japanese explanation for this is that, as rice
eaters, people developed longer intestines and, in
consequence, a longer upper body. But as eating habits have
changed to include more meat and less rice, bodies made their
own compensating adjustments resulting in shorter trunks,
longer legs. Western doctors find this theory hard to
swallow.
   Though why many Japanese would consider taller better than
short isn't clear, given their historical success as a
nation, people here revel in their added stature. "We've had
such a complex that we didn't measure up," says Prof. Kohara,
who stands 5-feet-8. "Internationally, Japan is reaching a
higher position. Physically, people are getting taller. It's
a nice correlation."
   The recent summit meeting that Japan's 59-year-old prime
minister, Toshiki Kaifu, and President Bush had in Palm
Springs, Calif., served as a painful reminder, however, that
the island nation must look to the next generation of
politicians in one respect. Japanese television viewers
cringed to see their 5-foot-6-inch leader dwarfed by Mr.
Bush, at 6-feet-2. The foreign ministry says it is aware of
the short-image thing but can't do much about it. "We can't
fake anything," says an official. "These guys are short. We
have to face it."
   But by and large, people here are proud to see young
sprouts outgrow old stereotypes. Keiko Isobe, a 5-foot-8-inch
housewife in her 50s, has always been self-conscious about
her height. "Thirty years ago when my husband and I walked
down the street, we really stood out. People stared. I used
to be so embarrassed." Now Mrs. Isobe boasts about having
three daughters who look down on her. "People . . . are
jealous," she says.
   After years of frustrating shopping trips, Mrs. Isobe is
pleased now to find her size in the tall women's section of
the Isetan department store.
   She should be grateful to Yoshihiro Nihei, sales manager
of the tall and large size departments. At 6-feet-2, he can
relate to her problems. Finding suits, shirts and shoes that
fit has been a tall order for this fashion-conscious
33-year-old. He can afford imported Giorgio Armani suits and
Allen Edmonds shoes, but he is determined to improve the
quality of life for tall people generally. "Japan really
needs to size up," he says. "Buses, movie theaters are all
too small. We need to think about improving public spaces."
   Various businesses are trying to take advantage of this
growing trend. Nishikawa Sangyo Co., a Tokyo bedding
wholesaler, says sales of extra-long blankets and futons are
soaring. Mitsui Wood Products Inc, a home-design firm, now
builds certain ceilings one foot higher than those in
standard homes -- 270 centimeters instead of 240. The company
is going after three-generation families trying to live under
the same roof. One of its ads has a grandfather standing next
to a tall young boy. The old man says, "Even if it's just
right for me, my grandson finds a normal home too cramped."
   One last sign of the times: Basketball is becoming popular
in Japan. Tim Andree, a 6-foot-10-inch American imported five
years ago to play for Toyota Motor Corp's industrial-league
team, says: "The teams are getting better. The coaching is
improving. Within a few years, Japan may be able to compete
in the Olympics." Maybe by then Japanese players will be
taller still.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Edge Lower as Apprehensive Dealers
   Prepare for a $3.5 Billion Thrift Agency Offering
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   GDV FNM EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond prices fell moderately as dealers braced
for a potential selloff, which they said might occur if the
government's 40-year bond auction flops again.
   The $3.5 billion of so-called "bailout bonds" will be sold
today by the Resolution Funding Corp., a federal agency
created to finance the rescue of the nation's troubled thrift
industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In trading yesterday, the benchmark 30-year bond fell
nearly 3/8 point, or $3.75 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount, while the yield rose to 8.54% from 8.51% on Friday.
Municipal, investment-grade corporate and mortgage-backed
bonds ended unchanged to as much as 1/4 point lower. Junk
bonds ended mixed.
   Traders said bond prices began to erode during overnight
trading in Tokyo, due to a weaker dollar. The selling
continued when trading began in the U.S.
   But when the dollar rebounded later in the day, bond
prices remained depressed due in part to rumors that few
large bond dealers purchased "put" options in the futures
market.
   F. Ward McCarthy Jr., a managing director at Stone &amp;
McCarthy Research Associates, said dealers used the puts to
hedge their investment positions because they feared that
today's Refcorp auction will lead to a bond market rout. The
effect of the puts may have been exaggerated because of the
market's extremely thin trading conditions, said Mr.
McCarthy.
   A put option contract grants the buyer the right to sell a
bond in the future at a pre-determined price. The buyer of
the put essentially is betting that bond prices will fall and
that he or she can profit on the difference between the
current market price and the pre-determined contract price.
   Although many dealers say they expect the 40-year bond
sale to go smoothly, they nevertheless are hedging their
bets.
   Dealers have good reasons to hedge their bets. The
previous 40-year bond auction in January, which marked the
first time that the government sold bonds with a 40-year
maturity since the 1950s, was a disaster. After details of
the auction were announced, bond prices fell sharply and the
new bonds immediately lost value. Many dealers had to sell
the bonds at a discount.
   Traders are divided about the prospects for the Refcorp
auction.
   Some say that the size of the auction will be a plus.
Helping the sale go smoothly, they said, is the Treasury's
decision to offer $3.5 billion of the 40-year bonds, rather
than the $5 billion sold at the agency's previous sale.
   Others, however, are concerned that investors and dealers
will shy away from the auction because Refcorp flopped at its
first attempt to sell 40-year bonds.
   Moreover, they say, investors aren't comfortable with the
securities because they are being sold by a relatively new
and untried government agency that is associated with the
troubled thrift industry.
   "It's the new kid on the block and last time it had a
terrible disease," said a government bond trader. "People are
afraid of it."
   Another dealer concurred: "A lot of people got decimated
by the first 40-year bond auction and they're not playing
this time."
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices ended lower ahead of the Resolution Funding
Corp.'s $3.5 billion auction of 40-year bonds.
   In when-issued trading, the 40-year bonds were quoted at a
yield of 8.86%, nearly 1/3 percentage point higher than the
yield on the benchmark 30-year bond.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at about 99 11/32
compared with 99 23/32 on Friday. The latest 10-year notes
ended at 99 10/32 to yield 8.58% compared with 99 19/32 to
yield 8.54% on Friday.
   Short-term rates rose after the government sold Treasury
bills at yesterday's regular weekly auction, although the
rates at the auction were lower than at last week's auction.
   The average discount rate on new threemonth and new
six-month bills was 7.80%. That rate was down from last
week's auction, when the rate on three-month bills was 7.83%
and the rate on six-month bills was 7.81%.
   The Treasury will sell $7.5 billion of seven-year notes
tomorrow. In when-issued trading activity, the notes were
quoted at a yield of 8.62%, up from 8.59% Friday.
   Here are details of yesterday's Treasury bill auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                               13-Week          26-Week
                                                                                                       

 Applications              $29,203,040,000  $26,295,030,000
 Accepted bids              $8,212,840,000   $8,222,865,000
 Accepted at low price                 97%              18%
 Accepted noncompet'ly      $1,647,495,000   $1,378,220,000
 Average price (Rate)        98.028 (7.80%)   96.057 (7.80%)
 High price (Rate)           98.036 (7.77%)   96.067 (7.78%)
 Low price (Rate)            98.028 (7.80%)   96.052 (7.81%)
 Coupon equivalent                   8.07%            8.23%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated April 12. The 13-week bills mature
July 12, 1990, and the 26-week bills mature Oct. 11, 1990.
                                                                                                       

   Junk, Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   The junk bonds of Jack Eckerd Corp. made a partial
comeback yesterday after plunging more than seven points
Friday on rumors that the company plans to acquire some Revco
D.S. Inc. stores.
   Michael Zagorac, an Eckerd spokesman, confirmed that
Eckerd has been "evaluating" information relating to Revco's
sale of 712 drugstores. He said that Eckerd "may be
interested in some stores in some markets," but added that no
purchase decisions have yet been made.
   Mr. Zagorac also confirmed that Eckerd is seeking to
privately place a $100 million senior unsecured debt issue.
He would not comment on whether the debt issue will be senior
to the outstanding Eckerd junk bonds. Fears that the debt
issue would be senior in the capital structure to existing
Eckerd issues also helped depress the company's bonds Friday.
   Eckerd's zero-coupon securities rose three points to
finish at 68 after plummeting 7 1/2 points Friday. Meanwhile,
the company's 11 1/8% subordinated debentures, maturing in
2001, closed two points higher.
   The junk bonds of General Development Corp. advanced
despite news that the Miami-based developer filed for
protection under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code.
   General Development's 12 5/8% subordinated debentures,
maturing in 2005, added 1 1/2 points to finish at 14 in thin
trading. The company's 12 7/8% senior subordinated notes, due
in 1995, chalked up 1 to end at 23 3/4 in light volume on the
New York Stock Exchange.
   Both issues are now trading "flat," or without accrued
interest. Dealers said the company's bonds have been trading
at distressed levels for weeks and that a bankruptcy-law
filing had been widely expected.
   In the broader market, junk bonds or speculative-grade
securities with low credit ratings or no credit ratings at
all, finished mixed in listless trading, while in the
investment-grade market, corporate issues ended unchanged to
1/4 point lower.

   Municipal Issues
                                                                                                       

   Actively traded municipal bonds finished flat to 1/4 point
lower in listless trading, softening in tandem with the
weaker Treasury bond market.
   But even though municipals gave a lackluster performance,
some traders didn't read a lot into the activity,
particularly with the market in low gear for the
holiday-shortened week.
   Trading "never really got going," said a New York trader,
adding that there was little interest in two sizable New York
issues that were freed to trade during the session.
   He was referring to the New York Housing Finance Agency's
$552.8 million revenue refunding and special obligation
bonds, priced by a J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. group, and the
Triborough Bridge &amp; Tunnel Authority's $167.7 million general
purpose revenue bonds, Series R, priced by a Dillon Read &amp;
Co. group.
   Traders also are awaiting today's pricing of California's
$500 million various purpose general obligation bonds.
   In secondary trading, New Jersey Turnpike Authority's
7.20% bonds due in 2018 finished 1/8 lower at 97 3/8,
yielding 7.40%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities ended 5/32 to 7/32 lower in light
trading.
   Government National Mortgage Association's 9% securities
for April delivery ended at 96, down 6/32, the 9 1/2%
securities at 98 11/32, down 7/32, and the 10% securities at
100 21/32, down 5/32. Federal National Mortgage Association's
9 1/2% issue was quoted at 98 18/32, down 6/32.
   In the derivative market, Fannie Mae issued a $300 million
real estate mortgage investment conduit, or Remic, backed by
its 10 1/2% securities through Nomura Securities
International Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   British government bonds ended moderately lower after
London reported a larger-than-anticipated 0.7% rise in
manufacturers' prices during March.
   In response, Britain's 11 3/4% bond due 2003/2007 fell
11/32 from Friday to 98 5/8 to yield 11.93%.
   In Japan, government bonds were stronger reflecting a rise
in the yen. The dollar ended at 156.50 yen, down from 157.70
yen in New York late Friday and from 157.47 yen at Tokyo's
close Friday.
   At the Tokyo Stock Exchange close, the benchmark No. 119
yen bond was up 0.45 point to 86.81. The yield fell to
7.185%.
   West German bonds extended Friday's losses. Prices tumbled
late Friday as the debate between politicians and central
bankers over the conversion rate for East German marks heated
up again. Although no new information was released yesterday,
traders said the market continued to react to Friday's news.
   Bonn's 7 3/4% bond due in 2000 fell 0.40 point to 94.20 to
yield 8.64%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900410-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900410-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Del Webb Reaches
   Accord With Director
   To Avert Proxy Fight
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   WBB
</CO>
<IN>
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Del Webb Corp. agreed to some demands
made by a director and major shareholder in a move to avert a
proxy battle by the director at the company's annual meeting
May 16.
   The company said it agreed to renominate four of 10
directors whose terms were scheduled to expire, including
James J. Cotter, who planned the proxy fight. Mr. Cotter owns
9.8% of Del Webb's stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Del Webb said it would expand the board by
two members. One of the new directors, whose identity hasn't
yet been disclosed, will be jointly nominated by Mr. Cotter
and the company.
   The second, nominated by the company, is Hugh Culverhouse
Jr., 42 years old, a senior partner in the Miami law firm of
Culverhouse &amp; Ross, who owns 72,000 of the real-estate
development concern's 9.4 million common shares outstanding.
   Mr. Cotter agreed to drop plans to offer a rival slate of
directors. In addition, he won't push to eliminate "golden
parachute" contracts held by senior management, Del Webb
said.
   A company spokesman said: "We didn't think it was
worthwhile to engage in an expensive proxy fight."
   Mr. Cotter had intended to propose a rival slate of three
directors, including himself. His term on the 10-member board
is set to expire at the annual meeting, and Del Webb had said
last month it wouldn't renominate him to the board.
   The agreement doesn't preclude Mr. Cotter, who couldn't be
reached to comment, from waging a proxy fight in the future.
Despite the agreement, Mr. Cotter, chairman of Craig Corp., a
Los Angeles supermarket chain and photographic-accessories
concern, intends to actively solicit proxies for his proposed
shareholder-rights plan at the annual meeting. Del Webb's
board adopted so-called poison-pill provisions last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
