<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Armstrong World Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ACK
</CO>
<LP>
   ARMSTRONG WORLD INDUSTRIES Inc. (Lancaster, Pa.) -- Robert
H. Caldwell, 59 years old, who retired in February as senior
executive vice president of this floor and building products
maker, retired as a director. Shareholders at the annual
meeting voted on four new directors, one of whom will succeed
Mr. Caldwell; election results won't be available until at
least May 11.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shell Game:
   Peanut Quota System
   Comes Under Attack
   For Distorting Market
   ---
   Limits on Output and Imports
   Raise Ire of Processors;
   Congress Weighs Changes
   ---
   The Mansion Peanuts Built
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   ALBANY, Ga. -- Here in south Georgia, some of the best
investments are made for peanuts.
   Atlanta shopping-center developer John Varner rambles
around the countryside in a pickup, buying up swatches of
timberland and crop land. Total acquisitions: 40,000 acres.
"He's the Donald Trump of farming around here," says one
farmer, adding: "No, he's more like a Howard Hughes. He's
very reclusive."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But it is what came with much of the land that made it so
appealing: peanut quotas that amount to a government license
to sell millions of pounds of peanuts a year in the U.S.
market. Says Mr. Varner: "It's an added asset."
   Peanut production is nearly a no-lose proposition. Even as
the U.S. faults Japan for protectionism, it maintains a
federal program that limits the number of farmers who can
sell peanuts in the U.S. and all but forbids peanut imports.
What's more, the government not only guarantees that the
quota owners will recoup their production costs each year, it
sees to it that the minimum selling price for their so-called
quota peanuts is about 50% higher than the world market.
   The program costs the federal Treasury about $4 million a
year. But critics say the government isn't the only one that
has to shell out.
   Who else pays? Every mother feeding her children
peanut-butter sandwiches, say peanut processors, and every
baseball fan munching on ballpark peanuts. One processor
estimate has consumers paying an extra $369 million a year --
a hidden subsidy to quota holders. The Agriculture
Department, using different assumptions, comes up with $190
million a year. Take away the subsidy, processors assert, and
consumers could save as much as 40 cents on an 18-ounce jar
of peanut butter priced at $1.79. Of course, much depends on
whether cost savings would ever get passed on to the
consumer.
   But political forces now are building to challenge the
41-year-old peanut program, to the dismay of goober growers.
The Bush administration is pressing Congress to limit the
subsidies, and a coalition of conservative Republicans and
big-city Democrats intends to challenge the program when the
1990 farm bill reaches the floor this spring. Some peanut
processors want to end this quota system altogether. They
object to bureaucrats allotting production quotas each year
-- farm by farm, county by county, state by state --
throughout the Peanut Belt, which stretches from tidewater
Virginia to the New Mexico plateau.
   "It's a blatant case of feudalism," asserts James
Hintlian, an Everett, Mass., processor. "It spawns and
protects privilege."
   Not so, assert quota holders. It is a well-conceived
program that stabilizes the economy of peanut-growing areas,
maintains "the integrity of the family farm" and assures
consumers an ample supply of nutritious peanut products at
fair prices, says James Earl Mobley, the chairman of a
national peanut-growers group.
   No place is more threatened by the political assault than
Early County, Ga., which leads the nation in peanut quotas
with an allocation of 73 million pounds. Planting peanuts has
been a way of life in the county since the 1920s, when cotton
farmers, devastated by the boll weevil, took the advice of
botanist George Washington Carver and tried the lowly legume.
   Quota holders, many of them heirs to farmers who got
peanut allotments four decades ago, tend to regard the peanut
program as an entitlement, almost as their birthright. "Why
anyone should attack it, I don't know," says Guy Maddox, with
an unlit Dutch Master between his lips. "The consuming public
wants them cheaper, but it's out of the question. I think the
people here are entitled to make a living."
   Peanuts have been good to 88-year-old Mr. Maddox, who, by
his own reckoning, is worth $4.5 million. He has a staff of
servants, a white-columned mansion and control of the biggest
bank in Blakely, the seat of government in Early County. He
used to own a big peanut mill in town, but these days he
sticks to banking. He rents the family quota of 874,000
pounds of peanuts to two grandsons for $70,000 a year.
   More than a third of the nation's 44,000 quota owners
don't get their hands dirty farming; they rent their quotas
to farmers who do. Many owners are so-called allotment lords
living in distant cities, such as Greenwich, Conn., and West
Palm Beach, Fla. Says Gilbert Cooley, a Spokane, Wash.,
businessman whose wife inherited a peanut quota on about 35
acres in Oklahoma: "Oil wells would be better, but it isn't
too bad."
   The fact isn't lost on investors, either. Miss Brown's
Busy Bee restaurant on the edge of Blakely is often abuzz
with talk of the big money moving in. Fred Wenzel, an
Anheuser-Busch Cos. director and the chairman of St. Louis
apparel maker Kellwood Co., bought the Kolomoki Plantation a
few years ago. That brought him a 1.2 million-pound peanut
quota. Growing peanuts "looks like a better investment than
any other crop you can raise," Mr. Wenzel says.
   But Mr. Varner makes him look like small potatoes. The
shopping-center developer says he and his partner, Earl Bass,
own 12 million to 13 million pounds of quotas (worth $4
million according to agribusiness experts). Mr. Varner's
showplace: Wildfair Plantation, a quail-hunting preserve
south of Albany, Ga.
   He commutes by private jet from Atlanta to oversee his
rural empire out of a hangar at the Albany airport, his
privacy protected by tight airport security and an
uncommunicative staff. Many perceive him as a city-slicker
bent on cornering the peanut market. The spectacle of 15
Varner-Bass mechanized peanut-pickers rumbling from one farm
to another, followed by a mighty fleet of trucks, can be
intimidating.
   "People tell me it looks like a panzer division," says the
39-year-old Mr. Varner, who denies having monopolistic
intentions: "If some other commodity makes more sense, I'm
going to grow it. Peanuts just happen to be the best way to
maximize investment."
   While the peanut program has prevented peanut gluts and
propped up quota-holders' income, critics say the success has
come at the cost of stifled industry growth, market
distortions and higher costs to consumers.
   U.S. peanut consumption remains flat at 2.2 billion pounds
a year, with the industry barely making enough gains in sales
to offset market-share losses to cheaper snacks like
pretzels. In the meantime, unfettered California almond
growers and Hawaii macadamia-nut growers are expanding to
meet demand.
   "We're captives of the program," complains Larry Pryor,
the top purchasing agent for snack-food maker Lance Inc., in
Charlotte, N.C. "We can only buy what's produced for quota,
and we can't really import peanuts." Only 1.7 million pounds
of imports -- a tiny fraction of U.S. consumption -- are
allowed in each year. "That might keep Skippy running for one
afternoon," says James Mack, lobbyist for the Peanut Butter
and Nut Processors Association. "It's a virtual embargo."
   The peanut program benefits only peanut farmers who have a
"green card" -- government-issued proof of quota -- to flash
at peanut buyers and shellers. "That's their ticket to
happiness," says Mr. Hintlian, the processor. It entitles the
quota holders to the perks of the peanut program, and it
guarantees them a so-called support price for their crop that
is four times higher than the minimum given to farmers
without quotas.
   Under current law, card-carrying farmers qualify for a
support price of $631.47 a ton, more than enough to cover
their average costs of production and ensure a profit of $100
to $200 a ton. If they can't get higher prices, the
government will buy their quota peanuts at that floor price.
If their production costs rise, the government raises the
floor price the next year.
   As for the quota-less farmers, they are free to grow
so-called additional peanuts, but only for the lower-priced
export market for edible peanuts or the domestic market for
peanut oil and meal. The result: Foreigners can buy U.S.
peanuts a lot more cheaply than American consumers can.
   If the growers of additional peanuts fail to sell their
crop, they must turn it over to the government at $149.75 per
ton -- too little for most quota-less farmers to make a go of
it. So, too, must quota holders who produce peanuts in excess
of their quotas.
   The government has what amounts to a peanut-police to keep
people from diverting additional peanuts from their overseas
destinations and passing them off on the U.S. market as more
expensive quota peanuts. In Blakely, Ga., Lamar Lindsey of
Opp, Ala., an inspector for a marketing association deputized
to supervise the peanut program, is on the beat, hovering
over the bagging and shipping of 300 tons of government-owned
additionals at the Birdsong Inc. mill.
   "If any of these peanuts move, the government wants to
know about it," the burly Mr. Lindsey shouts over the roar of
forklifts. "I've got to make sure they don't put {additional}
peanuts on a load of quota peanuts."
   Critics contend that Congress, in repeatedly reauthorizing
the peanut program over the years, has legitimized cartels.
The right to grow peanuts for the U.S. market is still
limited to just those states and counties that were growing
peanuts in 1949 when allotments were passed out. Thus,
farmers in Maryland and Kansas don't grow peanuts today
because none of their fathers and grandfathers grew them in
the 1940s. And it is still against the rules for a farmer in
Georgia's Early County to sell his quota to a farmer in the
next county.
   The law has thus entrenched Georgia, Alabama and Texas as
the dominant producers. About 15,000 Georgia farmers control
1.3 billion pounds of quota, or 41% of the national
allotment. In contrast, only two California farmers have
quotas.
   While the Bush administration isn't intent on doing away
with the quota system, it does favor eliminating all
restrictions on the sale and transfer of quotas. The
administration also wants a 20% cut in peanut support prices
to bring them more into line with other subsidized commodity
prices.
   The proposals have members of Congress from the Peanut
Belt fuming. At a recent hearing, several lawmakers wondered
why the administration would, as Republican Rep. William
Dickinson of Alabama put it, "want to fool around with a true
success story." Democratic Rep. Charles Rose of North
Carolina, chairman of the tobacco and peanuts subcommittee,
surmised that there must be some Marxist policy-making
"beavers" in the Agriculture Department trying to figure how
to "screw it up."
   For these lawmakers and their constituents, few issues are
more important or emotional than protecting the status quo in
peanuts. Thomas "Gene" Miller, a Republican Party leader who
used to grow peanuts in Lumpkin, Ga., joined a 1981 effort to
kill the peanut program outright. For his audacity, he says,
he was "semi-ostracized" by his neighbors, and a suspicious
fire burned his barn.
   Peanuts are a cash crop a farmer can count on -- and bank
on. The peanut quota is collateral a farmer can get a loan
with. The quota enhances land values and enriches the tax
base in rural counties. It gives farmers a sense of financial
security.
   Says Rep. Bill Grant, a Florida Democrat who spent 20
years in banking before his election: "I foreclosed on a lot
of poor farmers growing corn and soybeans and just about
everything else, but . . . I never foreclosed on a peanut
farm, never, never did."
   ---
                        Get Your Peanuts
                                                                                                       

   Peanuts, used in primary products, in 1989, as a percent
of total 1.6 billion pounds*
                                                                                                       

 Peanut Butter                      54%
 Salted Peanuts                     24%
 Peanut Candy                       20%
 Other Products                      2%
                                                                                                       

   *Excludes peanuts milled for seed
                                                                                                       

   Source: Statistics and Cooperatives Service, USDA
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C27
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                          Week Ended:
                                     Apr. 27,     Apr. 20,
                                       1990         1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a .. 8.37         8.27
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day)  8.53         8.38
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b ....... 8.24         8.27
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b ............ 8.55         8.40
   Treasury bills (one year)-c ....... 8.57         8.41
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ..... 9.02         8.80
   Treasury notes (five year)-c ...... 9.01         8.79
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c ....... 9.02         8.83
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c ........ 9.00         8.80
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, April 25, 1990
and Wednesday April 18, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted for constant
maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Raw-Steel Output
   Fell 1.3% Last Week
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by U.S. mills declined
1.3% last week to 1,929,000 tons from 1,954,000 tons the
previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute said.
   Last week's output fell 5.6% from the 2,044,000 tons
produced a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry used 85.8% of its capability last week,
compared with 86.9% the previous week and 92.4% a year
earlier.
                                                                                                       

   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                                    Net tons    Capability
                                    produced    utilization
                                                                                                       

  Week to April 28 ..............  1,929,000       85.8%
  Week to April 21 ..............  1,954,000       86.9%
  Year to date .................. 32,309,000       85.5%
  Year earlier to date .......... 33,779,000       89.9%
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Climb After Speech by Greenspan;
   30-Year Treasury Posts Gain of About 1/4 Point
   ----
   By Susan Scherreik and Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C24
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP X.AST X.DEC TBSA USW FRE FNM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond prices rose after Federal Reserve Board
Chairman Alan Greenspan spoke about the economy, which
provided a brief flurry of excitement in an otherwise dull
trading day.
   In a speech to purchasing managers in New Orleans, Mr.
Greenspan said recent economic data suggest there will be
"somewhere between modest and moderate growth in factory
output over the coming year."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His remarks were interpreted by some investors as a sign
that the Fed is comfortable with the current pace of economic
activity, and, therefore, isn't ready to raise interest
rates.
   Mr. Greenspan "took some of the steam out of concerns that
the Fed might tighten over the near term," said David Jones,
a senior vice president and economist at Aubrey G. Lanston &amp;
Co.
   Although Mr. Greenspan didn't provide any new information
about the health of the economy, "the market seemed to be
heartened by his comments," said Elizabeth Reiners, a vice
president and money-market economist at Dean Witter Reynolds
Inc. She said bond prices had barely moved all day prior to
Mr. Greenspan's speech. But after his comments were reported
by wire services, "the market started to pop a little bit,"
she said.
   The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond ended about 1/4 point
higher, a gain of about $2.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount. Tax-exempt bonds and mortgage-backed securities
finished unchanged to as much as 1/4 point higher. But prices
of actively traded junk bonds were unchanged to as much as
two points lower.
   Except for the brief flurry of trading after Mr.
Greenspan's remarks, the bond market was quiet. That partly
reflected the reluctance of investors to make investment
decisions ahead of today's release of the April index of the
nation's purchasing agents, tomorrow's announcement of the
size of the Treasury's next quarterly refunding and Friday's
data on April employment. Also, holidays in Japan and several
European countries kept many major foreign players away from
the market.
   "People are gun-shy ahead of a lot of new information,"
said Ms. Reiners.
   The purchasing agents' survey and the employment report
are viewed as significant because they will provide the first
look at how the economy fared at the start of the second
quarter.
   The April index of the National Association of Purchasing
Management is expected to move up slightly to 48.9%,
according to the average of estimates of nine economists
surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report. The index rose
to 48.8% in March from 48.3% in February. An index below 50%
suggests a contracting industrial sector and an index above
50% suggests activity is expanding. The index has been below
50% for 11 straight months.
   The Chicago purchasing agents' April index, which was
released yesterday, showed that Chicago-area business
activity fell to 54.2% in April on an unadjusted basis from
an unrevised 55.1% in March. The market shrugged off the
report.
   Meanwhile, analysts expect the Treasury to increase the
size of next week's quarterly refunding by $500 million to as
much as $1 billion to help meet increased borrowing needs
tied to the thrift industry bailout.
   Ms. Reiners expects a $31 billion refunding package, up
from the $30 billion sold at the last quarterly debt sales in
February. The economist expects the Treasury to sell $10.25
billion of new three-year notes, $10.25 billion of 10-year
notes and $10.5 billion of new 30-year bonds.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   Concerns that insurance companies and the Resolution Trust
Corp. will begin to sell more junk bonds shook the $200
billion market, driving prices of most active high-yield,
high-risk issues as much as two points lower. The RTC is the
thrift bailout agency.
   Traders said most of the selling came from dealers
scrambling to reduce their positions in anticipation of
further declines in the market.
   American Standard's 12 7/8% senior subordinated
debentures, maturing in 2000, gave up a point to end at 94;
Duracell Holdings Corp.'s 13 1/2% subordinated debentures,
due in 2000, lost 1/2 point to close at 100 3/4; and Turner
Broadcasting Systems' 12% senior subordinated debentures,
maturing in 2001, shed a point to end at a bid price of 99
1/2.
   Also hurt were the junk bonds of Trump Plaza Funding and
related entities. Trump Plaza's 12 7/8% bonds lost 3 1/2
points to close at 81 1/2 after weakening significantly
Friday. Trump Taj Mahal Funding also suffered bruising
losses, declining four points to finish at 69.
   The bonds had begun to sink Friday on news that casino and
real estate developer Donald Trump may sell the Trump shuttle
and other major assets. Some members of the financial
community speculate that Mr. Trump is hoarding cash to meet a
future cash crunch. But Mr. Trump has denied that he is
suffering a cash-flow crisis.
   Junk also has been hurt by attempts to rein in junk bond
investing by insurance companies. Under rule changes being
devised by the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners, insurance companies would be required to build
up larger statutory reserves faster than before for a
majority of their junk bond holdings.
   The difference would be especially critical for about 400
speculative, single-B-rated bonds that had been treated as
"yes" bonds or solid investments under the old reserve
system.
   In the investment-grade market, bond prices ended
unchanged to as much as 1/8 point higher.
   Among new investment-grade issues, two subsidiaries of U S
West Inc., Mountain States Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. and
Northwest Bell Telephone Co., sold a total of $175 million of
10-year notes.
   The debt offerings add to the relatively limited supply of
intermediate-term telephone issues. Like utilities, telephone
companies tend to sell long-term debt to finance extended
capital improvement projects.
   Roger Fox, director of capital markets at U S West, said
the company decided to issue intermediate-term debt because
"it fit well with our existing maturity schedule. We don't
have anything maturing in or around the year 2000," he said.
   Mr. Fox said the company may issue $100 million in
long-term debt later this year to refinance short-term debt.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 94 26/32 to
yield 8.989%, compared with 94 17/32 to yield 9.02% on
Friday. The latest 10-year notes ended at 96 17/32 to yield
9.02%, compared with 96 13/32 to yield 9.04%.
   Meanwhile, short-term interest rates moved higher at the
government's weekly Treasury bill auction.
   The government sold $16.84 billion of three-month and
six-month Treasury bills. The average discount rate for
three-month Treasury bills was set at 7.91% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 8.18%.
   The average discount rate for six-month bills was 8.03%
for a bond-equivalent yield of 8.49%. That was the highest
discount rate at an auction since June 19, 1989, when the
average rate was set at 8.08%.
   Here are auction details:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                  13-Week        26-Week
                                                                                                       

   Applications ..........  $28,390,740,000  $19,675,560,000
   Accepted bids .........   $8,442,425,000   $8,401,690,000
   Accepted at low price .              50%              33%
   Accepted noncompet'ly .     $965,345,000     $735,240,000
   Average price (Rate) ..   98.001 (7.91%)   95.940 (8.03%)
   High price (Rate) .....   98.008 (7.88%)   95.961 (7.99%)
   Low price (Rate) ......   98.001 (7.91%)   95.930 (8.05%)
   Coupon equivalent .....            8.18%            8.49%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated May 3. The 13-week bills mature Aug.
2, 1990, and the 26-week bills mature Nov. 1, 1990.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities ended 1/32 to 6/32 higher.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9% securities for
May delivery ended at 93 19/32, up 6/32; 9 1/2% securities
were at 96 5/32, up 5/32; 10% securities were at 98 3/4, up
1/32; and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9 1/2% securities
were at 95 31/32, up 2/32.
   The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 10.10% to a 12-year
average life assumption, as the spread above the Treasury
10-year note held at 1.09 percentage points.
   In the derivative market, the Federal National Mortgage
Association issued a $300 million real estate mortgage
investment conduit backed by its 10% securities through
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   There's talk that new Remics backed by Fannie Mae 9 1/2%
securities, Fannie Mae 10% securities, Ginnie Mae 9 1/2%
securities and Ginnie Mae 10% securities soon will be
announced.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Actively traded bonds finished flat to 1/4 point higher
after a sleepy session in which municipals tracked the
Treasury market's every move.
   Overall, traders said the nervous municipal bond market
remains jittery before the Treasury's refunding next week,
which is expected to bring at least $30 billion of new issues
to the market.
   "People are still afraid of the refunding," said a New
York trader, adding that the market may not have much of an
appetite for municipal bonds for a while.
   New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018
finished 1/4 point higher at 95 1/8 bid to yield 7.61%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Holidays in several European countries and Japan curbed
activity in most foreign bond markets yesterday. Several
foreign financial markets also will be closed today in
observance of May Day.
   West German government bonds drifted slightly lower.
Bonn's 7 3/4% benchmark securities due in 2000 ended 0.10
point lower at 93.20 to yield 8.81%, while the 8% notes due
in 1995 were off 0.01 point to 95.84 to yield 9.095%.
   British government bonds ended slightly higher. Britain's
benchmark 11 3/4% bond due 2003/2007 rose a little more than
1/8 point to 94 1/8 to yield 12.59%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sears Canada Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS S T.SCC
</CO>
<LP>
   SEARS CANADA Inc. (Toronto) -- Larry Ginther and William
Turner were elected directors of this 60%-owned subsidiary of
Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., succeeding Laurence Cudmore and Arthur
Mingay. Mr. Ginther is vice president and chief financial
officer of Sears Canada and Mr. Turner is vice president,
merchandising and catalogue. Mr. Mingay, 70 years old, had
reached the company's mandatory retirement age. Mr. Cudmore,
as previously reported, was appointed president of retail
with the parent company in Chicago late last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Moody's Cuts Ratings
   On Interco Inc.'s Debt
   Of About $2.2 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   ISS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. lowered its
ratings on Interco Inc.'s approximately $2.2 billion in debt,
saying "debt protection measures will remain weak, even if
the company is successful in restructuring its maturing bank
debt."
   The rating concern noted that Interco, a maker of shoes
and furniture, "has yet to reach agreement with its bank
syndicate to extend the maturity of a $244.5 million bridge
loan beyond the due date of May 7." Assuming an agreement is
reached to restructure the bank debt, Moody's said it
believes Interco's four core operations "will still be unable
to support the present overall debt burden, even after
reductions achieved by currently planned asset sales."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's said that it believes "further capital
restructuring will therefore be necessary," and that "there
is a significant risk that the terms of such a capital
restructuring will not be favorable to bondholders."
   Interco borrowed heavily in late 1988 to pay special
dividends to shareholders and fend off a takeover threat.
Asset sales have gone more slowly, and garnered lower prices,
than the company's management had anticipated. In March, it
reached a tentative pact with its bank lenders, pushing back
the May 7 deadline for the bridge loan into 1992. A
definitive agreement still hasn't been announced.
   Interco said in a prepared statement that the Moody's
action "doesn't reflect any change in the operating results
of Interco's four core companies, which continue to perform
well. Since the company has not yet made an announcement on
the extension of the May 7 due date, or on the results of
studies examining alternatives to improve Interco's financial
position, Moody's action is not unexpected at this time."
   Moody's downgraded Interco's senior notes to single-B-3
from single-B-2, and industrial development bonds, senior
subordinated debentures, senior subordinated discount
debentures, junior subordinated pay-in-kind debentures, and
preferred stock to Caa from single-B-3.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Interco shares closed at 62.5 cents, up 6.25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mattel Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   MAT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MATTEL Inc. (Los Angeles) -- Joseph Gandolfo was named to
the new post of president, operations division, with this
maker of toys and hobby products. He previously was general
manager, television manufacturing for the Americas, at
Thompson Consumer Electronics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Primebank
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   PMBK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PRIMEBANK (Grand Rapids, Mich.) -- Edward F. Havlik and
Terrence M. O'Rourke were elected to the board of the bank.
Mr. Havlik, 46 years old, has served on the board as an
advisory director since 1986. Mr. O'Rourke, 51, succeeds
retiring Director Harold Schumacher. Mr. Havlik is chairman
of United Development Management Co. Mr. O'Rourke is
president of Blodgett Memorial Medical Center and serves on
several local boards, including the board of the Grand Rapids
Area Medical Education Center.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Showboat Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   SBO WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SHOWBOAT Inc. (Las Vegas, Nev.) -- William J. Downey
resigned as a director and as executive vice president of the
company's subsidiary, Atlantic City Showboat Inc. He
continues as a full-time consultant to the hotel/casino
operator. The company said it doesn't currently plan to
replace Mr. Downey as a director, leaving the board with 11
members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Crown Central Petroleum Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   CNPA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CROWN CENTRAL PETROLEUM Corp. (Baltimore) -- Ted M.
Jackson, a senior vice president and chief financial officer,
was named a director of this petroleum-products and refining
concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Lotus Development Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   LOTS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   LOTUS DEVELOPMENT Corp. (Cambridge, Mass.) -- Alexander V.
d'Arbeloff, 62 years old, resigned as a director of this
personal computer software maker to devote more time to
Teradyne Corp., where he is chairman and chief executive
officer. His departure, leaving Lotus with five directors,
makes way for combining the boards of Lotus and Novell Inc.,
a Provo, Utah, network software maker, in a merger announced
last month. Carol R. Goldberg, 59, president of Avcar Group
Ltd., was re-elected a Lotus director but will resign after
the merger is completed this summer. The two actions will
result in a combined board of seven members, four from Lotus
and three from Novell.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Curtice Burns Net Fell
   25% in First 9 Months
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- Curtice Burns Foods Inc. reported a 25%
decline in net income for the fiscal nine months and said it
expects lower earnings for the year ending June 30 because of
plant and administrative consolidations and unfavorable crop
conditions.
   For the nine months, the food processor posted net of $8.3
million, or 98 cents a share, down from $11 million, or $1.32
a share, a year earlier. Year-earlier per-share earnings were
adjusted for a 3-for-2 stock split paid Dec. 20, 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 13% to $702.1 million from $620 million.
   The company said short crop situations severely hurt
results at three of its major operations, including Comstock
Michigan Fruit, Southern Frozen Foods and the newly acquired
Southland Frozen Foods.
   For fiscal 1989, the company earned $14.9 million, or an
adjusted $1.78 a share, on sales of $807.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ametek Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AME
</CO>
<LP>
   AMETEK Inc. (Paoli, Pa.) -- Roger K. Derr was named
executive vice president and chief operating officer of this
manufacturing concern. Mr. Derr, 58 years old, succeeds John
Dandalides, who retired. Allan Kornfeld, chief financial
officer, was given the additional title of executive vice
president; he will continue to serve as chief financial
officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Commonwealth Edison Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CWE
</CO>
<LP>
   COMMONWEALTH EDISON CO. (Chicago) -- Lando W. Zech Jr.,
former chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission,
was named a director of this utility concern, filling a
vacancy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   New York Merc
   Appoints Davis
   Of CFTC to Post
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Mercantile Exchange named Robert
R. Davis, a member of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, as its senior vice president for planning and
development, effective May 21.
   Mr. Davis, 41 years old, who was appointed to the CFTC by
President Reagan in 1984, resigned as a commissioner
effective yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until his resignation, Mr. Davis was chairman of the
CFTC's financial products advisory committee. He initiated
the revision of CFTC regulations on hedging and risk
management. He also reviewed and analyzed off-exchange
derivative instruments, such as swaps, for the CFTC.
   R. Patrick Thompson, president of the New York Merc, said
Mr. Davis "brings to our exchange broad-based expertise in
international finance, strategic planning and negotiating,
and economic research and policy development, as well as a
deep understanding of the current regulatory environment."
The New York Merc is the nation's third-largest futures
exchange and the largest market for trading oil and other
energy futures contracts.
   In an interview, Mr. Davis said the chief problem facing
all futures exchanges today is competition. "When I joined
the CFTC," he said, "the exchanges had no competition; today,
they must compete with foreign futures markets and
off-exchange products." He noted that three of the 11 largest
futures contracts based on volume now trade on foreign
exchanges. Mr. Davis also noted that while many of the
off-exchange products are complementary to exchange
contracts, some of them are directly competitive.
   According to Mr. Davis, futures exchanges must play a role
in a world that is moving toward 24-hour trading for certain
contracts. "Maybe screen {electronic} trading will be the
most effective way to offer that service, but right now that
remains to be determined," he said. "For competitive reasons,
exchanges must remain the lowcost producers."
   Prior to joining the CFTC, Mr. Davis was senior economist
for the Congressional Joint Economic Committee. Before that,
he served as a vice president and economist at the Harris
Trust &amp; Savings Bank in Chicago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM MER FRE GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, April 30, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.30% 30 to 59 days; 8.25% 60 to 119 days;
8.20% 120 to 179 days; 8.10% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.38%
30 days; 8.40% 60 days; 8.42% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.82% one month; 7.89% two
months; 7.94% three months; 8.02% six months; 8.36% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.35% one month; 8.55% three months;
8.70% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.25% 30 days; 8.28% 60 days; 8.29%
90 days; 8.31% 120 days; 8.32% 150 days; 8.31% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/2% to 8 3/8% one month; 8
5/8% to 8 1/2% two months; 8 11/16% to 8 9/16% three months;
8 3/4% to 8 5/8% four months; 8 13/16% to 8 11/16% five
months; 8 7/8% to 8 3/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/4% one month;
8 11/16% three months; 8 7/8% six months; 9 1/4% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11.50%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 30, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.91%, 13 weeks; 8.03%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.69%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.60%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9.20%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: Annualized average rate
of return after expenses for the past 30 days; not a forecast
of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Europe's New-Car Sales Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- New car sales in Europe in March rose 0.9% from
a year earlier, possibly signaling a slowdown after a healthy
start to the year.
   The market is "definitely not maintaining the momentum"
displayed in February and January, when car sales were up
2.1% and 4% on the year, respectively, said Stephen Reitman,
an industry analyst at UBS-Phillips &amp; Drew Ltd.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Statistics from 12 nations that usually account for 94% of
Western Europe's passenger car sales showed new car
registrations totaled 1,270,000 in March, up 22% from
1,040,000 in February and up from 1,260,000 a year earlier.
   In March, sales were off on the year in five of the
countries included in the survey: Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland and the U.K. Among the gainers, West Germany
posted a 2% rise, while France rose 6.8% and Italy rose 3.4%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   B.F. Goodrich Co. Expansion
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GR
</CO>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- B.F. Goodrich Co. said it will invest about
$14 million to expand capacity to produce hydrophilic resins
at Calvert City, Ky., and Pohang, South Korea.
   The expansion, which is scheduled to be completed in
mid-1991, will increase the company's world-wide capacity for
the materials by 35%, Goodrich said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hydrophilic resins are additives used as thickening and
suspension agents in cosmetics and personal-care products,
and a number of other uses, the company said.
   Goodrich is a plastics, specialty chemicals and aerospace
products concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allied Irish Banks
   Offers to Acquire
   Maryland Bank
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   AIB+ BBB X.FMD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Allied Irish Banks PLC offered to buy Baltimore
Bancorp. for $217 million, expanding the big Irish bank's
U.S. presence and continuing the spate of U.S. bids by
overseas companies.
   The bid, made in a letter Friday to Baltimore Bancorp.'s
board from AIB's First Maryland Bancorp unit, is "unsolicited
but friendly," said Diarmuid Moore, director of strategy for
Dublin-based AIB. In a phone interview, he didn't rule out a
hostile bid if AIB's overture is rejected. But, he added, "we
are very anxious to conclude a friendly deal, and think the
offer represents full and fair value."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though Baltimore said its board will consider the
$17-a-share bid "in due course," the bank indicated yesterday
it considers the offer unwelcome. In a letter to First
Maryland, Baltimore Chairman Harry L. Robinson took "direct
issue with {First Maryland's} statement that the offer is
delivered `in a spirit of cordiality and goodwill.' " Mr.
Robinson said AIB didn't call to say the bid was coming, and
requested a response by tomorrow. Such moves "could have only
been designed to create a hostile atmosphere and to place
pressure upon us. Please rest assured that we will not be
cowed by these tactics."
   AIB's First Maryland unit already has amassed a 4.9%
Baltimore stake for about $6.7 million. The offer values the
entire company's roughly 12.8 million common shares
outstanding at about $217 million.
   At roughly a 47% premium to Baltimore Bancorp.'s Friday
close of $11.75 a share on the New York Stock Exchange, the
offer seems aimed at elbowing out other potential suitors. It
values Baltimore Bancorp. at 12.7 times 1989 earnings and
about 1.1 times tangible net worth, according to AIB.
   People involved in the bid expect Baltimore to seek a
white-knight counterbidder, if the board chooses to fight.
Baltimore "would probably consider a white knight," said
AIB's Mr. Moore. "But we would be surprised if there is a
better offer. We didn't start on basis of pitching it {the
bid} low and trying to get it for free." Analysts added that
recent jitters in the U.S. financial industry because of
souring real-estate lending may keep interest low.
   In March, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. lowered ratings on about
$72 million of Baltimore subordinated debt to double-B-plus
from triple-B, citing the firm's "substantial concentration"
in commercial real estate lending and volatile funding
sources.
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Baltimore shares closed at $15, up $3.25.
   Shares in AIB, which also announced a 1-for-6
share-purchase right to raise 162 million Irish pounds
($259.5 million) to help finance the purchase and for general
purposes, fell 14 pence to 235 pence on London's Stock
Exchange.
   Baltimore would be a significant addition to AIB's network
in the mid-Atlantic states, and would continue an expansion
by big overseas banks in U.S. retail banking. Such banks as
National Westminster Bank PLC, Royal Bank of Scotland and
many Japanese banks already are amassing significant retail
presences on America's East and West Coasts as squeezed
margins at home are making the U.S. market seem more
alluring.
   U.S. targets also seem reasonably priced, and the weakened
U.S. market for junk securities has hamstrung some domestic
U.S. bidders. Against that backdrop, overseas bidders have
been snapping up U.S. assets lately. More than $2 billion in
deals have been announced in the past week alone, including
the purchases of retailer Saks Fifth Avenue and industrial
group Norton Co.
   AIB already is Maryland's second-biggest bank after
acquiring control of Baltimore's First Maryland Bancorp in
1988 for a total of $520 million. Buying fifth-largest
Baltimore Bancorp., also based in Baltimore, would boost its
asset base in the area by $3.4 billion to about $11 billion.
But it would still remain well behind leader MNC Financial
Inc., with about $23 billion in assets.
   Analysts favor AIB to win the battle. Chris Wheeler, a
banking analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in London
said, "I think they are going to win. AIB obviously is
offering a hell of a premium in what is a worrying banking
market." But, he added, "I think the reason they announced
now was they were worried someone else may be out there." en
   Rodgin Cohen at Sullivan and Cromwell in New York, who is
representing Baltimore Bancorp., said this is the first time
a foreign bank has launched a hostile transaction.
   "Because of the way it came, it has to be treated as a
hostile offer," Mr. Cohen said, noting that First Maryland
delivered a letter to his client late Friday afternoon and
then released it to the media soon afterwards. "You just
don't do things like that and call it a friendly deal."
   He added that he has always advised foreign banks to avoid
hostile deals because the Federal Reserve increases its
scrutiny and forces them to play by the same rules as U.S.
banks, which can be more restrictive than foreign rules.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Selwyn Feinstein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR UIS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   JOB HOPPING: Executives think it's risky. But a challenge
can be tempting.
   Managers who might have sought greener pastures in the
past "are sitting tight" now, says Harris Corp. "There's a
degree of caution that wasn't there a year ago."
Kimberly-Clark Corp. still sees lots of applications, but
most come from executives pushed out or in imminent danger.
"The ones with the good companies are staying," it observes.
Charles Maschal, president of the National Association of
Executive Recruiters, explains switching now can be "very
risky" because the last one hired could well be the first one
fired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Adolph Coors Co. says one recent ad drew "an
extraordinarily large number of responses," many from
executives who are secure. "Most people, regardless of
whether they're truly happy in their jobs, are keeping their
eyes open," it says. Chrysler Corp. says it believes few
executives today are willing to trade away safe jobs for the
promises of a new position. But it, too, says the lure
sometimes can be irresistible.
   "A lot of top executives love a challenge," even more than
job security, the auto maker says.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S TRANSFERRED? If you fit this profile, get ready to
pack.
   Salesmen 31 to 40 years old earning $30,000 to $50,000 a
year are most likely to be relocated by their companies, a
survey by Atlas Van Lines finds. And they are apt to be moved
every three to five years. Female workers can feel secure, or
more likely feel victims of an old bias. Nearly one in three
companies says it didn't transfer any female workers last
year. At another third, less than 5% of the transferees were
women.
   If you were transferred last year, you probably left New
York or Denver and headed for Washington, D.C., or
California, a separate survey by PHH Corp.'s relocation unit
shows. The company helped clients move 903 workers into the
Big Apple but assisted 1,592 in moving out, for a net outflow
of 689. Denver lost 503. The nation's capital, by contrast,
gained 459 workers while San Francisco and Los Angeles each
added more than 200 through PHH. Much of the activity
reflected cost-cutting consolidations.
                                                                                                       

   INNER-CITY KIDS find summer jobs at firms eager to provide
for tomorrow.
   "Urban students, mainly minorities, aren't always aware of
the opportunities that exist in corporations," says
Prudential Insurance Co. So it hires 28 youngsters for
entry-level jobs and helps fund training programs for others.
At York Ladder Inc., seven high-school students can look
forward to a summer of lifting and loading in 90 degree heat,
where the company hopes they'll learn "humility and humanity
that can translate into the future when they become leaders
in a corporation."
   Wickes Corp. will hire 150 neighborhood youths to work at
15 Builders Emporium Home Centers. "We feel we have a
responsibility to help prepare them for their future," it
explains. Vons Cos. teams with Pepsi-Cola and a local
foundation to award bagging jobs and motivational lectures to
more than 50 inner-city teen-agers who do well in school.
"Sometimes they tend not to be recognized as much as kids
with athletic achievements," it says.
   In Chicago, 250 firms in Hire the Future will take on
3,300 C grade-or-better students; dropouts are shunned.
                                                                                                       

   JOB HUNTERS, BEWARE] Postal inspectors say a confidence
artist is using help-wanted ads in a credit-card scam. He's
requesting resumes for a high-paying job and then calling for
Social Security and driver's license numbers that are used to
tap the applicant's credit line.
                                                                                                       

   ESOPs GREW SHARPLY in 1989, with large public companies
worried about takeovers dominating the expansion, says the
National Center for Employee Ownership.
                                                                                                       

   UNISYS CORP. signs up instructors from Temple University
to teach workers being laid off at a Philadelphia plant how
to start and operate their own businesses.
                                                                                                       

   VOLUNTEERISM LIVES, but it's getting weaker. One in five
Americans donates time to religious, civic, educational or
other groups, the Bureau of Labor Statistics says. That's
down from one in four in 1974.
                                                                                                       

   BEST LAID PLANS: Strategies fail because managers don't
understand.
   That's the view of top executives who formulate the
objectives that somehow get lost down the corporate ladder. A
survey by consultant Booz, Allen &amp; Hamilton finds that only
37% of the senior officials think other key managers
completely understand new business goals. Only 4% of the top
bosses think middle managers totally understand.
   Not surprisingly, compliance drops with understanding, to
the point where nearly half the top executives believe that
middle managers go along with new strategies at best
partially or not at all. The top bosses believe pay policies
at their companies may be working against the strategy
changes they try to push.
   Half say performance rewards "actually encourage
counterproductive or narrowly focused behavior."
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Three of four male pediatricians -- but less
than half their female colleagues -- believe children a year
or younger are harmed when their mothers work full time, says
the American Academy of Pediatrics and Working Mother
magazine. . . . A federal court rules an agency violates the
age discrimination act when it doesn't hire a 64-year-old
dentist for an entry-level post because he knows too much,
consultant Alexander &amp; Alexander advises.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Alexander Energy Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AEOK
</CO>
<LP>
   ALEXANDER ENERGY Corp. (Oklahoma City) -- Robert A.
Peterson, senior vice president and general manager of
Midwest Capital Group Inc., Sioux City, Iowa, was named a
director of this oil and gas company, succeeding Russell
Christiansen, who didn't stand for re-election.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Wholesale Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   WIESBADEN, West Germany -- West German wholesale sales
were up a real, or price-adjusted, 3.0% in March from a year
earlier, based on preliminary data, the Federal Statistics
Office said.
   The office also reported that wholesale sales also rose
3.0% in nominal terms from a year earlier. Wholesale sales in
March were 78 billion marks ($46.4 billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first quarter, wholesale sales totaled 213 billion
marks, also a 3.0% increase in nominal and real terms, the
statistics office said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First National's Fiscal Year
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FTNC
</CO>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- First National Corp. said it changed
from a calendar year to a fiscal year ending Feb. 28 as a
result of the acquisition of Clyde A. Short Co. on that date.
   The fiscal year more closely reflects First National's
business cycle since the acquisition, the company said. Clyde
A. Short, now First National's major business, supplies
employee-motivation and incentive-award programs to industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the two months ended Feb. 28, profit was $68,974, or
three cents a share, on revenue of $208,973, First National
said. Comparable figures for a year earlier aren't available,
the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal-Mogul Corp. Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   FMO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOUTHFIELD, Mich. -- Federal-Mogul Corp. said it purchased
select assets of Australian Automatic Transmission Spares
(AATS), a division of Brebo Pty. Ltd.
   The purchase was made through Federal-Mogul's Australian
subsidiary, Federal-Mogul Pty. Ltd. Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AATS is an assembler and distributor of automatic
transmission service repair kits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   How Quarterly Study
   Evaluates Brokers'
   Allocation of Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C27
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The quarterly Wall Street Journal-Wilshire
Associates study of asset allocation includes the 10
brokerage houses with the largest number of registered
representatives.
   Some companies publish more than one set of
asset-allocation recommendations. Within reason, they may
pick which set they want to be judged by, provided they
specify in advance. Two companies, PaineWebber Inc. and
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., recently changed the asset-allocation
blend tracked in the study.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PaineWebber formerly used a theoretical asset-allocation
model developed by Edward Kerschner and Charles Pradilla. Its
neutral reading calls for a 33.3% position in each of three
assets, stocks, bonds, and cash. As of Jan. 31, PaineWebber
asked to be judged, instead, on its advice for a typical
balanced portfolio, in which stocks normally have heavier
weight.
   Goldman Sachs, previously judged on its advice to large
pension funds, has asked to be judged as of March 31 on its
advice for a smaller, aggressive pension fund. Strategist
Steven Einhorn said he believes this advice more closely
approximates what individual investors should follow.
   Other companies with more than one asset-allocation blend
are tracked as follows:
   Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. is judged on its
recommendations for a "small, aggressive fund"; A.G. Edwards
&amp; Sons Inc. on a "growth and income" portfolio; Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co. on an "individual balanced" portfolio, and
Raymond, James &amp; Associates Inc. on advice to "young urban
professionals."
   The study disregards the cost of trading, mainly to make
the results comparable to market averages. In practice, of
course, people who often adjust their investment blends may
incur high commissions.
   Each house's advice is mirrored in a theoretical
portfolio. Holdings are adjusted whenever the advice changes,
and also on the last day of each month, to keep assets in the
recommended ratio.
   Investments are assumed to do as well as the following
indexes: the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index for stocks;
the Merrill Lynch corporate and government master bond index
for bonds; 90-day Treasury bills for cash; the National
Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries/Frank Russell
Co. index for real estate; and the average monthly price of
gold for tangible assets.
   (See related story: "Your Money Matters: "Ten Brokers Give
Asset-Allocating Advice" -- WSJ May 1, 1990).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's Global Factory-Research Project
   Is Seen by Some in West as Trojan Horse
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN UTX ROK
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- When Japan earlier this year launched a $1
billion project to revolutionize the world's factories, it
expected praise from grateful Americans and Europeans.
   Instead, it got egg on its face.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Intelligent Manufacturing System proposed by Japan is
a 10-year project to integrate existing factory technologies
from the major industrialized countries, to develop a
world-wide standard for future factory technologies, and to
pool international resources to create "21st century"
high-tech systems. The project, in the form of a consortium,
would include governments, companies and universities.
   Cut from the famous Japanese industrial-policy mold, the
proposed consortium has intrigued U.S. companies that can't
get similar backing for such programs at home. But it has
triggered an uproar in the U.S. and Europe, where some
officials say it smacks of a Japanese Trojan horse to take
over the world economy.
   Early last week, the Commerce Department hosted a
contentious meeting near Washington on the project with about
50 U.S. industry representatives. On Thursday, an assistant
secretary of commerce blasted the program at a congressional
hearing. Commerce officials plan to raise their concerns at
an annual meeting on bilateral science and technology
exchange this week.
   "We are very disturbed by the way the Japanese approached
this," says a senior Commerce official. "They don't want a
level playing field. They want to target our industries."
European Community officials echo those sentiments.
   The Japanese, who for years have been berated for keeping
research closed to outsiders, profess bemusement. "When we do
nothing, we are criticized. When we do something, we are
criticized," sighs Takeshi Isayama, director of the
industrial machinery division of the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry, or MITI, which is helping
fund the project.
   As the governments feud, United Technologies Corp. and
Rockwell International Corp. are signing up for the project,
and others have indicated interest. With the Bush
administration dead set against anything that smacks of an
industrial policy, some companies say, Americans looking for
such assistance might as well get it from the Japanese.
   "If our government isn't doing equally visionary things,
what would they have us do?" asks Stanley P. Krueger,
president of United Technologies' Japan office. "We can't sit
still in the U.S., turn off the lights and send our employees
home."
   Leo Reddy, president of the National Coalition for
Advanced Manufacturing in Washington, says he has serious
concerns about the program, but adds: "They're putting up the
money, our government isn't. It's a metaphor for our time, a
Sputnik. It dramatically underlines the fact the Japanese are
taking manufacturing very seriously."
   All these issues are likely to come up with growing
frequency, as the manufacturing consortium is just one of
many the Japanese government is opening up to foreign
companies. Last year, General Electric Co. and United
Technologies' Pratt &amp; Whitney subsidiary signed up for a MITI
project to develop a high-speed jet engine. That raised
hackles about the possibility that the U.S. companies would
leak technology in a field where the U.S. still has the
advantage. But, remarkably enough, it also brought together
two longtime bitter rivals to work on a project.
   The consortium was the brainchild of Hiroyuki Yoshikawa,
dean of Tokyo University's Faculty of Engineering and an
expert on manufacturing. The effort he began coordinating
last year now has 80 major Japanese companies on board.
   Dr. Yoshikawa's philosophy, outlined in the program
brochure, is that international cooperation in manufacturing
becomes essential as the shortage of skilled labor world-wide
requires more factory automation and technology costs rise.
Among other things, standardization simplifies applying
know-how around the world.
   Japan has long conducted industrial research this way.
Government-corporate-university consortia helped Japan catch
up in semiconductors and take the lead in high-definition
television. Such projects have been seen as vehicles for
national development, and closed to outsiders.
   But foreigners' lack of access to Japanese research is a
source of international tension. In the West, the most
important scientific work takes place in open university
laboratories, something the Japanese have diligently taken
advantage of. But in Japan, most work is done in closed
corporate facilities, and in closed consortia.
   A 1988 U.S.-Japan science and technology agreement was
meant to address such issues. Last year, Japan started the
Human Frontier Science Project, based in Strasbourg, France,
to fund international research. And Japan has been opening up
more of its own projects. Its superconductivity lab has nine
foreign corporate members. Last year, MITI opened all its
major consortia to foreign companies. In addition to the
engine project, it invited outsiders to help research
underground construction.
   MITI and Japanese companies will put up $600 million for
the manufacturing consortium in the next decade, with $200
million each from the U.S. and Europe. An international
research center will be set up in Europe or North America.
   Japanese researchers and government officials briefed
representatives of foreign companies and embassies in Tokyo
in January. The response was enthusiastic. But when word
filtered back to the U.S. and Europe, the reaction was
cooler.
   U.S. Commerce officials say the way the Japanese have
pursued the project hints of trying to sneak around official
channels. While the Japanese made some low-level U.S.
government contacts, they mainly have approached U.S.
industry directly, signing up the Society of Manufacturing
Engineers as the U.S. coordinator. When Commerce officials
complained to the Japanese Embassy in Washington last month,
they were told it was a Japanese private industry project.
   The European Community has had tighter control over direct
Japanese contact with companies. But it too has expressed
similar concerns. A few weeks ago, EC officials met with
Commerce officials to compare notes and responses.
   To some Westerners, the Japanese have a reason for
avoiding government contacts: the project, they say, is
structured to allow Japanese companies to suck up advanced
Western know-how. While Japan may already use more robots,
they say, the West is ahead in systems integration and
computer software.
   "It is directed at one of the few remaining areas where
the U.S. retains technological superiority," James L. Koontz,
president of Kingsbury Corp. and chairman of the National
Center for Manufacturing Sciences, testified before a Senate
commitee last month. "We would lose." Others argue that even
if everybody shares the technology, Japan will be the main
beneficiary because its companies are much quicker about
putting new techniques to use.
   To the Japanese, the project is a noble gesture. After
all, they say, study after study proclaims the U.S. is losing
its manufacturing prowess, while Japan pulls further ahead.
In fact, Japanese officials say they had to fight to convince
Japanese companies to participate. Says MITI's Mr. Isayama,
"A lot complained: Why do we have to expose our technology to
outsiders?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Ten Brokers Give Asset-Allocating Advice
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE AGE S PA AXP SLH MER RJF
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   In "The Wizard of Oz" Dorothy reaches a fork in the road
and asks Scarecrow which way she should go. Scarecrow points
first left, then right, and finally says, "Of course, some
people do go both ways."
   It's a lot like that on Wall Street these days: Investors
can get plenty of advice on how to allocate their money among
stocks, bonds and cash -- but the advice points every which
way.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of 10 major brokerage houses whose advice is regularly
tracked by this newspaper, only two currently recommend a
traditional allocation with 50% to 60% in stocks. Two suggest
a bigger helping of stocks; six others say to go light on
stocks for now.
   Amid rising interest rates, both stocks and bonds declined
in the first quarter. The best posture, hindsight shows, was
to be heavily in cash, as was advocated by PaineWebber Inc.
Cash means safe, short-term investments, such as Treasury
bills or money-market funds.
   Investors following the asset-allocation advice of nine of
the 10 brokerage houses would have lost a little money last
quarter, according to a study by this newspaper and Wilshire
Associates of Santa Monica, Calif. Investors following
PaineWebber's advice would have eked out a slim gain of 0.8%,
the study estimates.
   The brokers' advice has been better over the longer term.
Still, only three of the 10 companies' recommended investment
mixes beat a traditional, unchanging blend of 55% stocks, 35%
bonds, and 10% cash over the 12 months ended March 31. Over
the full term of the study, 39 months, five out of nine
companies beat that benchmark. Raymond James &amp; Associates
hasn't been giving asset-allocation advice for that long.
   Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., a unit of Prudential
Insurance Co. of America, led the rankings for the latest 12
months, with an estimated return of 18.4%. Prudential-Bache
has led the 12-month rankings five consecutive times, and is
also the leader for the full 39 months.
   Here's a rundown on what strategists are saying at the 10
brokerage houses. The companies are discussed in order of
their 12-month performance.
                                                                                                       

   PRUDENTIAL-BACHE: Strategist Greg Smith was a raging bull
in 1987 and 1988. Last year he started getting more cautious,
and gradually reduced his recommended stock-market exposure
-- once as high as 100% -- to 35%. Now he's starting to get a
bit more optimistic, recommending a blend of 40% stocks, 40%
bonds and 20% cash. "I still don't think this will be a great
year," he says. But he thinks a lukewarm economy will allow
interest rates to decline, which "will be pretty beneficial
to the stock market." He expects stocks to show a slight loss
in the first half of 1990, but to provide a total return of
5% to 10% for the full year.
                                                                                                       

   SHEARSON: By summer, the inflation numbers that are
currently scaring investors will turn out to have been just
"a flash in the pan," says Michael Sherman, strategist for
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., a unit of American Express Co.
Shearson ranked second for both the 12-month and 39-month
periods. He thinks interest rates on long-term Treasury
bonds, now around 9%, will decline to 8.5% or less within six
months. That would help stocks, because "the current problem
in the stock market is totally related to the bond market."
He predicts the stock market "will hit a new high by the end
of the summer" and recommends a hefty 65% stock position.
                                                                                                       

   SMITH BARNEY: So far this year, Smith Barney, Harris Upham
&amp; Co., a unit of Primerica Corp., has slightly decreased its
recommended stock position to 45% and increased its
allocation for bonds to 35%. In the stock market, "I think at
best we'll see a continuation of the trading range we have
seen," says William Helman, co-chairman of the investment
policy committee. A decline of as much as 15% wouldn't
surprise him, but "I don't think we're looking at a serious,
massive bear market." He doesn't expect big gains from bonds
either, so long as economic strength in Japan, West Germany
and the U.S. keeps "upward pressure" on rates.
                                                                                                       

   GOLDMAN SACHS: We're in for "an uninteresting market" the
next few months, says Steven Einhorn, strategist for Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co. Stocks won't rise much because of fairly tight
monetary policy world-wide and high interest rates, which he
expects will come down "haltingly" to about 8.5% six months
from now. The rally that began in February in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average hasn't done much for most stocks, Mr.
Einhorn notes. But he says stock prices won't fall very far
because the economy "looks okay," inflation isn't as bad as
people fear, and companies are raising dividends. Prediction:
a range of 2500 to 2800 for the industrial average.
                                                                                                       

   DEAN WITTER: Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., a unit of Sears,
Roebuck &amp; Co., rightly calls itself "the lonely bull."
Strategist John Connolly recommends investors put 85% of
their money in stocks, making him by far the most optimistic
of the 10 strategists. Last quarter, investors who followed
that advice may have regretted it: Dean Witter ranked last
for the quarter with an estimated loss of 2.7%. Longer-term,
it's done better -- third for 39 months and fifth for 12
months. Mr. Connolly says his stance will pay off as
investors realize that the economy is now safely past a
recession but isn't growing fast enough to rekindle
inflation.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH: "The dangers are building up" for the stock
market, says Charles Clough, strategist for Merrill Lynch &amp;
Co. "Interest rates are back up, and earnings are still kind
of weak." For the next few months, he thinks stocks will be
flat to down. But he finds bonds attractive. "Our view is
that a 9% yield is a tremendous amount of value," he says. "A
9% bond doubles in eight years. I think you should lock in
here, or at least begin to." Merrill and A.G. Edwards are the
only two companies that currently suggest investors hold more
bonds than stocks.
                                                                                                       

   KIDDER PEABODY: First in the three-month rankings for the
December quarter, Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., a subsidiary of
General Electric Co., came in second for the March quarter.
Again, its cautious stance on stocks was vindicated. Dennis
Jarrett, a market analyst, sees "a downward bias" continued,
with the industrial average declining to 2200 or so. "I don't
see any sign that interest rates are going to reverse. I
don't see too many money managers out there ready to be big
bargain hunters," he says. His stock-market prediction:
"General low-volume deterioration." Bonds may get a brief
bounce, he says, but then interest rates are likely to creep
up to 9.25%, as the U.S. Treasury continues to borrow
heavily.
                                                                                                       

   RAYMOND JAMES: Raymond, James &amp; Associates Inc. of St.
Petersburg, Fla., is recommending a "normal" blend containing
60% stocks. J. Davenport Mosby, a managing director, says the
stock market has withstood negative news pretty well, and
that high cash holdings by institutions provide plenty of
fuel for a future rally. Unlike most rivals, Raymond James
sometimes recommends gold and real estate. Currently it urges
a 15% position in real estate, but no gold. It is bearish on
bonds. The spread between short-term and long-term rates is
unusually narrow, and Raymond James thinks it's more likely
that long-term rates will rise than that short-term rates
will fall.
                                                                                                       

   A.G. EDWARDS: Raymond Worseck, strategist at St.
Louis-based A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons Inc., dodged one bullet but
was hit by another. He kept his stock allocation slim, a wise
move in retrospect. But he had a big 45% recommended position
in bonds, which were hurt by rising interest rates. He thinks
both stocks and bonds are due for a rally now, but fears a
new decline later this year. He thinks a reaccelerating
economy, high interest rates abroad and fairly tight monetary
policy by the Federal Reserve will combine to force interest
rates up, hurting both stocks and bonds.
                                                                                                       

   PAINEWEBBER: Customers who followed the PaineWebber Group
Inc. unit's cautious advice largely sidestepped the 7% stock
slide in January, since PaineWebber strategist Edward
Kerschner was recommending only a 25% position in stocks at
the time. As a table that accompanies this story shows, he is
now recommending a 56% allocation to stocks. But that doesn't
mean he is suddenly gotten a whole lot more bullish. Instead,
as explained in the accompanying story, PaineWebber has asked
to be judged on a different set of recommendations (see
related story: "How Quarterly Study Evaluates Brokers'
Allocation of Assets" -- WSJ May 1, 1990).
   For the next few months, stocks are "stuck in a trading
range of 2600 (on the industrial average), plus or minus
10%," Mr. Kerschner says. "Bond yields are nearing their
highs" at around 9%, he says, "but will take some time to
come down." For the moment, he says, the usual state of
affairs is reversed: Skill in picking individual stocks is
more important than asset allocation.
   ---
                 Who Has the Best Blend?
   Performance of Asset-Allocation blends recommended by 10
brokerage houses in periods ended March 31, 1990. Houses are
ranked by 12-month performance. Also shown is the mix each
house now recommends.
                                                                                                       

                   RECENT PERFORMANCE
                   ------------------   RECOMMENDED BLEND
                       3     12     39  -----------------
 Brokerage House  MONTHS MONTHS MONTHS  STOCKS BONDS CASH
                                                                                                       

 Prudential-Bache -1.5%  18.4%  56.5%   40%    40%   20%
 Shearson         -1.7   17.0   51.4    65     30     5
 Smith Barney     -1.5   16.5   47.3    45     35    20
 Goldman Sachs    -2.1   15.1   47.5    35     35    30
 Dean Witter      -2.7   14.4   47.8    85     15     0
 Merrill Lynch    -2.2   14.3   43.2    40     50    10
 Kidder Peabody   -0.7   14.2   39.0    45     20    35
 Raymond James*   -1.2   13.6    N.A    60     10    15
 A.G. Edwards     -1.7   12.5   36.4    40     45    15
 PaineWebber      +0.8   12.1   43.3    56     33    11
                                                                                                       

 Comparison Yardsticks
                                                                                                       

 Fixed blend**    -1.8   15.7   43.7
 Stocks***        -3.0   19.2   56.8
 Bonds****        -1.0   11.8   24.3
 Cash*****        +1.9    8.8   24.7
 Optimal
   blend******    +4.6   41.4  221.2
 Worst

                                                                                                       

   *Raymond James also recommends 15% in real estate. It
started publishing asset allocation advice in late 1987.
   **Fifty-five percent stocks, 35% bonds, 10% cash
   ***Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index
   ****Merrill Lynch corporate &amp; government master bond index
   *****90-day Treasury bills
   ******Switching into best-performing asset each month
   *******Switching into worst-performing asset each month
                                                                                                       

   Source: Company documents; calculations by Wilshire
Associates
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pacific G&amp;E to Redeem Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   PCG
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co. said it will
redeem on June 1 two mortgage-bond issues with combined face
amounts of $174 million.
   Holders of the first and refunding mortgage bond Series
85A will receive $1,098 for every $1,000 of bonds. Holders of
the Series 85B bonds will receive $1,081.20 for every $1,000
of bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The utility said the redemptions will reduce its annual
financing costs by about $1.7 million, resulting in a total
savings over the life of the bonds of about $18.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fretter Inc.'s Stock Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FTTR
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOUTHFIELD, Mich. -- Fretter Inc. said its board
authorized the repurchase of an additional 500,000 shares of
its common stock in open market or privately negotiated
transactions.
   The electronics and appliance retailer now has approval to
buy back as many as two million shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Detritus of America Helps Shape
   A Modern-Day Ashcan School
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   To some, San Francisco's solid-waste transfer station is
just a dump that handles 2,000 tons of trash a day.
   To William Wareham, it's an inspiration "to another side
of my creative direction. It's energizing." Mr. Wareham, an
abstract metal sculptor, recently became the dump's first
artist-in-residence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's an absolutely wonderful way of dealing with the
problem" of too much rubbish, says Claire Isaacs, the city's
director of cultural affairs, who sees a "natural
partnership" between art and trash.
   Artists will be paid as much as $2,000 a month for
three-month stints at the dump, owned by Norcal Solid Waste
Systems Inc. Their creations will be made exclusively from
materials plucked from the site, and the finished works will
be displayed there. Norcal's Jacquiline Tripp, who organized
the program, says the artists' efforts will "enhance the
environment for employees" and raise awareness about
recycling. Norcal may someday have a "complete museum on the
property" to showcase the creations, and it hopes to "develop
markets for this artwork."
   The program "brings private industry into a patronage
relationship with an artist in a very organic way," says
Mierle Laderman Ukeles, unpaid artist-in-residence for New
York's Department of Sanitation since 1978. The Norcal
stipend, she says, is "a mark of respect. It shows the artist
is taken seriously." She likens Norcal to "the Medicis."
   "An artist never had it so good to be located at the
dump," says Jo Hanson, a conceptual artist who helped arrange
the San Francisco program. "You have all the materials
available." She once held an exhibition at City Hall of
"things I collected while cleaning up my sidewalk and
street."
   Mr. Wareham, 48 years old, works at a studio on the site.
He says he is only occasionally distracted by the "odor of
garbage decomposing on just the other side of my wall. The
public, he says, often "confuses junk and garbage." He works
only with junk -- pieces of old stoves, car parts, crushed
water heaters and the like -- though he's sure "some
conceptual artist will be hot to work with garbage. Somebody
will want to do a monument of decomposed food. I don't."
   His current assignment may be a perfect fit, Mr. Wareham
says. "Artists love pre-used material with history in it," he
says. And some people "think all abstract art is junk,
anyway."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Insteel Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   III STE.A
</CO>
<LP>
   MOUNT AIRY, N.C. -- Insteel Industries Inc. said Stelwire,
a Hamilton, Ontario-based unit of Stelco Inc., will become
the Canadian distributor for a new construction panel
produced by Insteel.
   The new system uses a welded wire frame integrated with an
expanded polystyrene insulating core. Concrete is poured on
each side of the unit after it is in place, producing a
steel-reinforced concrete sandwich wall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Issue of Aid to Israel Shows Differences
   Between Dole's Public, Private Stances
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FREST
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- At the White House early in January,
Canadian billionaire Albert Reichmann and New York investor
Zev Wolfson asked President Bush to intervene in behalf of a
privately funded Jewish education project in the Soviet
Union.
   No notice appeared on the president's daily schedule of
the meeting, at which the businessmen's request didn't go
unanswered. The following month in Moscow, Secretary of State
James Baker raised the matter in talks with Soviet Foreign
Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, putting a U.S. imprimatur on
the cause of the two businessmen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Who was helping behind-the-scenes to arrange this coup? It
was Senate Republican leader Robert Dole, who within days
would plunge into a fight with a suggestion to cut U.S. aid
to Israel. The sequence of events demonstrates the many
levers Sen. Dole pulls to maintain his own leverage in
Washington. Even as he brought the businessmen to the Oval
Office, he presented himself as a populist champion against a
"selfish" pro-Israel lobby.
   Mr. Dole's performance discloses his complex relationship
with pro-Israel forces, a major source of campaign
contributions. In the period he was helping the businessmen,
relatives of Mr. Reichmann, one of three brothers who run
Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd., and Mr. Wolfson gave
$10,000 to Mr. Dole's political-action committee, Campaign
America. Federal Election Commission records list $130,000
more in contributions from the New York business community
deposited on the same day in December. Mr. Wolfson denies
doing any fund-raising, but the senator acknowledges that he
and Mr. Wolfson have discussed fund-raising for his PAC.
   "He kept saying `What can I do for you?'" says Mr. Dole,
recalling his conversations with Mr. Wolfson. "I said, `I
don't want anything but I've got a PAC, and maybe you can
raise some money.'"
   Mr. Dole often reacts impulsively, but his voice is
important because he is the most visible and often-quoted
Republican in Congress and because of his skill at sensing
political change. Since his failed presidential campaign in
1988, Mr. Dole has been increasingly outspoken in challenging
the pro-Israel lobby, and his stance mirrors the growing
strain between the administration and Israel.
   Within his own party, Mr. Dole has patched over
differences with House GOP Whip Newt Gingrich, who visited
Mr. Dole last week to make peace after criticizing the
senator for his comments on Israel. "As a United States
senator, he has the right to question, and I see nothing
wrong with that," says Sydney Sussman, a New Jersey developer
and Dole backer.
   But how the questions are phrased troubles some. The
Senate GOP leader's record in almost three decades in
Congress can scarcely be described as anti-Israel, but his
sharp style can conflict with the nuances of foreign policy.
   During his recent visit to the Mideast, press reports
quoted Mr. Dole as likening Israel to a "spoiled child." He
has portrayed the leadership of the American Israel Public
Affairs Committee as shortsighted. With at least the tacit
approval of Secretary Baker, he proposed to trim U.S.
assistance to Israel 5% -- a 5% solution to the foreign aid
crisis that he says the Israeli government could have held
out as a "great PR move." And after indicating support, he
turned cool to legislation promising $400 million in loan
guarantees to help Israel house newly arrived Soviet Jews.
   Sen. Dole also was the victim of a sometimes-hostile
Israeli press during his Mideast visit. And he still suspects
that pro-Israel forces, who have a regional sympathy with the
Turks, helped block his resolution to commemorate the Ottoman
massacre of Armenians early in this century.
   The failure of the resolution still pains the senator, who
feels emotional debt to an Armenian-American doctor who
treated his wounds from World War II. This may help explain
the stand he sometimes takes against the pro-Israel lobby.
"Bob is the kind of pol who says, "You beat on me, I'll beat
on you,'" says a House Democrat.
   The testy relations were evident last fall in Israeli
Ambassador Moshe Arad's answer to a Dole letter regarding the
embassy's role on the resolution. "Thank you for your letter
dated November 2, which was received by this Embassy on
November 7, a couple of days after it had already appeared in
the Congressional Record," the ambassador wrote.
   Even if Israel wasn't lobbying on the issue, some
pro-Israel forces in the U.S. were aligned with Turkey
against the resolution. Morris Amitay, a former AIPAC
director and a columnist for Jewish newspapers, worked as a
paid Turkish lobbyist on the issue. The Washington law firm
of Arnold &amp; Porter is a registered foreign agent for the
Israeli Finance Ministry as well as for Profilo Holding A.S.
of Turkey. Paul Berger, a member of AIPAC who is a senior
partner of the law firm, has represented both clients and
escorted a Profilo executive who is a prominent member of the
Istanbul Jewish community, in lobbying against the
resolution.
   Mr. Dole's alliance with Mr. Wolfson puts him alongside a
man who has sometimes brought trouble on his friends. The
experience of Sen. Daniel Inouye, the Hawaii Democrat, may be
instructive. In his quest to move up the ladder of Senate
leadership, he was wounded by publicity three years ago over
his sponsorship of a plan to funnel $8 million in U.S. aid to
build schools for North African Sephardic Jews in France -- a
proposal heavily backed by Mr. Wolfson and Mr. Reichmann's
brother Paul.
   Mr. Reichmann, for his part, is an intensely private man
who appears to have relied on Mr. Wolfson's political
contacts to open doors, but who went on to mount an
extraordinary show of power tapping the highest levels of the
government.
   Mr. Reichmann hosted a small dinner with Mr. Wolfson for
Mr. Dole in late November, and the senator subsequently
introduced him to Mr. Baker and gave him access to a
follow-up meeting with a senior Baker aide after the White
House discussions. Though the money for the schools and
cultural centers is private, the high-level diplomacy
encouraged the Soviets to tolerate an expansion of the
program, with each step designed to show U.S. backing at a
time of changing relations with Moscow.
   At Mr. Wolfson's request, House Minority Leader Robert
Michel (R., Ill.) sponsored an unusual Capitol luncheon last
May so Mr. Reichmann could present his case to Soviet
Ambassador Yuriy Dubinin -- with the four top leaders of
Congress alongside him in the same room. "They'd like to . .
. unlock the key to Gorbachev," Rep. Michel explains. "That
would make it all the more profound, to make the point."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST U.QAI A.MAY U.PO LABOR G.DAI JAPAN LATAM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOVIET INFLATION
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shrinking production, budget deficits and a rapid increase
in the money supply are pushing the Soviet Union to the brink
of out-of-control inflation, a Soviet economist said.
   "The escalating financial crisis took us to the edge
beyond which suppressed inflation will break into the open
regardless of the will of the government or trade unions,"
Yegor Gaidar wrote in the Communist Party daily Pravda.
   Analyzing economic statistics for the first quarter of
1990, Mr. Gaidar wrote that on the open farmers' markets, the
price of meat has increased 16%, the price of vegetables 13%
and the price of fruit 20%. He said the money supply is
growing at a rate six to eight times faster than it was a
decade ago, and production of many capital goods is falling.
   Faith in the Soviet economic structure is so low that
government grain purchases are falling, despite a good
harvest last fall, Mr. Gaidar said. He said farms are holding
onto their grain to barter it for needed goods and services
rather than selling it to the government.
                                                                                                       

   NEW VENTURE IN AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                       

   Two Australian companies and Australia's state-owned
Qantas Airways Ltd. are forming an international management
company. Mayne Nickless Ltd., an Australian transportation
and security company, said it will join P&amp;O Containers Pty.,
an Australian unit of Peninsular &amp; Oriental Steam Navigation
Co. of Britain, and Qantas to form Global Logistics Services
Pty. The new company will cover air, sea and land
transportation, warehousing, customs handling and inventory
control and management for Australian and international
companies.
                                                                                                       

   WEST GERMANY'S `STRIKES'

   West Germany's largest union staged "warning strikes"
yesterday at plants in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg,
including facilities of Mercedes-Benz, the automobile arm of
Daimler-Benz AG. The union, IG Metall, was pressing its
request for a reduction in the work week to 35 hours from 37
hours and for a 9% pay raise. The employers have offered a 5%
pay cut and said that a work-week reduction would be possible
in future years.
                                                                                                       

   INVESTING IN THE PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                       

   The Philippine Board of Investments has approved
investments amounting to 28.4 billion pesos ($1.28 billion)
during the first quarter of the year, up 14.5% from 24.8
billion pesos of approvals a year earlier. The figures are
encouraging "despite the December coup attempt and the
{ongoing} power shortage," Trade Secretary Jose Concepcion
said. The approvals don't reflect actual investments but
merely indicate the projects deemed by the board as
beneficial for the country's development. Mr. Concepcion said
that when and if actual investments are made, as many as
92,125 jobs could be created.
                                                                                                       

   AID FOR INDIA
                                                                                                       

   Japan has indicated it would pledge a concessional loan of
about 100 billion yen ($628 million) to India in 1991,
representing an increase of 10% over past loans, a Japanese
spokesman said. This was conveyed to Prime Minister V.P.
Singh by visiting Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, the
spokesman said. He said the exact amount of the low-interest
loan will be decided at the June meeting of the Aid India
Consortium. In a speech to the Indian parliament yesterday,
Mr. Kaifu said the time had come for Japan to play a larger
role in Asia through its economic and technological power.
                                                                                                       

   KOREANS IN JAPAN
                                                                                                       

   South Korea and Japan reached agreement on the legal
status of ethnic Koreans living in Japan, clearing the way
for President Roh Tae Woo to visit Japan next month. Mr. Roh
had been under pressure from opposition and human-rights
groups to cancel his trip unless Japan took steps to
guarantee the legal status of the 700,000 ethnic Koreans
living in Japan. A statement said Tokyo will allow third- and
succeeding-generation ethnic Koreans to live in Japan
permanently.
                                                                                                       

   A THORN IN CHINA'S SIDE
                                                                                                       

   A ship planning to beam music, news and pro-democracy
broadcasts to China from international waters off the Chinese
coast is due in Singapore tomorrow, a spokesman for the
project said.
   The 1,200-ton Goddess of Democracy, named after the statue
erected by demonstrators in Beijing's Tiananmen Square last
spring, sailed from France on March 17. The project is
sponsored by a coalition of groups headed by the French
magazine Actuel. The Chinese government has voiced strong
objections about the ship.
   The spokesman refused to disclose "for security reasons"
when the ship planned to leave Singapore and arrive in Taiwan
for a scheduled refueling stop before starting its
broadcasts.
   China has refused to rule out the use of force to stop the
broadcasts and has called Taiwan's plan to help the ship "an
open provocation."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Brazil is dynamiting 110 airstrips in the Amazon jungle.
The project is an attempt to protect the Yanomani Indian
tribe, which has been ravaged by diseases brought into the
jungle by gold prospectors. . . . Information from former
East German intelligence officers has led to the
identification of hundreds of ex-agents in West Germany who
spied for the East. Bonn security sources said efforts would
be made to arrest them all.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korean Exchange Curbs
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- The South Korean government
toughened foreign exchange controls again, in a move to
prevent capital flight and excessive spending by overseas
travelers.
   The Ministry of Finance said it will no longer permit
South Koreans to buy up to $5,000 worth of foreign currency
on presentation of their identification cards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Computers Cut Through the Service Maze
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   UT
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Service with a smile just isn't good enough anymore.
Instead, service with a computer is becoming the norm.
   Recent improvements in computer technology can provide
speedy response to telephone inquiries and provide customers
with answers at any hour of the day or night. Developments in
"expert" software systems and "image processing" shorten the
game of telephone tag and cut the number of times customer
calls get shunted around from person to person. Improvements
in laptop computers are sending more companies'
representatives into the field to speed the handling of
insurance claims, mortgage applications, elevator repairs and
even cocktail orders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Service is becoming the determining factor for
maintaining competitiveness in more and more businesses,"
says William Davidow, a venture capitalist and co-author of
"Total Customer Service, the Ultimate Weapon." And, although
service is widely considered to be so bad that the recent
developments can hardly be a panacea, companies are finding
that some of the improvements can give them an advantage over
their competitors.
   Among the biggest breakthroughs have been systems that let
telephone switches and standard computers speak the same
language. That means someone calling with a question on, say,
a credit-card bill can punch in an account number while on
hold. The telephone switch would relay the number to the
computer, which would fetch the caller's records. The records
would be relayed back through the phone switch and would
appear on the customer-service person's computer screen as
soon as he answered the call.
   Lee Figliuolo, a vice president at Progressive Casualty
Insurance Co., Cleveland, says such hybrid systems can be
especially important for callers when they get passed from
one person to another. The records simply become part of the
call. When the call is transferred, the files appear on the
computer terminal of the service representative who grabs it,
so the information doesn't have to be taken down all over
again.
   "As the customer, I'm not repeating my account number or
name," Mr. Figliuolo says. "And with a name like mine, I
always have to spell it three or four times."
   Mr. Figliuolo, who recently installed an International
Business Machines Corp. CallPath system at his company, says
the system also makes it easier to reroute phone calls.
Callers after business hours on the East Coast used to get a
recorded message, but now they're shifted to the West Coast
and answered by someone there. Moreover, the computers
automatically track all sorts of indicators -- how long the
caller was on hold, how many times he was transferred, etc.
-- so problem areas can be spotted quickly.
   Using such systems, callers can get information on
accounts and so forth at any time, without waiting for an
operator. St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in
Phoenix, Ariz., installed a system so that patients can get
information on bills by calling a computer and punching in
their account numbers. The system will also soon give
physicians their lab results.
   Similarly, Thomas Powell &amp; Associates, a software firm in
Boca Raton, Fla., that specializes in voice systems, recently
unveiled a system that lets golfers reserve tee-off times by
dialing a computer and following the voice prompts.
   Image processing -- where documents are scanned by a
computer and stored electronically -- is also becoming widely
used to cut the time a customer spends on the phone with a
company.
   A study by the Nolan Norton Institute, a research firm in
Lexington, Mass., found that, with image processing,
companies can more than halve the time it takes to respond to
an inquiry, because pulling files together electronically is
so much faster than fetching them from drawers. The study
says a big insurance company cut to 10 days from more than
six months the time it took to resolve complex claims. A
manufacturing company cut the parts-reordering process to an
average of three minutes from 20.
   Philip LaKernick, chief executive of Maria Parham Hospital
in Henderson, N.C., says a new system from GeneSys Data
Technologies Inc. of Hunt Valley, Md., has cut the time it
takes to find a patient's chart to less than a minute from
half an hour. He says that's important in the middle of the
night, when nurses assume the task because medical-records
people aren't there 24 hours a day. He adds that the system
can be crucial in the emergency room, making medical
histories readily available.
   Some companies are also beginning to use "expert" systems
-- which collect knowledge -- to help answer customers'
questions, especially on technical matters. Turnover in
customer-service operations can be high, and it can take a
long time to bring a new person up to speed, so companies use
the software systems to store answers as people uncover them
and build a base of expertise that won't walk out the door
when an employee does.
   "We can often answer a question on the first call," says
Randy Fisher, vice president of customer support at Interleaf
Inc., a software company that recently began using a system
from Answer Computer Inc., in Sunnyvale, Calif. In the past,
he says, whoever answered the call might well have gone off
researching what someone else had already done.
   Otis Elevator Co., a subsidiary of United Technologies
Corp., is using an expert system, together with laptop
computers, to speed repair. Otis has devices that, working
like airplane flight recorders, collect information on the
behavior of many of its elevators. When an elevator isn't
working, an expert system provides a list of possible
problems, which the repairman can call up on his portable
computer. Otis is also testing a system that would let him
call up the elevator's maintenance history.
   As laptops have shrunk, systems such as NCR Corp.'s
"palmtop" order-entry system also have become available. The
computer lets a waiter take an order at a table and
immediately send it over a radio frequency to the bar or
kitchen, trimming the time people have to spend waiting for
that hard-earned first drink and those appetizers.
   The march of technology isn't always seen as progress, of
course. Customers frequently complain about reaching a
computer when they're trying to call a company. Customers may
also get a sales pitch when they call for service, given that
consolidated data on the customer can alert the company to
what products a caller might need. Also, people who
appreciate being able to get a tee time late some night
wouldn't necessarily like having to walk through the same
series of voice prompts in the middle of the afternoon.
   In many instances, however, these technologies really will
save customers a minute here, an hour there, maybe even a day
or two someplace else.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thermo Instrument
   Begins Tender Offer
   For Finnigan Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   THI FNNG TMO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   WALTHAM, Mass. -- Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. said it
began its $20-a-share tender offer for all shares outstanding
of Finnigan Corp.
   Thermo expects the acquisition to cost between $110
million and $120 million. Finnigan, based in San Jose,
Calif., makes mass spectrometers. Thermo makes
pollution-monitoring instruments and performs laboratory
services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The offer expires May 25, unless extended. It is
conditional on Thermo's obtaining a majority of Finnigan's
shares outstanding.
   Thermo said to help fund the transaction it sold a $12
million principal amount 7% convertible subordinated note due
2000 to Thermo Electron Corp., which owns 80% of Thermo
Instrument. The note is convertible into Thermo Instrument
common at $15.625 a share.
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Thermo Instrument rose 12.5 cents, to $14.125. In
over-the-counter trading, Finnigan rose 62.5 cents, to
$19.625. Thermo Electron fell 12.5 cents to $32.125 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   EUA Extends Offers
   For Unitil, Fitchburg
   Until Early September
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUA UTL FGE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Eastern Utilities Associates said it extended
its tender offers for Fitchburg Gas &amp; Electric Light Co. and
Unitil Corp. from yesterday until midnight Sept. 7, 1990, in
order to give the Securities and Exchange Commission
additional time to review the proposed acquisitions.
   EUA has offered $36 a share for the common stock of
Fitchburg and $40 a share for the common stock of Unitil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fitchburg and Unitil, which have agreed to merge with each
other, have repeatedly stated their opposition to the EUA
offers.
   In announcing the extension of the two offers, EUA's chief
executive officer, Donald G. Pardus, stated: "EUA remains
totally committed to its goal of acquiring Fitchburg and
Unitil because it is in the best interests of their
respective stockholders, customers and employees.
   "We reiterate our willingness to sit down with their
managements to negotiate a transaction that assures their
stockholders will receive premium value for their common
stock while avoiding the further unnecessary expense of a
contested transaction." He said Eastern would also consider a
stock transaction if shareholders preferred that.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Transgenic Sciences
   To Redeem Warrants
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   TSIN
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WORCESTER, Mass. -- Transgenic Sciences Inc. said it will
redeem the Class A warrants issued in connection with its
initial public offering last May.
   The warrants are redeemable at five cents each on May 30.
Prior to 5 p.m. the day before the redemption date, each
Class A warrant is exercisable to purchase for $2 one share
of common stock and two redeemable Class B warrants. D.H.
Blair &amp; Co. is serving as the solicitation agent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If all the Class A warrants are exercised, Transgenic
Sciences will realize $3.5 million. To date, warrants
totaling approximately $710,000, or 18.5% of the total, have
been exercised. The Class B warrants may be exercised from
May 2, 1990, to May 1, 1994, to purchase one share of common
stock. In certain circumstances, the Class B warrants are
subject to earlier redemption by the company.
   TSI is a biotechnology company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Insilco Files to Swap
   $48 Million of Debt
   For Cash, Securities
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C27
</SO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIDLAND, Texas -- Insilco Corp. said it will file today
with the Securities and Exchange Commission a plan to swap
about $488 million in face amount of debt for new debt, cash
and stock.
   The holding company, which was taken private in 1988 in an
$812.8 million buy-out by Texas oil men Cyril Wagner and Jack
E. Brown, said in recent federal filings that if economic
conditions continue or worsen, its cash flow may not reach
desirable levels. It also said that current economic
conditions have led its management to believe that if a quick
liquidation of the company were required, it might not be
able to satisfy all its potential creditor claims.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under terms of its exchange offer, Insilco said it plans
to offer $250 cash and $400 face amount of new 12% senior
subordinated notes due 1998 for each $1,000 face amount of
its $270 million of 15% senior subordinated notes due 1999.
   It also plans to offer $63 face amount of new 12% senior
subordinated notes and 38 shares of convertible preferred
stock for each $724.91 in accreted value of its subordinated
discount debentures. The company has about $218 million face
amount of the zero-coupon bonds, which currently have an
accreted value of about $157 million.
   Insilco said the cash for its exchange offer will come
from bank borrowings under its revolving credit facility and
the purchase of $20 million in convertible preferred stock by
its controlling shareholders.
   Terms of the exchange offers also call for most of the
covenants of the old debt to be eliminated.
   The company said the offer is contingent on at least 90%
of the face amount outstanding of each of the two debt issues
being tendered.
   Insilco, which makes Rolodex office products, metal parts,
and electronics and communications equipment, had a net loss
of $43.4 million on sales of $762.2 million in 1989. Using
proceeds from assets sold during 1989 and early 1990, it said
it has repaid $121 million on its bank term loan, including
the total amount due this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   C USW FNM EUROP G.DBK
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler Corp. -- The size of its Auburn Hills Trust
guaranteed exchangeable certificates, due May 1, 2020, was
increased to $1.1 billion from $1 billion because of strong
demand. Earlier, the offering had been increased to $1
billion from $800 million. Chrysler said the $1.1 billion
offering is the largest 30-year debt deal offered by an
investment grade-rated industrial company. Details of the
offering, priced at par to yield 12 3/8%, were announced
Thursday.
   Mountain States Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. -- $100 million
of notes, due May 1, 2000, was priced with a 9 1/2% coupon at
99 to yield 9.658%. The non-callable notes were priced at a
spread of 60 basis points above the Treasury's 10-year note.
Rated double-A-3 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
double-A-minus by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be
sold through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
Delivery is scheduled for May 8 with interest accruing May 1.
Mountain States Telephone is a unit of U S West Inc.
   Northwest Bell Telephone Co. -- $75 million of notes, due
May 1, 2000, was priced at 99 with a 9 1/2% coupon to yield
9.658%. The non-callable notes were priced at a spread of 60
basis points above the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated
double-A-3 by Moody's and double-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue
will be sold through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
Delivery is set for May 8 with interest accruing May 1.
Northwest Bell Telephone is a unit of U S West Inc.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
real estate mortagage investment conduit securities was
offered in 10 classes by Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. The
offering, Series 1990-59, was structured with coupons ranging
from 7% to 10%. Pricing information was not immediately
available. The collateral consists of Fannie Mae's 10%
securities with an underlying weighted average coupon rate of
10.7% and weighted average remaining term to maturity of 29.9
years. The issue settles June 29.
                                                                                                       

                          AGENCY
                                                                                                       

   Federal Farm Credit Banks -- $250 million of notes, due
May 17, 1994, was priced at par for an initial yield of
9.39%. The notes, non-callable for two years, were priced at
a spread of 35 basis points above the Treasury's four-year
note. The notes will be reoffered at various prices through
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. Delivery is set for May 17
(flat).
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Deutsche Bank Australia (West German parent) -- $50
million (Australian) of fungible 14 1/2% Eurobonds due May 2,
1995, priced at 100 7/8 via Deutsche Bank Capital Markets.
Outstanding A$100 million issue launched March 14. Fees 2.
   Relocation Funding No. 1 PLC (vehicle) -- #60 million of
limited recourse asset-backed secured floating rate notes due
April 1994, priced at 100 and paying interest at 0.40 point
above the one-month sterling London interbank offered rate,
via Commerzbank, London Branch. Amortization after three
years. Fees undisclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's Output
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's gross domestic product fell 0.1% in
February as a result of declines in the output of both goods
and services, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   Gross domestic product is the total value of a country's
output of goods and services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The February decline followed a 0.3% decrease in January
and a 0.2% gain in December. In February, production of both
goods and service industries fell 0.1%. The service-industry
drop was the first monthly decline since March 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Consolidated Edison
   Names McGrath Chief
   To Succeed Hauspurg
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   ED WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Eugene R. McGrath was named chief executive
officer of Consolidated Edison Co., effective Sept. 1,
succeeding Arthur Hauspurg.
   Mr. Hauspurg, who will reach the big utility company's
mandatory retirement age of 65 in August, said he will
recommend to the board at its May 22 meeting that Mr. McGrath
also succeed him as chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McGrath, 48, was named president and chief operating
officer of Con Ed last year, signaling to analysts that he
was in line to take over when Mr. Hauspurg retired.
Previously, Mr. McGrath, a 27-year Con Ed veteran, was
executive vice president, operations.
   For the first quarter, Con Ed had net income of $128.8
million, or 56 cents a share, down 10% from $143.2 million,
or 63 cents a share. For 1989, net totaled $606.1 million, or
$2.49 a share, on revenue of $5.55 billion.
   Analysts said the executive change comes at a critical
time for Con Ed. Mr. McGrath's "biggest challenge is to
forecast the future of New York City's economy given the
current uncertainties," said Gregory Enholm, an analyst at
Salomon Brothers Inc. "Will the 1990s be a repeat of the
1970s, which caused significant financial distress at Con Ed,
including a dividend omission? Or will the 1990s be a
continuation of the 1980s, when New York City's recovery
significantly improved Con Ed's financial health?"
   Mr. Enholm said Con Ed may have to step up programs for
controlling demand or build new power plants if economic
growth continues. However, if the New York economy falters,
Con Ed will need to take action to buoy profits. "He needs to
make some big decisions that will affect Con Ed for the
1990s," said Mr. Enholm.
   In his recent positions at Con Ed, Mr. McGrath has been a
strong advocate of incentives for major commercial customers
to use less energy in peak periods. Such demand-management
programs reduce the need for building expensive new power
plants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP SLE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Crest Industries Inc., initial offering of 900,000 common
shares, via Raymond James &amp; Associates Inc.
                                                                                                       

   East-West Europe Fund Inc., initial offering of 8.5
million common shares, via First Boston Corp.
                                                                                                       

   The Kingdom of Denmark, offering of $100 million of S&amp;P
500 Index Protected Equity Notes, via a PaineWebber Inc.
group.
                                                                                                       

   Sara Lee Corp., offering of up to 1,500 shares, or $150
million, of auction preferred stock, via Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Xilinx Inc., proposed initial offering of 2.5 million
common shares, of which 750,000 shares will be newly issued
common stock and 1,750,000 shares will be offered by holders,
via a Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and Cowen &amp; Co. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Reuters Holdings
   Appoints Sanderson
   To Head Instinet Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   RTRSY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Reuters Holdings PLC, London, appointed
Michael Sanderson president and chief executive officer of
Instinet Corp., its equities trading unit.
   Mr. Sanderson, 47 years old, who recently resigned as head
of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.'s Canadian operations, will succeed
Robert H. Reid, 61, who has managed Instinet since 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Sanderson's appointment suggests Instinet "has been
doing well," said James Mendelson, an industry analyst at
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "Instinet is showing healthy growth and
is finally profitable," he added.
   Instinet, acquired by Reuters in 1987, traded 2.6 billion
shares of mostly over-the-counter securities in 1989, up from
the 922 million shares traded in 1986.
   Analysts said that Mr. Sanderson will bring more of a
marketing orientation to Instinet. Mr. Reid, a former New
York Stock Exchange executive, had been responsible mostly
for expanding Instinet's roster of stocks traded. A Reuters
spokesman said Mr. Reid will work at Instinet "at least
through the end of the year" and will continue the expansion
of U.K. and other European securities on the Instinet system.
   Reuters is an international news and financial information
provider.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PepsiCo Net Rose
   10% in 1st Quarter
   On 24% Sales Gain
   ----
   By Rick Christie
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   PepsiCo Inc. reported a 10% increase in first-quarter net
income, despite continued expenses from earlier acquisitions.
   The soft-drink, snack-food and restaurant concern's
earnings rose to $181.9 million, or 68 cents a share, from
$165.1 million, or 62 cents a share, a year earlier. The
latest quarter's earnings were diluted by a
higher-than-anticipated 12-cents-a-share expense from last
year's acquisitions, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales of the Purchase, N.Y.-based company rose 24% to
$3.68 billion from $2.96 billion last year.
   Though some analysts expected Pepsi to earn closer to 70
cents a share in the period, Pepsi Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Wayne Calloway said, "This is an excellent
start on what should be another year of record profits for
PepsiCo."
   Most analysts seem to agree, pointing to Pepsi's hefty 22%
jump in operating profit, excluding acquisitions. "You can't
ignore the underlying strength of the operating businesses,"
said George Thompson, an analyst at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc. "We should see some pretty strong profit
comparisons throughout the year."
   Pepsi's stock rose $1.75 a share yesterday, to close at
$66.25 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Overall restaurant earnings jumped 39% in the first
quarter. Pizza Hut and Taco Bell continued to turn in strong
performances of 37% and 48% growth in operating profit,
respectively. The big surprise came from a revitalized
Kentucky Fried Chicken, which posted a 37% increase in
operating profit, as promotional menu pricing and its new
"Hot Wings" product boosted customer traffic.
   "These days, fast-food restaurants are competing more and
more on the basis of price, and Pepsi is leading the pack in
that regard," said Roy D. Burry, an analyst at Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co. "Its {restaurant} profits could outpace the
other two businesses this year."
   Meanwhile, Pepsi's soft-drink operating profit rose 27% to
$151.5 million. The company said both the Diet Pepsi and
Mountain Dew brands showed double-digit growth in the
quarter. International soft-drink earnings were down,
however, from an unusually strong 1989 first quarter. In
addition, the company incurred seasonal losses in two
bottling operations recently repurchased in Greece and Japan.
   Excluding last year's acquisition of Smiths Crisps and
Walkers Crisps, Frito Lay's international profit jumped more
than 50%. This offset slower domestic growth, which was
hampered by higher advertising and marketing expenses. In
addition, sales of Doritos declined from last year, because
the previous year's potato shortage boosted sales of
corn-based products.
   Separately, Kentucky Fried Chicken's franchise association
proceeded with a lawsuit against the company. It alleges that
Kentucky Fried Chicken is violating renewal rights under the
existing contract, and that its proposed new contract takes
away certain franchisee rights, including territorial and
other protections. In response to the lawsuit, Kentucky Fried
Chicken President and Chief Executive John M. Cranor said,
"To be competitive, we need a new contract that matches the
specific performance requirements already found in the
contracts currently being used by our major competitors."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vernitron Revives
   Bid for Kollmorgen,
   Promises $15 a Share
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   KOL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Vernitron Corp. resurrected its bid for
Kollmorgen Corp., even though the two companies are suing
each other over a previous, collapsed merger agreement.
   Vernitron, a closely held motors and controls company
based in Deer Park, N.Y., said it is prepared to offer $15 a
share for Kollmorgen if it wins a proxy contest to control
Kollmorgen's board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A successful proxy solicitation and takeover offer would
win Kollmorgen at about half the price Vernitron was willing
to pay last year for the motors, controls and electro-optical
company.
   The circumstances of Vernitron's abandoned bid last
September, just a week before it was to close, are in
dispute. Vernitron has asserted that Kollmorgen's business
"deteriorated dramatically" before the acquisition was to
take place, and that Vernitron became aware of other factors
that caused it to terminate the merger.
   Kollmorgen, based in Simsbury, Conn., asserts Vernitron
violated its merger agreement.
   A "standstill" agreement and certain court orders
preventing Vernitron from soliciting proxies or taking other
steps to arrange a purchase of Kollmorgen expired Sunday.
   Vernitron, which holds a 5.54% interest in Kollmorgen,
said that if its proxy solicitation is successful, it will
seek to auction off the company. Vernitron will be among the
bidders, offering shareholders either $15 a share in cash or
a unit of one share of common in a merged company and the
right to receive a share of proceeds from sale of
Kollmorgen's Electro-Optical division.
   At $15 a share, the new Vernitron offer would give the
Kollmorgen shares an indicated value totaling $160.5 million,
or about half the $320 million Vernitron agreed to pay to
acquire a larger company just a year ago. Earlier this year,
Kollmorgen sold its circuit board business and other assets
for about $50 million.
   Stephen Bershad, Vernitron chairman and chief executive
officer, said Vernitron decided against making a hostile
tender offer because of Kollmorgen's shareholder rights plan,
and because of a strict New York anti-takeover law. He said
Vernitron has "already spent about $18 million on this
transaction," and that it plans to spend an additional $2
million. But he said Vernitron would give up if it loses the
proxy fight.
   John L. Youngblood, Kollmorgen's chairman, president and
chief executive, said directors would review the latest
proposal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   South Korean Stocks Log Biggest One-Day Plunge,
   Index Lowest Since Late '88; London Shares Off
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- Share prices on the Korea Stock
Exchange recorded their biggest single-day plunge on Monday,
partly because of nervousness about labor unrest following
violence at South Korea's biggest shipyard over the weekend.
   The Tokyo stock market was closed for a holiday. London
share prices closed mostly lower in lackluster dealings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Tokyo Tuesday, the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues
fell 45.21 points to close the morning session at 29539.59.
   In South Korea, protests by investors crippled operations
at stock trading offices in Seoul and at least six other
cities. Investors angry about the government's refusal to
support the sliding market forced several provincial
brokerage firms to keep their doors locked.
   The Korea Composite Stock Price Index dived through the
700-point barrier in early trading and closed at 688.66, down
31.71, or 4.4%, from Saturday. Trading was weak, with volume
of 4.4 million shares valued at 63.7 billion won ($90.7
million). Losers far outnumbered gainers, 750 to two, while
nine issues closed unchanged. About 654 stocks fell to their
daily limit lows; the government sets a daily maximum for
each stock's price movements.
   The index's closing level was the lowest since Oct. 13,
1988, when it hit 685.71. This year, the index has tumbled
219.93 points, or 24%, and it was near the low limit Monday.
   Brokers said the main reason for the decline was weekend
comments by economic planners that the government wouldn't
prop up the market. Bearish sentiment was exacerbated by
labor unrest in the industrial city of Ulsan, where tens of
thousands of Hyundai Group workers on Monday stayed away from
work to protest the police storming of the company's main
shipyard on Saturday to evict strikers. Ulsan was reported
paralyzed by violent protests. About 15 branches of
securities companies in the southwestern city of Kwangju
refused to open their doors on Monday, the Yonhap news agency
reported. Yonhap said work stopped at seven brokerage firms
in Musan, in the southeast. Three people were arrested on
Monday in the southern port of Pusan, after causing serious
disturbances at securities branches last week. One of those
arrested led 150 investors into a branch of Cheil Securities
in the city. They screamed for President Roh Tae Woo to be
removed and damaged the property.
   Tension was growing in other parts of the country, too, as
a major dissident labor federation plans to hold nationwide
general strikes on the Tuesday workers' holiday.
   The stock market's plunge and the unrest forced President
Roh to convene an emergency meeting of his economic ministers
Monday night to review the nation's growing economic crisis,
news reports said. Mr. Roh met with economic advisers to
draft measures to curb inflation and spiraling land
speculation, and ordered formation of a special team to
consider ways to stabilize the real estate market, including
those that may encourage securities and insurance companies
to dispose of their land holdings.
   In London, stocks were lower, though they shrugged off
bearish sentiment that had considerably damped the market
early in the session to post a gradual climb from midday
minimums.
   Heartening first-quarter results from the British
industrial bellwether Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, as
well as some selective bargain-hunting, perked the market up,
dealers said. But traders said a bearish mood still hangs
over the market. With economic and political worries,
including local government elections Thursday and a likely
somber quarterly report from the Confederation of British
Industry on Tuesday, "Sentiment still doesn't feel too good,"
a dealer said.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 30-share index was off
5.1 points at 1653.6. Volume, on the first day of a new
trading account, was a dismal 363.3 million shares, compared
with 536.7 million on Friday. The 100-share index finished
down 3.2 points at 2103.4, slightly below its intraday high
of 2104.6 and well above the day's low of 2084.4, reached in
the first half-hour of trading.
   ICI shares ended up 20 pence at #10.80 ($17.66), after the
company said its pretax first-quarter profit slipped to a
better-than-expected #414 million ($677.1 million) from #442
million a year earlier. "That helped pull the market all the
way back up," a dealer said.
   In other earnings-related developments, the textile and
thread concern Tootal Group gained a penny to 87, after
posting a decline in full-year pretax profit to #35.7
million, at the bottom of analysts' expectations, from #42.3
million.
   Oil stocks fared poorly. A trader said the sector is
susceptible to stock market movements and isn't "very
resilient." Burmah, which began trading ex-dividend Monday,
lost 19 to 560; Enterprise shed 9 to 555, and Lasmo fell 15
to 559.
   Among brewers and distillers, Whitbread slipped 6 to 364,
after County Natwest recommended a switch from Whitbread into
Bass, Britain's largest brewing concern, which rose 20 to 935
and became one of the day's biggest gainers.
   Rothmans International jumped 10 to 645. Royal Insurance
fell 14 to 424. The property company Hammerson sank 15 to
712, pushed down both by the market's tone and the property
sector's difficult conditions.
   The electronics concern STC shed 11 to 234 on
profit-taking, dealers said. And Ranks Hovis McDougall, a
food company, slid 9 to 364; a trader cited a shift in
speculation that the company has been targeted for a hostile
bid by a Sir James Goldsmithled consortium, after the
entrepreneur gave up his quest for the tobacco and financial
services conglomerate B.A.T Industries last week.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed lower in Paris, Frankfurt,
Zurich, Stockholm and Milan, and were mixed in Brussels. The
Amsterdam market was closed for a holiday. South African gold
stocks were down.
   Stocks finished lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore,
Manila, Wellington and Taipei. The Sydney slump took the main
stock-price index down for the seventh consecutive session.
Hong Kong stocks fell 1.2% and Taipei shares tumbled 3.86%.
Manila's lower finish marked its ninth consecutive decline.
The Wellington index fell 1.7% to a two-year low.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                % This
                         Apr 27      Apr 26       Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ...............     304.2       307.8      - 6.4
 Britain ............     625.7       634.5      -13.2
 Canada .............     364.9       369.3      -15.6
 Japan ..............    1255.1      1251.8      -24.2
 France .............     577.9       579.4      + 1.9
 Germany ............     291.1       293.3      + 2.0
 Hong Kong ..........    2219.4      2239.5      + 5.8
 Switzerland ........     199.3       200.5      - 9.7
 Australia ..........     293.5       295.5      -11.4
 World index ........     475.4       478.8      -16.2
   ---
                  Weekly Percentage Leaders
                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

 ISSUE (COUNTRY)                        CLOSE      %CHG
                                                                                                       

                       WINNING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Campeau (Canada)     .............      1.6      + 39.1
 Imperial Corp. (U.S.) ............      0.125    + 33.3
 Suzuki Motor (Japan)   ...........    931        + 16.5
 Yuasa Battery (Japan) ............   1130.0      + 15.9

 Renout (N. Zealand) ..............      0.09     + 12.5
 Nihon Unisys (Japan) .............   2000.0      + 12.4
 Canada NW Energy (Canada).........      1.85     + 12.1
 Sauer-Gruppe Hidg. Namen (Swiss)..    370.0      + 12.1
 Furukawa Electric (Japan).........    816.0      + 11.8
                                                                                                       

                     LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Bell Group (Australia)  .............     0.04   - 71.4
 Interchase Corp. (Australia) ........     0.3    - 37.5
 Metana Minerals (Australia) .........     0.85   - 35.6
 Aker Frie (Norway) ..................   130.0    - 23.5
 Ariadne Australia (Australia) .......     0.07   - 22.2
 Saatchi and Saatchi (Britain) .......     0.85   - 20.6
 Norther Star Holding (Australia) ....     0.08   - 19.2
 Illinois Power (U.S.)................    15.0    - 18.9
 Teledyne (U.S.) .....................    27.0    - 18.8
 Capital Markets (N. Zealand) ........     0.88   - 17.0
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jacobs Engineering Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JEC
</CO>
<LP>
   PASADENA, Calif. -- Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. said it
received a contract it valued at $13 million from Orient
Chemical Corp. for design and construction of a chemical
manufacturing plant in Seaford, Del.
   Jacobs said that the plant will produce dyestuffs used in
the manufacture of ink, shoe polish and plastic products.
Orient Chemical, based in Port Newark, N.J., is an affiliate
of Orient Chemical Industries of Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   KBH
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   KAUFMAN &amp; BROAD HOME Corp. -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said
it lowered its rating on the subordinated debt of this Los
Angeles home builder to double-B-minus from double-B-plus.
About $405 million of face value of zero-coupon debt is
affected. The implied senior debt rating is double-B-plus,
S&amp;P said. The ratings agency attributed the move to weakness
in the U.S. housing market, as well as its expectation that
Kaufman &amp; Broad's leverage will exceed earlier projections.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Western Civ.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   The times must really be a-changin' if the student riot at
California Polytechnic State University is any indication.
Crowds attracted to the school's Poly Royal festival got
carried away with their revelry, at one point attacking a
liquor store and shouting, "Free beer] Free beer]" Police
arrested about 110 students. Political demonstrations may be
fading, but the return of the beer riot doesn't quite suggest
that civilization is moving forward again on campus yet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   High Court Says Former GM Workers
   May Sue Company in Rehiring Dispute
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court let stand a ruling that
allows 32 former employees of General Motors Corp. who were
laid off to sue the company for alleged fraud for refusing to
consider rehiring them.
   Without comment, the justices left intact an August 1989
ruling by a federal appeals court in New Orleans that the
former employees may sue for damages under state law and
aren't restricted to filing complaints with the National
Labor Relations Board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 32 workers were employed at GM's Packard Electric
Division plant in Clinton, Miss. In 1983, the company
announced layoffs and agreed with the union to give workers
the choice of receiving severance payments or retaining their
seniority and rehiring rights.
   Under the agreement, the 32 workers chose severance
payments. When GM began hiring again in 1985, the workers
applied for jobs. They said they were told that not only had
they given up their seniority rights but that they weren't
eligible to be considered for jobs, even with a pool of
general applicants.
   When they sued GM, the company argued that the issues
should be handled by the NLRB and decided under federal labor
law. The appeals court rejected GM's arguments, ordering a
trial, and the Supreme Court yesterday refused to hear GM's
appeal.
   GM said it is "truly disappointed" at the court's action.
John Maciarz, a GM spokesman, said, "We plan to continue to
pursue the case vigorously." (General Motors Corp. vs. Wells)
                                                                                                       

   Court in Brief
                                                                                                       

   In other action yesterday, the Supreme Court:
   -- Ruled, 9-0, that the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey, which operates airports, trains and other facilities
for the two states, may be sued for damages in federal court
by a worker who was injured on the job. (Port Authority
Trans-Hudson Corp. vs. Feeney)
   -- Let stand a ruling by a federal appeals court in
Washington that allows random drug testing of Transportation
Department employees who have safety-related jobs. The policy
was challenged by aviation and railroad safety inspectors,
highway safety specialists, aircraft mechanics and other
government workers represented by the American Federation of
Government Employees.
   Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner said the court's
action was a victory for a "safe and drug-free transportation
system." (AFGE vs. Skinner)
   -- Let stand a ruling by a federal appeals court in New
York that abortion rights groups lack standing to challenge
the tax-exempt status of the Roman Catholic Church. The
lawsuit was filed in 1980, arguing that the anti-abortion
activities of the Catholic Church were highly political in
nature and should lead the Internal Revenue Service to take
away the church's tax-exempt status. (Abortion Rights
Mobilization Inc. vs. U.S. Catholic Conference)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Novell Gets Stake in Gupta
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C27
</SO>
<CO>
   NOVL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PROVO, Utah -- Novell Inc. said it acquired a nearly 20%
stake in Gupta Technologies Inc., a software concern. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   Novell makes computer networking products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Will George Bush
   Ever See a Gimmick
   Lovely as a Tree?
   ---
   He Plants One at Every Turn
   To Show He Is No Slouch
   On Environmental Issues
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Maybe it was inevitable for a president
named Bush: George has become a tree hugger.
   In an effort to show that he loves the environment, Mr.
Bush has been planting trees with abandon. So far, he has
plopped them into the ground in seven states and one foreign
land. He gives them to White House visitors; more than 10,000
pine seedlings were carried away by the tykes who roamed the
White House lawn for the annual Easter Egg Roll. And he is
trying to persuade Americans to plant a billion of them a
year on private land.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bush is even getting foreign leaders into the act.
When he recently met British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher
in the British colony of Bermuda, the two planted a pair of
palm trees. As usual, gardeners had dug the holes in advance,
but the president furiously tossed in 16 shovelfuls of dirt
to polish off the planting.
   The islanders graciously provided the trees for the
occasion. But several of the others Mr. Bush has been
planting actually are offshoots of trees growing on the White
House lawn, including some from the oldest one planted by a
president, an American elm that John Quincy Adams planted in
1826. The saplings are cultivated in nurseries in suburban
Washington until the trees reach a suitable height for
presidential planting.
   "Presidents," explains White House aide Emily Mead, "don't
plant seedlings."
   So far, by White House account, Mr. Bush has planted three
American elms, two zelkova elms, a patmore ash, a bonfire
silver maple, a ponderosa pine, a red bud, a centennial bur
oak as well as the Bermuda palm. Not all plantings have been
unqualified successes. Vandals attacked an elm he planted in
Spokane, Wash., yanking it out of the ground and tearing off
some of its branches. City officials removed the tree to what
White House officials would describe only as a "secure
location." Gardeners are trying to nurse the poor thing back
to health. Nobody has claimed responsibility for the attack,
and the tree muggers remain at large.
   Chagrined officials in Bismarck, N.D., discovered shortly
after a presidential planting that their elm was infested
with gypsy moths -- a malady that the officials say hadn't
been seen in the state before. The tree was sprayed to kill
the larvae, and it is now thriving.
   Each time the president plants a tree, he offers a little
stump speech. Among other things, Mr. Bush says, trees take
in carbon dioxide, which has been linked to global warming.
And three well-placed, mature trees can cut a home's air
conditioning needs by 10% to 50%. "By planting trees in all
50 states," he tells audiences, "we'll knock Johnny Appleseed
out of the Guinness Book of Records." (Actually, he doesn't
appear to be in the Guinness Book of World Records.)
   Environmentalists grouse that the president's campaign is
little more than a public relations gimmick. Michael
Oppenheimer, a senior scientist at the Environmental Defense
Fund, an environmental activist group says he supports the
president's efforts. However, "the amount of carbon dioxide
that will be stripped out of the atmosphere by this
tree-planting program is just a small percent of the total
that will be emitted by man, or even by the U.S.," he says.
   White House aides see the horticultural binge as a way for
the self-proclaimed "environmental president" to show he is
different from his predecessor. Ronald Reagan's most
memorable moment involving trees was an infamous 1980
assertion that they actually cause air pollution, which led
his press secretary to refer jocularly to "killer trees."
When Mr. Reagan visited a college campus after making the
remark, students strung a banner from a tall oak that read:
"Chop Me Before I Kill Again."
   (As it turns out, Mr. Reagan may not have been that much
of a sap. Recent research suggests that some hydrocarbon
compounds given off by trees team up with emissions from cars
and factories and may contribute to smog problems in some
cities. But most experts say the impact is so small as to be
inconsequential.)
   Mr. Bush's focus on trees can be traced largely to a
32-year-old aide named James Pinkerton, who at 6 feet 9
inches tall is rather tree-like in stature himself. He was
issues director of the 1988 Bush campaign and became known as
a brilliant tactician for, among other things, spotting the
Pledge of Allegiance as a potent political issue.
   Now Mr. Pinkerton is a White House domestic policy
planner. Last year, he decided that trees could be powerful
symbols of Mr. Bush's interest in cleaning up America. He
thought getting Americans into the tree-planting act would be
politically advantageous, too, since the environment is again
chic.
   Ms. Mead, a transplanted New Yorker who has been working
for Mr. Bush on and off since 1978, spends most of her time
promoting trees. She works the halls of Congress pushing
legislation Mr. Bush has proposed to create a private,
nonprofit National Tree Trust. The trust would encourage
local governments, corporations and private citizens to plant
trees.
   This volunteer approach is to be like "a thousand points
of green light," says Ms. Mead, whose office is adorned with
"Trees Are the Answer" bumper stickers and T-shirts bearing
slogans such as "Rooting for America."
   When John Adams, the second president, and an
environmentalist progenitor of Mr. Bush's, moved into the
White House in 1800, he found the grounds "a barren expanse
strewn with building rubble and abandoned brick kilns," a
White House brochure says. So he and his successors set about
landscaping the place. The 18-acre grounds now hold some 500
trees and 4,000 shrubs, and all plantings carefully follow a
plan laid out in 1935. Every president since Herbert Hoover
has planted at least one tree himself.
   Mr. Bush has planted two at the White House, an ash and a
red bud.
   The president's tree fixation isn't without some hazard:
bad puns. Mr. Bush said recently that he has "been planting
so many trees all over the country that I might have to open
a branch office."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Former HUD Official Tells House Panel
   Pierce Led Agency Driven by Favoritism
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<GV>
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A former top official in the Department of
Housing and Urban Development painted a grim picture of an
agency that was run largely by political motivations and
personal opportunism, rather than program merit.
   DuBois Gilliam, a HUD deputy assistant secretary from
April 1984 until September 1987, told a congressional panel
that "during the time during which I worked with Pierce," the
department operated "basically on political favoritism."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Samuel Pierce headed the department during the entire two
terms of the Reagan administration. One year ago, disclosures
about widespread corruption, favoritism and mismanagement
began emerging through official and press reports and
congressional investigations. Mr. Gilliam's statements
yesterday, before the House Government Operations
subcommittee on employment and housing, was the most
revealing testimony to date and certainly the most damaging
to the department and Mr. Pierce.
   Mr. Gilliam admitted taking about $100,000 in cash,
clothes, food and travel payoffs during his less than three
years at HUD, because he was corrupted by "just downright
power and greed." He is serving an 18-month prison sentence
for accepting payoffs to approve projects in two cases and
appeared before the panel with a grant of immunity from
further prosecution.
   In contrast with Mr. Pierce's reputation as an aloof
secretary who was little involved in the department's
operations, Mr. Gilliam described a secretary who was closely
informed about, and personally made decisions on,
departmental projects -- sometimes conferring directly with
the White House. Mr. Gilliam also said Mr. Pierce insisted
that some be cleared while at least one other was stopped
because the secretary didn't like the congressman who wanted
it.
   Mr. Pierce quashed a San Antonio, Texas, project favored
by Democratic Rep. Henry Gonzalez because, according to Mr.
Gilliam, Mr. Pierce never forgave Mr. Gonzalez for calling
the secretary "Stepin Fetchit."
   He said Mr. Pierce specifically ordered funding for a
parking garage in Pittsfield, Mass., and a Hampton University
project in Virginia before the school's application had even
been submitted. Mr. Pierce was on the school's board of
trustees. But Mr. Gilliam added that "from the bottom of my
heart," he doesn't believe that Mr. Pierce "ever received any
sort of gratuity or kickback" while at HUD.
   But Mr. Gilliam did say Mr. Pierce approved the transfer
of a HUD career employee who became suspicious about a
financial-commitment letter that Mr. Gilliam knew was
fraudulent as part of a funding package for a HUD-related
project. Mr. Gilliam said Mr. Pierce didn't know the letter
was phony. Nevertheless, the secretary allowed Mr. Gilliam to
transfer David Sowell from his duties as a senior development
director in the Urban Development Action Grant program,
because they feared Mr. Sowell would ask the department's
inspector general to investigate UDAG.
   Mr. Sowell was restored to his position in April of last
year.
   Mr. Pierce had four lawyers at the hearing who issued a
prepared statement at the conclusion saying Mr. Gilliam's
"unfortunate testimony simply represents the subcommittee's
latest attempt to vilify Mr. Pierce in a one-sided
proceeding." A special prosecutor currently is investigating
some of Mr. Pierce's activities while HUD secretary.
   While Mr. Gilliam's testimony highlighted his personal
corruption, it also pointed to a more widespread system of
political favoritism in the way Washington works. He said it
was widely known that you couldn't get a job in the Reagan
administration unless you worked on its political campaigns.
He said his Republican Party work in Nebraska earned him a
place on the administration's "must-hire list."
   "I should have never been hired by HUD," Mr. Gilliam said.
"I got in there because I was political."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bankruptcies in Canada Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian bankruptcies rose to 4,104 in March, up
34.9% from 3,043 a year earlier, the federal Consumer and
Corporate Affairs Department said.
   Individual bankruptcies totaled 3,235 and business
bankruptcies totaled 869 in March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first three months of the year, bankruptcies rose
to 11,421, up 29.1% from 8,846 from a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Navy Gives Grumman
   $570.6 Million Pact
   For Aircraft Parts
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   GQ MD GE GM RTN HON ROK ML
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Grumman Corp. received a $570.6 million Navy
contract for F-14D and E-2C aircraft parts.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   McDonnell Douglas Corp. was given a $565.3 million Navy
contract for F/A-18 aircraft and parts and for T-45 aircraft
trainers.
                                                                                                       

   General Electric Co. got a $200.9 million Navy contract
for F-14D aircraft engines.
                                                                                                       

   Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General Motors Corp., got a
combined $129 million contract for Air Force air defense
systems and Navy radar systems.
                                                                                                       

   Raytheon Co. was awarded an $83.9 million Navy contract
for ship targeting systems.
                                                                                                       

   Honeywell Inc. received a $34.1 million Navy contract for
mine warfare systems.
                                                                                                       

   Talley Defense Systems Inc. won a $29.1 million Army
contract for artillery projectile parts.
                                                                                                       

   Martin Marietta Corp. was issued a $20.6 million contract
for operating an Army ammunition plant and for Air Force
aircraft electronics equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Sierracin-Sylmar Corp. was given a $17.4 million Air Force
contract for aircraft canopies.
                                                                                                       

   Rockwell International Corp. received a $17.3 million Air
Force contract for missile parts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   American Indemnity Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   AIFC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN INDEMNITY FINANCIAL Corp. said directors voted to
slash its quarterly dividend 86% to two cents a share from 14
cents, to allow the Galveston, Texas, property and casualty
insurance concern to reinvest a greater part of its earnings.
The dividend is payable May 15 to stock of record May 11. The
quarterly payout was cut from 28 cents in July 1987. A
spokesman said the latest cut reflects disappointing results
for 1989 and the first quarter. American Indemnity posted a
first-quarter net loss of $1.3 million, or 65 cents a share,
compared with year-earlier profit of $1.1 million, or 57
cents a share. It cited unusually large fire and auto-related
claims in January and February, and said its premiums written
fell about 19% to about $17 million in the quarter, as part
of an effort to tighten underwriting standards and improve
its premium-to-surplus ratio.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Foster Wheeler Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FWC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   FOSTER WHEELER Corp. increased its quarterly dividend 14%
to 12.5 cents a share from 11 cents, payable June 15 to stock
of record May 15. The Clinton, N.J., engineering,
construction and real estate development company reported
first-quarter net income rose 20% to $8.4 million, or 24
cents a share, from $6.9 million, or 20 cents a share, a year
earlier, when results included a $3 million gain from a
pension plan settlement. Revenue increased 18% to $311.2
million from $263.1 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Inflation Is Once Again a Growing Worry
   ---
   Many Expect Prices to
   Rebound After Initial Drop
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr. and Alfred L. Malabre Jr.
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   In the next academic year Yale University will charge each
student $20,820, an increase of 7.8% from this year. The
reason, say officials: "Major increases in the cost of many
of the services and supplies that are essential to the
educational programs of the university."
   If you're planning a vacation flight in late spring,
you'll find that restricted coach fares are 10% higher than
they were a year ago. And so it goes with many items --
haircuts, health care, shoe repair, apparel, to cite a few
examples.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some prices are declining, to be sure. But the Federal
Reserve's goal of steadily squeezing out inflation is
receding further into the future and its anti-inflation
campaign seems likely to lose rather than gain momentum. At
best, many economists say, inflation in 1990 will match last
year's pace. Moreover, there's rising concern that price
increases will actually intensify.
   Why the increased concern about inflation? For one thing,
the Federal Reserve, despite its goal to squeeze down price
increases, is under growing political pressure to avoid moves
that might derail the expansion, especially in an election
year. Inflation, moreover, is growing as a worldwide problem,
pushing up prices of U.S. imports. "The global trend is
toward accelerating inflation," says Paul W. Boltz, an
economist at T. Rowe Price Associates. Then, too, cost-push
inflation -- when rising costs are the chief reason for
rising prices -- is becoming more of a problem, and that's
hard for the Fed to deal with. Finally, a lot of the upward
pressure is in services, where prices seem to keep rising no
matter what the central bank does.
   The consumer price index in the first quarter rose at an
annual rate of 8.5%, the highest rate in eight years. The
jump stemmed in large part from weather-related increases in
food and energy prices, and in March there was a significant
rise in apparel prices. Many economists predict the inflation
rate will plunge this month and next month, but a growing
number of analysts figure the price pressures after that will
be onward and upward.
   So far economists don't expect any immediate price
explosions. The 51 forecasters interviewed monthly by Blue
Chip Economic Indicators this month forecast a 4.6% rise in
the consumer price index this year, up from a prediction of a
4.4% gain a month earlier.
   Robert Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco and a member of the Open Market Committee, the
Fed's chief policy-making group, predicts the inflation rate
will slow from the first-quarter pace but will still be
higher than last year's 4.8%. "That," he says, "is
uncomfortable and unacceptable."
   Lee Hoskins, president of the Cleveland Federal Reserve
Bank and also an Open Market Committee member, dissented when
the committee voted in February to maintain unchanged policy.
His argument: "The Federal Reserve should tighten policy
immediately to combat inflation."
   David H. Resler, chief economist of Nomura Securities
International, is one of a number of analysts who expect the
Fed to tighten policy soon, probably by a small increase in
the federal funds rate, the fee charged on short-term loans
of bank reserves. Mr. Resler fears such action could tip the
economy into a recession.
   The Federal Reserve might be encouraged to take such a
modest move, reaffirming its anti-inflation role, because
economic growth has been stronger than expected. The Blue
Chip analysts on the average now expect the
inflation-adjusted gross national product to rise by 1.9% in
this year's first half, compared with a forecast of a 1.7%
gain a month earlier. But the Blue Chip group probably will
raise its forecast this month, since the first quarter's 2.1%
GNP gain, announced last week, was considerably stronger than
the analysts expected.
   Donald Straszheim of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &amp; Smith
says, "Economic growth will be considerably stronger in the
first half of 1990 than the consensus expectation." He looks
for growth of about 2.5% in this year's first six months.
   Supporting such forecasts of stronger growth is a sharp
rise in durable-goods orders in March. On a seasonally
adjusted basis, orders rose by 6.7%, the biggest monthly gain
since December 1988, when orders climbed by 7.4%, which
prompted the Fed to tighten monetary policy. The Fed eased
again in June 1989, in what Chairman Alan Greenspan called a
midcourse correction.
   Looking ahead, Lacy Hunt, chief economist of Carroll,
McEntee &amp; McGinley, a New York investment firm, doubts there
will be any significant anti-inflation moves by the Fed.
"Greenspan," he says, "has grown cautious and more responsive
to White House pressure to hold down interest rates." But he
does expect a modest tightening to be voted by the May
meeting of the Open Market Committee.
   The rapid growth of the money supply since last June
worries the Fed's Mr. Hoskins. Since mid-1989, M2, which
consists of currency, checking deposits and many savings
accounts and is the most commonly watched aggregate, has
grown at an annual rate of more than 7%, well above the
growth rate for the prior year.
   But at this stage of the business cycle, Mr. Hoskins adds,
cost-push inflation is beginning to play a larger role. In
the 12 months ended March 31, for instance, the Labor
Department's employment cost index rose 5.5%, compared with a
5% gain in the 12 months. Recently, moreover, the rise has
accelerated. The index climbed 1.7% in this year's first
quarter, compared with a 1.2% increase a year earlier.
   A so-called leading inflation index compiled by Columbia's
Center for International Business Cycle Research had dropped
to a four-year low in February, but it bounced up in March.
It is heavily weighted with cost factors and its rise,
according to Geoffrey Moore, the center's director, "raises
the possibility that inflation may accelerate in coming
months."
   Major contributors to the March rise, he reports, were an
increase in the percentage of companies experiencing slower
deliveries and a rise to 63.4% in the percentage of the
population employed, which matched the highest monthly rate
on record.
   Record employment, however, isn't being matched by
productivity, and this adds to cost pressures since
productivity gains tend to offset the inflationary impact of
pay increases. With the supply of available labor dropping,
output per hour by nonfarm workers last year rose by only
0.9%, the smallest gain since 1982.
   Cost-push and demand-pull inflation, as economists call
the two basic kinds of inflationary pressure, have posed
challenges for the Fed throughout its history. Usually
cost-push inflation is strongest when the economy has been
expanding for a long time, as now. It also tends by its
nature to be more difficult to control through monetary
policy. Demand-pull inflation -- too much money chasing goods
and services -- usually predominates earlier in expansion and
responds more readily to the Fed's brakes.
   In late 1980, the consumer-price index was rising at an
annual rate of nearly 16%, so the Fed set out to bring it
down by tightening its policy. The move succeeded quickly: By
1982 inflation was down to 4%. A cost of the sharp drop,
however, was the deep recession of 1981-82, a fact that
Federal Reserve officials haven't forgotten.
   Since 1982, the Fed has moved cautiously, and the
inflation rate has stayed in the area of 4% to 5%, except for
a temporary respite in 1986, when an oil price drop actually
produced declines in the consumer index, and the first
quarter of 1990. The Fed, from all appearances, hasn't the
slightest intention to repeat the Draconian measures of 1980
-- very tight money -- to erase 4%-to-5% inflation.
   According to Paul L. Kasriel, vice president of Chicago's
Northern Trust Co., "The Fed's strategy is to keep real
economic growth moderate over an extended period of time in
order to lessen pressures on resource utilization rates and,
thus, bring down the rate of inflation."
   Federal officials talk of pushing the inflation rate down
to zero, a task that they concede might take at least five
years. But this may be unrealistic. Joel Popkin, a former
commissioner of Labor Statistics now serving as an economic
consultant in Washington, says the Fed is overestimating "its
ability to point the inflation rate down to 4%, let alone
zero."
   The reason, many analysts believe, is that in times of
economic weakness, many people expect the Fed, under
political pressure to avoid a recession, to ease money.
Expectations of an easier policy lead people to spend more,
tending to increase inflationary pressures.
   As Allan Sproul, former president of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York, used to say, the Fed is independent within
the government, not independent of it.
   Even Mr. Hoskins believes that there may come a time when
the Fed will drop its anti-inflation rhetoric and turn, once
again, to fighting recession.
   One fact that bodes ill for the zero-inflation advocates
such as Mr. Hoskins is that so many influential analysts
don't seem too worried by 4%-to-5% inflation. Their views
help to persuade the public that it's pointless to risk a
recession by tightening money to eliminate the remaining
inflation.
   James Tobin, a Yale University economist and Nobel
laureate, argues that the question is whether the inflation
is anticipated or not. If inflation is anticipated, he says,
companies, individuals and governments can arrange to deal
with it.
   But this may be a questionable assumption. The government
has partly indexed the tax system to help to protect
taxpayers from inflation, many pensions are indexed and, if
you listen to securities salesmen, common stocks are supposed
to be a hedge against inflation. But the protection is uneven
at best, even if individuals know what the future holds.
   The trouble is that no one can know exactly what the
inflation rate will be. Mr. Hoskins says, "I don't think
people really believe that the Fed can keep the inflation
rate at 4% indefinitely, so a permanent 4% rate is not
anticipated. I believe the rate will go above 4%, and the
markets seem to agree. The flareup over the 8.5% CPI rate in
the first quarter certainly didn't show any faith in a
permanent 4% inflation rate."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oak Industries to Sell Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   OAK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO, Calif. -- Oak Industries Inc. said it reached
an agreement in principle to sell its Oak Communications Inc.
subsidiary to the Lorain Group, a San Diego-based investment
firm.
   Terms of the transaction weren't disclosed, and the sale
is expected to close by late June if all conditions are met.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   William S. Antle III, Oak's president and chief executive
officer, said the sale would help the parent company improve
return of its operations and fund acquisitions. Oak
Communications is a maker of cable and setellite
communications equipment whose principal manufacturing plant
is in Taipei, Taiwan. Oak Industries is an electronic parts
maker.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Bottled Draft Beers Head for Collision
   As Anheuser Readies Challenge to Miller
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   BUD MO ACCOB
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   During recent testing of Busch Cold Filtered Draft beer in
Tulsa, Okla., focus groups preferred a shiny black, gold and
red label and a clear bottle, Anheuser Busch Cos. researchers
say.
   That's probably what they wanted to hear. With that
packaging -- which the company had already adopted for the
test market -- the new brew is almost a dead ringer for
Miller Genuine Draft, the highly successful premium-priced
beer introduced in 1985 by archrival Miller Brewing Co., a
unit of Philip Morris Cos. "It's Miller Genuine Draft in
sheep's clothing," says Emanuel Goldman, an analyst for
PaineWebber Inc. in San Francisco, who notes that this would
be the first Anheuser product in a clear bottle.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Anheuser-Busch says it isn't seeking to ride Miller's
coattails into the draft-beer category. In fact, Anheuser
won't even concede that draft beer is a new category,
maintaining that cold filtering is just a new process for
filtering beer. But industry analysts and consultants say the
market-share war being waged in a flat beer market, combined
with the plateau in sales hit by the company's
once-invincible Budweiser brand, has forced Anheuser-Busch to
pursue the draft market.
   "They have to approach cold-filtered beers," says Tom
Pirko, president of Bevmark Inc., a Los Angeles consultant.
"You have to look at every place you can make some headway,
including stealing thunder from competitors."
   Anheuser-Busch won't discuss its plans for Busch Cold
Filtered Draft, but it appears the company hopes to catch
lightning in a long-neck the way Miller did with its Genuine
Draft. Introduced in 1985 as a response to Miller High Life's
slumping sales, Genuine Draft topped one million barrels in
sales the following year and hit 4.7 million barrels last
year. That pushed it into the top 10 beer brands, displacing
Anheuser's pricey Michelob.
   With the two giants of the beer business squaring off, the
cold-filtered segment holds promise of a hot marketing
battle. Cold-filtered drafts, with their fresher taste and
premium image, appeal to the beer-drinking audience brewers
covet most: males ages 21 to 35, who consume far more beer
than their older bar mates. These younger drinkers have
drifted away from the flagship brands their fathers drink; to
woo them back, brewers are rapidly expanding their menu of
premium offerings.
   But chasing this affluent young crowd has its risks. The
new brands could accelerate the decline of flagship beers and
confuse consumers. And, as Adolph Coors Co. discovered,
success can be fleeting if you're not prepared to meet market
demand.
   Miller Genuine Draft, the trend setter, owes its success
as much to clever marketing as to a subtle taste difference.
The company's surrealistic advertising campaign, devised by
Backer Spielvogel Bates Inc., New York, conveys the company's
cold-and-fresh message by depicting a beer that can cause
blizzards amid blistering heat. (In one ad, a man pictured on
a billboard under a hot sun grabs a bottle of Miller Genuine
Draft from another billboard, bringing the snow.)
   And to the beer-consuming public, the term draft has
always meant fresh-from-the-tap superior beer. (The new
products qualify as draft beers because they aren't
heat-pasteurized.) It didn't prove difficult to transfer that
allegiance from the saloon to the supermarket.
   Although it will mean more competition, the new Busch
draft is "the ultimate compliment," says Beverly Jurkowski, a
spokeswoman for Miller. "There's no question" that Busch Cold
Filtered Draft "is a copycat."
   Anheuser-Busch's motivation for this mimicry appears as
clear as its new bottle. Budweiser's growth, which continued
unabated for years despite the rise of light beers, imports
and other rivals, finally started leveling off last year.
Although the brewer won't share its numbers, many analysts
see the introduction of Bud Dry and the testing of Busch Cold
Filtered Draft as an indication that Anheuser is accepting
the inevitability of slower Budweiser growth.
   "Anheuser is realizing that one {premium} brand can't be
everything for everybody," says Michael Bellas, president of
Beverage Marketing Corp., a market-research firm.
   Still, Anheuser doesn't want to cannibalize Budweiser,
still by far the nation's best-selling beer -- which may be
why the brewer chose to use the Busch name rather than Bud
for the new draft. But that carries its own risks: Putting
Busch Cold Filtered Draft in the popular-price category,
Anheuser risks losing some Budweiser drinkers to the
lower-priced brew. Indeed, Anheuser-Busch researchers came
away from the Tulsa focus groups concluding that "we have
something here that looks and acts and tastes like a premium
beer at a popular price," an Anheuser spokesman says.
   Though Miller High Life was already in decline,
beer-industry analysts say Miller Genuine Draft attracted
some drinkers from the brand. Anheuser won't talk about its
marketing strategy or possible risks. "Our plans for this
beer are completely open," says the Anheuser spokesman. But
many analysts see the company's use of the Busch label as an
attempt to protect the Budweiser franchise as much as
possible while giving the new label a pricing edge over
Miller Genuine Draft.
   If Anheuser decides to stick with the Tulsa focus groups'
preferred packaging, it risks peddling a "me too" product to
which consumers won't respond. But the potential benefits of
such imitating Miller's approach outweigh the risks,
beer-industry specialists say. Anheuser "sees that it seems
to be working for Miller," says Mr. Goldman, the analyst.
"You don't have to reinvent something to benefit from it."
   Already, the marketing sniping has begun. In its Tulsa
test, Anheuser has advertised that its new draft is made with
whole hops, not hops extracts like Miller uses. Miller points
out that many beers are made with extracts, including the
much-admired Heineken. Analysts doubt that many drinkers
would care either way.
   The sad story in the draft wars belongs to Coors, which
actually hit the market with a premium draft product a year
before Miller Genuine Draft popped its first top. Coors Extra
Gold, a heavier draft beer than Miller's brew, was a quick
success, reaching one million barrels in sales in its first
full year on the market. But the brewery hadn't planned for
such a heady start and ran out of supplies even while
distributors were begging for more, says Vince Ventimiglia, a
Denver-based consultant who was then working at Coors as
manager of distributor economics. Consumers, eager to try the
brand or buy more, were met with empty shelves, and the brand
has never regained its momentum. Coors won't comment on the
brand.
   Belatedly, the company attempted to convince young
drinkers that Coors's flagship brand was the "original draft"
by adding that to the label in late 1988. The relabeling
backfired as loyal lifetime Coors drinkers abandoned the
brand, convinced that Coors had changed the formula. Coors
dumped the label later that year after some distributors
complained of a big drop in sales.
   Now, it looks as if it will be at least a few months
before the No. 3 brewer can make a concerted draft-beer push
if it wants to. Coors has run out of capacity at its only
brewery and will struggle this year to meet consumer demand
for its fastgrowing Coors Light and its new, popular-priced
Keystone.
   Coors recently dropped all mass media marketing for Extra
Gold. The company spent $24.8 million to advertise the brand
in 1989, down 22% from $31.7 million in 1988. The company
won't say why it has pulled its advertising, but a
spokeswoman says Coors is designing a new campaign for Extra
Gold. She declines to say what it will say or when it will
appear. She adds that the company is exploring ways to
increase its capacity.
   By the time it does so, however, Miller and Anheuser may
be too entrenched for Coors to make inroads. "They knew they
had the answer before Miller," says Mr. Ventimiglia of his
old company. "But they didn't capitalize on it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Employers Casualty Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ECRC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   EMPLOYERS CASUALTY Co., Dallas, said its directors voted
to omit a quarterly cash dividend for June because of poor
operating results in the first quarter. The company last paid
a 10-cent dividend in March. The insurance concern reported a
loss of $9.1 million, or 91 cents a share, for the quarter. A
year earlier, the company reported net income of $5.5
million, or 55 cents a share. Separately, the company said
Ernest L. Proud Jr., formerly executive vice president, was
elected president and chief executive officer. Mr. Proud
succeeds Dewey Williams, who retired as president, and
assumes the duties of former Chief Executive Officer John F.
Stephens, who remains chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Personal Outlays Rose by Modest 0.4%
   In March; New-Home Sales Dipped 5%
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Personal spending increased by a moderate
0.4% in March, the Commerce Department reported, as consumers
paid higher prices to keep up with inflation.
   Personal income jumped 0.8%, but much of that stemmed from
a boost in subsidies to farmers; otherwise, the increase was
0.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Adjusted for inflation, March personal spending dropped by
0.2% after increasing 0.2% in February and remaining
unchanged in January. However, analysts said the low numbers
don't necessarily mean weakness, as they follow a large 0.8%
increase in December. Several analysts said they expect
inflation-adjusted consumer spending in the second quarter to
show monthly increases of 0.2% or 0.3%.
   "I'm still looking for an upward trend in consumer
spending," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. "The key to consumer
spending has always been jobs, and they are still expanding."
   In another report, the Commerce Department said sales of
new homes fell 5% in March following a revised 1.5% drop in
February. The March tumble left new-home sales at an annual
rate of 574,000, down from a February rate of 604,000. The
February drop was originally reported as a 3.1% gain. Figures
in both reports are seasonally adjusted.
   "The housing sales numbers look pretty awful," said
Nariman Behravesh, senior vice president at WEFA Group Inc.,
an economic-forecasting company in Bala Cynwyd, Pa. "We're
seeing further bites in the market because of higher interest
rates, especially for longer-term loans."
   With the increase in personal income outstripping personal
spending, the savings rate increased to 5.8% after rising to
5.3% in February and to 5.2% in January. The savings rate is
personal savings divided by disposable personal income.
   On an inflation-adjusted basis, the biggest drop in
personal consumption was a 1.2% decrease in spending on
durable goods -- items intended to last three years or more.
Spending in that category dropped 2.7% in February. The
Commerce Department said lower auto sales caused both
declines. Higher auto sales spurred by discounting fueled a
6.5% increase in durable-goods spending in January.
   Purchases of nondurable goods also dropped, falling 0.9%
after a 0.7% increase in February. Meanwhile, spending on
services increased 0.6% in March after a 0.7% rise the
previous month.
   The 0.4% increase in personal spending before inflation
adjustment followed a revised 0.6% increase in February. The
February increase had originally been reported as 0.4%. The
0.8% personal-income growth in March followed a revised 0.8%
increase in February, originally reported as 0.9%. The
February figure was also affected by farm subsidies; without
them the rise would have been 0.6%.
   "We've seen continued fairly rapid growth in income," said
Jay Woodworth, senior domestic economist at Bankers Trust Co.
"The numbers continue to make a strong case that the Federal
Reserve may need to reconsider interest-rate policy" and
raise rates slightly to head off inflation, he said.
   Mr. Behravesh concurred, saying WEFA Group expects the Fed
to push the federal-funds rate to about 8.5% later in May and
possibly as high as 9% by the end of the summer. This key
interest rate, which is what banks charge one another on
overnight loans, is currently hovering around 8.25%. "There's
a good deal of underlying strength in the economy, and
inflation isn't going away," Mr. Behravesh said.
   ---
   Here is the Commerce Department's latest report on
personal income. The figures are at seasonally adjusted
annual rates in trillions of dollars.
                                                                                                       

                                     March          Feb.
                                     1990           1990
                                                                                                       

   Personal income ................  4.670          4.634
    Wages and salaries ............  2.761          2.747
    Factory payrolls ..............   .565           .561
    Transfer payments .............   .671           .671
                                                                                                       

   Disposable personal income .....  3.993          3.960
                                                                                                       

   Personal outlays ...............  3.762          3.748
    Consumption expenditures ......  3.656          3.642
    Other outlays .................   .107           .107
                                                                                                       

   Personal saving ................   .230           .212
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Pathe Is Given
   Extra Week to Make
   Payment on MGM
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PCC MGM MCA PCI TBSA SNE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Pathe Communications Inc. said it had been
granted an extra week to make the next $50 million down
payment toward its $1.27-billion acquisition of MGM/UA
Communications Co.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Pathe said
it agreed to make the payment by May 17, rather than May 10.
It is the third of four $50 million payments to be deposited
into an escrow account that MGM/UA could sue to draw from.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pathe also said it had extended its tender offer for
MGM/UA until May 10. The $20-a-share offer had been set to
expire yesterday. A Pathe spokesman said the extension was
necessary so that SEC filings could be made.
   Yesterday's filing also said that Luxembourg-based
Comfinance S.A., the closely held main vehicle for Pathe
principal Giancarlo Parretti, had agreed to provide $450
million for Pathe to buy MGM/UA shares, and would receive
about a one-third stake of MGM/UA in return. The filing still
didn't say where Comfinance would get the money, referring
only to "other affiliates" and "European interests."
   As of last Friday, 1.8 million shares of about 53 million
MGM/UA common shares outstanding had been tendered. But Kirk
Kerkorian's Tracinda Corp., which along with a Kerkorian
charity own about 82% of MGM/UA common stock, has yet to
tender its shares. The tender offer may again be extended
until June 23.
   Last month, Time Warner Inc. acknowledged that it was
providing a $650-million bridge loan toward the acquisition,
plus another $200 million in film production financing it
said it would help Pathe raise. In return, Time Warner gets a
lien on the UA library and warrants for 20% of the new
company.
   In recent SEC filings, Pathe has indicated it will raise
some of the $450 million by selling certain MGM/UA assets,
like its one-third interest in United International Pictures,
an international film distribution partnership with MCA Inc.
and Paramount Communications Inc. Another possibility
mentioned by Pathe is to sell the foreign home video rights
it holds to the old MGM library, now owned by Ted Turner's
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.
   But reports in the trade paper Hollywood Reporter that
MGM/UA's TV division is being pursued by Sony Corp.'s
Columbia Pictures unit were denied. "There's no truth to
this," said MGM/UA TV chief David Gerber.
   An individual close to the situation said Columbia had
been in discussions about acquiring the division several
months ago, before the Pathe bid, but had backed off, and
that Pathe had indicated no willingness to spin off the
division. Mr. Parretti previously had indicated an interest
in television when he was part of a 1988 bid for MGM/UA's TV
unit by Pathe Entertainment President Alan Ladd Jr. and Mr.
Gerber.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, MGM/UA
closed at $18.625, up $1.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   EPA to Issue Rules to Reduce Amount
   Of Dioxin Released in Making of Paper
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Environmental Protection Agency said it
will issue regulations aimed at reducing the amount of dioxin
that gets into water and soil through the manufacturing of
bleached paper.
   At the same time, however, the agency said the health risk
posed by dioxin in paper products, such as coffee filters,
milk cartons and disposable diapers, is "no cause for alarm."
Instead, the agency referred the food-packaging issue to the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which will work with the
paper industry to bring these levels down still further.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dioxin, a highly toxic chemical and probable human
carcinogen, is a byproduct of the chlorine bleaching process,
which is used to improve products' purity, strength,
absorbency and brightness. The EPA's action, announced at a
press conference yesterday, was required under a consent
decree between the agency and two environmental groups, the
Environmental Defense Fund and the National Wildlife
Federation.
   Red Cavaney, president of the American Paper Institute,
estimated that changes needed to reduce dioxin contamination
will cost about $20 million for each of the 104 mills
nationwide that use the bleaching process. Noting that the
industry has already cut dioxin levels considerably, however,
he said that much of the improvements have already been made.
   Environmentalists are pushing the industry to limit the
amount of bleaching it does and to avoid using chlorine,
wherever possible. The EPA's action "puts the industry on
notice that they've got to keep moving away from the
chlorine-bleaching process," said Karen Florini, a senior
attorney with the Environmental Defense Fund.
   The EPA said it was most worried about the risk to the
small number of generally low-income people who eat large
quantities of carp, catfish and other fish caught in
waterways downstream from paper mills. Deputy EPA
Administrator Hank Habicht said the cancer risk, which could
be greater than one in 1,000 for some subsistence fishermen,
is a "basis for continued aggressive action."
   Working with the states, the agency is trying to identify
"hot spots" where fishing advisories or bans should take
effect.
   Paper mills also are being required to meet new limits on
allowable effluent discharges. In addition, the EPA is
developing new guidelines, expected to be proposed in 1993,
aimed at preventing the dioxin pollution from being created
in the first place.
   Soil contamination will be addressed through new
regulations on dioxin-contaminated waste-water treatment
sludge from pulp and paper mills. Mr. Habicht said about 5%
of such sludge is used as a soil conditioner. The agency also
said it will establish guidelines for managing landfills and
sludge lagoons that contain sludge from mills.
   On packaging, the paper industry said it has already
reduced dioxin in milk cartons to levels that are almost
undetectable. At yesterday's news conference, the FDA said it
would confirm the milk-carton results and work with the paper
institute to make similar changes in other food packaging.
   Mr. Habicht said the risk from the vast majority of
nonfood products such as diapers and tissue was "not a source
of regulatory concern." EPA officials, noted, however, that
reducing dioxin contamination in other areas would cut the
levels in nonfood products as well.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Presidio Oil Sets Redemption
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   PRSB
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Presidio Oil Co., an oil and gas concern, said
it will redeem on June 1 the remaining 9.5% cumulative
convertible preferred shares outstanding for $5 each.
   Holders have until May 24 to convert each preferred share
into 1.25 Class A common shares. An earlier exchange offer
was accepted by holders of 96% of the preferred stock, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The redemption, financed by a specially created sinking
fund, is aimed at improving earnings on Presidio's common
stock, a spokeswoman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aircoa Hospitality Services Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AIRC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Aircoa Hospitality Services Inc., a hotel
management concern, said it asked the Securities and Exchange
Commission to deregister its common stock, which is traded
over the counter, and to suspend its financial reporting
obligations within 90 days, because the number of its common
stockholders and senior unsecured note holders has fallen
below 300 each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Why General Mills
   Withdrew New Cereal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   GIS
</CO>
<LP>
   Your April 3 story on psyllium grain's ability to reduce
cholesterol said:
   "But psyllium isn't without controversy. Last year, the
Food and Drug Administration looked into the safety of its
use in large quantities in cereal. In response, General Mills
Inc. took a psyllium-based cereal off the market."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Mills actually removed Benefit from test markets
because of disappointing consumer sales.
   General Mills submitted a 1,313-page petition to the FDA
arguing that psyllium as consumed in Benefit cereal is
completely safe and should be declared "generally recognized
as safe" by the agency.
   R.C. Shulstad
   Director of Public Relations
   General Mills Inc.
   Minneapolis
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BUSINESS &amp; RACE
   ----
   By Leon E. Wynter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MHS
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
AIRLINES (AIR)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   S&amp;L Cave-In Brings
   Minority Opportunities
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   THE SAVINGS and loan bailout may give people of color a
bigger presence in the thrift business.
   An amendment to last year's Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act requires federal agencies to
help blacks, Hispanics and Asians increase their presence in
the restructured S&amp;L industry.
   John Harshaw, president of the American League of
Financial Institutions, a Washington-based organization of
minority-owned S&amp;Ls, says that new bidding rules for the
government's S&amp;L fire sale will keep failed minority-owned
thrifts in minority hands. Although minority investors
haven't succeeded in buying any of the 57 non-minority
thrifts the government has sold, Mr. Harshaw expects
minorities will ultimately pick up 10 of the approximately
354 S&amp;Ls in U.S. hands.
   The bailout also creates opportunities for minorities in
legal, accounting and other services. The Resolution Trust
Corp., created to sort out the thrift mess, recently set a 3%
price advantage for minorities and women bidding for
non-legal professional work.
   Resolution Trust expects to spend up to $500 million on
outside legal services in 1990. In 1989, less than $2 million
of the $99 million spent on outside legal fees went to
minority or women-owned firms. But a Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. official insists a new reporting system will
soon show an increase in fees paid to minority lawyers.
                                                                                                       

   Another Magazine Aims
   For Asian-Americans
                                                                                                       

   THE OWNERS of A.D. magazine, set to premiere next month,
want the publication to be a vehicle for a new Asian-American
consciousness.
   It won't be easy. There are unique obstacles to the
success of A.D. -- which stands for Asian Descent. The Asian
population in the U.S. grew 70% to about 6.5 million between
1980 and 1988, according to a Census Bureau report. Yet most
of the growth came from immigrants, who prefer Asian-language
media, says New York advertising consultant Joseph Lam.
   Moreover, there's a traditional reluctance among
Asian-Americans to openly address issues of racial and
cultural identity, which A.D. will emphasize. Audrey Chin, a
financial analyst working on A.D.'s business plan, concedes
Asians are "very quiet" about such issues, including
discrimination. Still, she believes A.D. will provide "a
strong voice."
   A.D. will target urban East Coast Asian-Americans. Two
similar magazines, Jade and Rice, have failed in the past
three years, and a third, Transpacific, has "just begun to
scrape the black" after four years, says Publisher Tom Kagy.
To make it, A.D. will have to convince skeptical advertisers
that there are many upscale young Asian-Americans who feel
the way editor Jeff Yang does: "Each of us once tried to be
the same, to fit in," he says. "But eventually we realized
that you can't escape the role of color in this country."
                                                                                                       

   Seed Clouds Spread
   Over Engineering Pool
                                                                                                       

   CORPORATE CASH is starting to flow to the nation's
fastest-growing pool of engineering talent -- black and
Hispanic students.
   General Electric Co. has committed $35 million over 10
years for minority students and faculty. And General Motors
Corp. has almost doubled its support for minority engineering
students since 1984 to $1.9 million last year. "We're trying
to make sure we have enough engineering talent," says Richard
O'Brien, a GM personnel official.
   Meanwhile, the National Action Council for Minorities in
Engineering, which distributes corporate funds to schools and
minority engineering students, says it's running $500,000
ahead of last year's $5 million budget.
   In 1989, blacks received only 2,122, or 3%, of the 68,291
engineering degrees awarded, about the same share as Hispanic
students. On the bright side, U.S. engineering school
enrollments turned up last year after a seven-year slide,
with black and Hispanic students accounting for more than
half the increase.
   Of course, some professionals believe corporations haven't
done enough. "Imagine at one point there was no money
running," says Tyrone Taborn, who publishes three magazines
for black and Hispanic engineers. "Now there is a trickle."
                                                                                                       

   A Departure From Norm
   In Airport Business

   AT THE NATION'S airports, minority entrepreneurs are
quietly making business connections.
   In 1980, the Transportation Department began requiring
that more airport concessions be owned by minorities and
women because a study had found that neither of these groups
owned businesses at the top 21 airports. "It was almost a
closed industry, serviced by a handful of vendors," says
Clark Sharp, a Federal Aviation Administration civil rights
officer.
   Now, airport authorities must build minority participation
into the bidding process for any new or amended concession
lease.
   Marriott Corp.'s Host/Travel Plaza's division, a major
concessionaire, has had to give up some ground. So Host has
been expanding the role of minority partners. "We've tried to
work out ways to give minorities meaningful participation
opportunities," says a Host spokesman. "It's one of the facts
of business life today."
   The rule helped Patrick Jones, a black Chicago venture
capitalist, snap up three car rental outlets, at airports in
Pittsburgh, Orlando, Fla., and Charlotte, N.C. One of the six
rental concessions at each of the airports was reserved for
minorities or women. "It's a sleeper," Mr. Jones says of the
little-publicized policy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farm Prices Last Month
   Rose 0.7% From March
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Farm prices in April rose 0.7% from March,
led by increases in cattle and hog prices, the Agriculture
Department said.
   Average prices received by farmers were 2% higher than in
April 1989, the department said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Beef-cattle prices averaged $75 a hundred pounds, up 80
cents from March, while calf prices averaged $102, up $2.90.
In the hog markets, barrow and gilt prices averaged $53.20 a
hundred pounds in April, up $1.50, while sows averaged
$48.70, up $3.
   Milk prices averaged $13.10 a hundred pounds, down 60
cents from March, the department said. Egg prices averaged
64.2 cents a dozen in April, down 8.9 cents. Broiler prices
fell 3.2 cents to 33.2 cents a pound in April, while turkey
prices slipped 0.2 cents to 37 cents a pound.
   Fruit prices rose 11% in April, led by oranges and
grapefruit, the department said. Vegetable prices fell 13%,
with tomato prices taking a dive.
   Corn prices rose 15 cents to $2.52 a bushel in April,
while sorghum grain rose 22 cents to $3.92 a hundred pounds.
Barley slipped one cent to $2.17 a bushel, while oats fell
two cents to $1.37 a bushel, the department said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mitsubishi to Recall
   Vehicles That Exceed
   Emission Standards
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MOT C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Mitsubishi Motors of America, the marketing
unit of Mitsubishi Motors Corp., will recall 102,000 of its
1986 passenger cars that exceed the federal emission standard
for carbon monoxide, the Environmental Protection Agency
said.
   The cars, equipped with 1.5-liter engines, are the
Mitsubishi Mirage, the Dodge Colt and Plymouth Colt. All were
built by Mitsubishi, but most were sold by Chrysler Corp.
Chrysler will fix the Dodge and Plymouth cars, the EPA said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The repair, which will be free to car owners, consists of
modifying the carburetor, recalibrating the automatic choke
and, if needed, replacing the secondary air filter.
   Carbon monoxide, which results from incomplete combustion
of fuel, disrupts the delivery of oxygen to the body's organs
and tissues and impairs heart function. It can be especially
harmful to people wih lung disease, anemia and peripheral
vascular disease.
   Car owners will be notified of the recall by mail.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Showgirls Who Weren't Born Yesterday
   ----
   By Joanne Kaufman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   Boca Raton, Fla. -- "Bee-yoo-tiful," declared Rosalie
MacDonald, president of the Ziegfeld Girls of Florida, as 11
women ranging in age from 53 to 79, some astonishingly
well-preserved, triumphantly tapped out the last measure of
their dance.
   The community center where "the Girls" were rehearsing
rang with applause, but choreographer Cathy Dooley kept her
enthusiasm in check. The annual charity luncheon and
extravaganza, emceed by Tony Marvin "of Arthur Godfrey fame,"
was only five days away, and the shuffle ball changes needed
attention.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "One more time," she ordered firmly, rewinding the
cassette player to the opening bars of "Hooked on Broadway."
Originally, Ms. Dooley confided, there were 12 performers in
the number, but one got married, moved away and refused to
give up her snazzy costume -- black tails, top hat and silver
cane -- even when the Ziegfeld Girls offered a handsome
ransom. "We couldn't find another costume so from now on we
can only have 11 in this routine."
   "Touch, kick. One two three. MOVE," instructed Ms. Dooley,
a former showgirl at the Desert Inn in Las Vegas, now owner
of the Rock-ette Dance Academy in Margate, Fla. ("I have the
hyphen in the name so I don't have any legal problems," she
explained.)
   This time around, bee-yoo-tiful the number wasn't. "I
guess we should have left it alone," sighed Ms. Dooley.
"Iris," she told a 79-year-old in a salmon-pink shirt and
white shorts, who in palmier days danced in Paramount stage
shows, "Don't get upset if the audience applauds. Don't say
`Shhh, we have to hear the music.'
   "Do it better this time so we can get on to the other
dance. The other dance needs a lot of work."
   Work does not faze the Ziegfeld Girls (they are always
called girls though many are grandmothers and
great-grandmothers). Since Mrs. MacDonald founded the
organization 10 years ago to help needy women of the theater,
its 130 members have given six or seven benefit performances
a year, rehearsing all summer to keep legs, once the toast of
Broadway and environs, in dazzling shape.
   The $300,000 the group has raised so far has gone,
primarily, to outfit Ziegfeld Manor, a motel turned
retirement home. Right now, it can only accommodate six, "but
we figure with donations we can build a bigger place," added
Mrs. MacDonald, a former chorine in Earl Carroll's
"Vanities."
   A onetime member of the Ziegfeld Club of New York -- there
also is a club for former Latin Quarter dancers and showgirls
-- Mrs. MacDonald broke off with the group because "every
penny we made had to go to New York. Profits on our monthly
luncheons, our dues, the profits on our shows. They got full
credit for everything."
   According to the organization's bylaws, 75% of the
membership must have a theatrical background. Currently, the
roster includes Jo Newswanger, 78 -- she's the one wearing a
white sweatband during rehearsal -- who danced in nine
Broadway shows with the likes of Ruby Keeler, Alice Faye and
Al Jolson; Mary Anne Sterling (that's her stage name), 64, a
former Latin Quarter dancer; and Connie Anderson, a 60ish
ex-Rockette.
   But the dancers must share the glory -- and the senior
citizen stage-door Johnnies -- with the showgirls who wear
elaborate headdresses and parade around the stage doing the
"Ziegfeld Walk" -- toe-heel, toe-heel -- to the accompaniment
of "A Pretty Girl is Like a Melody."
   "I love doing it," said Almita La Sala, 68, who during her
days as a Ziegfeld showgirl at New York's Amsterdam Theater
answered to Almita Ortega. "It keeps your past together with
your present," added Ms. La Sala, a.k.a. Miss Hubba Hubba of
1945 at Hollywood's Wilshire Theater.
   Of course they all are youngsters compared with Muriel
Merrill, 93, who understudied comedienne Marilyn Miller in
the 1918 Ziegfeld Follies. "I was a good little tap dancer at
the time," said Mrs. Merrill, whose not-so-secret ambition is
to dance with George Burns, and whose soft-shoe routine
always brings down the house.
   That's no mean tribute here in Boca, which isn't exactly
Broadway, but it's a town without pity for would-be dancers
with two left feet. "When girls come in, naturally, we want
to see what they can do," said Mrs. MacDonald, who's in her
70s. "One girl came in and said, `I'm a very good dancer.'
She was coming in after the beat every time so I said, `Do
you know you're coming in after the beat?' I found out she
was a good ballroom dancer IF a man was holding her. Well,
that wasn't enough. So we let her help out backstage."
   Tanna Callahan, 52, a former model and weathergirl, was
having a little trouble with the beat herself. She kept
moving toward the back when everyone else was moving forward
during the opening steps of the trouble-ridden "If They Could
See Me Now." Worse, she kept losing track of the number of
front kicks in the routine.
   "Where are our heads when we're kicking?" auburn-haired
Mrs. Callahan wanted to know.
   "On your shoulders," Ms. Dooley replied.
   "They're going to hate me. I can't get my hat right.
They're going to hate me," mourned Mrs. Callahan, who as a
child walked around her parents' horse farm balancing a glass
of water on her head to attain the carriage of a Ziegfeld
showgirl.
   "We've got to do it again because Tanna messed up the
opening," insisted Ms. Dooley.
   "Oh, you're going to hate me," said Mrs. Callahan.
   "Yes, yes, we hate you," the chorus girls chorused.
   Cathy Dooley has learned some things in her four years of
choreographing for the Ziegfeld Girls. She has learned, for
instance, not to tell her charges the dance must be simple.
"If you tell them it has to be simple they get insulted. Some
of them think they're real hoofers," she said.
   Further, she has learned the value of building lots of
kicks into the choreography. "The more kicks the girls do,"
she said. "the more the crowd loves it."
   There's no arguing that some can kick and tap out a time
step better than others. "If you let it get to you you could
get very frustrated," said Dawn Bolton, 61, a former Latin
Quarter dancer. "I like all the girls. I understand they're
not all old pros. I just try to do what I can do and accept
what they can do."
   The rehearsal floor was a blur of black stocking-clad legs
as the Girls, minds sharply focused, top hats arcing in
tandem, wound through the intricate formations one more time.
"Flap, flap, step, cross, lunge. Bang the rhythm out," called
Ms. Dooley.
   "The admiration I have for them because of their age and
exuberance and vitality is unending," she told a younger
woman who felt old by comparison with these "girls."
   "They're a hot ticket," said Bernice Melniker, projects
chairman of the Miami Children's Hospital Auxiliary, who
signed the Ziegfeld Girls to perform last year at the
organization's annual Golden Harvest Luncheon. "The audience
was so enthusiastic because they have a nostalgic appeal.
They were an inspiration."
   Sometimes, to give her elderly neighbors a lift, Ms.
Dooley brings them to a Ziegfeld show. "I'll rub it in a
little," she admitted, "I'll say, `See what the girls can do.
See what they can do.'"
   ---
   Ms. Kaufman is a free-lance journalist based in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Schneider Bid for Canada Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.FPE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- The Canadian unit of Groupe Schneider S.A. of
France said 19.6 million, or 99.7%, of the common shares
outstanding of Federal Pioneer Ltd., an electrical equipment
maker, were tendered to Schneider Canada's takeover offer of
15 Canadian dollars (US$12.88) each, or an indicated C$300
million (US$257.8 million).
   Schneider, which has extensive holdings in the electrical
equipment industry, said that under Canadian law, it will
acquire the remaining Federal Pioneer shares that weren't
tendered.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lincoln National Sells Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   LNC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WAYNE, Ind. -- Lincoln National Corp. said it
completed the previously announced sale of National
Reinsurance Corp. to a holding company organized by Robert M.
Bass Group Inc. and Acadia Partners Limited Partnership.
   Lincoln National said it received $320.1 million in cash,
plus $75 million face amount in preferred stock of the
holding company formed to acquire National Reinsurance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The insurance-holding company said it will use proceeds to
redeem its auction rate preferred stock and to reduce
short-term debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Shares Rise Late in Day on Buying Swell
   Set Off by Program Trades on Big Board
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The over-the-counter stock market rose late in
the day on a swell of buying set off by computer-driven
programs on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Traders say that the buy programs hit the Big Board around
2 p.m. EDT, drawing buyers into the OTC market to catch the
wave.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nasdaq Composite Index, which treaded water for most
of the day, rose 2.09, or 0.5%, to 420.07 in the last hours
of trading. The Big Board Composite Index added 0.41%. OTC
advancers led decliners, 907 to 897. Total Nasdaq volume fell
to a slim 105.8 million shares from Friday's 116 million
shares.
   Ed Mazzella, senior vice president of OTC trading at
Shearson Lehman Hutton, says he was surprised that stock
prices moved as much as they did. He didn't expect much
activity until after the Treasury announces details of its
quarterly refunding tomorrow. The yield on the Treasury long
bond eased to 8.99% from the 9% level it reached last week.
The drop in the yield came as bond prices rose gradually,
helping stock prices.
   Laidlaw Transportation led the most active list with
volume of more than 2.5 million shares. The stock closed at
19 5/8, up 1/8.
   Lattice Semiconductor gained 1 7/8 to 12 1/2. The company
reported fourth-quarter net income of 26 cents a share, up
from nine cents a share a year earlier.
   Northeast Bancorp dropped 4 7/8 to 28 1/4 as its ailing
merger pact with Bank of New York takes another turn for the
worse.
   Bank of New York is threatening to end the agreement,
claiming that Northeast has breached the merger pact by
failing to maintain accurate books. Northeast said it is in
compliance with the agreement. The merger ran into trouble in
late April when the two parties disagreed over Northeast's
book value.
   Technology stocks fared mildly better. On the most active
list, Sun Microsystems gained 7/8 to 24 5/8, Apple Computer
has added 1/4 to 39 3/8, Seagate Technology was 3/8 point
ahead to 11 1/2 and Cirrus Logic gained 5/8 to 12 7/8.
   Cirrus reported its fourth-quarter net income more than
doubled to 34 cents a share from the 15 cents a share
recorded the year earlier.
   IDB Communications Group rose 1 to 9 1/4. Swissair agreed
to buy a 5% stake in the company for $13 a share.
   U.S. Healthcare jumped 1 to 13 1/4 after reporting
earnings of 25 cents a share in the first quarter, up from 11
cents a share a year earlier.
   Neworld Bancorp added 1/2 to 7 1/2. A Massachusetts
investor received regulatory clearance to increase his stake
to nearly 20% from slightly less than 9%.
   American Indemnity Financial lost 1 1/2 to 4 3/8 after
reporting a 65-cent-a-share loss in the first quarter,
compared with profit of 57 cents a share a year earlier.
   Costar gained 2 to 24 1/4 after reporting profit of 31
cents a share in the first quarter, compared with 13 cents a
share a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Triton Energy's Europe Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   OIL U.TTE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Triton Energy Corp., an oil and gas concern with
extensive overseas holdings, said that it dropped plans to
sell its 59.47% interest in its Triton Europe PLC unit, but
that Triton Europe is continuing discussions to sell all or
part of its oil and gas assets in the British and Netherlands
part of the North Sea.
   The company previously estimated the value of its stake in
the European unit at about $180 million, based on Triton
Europe's stock price on the London Stock Exchange. Triton
Energy, which has operations in France, Britain and the North
Sea, said it ended talks about a possible sale of its stake,
because it doesn't believe it would receive an appropriate
price for the assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   King Arthur at Dunkirk
   ----
   By Richard Locke
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   Last May, two months before his death of cancer at 58,
Donald Barthelme completed the manuscript of a novel, "The
King" (Harper &amp; Row, 158 pages, $16.95). It now joins his
stories, his three other novels, his children's book, his
parodies, the 14 volumes that made him a true descendant of
Joyce and Borges, Groucho Marx and Mallarme -- a master of
short fiction whose style was as distinctive (and
misapprehended) as Hemingway's, a literary collagiste as
accomplished in his juxtapositions as Duchamp, Max Ernst or
Joseph Cornell. "Fragments are the only forms I trust" was
Barthelme's credo, and out of that nostalgic and rebellious
paradox he created works of high literary art, comic and sad.
   This last novel should confound his enemies and comfort
his admirers. It is significantly less difficult than much of
his work: not a conventional novel by any means, but
something that has recognizable characters, a scene, and a
plot that can be glimpsed in the 39 short sections (mostly
dialogue) that comprise the work. It's much more friendly
than some of his stories or such novels as "Snow White" or
"The Dead Father."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The king of the title is King Arthur -- not Elvis. This
isn't camp. And far from ragging the Arthurian tradition
(Camelot, Round Table, Grail, chivalry, romantic love),
Barthelme imaginatively salutes it. He sets the familiar
characters -- Arthur, Launcelot and Queen Guinevere, loyal
Sir Kay, treacherous Mordred -- down in England in the early
days of World War II (Dunkirk, the Battle of Britain, the
fall of Paris) and thus achieves a kind of historical double
exposure. The legendary knights in armor struggle with
dragons, villains, howitzers and nuclear fission. Over the
radio, Lord Haw-Haw broadcasts anti-British propaganda from
Berlin, and Ezra Pound spits anti-Semitic bilge from Rome.
Churchill's in the war room under Whitehall, Coventry
Cathedral is bombed.
   In this, medieval chivalry and the last hurrah of English
military heroism are conjoined. Arthur is unswervingly noble,
admired by all, courteous, long-suffering, generous, wise. He
refuses to bomb the civilian population of Milan, and when
confronted with the news that the Grail is really a
superweapon, the atomic bomb, he tears up the formulas that
Merlin has been sending him and announces, "We won't do it. .
. . I cannot allow it. It's not the way we wage war. . . .
The essence of our calling is right behavior, and this false
Grail is not a knightly weapon. I have spoken." He knows full
well, "I've done something rather awful . . . I've
surrendered an advantage . . . I said no. Because I thought
it immoral," but we're asked successfully to see this as an
act of tragic decency. Arthur may well be an anachronism, as
he's called, but he's a noble one. And we agree, without a
snicker.
   Launcelot might sound like a toff out of Evelyn Waugh
("things were quite dicey there for a bit"), but he's full of
dumb pluck: "I spend my whole life hacking at things . . . Is
this the best way to exist in the world? . . . Hacking away,
day in and day out; get a thing properly hacked and there's
the next thing, begging for hacking. . . ." Guinevere is
promiscuous, but queenly withal: "The one is off God knows
where running the war, and the other pops in between dragons,
as it were. It's little consolation that they are both so
enormously noble and worshipful, when one's bed is empty
night after night. But perhaps I'm being crude." The lady
Lyonesse is pregnant by a commoner, but, then, she hates
queening: "It's rather terrible, being a queen. One has to
attend functions. One has to stand there smiling while the
local fellow explains how the peat is packaged. . . . To be a
queen, even a country sort of queen, is to know boredom as
few human beings have known boredom."
   Though most of the medieval monikers come from Malory's
1485 "Le Morte d'Arthur" (Sir Lucan the Butler, Sir Ozana le
Cure Hardy), Barthelme's most conspicuous new character is
the gracious Sir Roger de Ibadan, the Black Knight, an
African from Dahomey, who is a fount of practical and
esoteric knowledge, thoroughly adept in both the medieval and
the modern world, and most nobly in love with the female
highwayman Clarice. Thus are both sexism and ethnocentric
prejudice exploded.
   Barthelme makes comic use of his anachronisms, but the
cumulative effect is one of splendor. There are countless
echoes of Malory and Shakespeare. Rather than mocking stiff
antiquity or using literary allusions to take cheap shots at
shoddy modern life (or sermonizing on the horrors of war, or
leering about medieval filth and lechery a la Monty Python),
Barthelme has reclaimed and reinvented the Arthurian
tradition with great affection and achieved a verbal richness
that suggests Joycean affinities between late medieval or
Renaissance prolixity and modern polyphonic jargon, slang and
kitsch.
   For much of his career Barthelme portrayed father figures
as monsters out of Kafka and Grimm: castrating,
guilt-inducing oppressors to be feared and satirized. In his
1975 novel "The Dead Father," 19 men dragged an immense
talking carcass ("dead, but still with us, still with us, but
dead") through the countryside and finally buried it in a
huge hole with bulldozers. In his early story "Views of My
Father Weeping," he depicted a son's botched revenge for the
murder of his father as a struggle with the dead hand of the
past. But in this last, crepuscular novel, Barthelme appears
to have made a separate peace with the past. For the king is
noble, the comedy autumnal, and the style is glorious indeed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Allianz, Navigation Mixte
   To Merge Insurance Lines
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   G.ALL F.CNM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MUNICH, West Germany -- Allianz AG said that it has agreed
to merge its French insurance businesses with those of Cie de
Navigation Mixte to form a new joint-venture company that
will be one of France's largest private insurers, of which
the West German company will own 65%.
   Allianz, which also is Europe's largest insurance group,
said the planned merger of the respective French businesses
in effect expands an agreement last November, when Allianz
acquired 50% of Navigation Mixte's French insurance
operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "From the very beginning, the intention was to merge the
(company's French insurance operations) one way or another
under one holding company," an Allianz spokeswoman said. She
noted that an unsuccessful hostile takeover attempt of
Navigation by Cie. Financiere de Paribas last year had forced
her company and its French partner to delay talks on the
merger of the insurance lines in France until now.
   Under West German accounting rules, the new joint
venture's sales and earnings will be consoldiated into the
annual accounts of Allianz.
   Under the joint venture agreement, Navigation Mixte will
hold 34% of the new French company, which will have around 10
billion French francs ($1.78 billion) worth of premium income
annually. Allianz said third parties, which it didn't
identify, would hold the remaining 1% stake in the new joint
venture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Manager Hires His Own Staff to Kick Companies' Tires
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- When money manager Claude Rosenberg Jr.
was blindsided by a plunge in Atari Corp. stock some years
ago, he vowed to stop relying on Wall Street analysts as his
eyes and ears in picking stocks.
   Atari's nosedive should have been easy to predict, Mr.
Rosenberg decided, if brokerage analysts had been doing their
jobs tracking a big buildup in inventories at the computer
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So in 1984, Mr. Rosenberg organized Grassroots Research, a
private army of part-time researchers to make on-the-spot
inspections of corners of corporate America that Wall Street
analysts rarely visit.
   Today, with nearly 250 part-time interviewers in the U.S.
and several foreign countries, Grassroots churns out about 50
research reports a month on topics as broad as the state of
the economy and as specialized as how Gillette Co.'s new
Sensor razor blade is selling in Europe. The reports go
exclusively to Mr. Rosenberg's investment advisory firm, RCM
Capital Management, which manages $16 billion, mostly for
pension-fund clients.
   Mr. Rosenberg and his associates credit Grassroots with
turning up early data on the success of Levi Strauss &amp; Co.'s
501 jeans, a 1985 rebound in property-casualty insurance
prices, the ebbs and flows of semiconductor orders and the
rise and decline of various U.S. cities. These and dozens of
other findings, big and small, have resulted in RCM buying
stocks in time for a sizable rise, or perhaps more
importantly, shrinking holdings before they decline.
   "I can get (our) people in or out of a stock before
information becomes commonly known, and especially out
because Wall Street doesn't want to deal with bad
information," boasts Craig Gordon, the 35-year-old director
of the Grassroots operation.
   While complaints about the slipping quality of Wall Street
research have been heard from clients since the 1987 stock
market crash, Mr. Rosenberg saw the decline well before that.
"We came to the conclusion early on that the Street was
shrinking, and with it, the research provided by the Street
would shrink," he says. And the research he expected "would
suffer the most, would be the getting out in the field and
kicking the tires" type.
   Compared with the number-crunching and company forecasts
that are at the heart of traditional investment research, the
Grassroots operation collects its data from the likes of
cosmetics buyers, sneaker salesmen, travel agents and even
town landfill operators (who know if dumping fees are rising
to the detriment of waste disposal companies.) Company
officials are almost never queried.
   Instead, Grassroots has built up a network of some 22,000
contacts in various industries that are questioned
periodically in face-to-face interviews conducted by 175
part-time survey-takers, mostly housewives with young
children. In recent days, part of this field staff did 530
in-store interviews nationwide looking for early signs of a
recession, a topic of major concern to RCM's portfolio
managers. (The survey turned up little evidence of
recessionary behavior among consumers.)
   Grassroots doesn't replace RCM's traditional investment
research operation, which employs 34 full-time stock analysts
and support staff; they consume many times the annual
Grassroots budget of about $700,000.
   "We're the second opinion," says Mr. Gordon, who worked
briefly as a newspaper reporter before turning to market
research and eventually forming Grassroots. "Forty-five times
out of 50, Grassroots is saying the same thing as Wall Street
research, and you can't do anything with it except feel more
confident about the information," he says.
   But the times when Grassroots picks up something new or
contrary to Wall Street's thinking are still enough for the
operation to earn its keep, Mr. Gordon says. One example: a
store survey done right after the 1987 crash that found
consumers were still buying.
   "It gave us the confidence that the world wasn't falling
apart," says Mr. Rosenberg, who made timely purchases for
RCM's stock portfolio, helping it outperform the overall
stock market in 1987. (RCM did so again last year, posting a
34.4% gain against 31.7% for the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock
index.)
   Mr. Gordon says that Grassroots' tougher assignments go to
journalists, often working for speciality publications and
doing tasks on the side for Grassroots. He says that a
health-care reporter who was asked by Grassroots last year to
survey cardiologists on the acceptance C.R. Bard Inc.'s
angioplasty catheters, an instrument used to help clear
blocked arteries as an alternative to bypass surgery, found
some doctors complaining of tips breaking off the devices.
   The findings were passed to RCM's portfolio managers, who
decided to sell some of the firm's holding of Bard stock.
Bard later issued several recalls of its catheters and
reported lower earnings in 1989 for the first time in 16
years.
   Grassroots pays a researcher $600 for a straight-forward
report on cosmetics sales, and $1,500 for a much broader
survey of 75 farm-equipment dealers. Another network of
"readers" send RCM about 2,000 clippings a week from local
newspapers, which are reviewed in hopes of spotting trends.
The final research is used only by RCM, although snippets are
sent to clients.
   People who supply information to Grassroots interviewers
get a copy of finished surveys in which they participate,
which enoucrages them to reply to future polls.
   Some of Mr. Gordon's discoveries draw yawns from the stock
market. He was excited when his field staff reported weeks
ago that two department-store chains carrying lawn mowers
with motors made by Tecumseh Products Inc. had quietly
started to add mower lines with motors made by Briggs &amp;
Stratton Inc. But when Briggs &amp; Stratton last week reported a
strong quarterly sales increase, the stock rose only
temporarily on the news and still remains below its 52-week
high.
   Mr. Gordon says the stock market sometimes is slow to
digest information even when it's no longer secret. He also
acknowledges that collecting data from the field has its
failings. One is that focusing on sales can mean overlooking
a company's problems with costs.
   Another is that Grassroots until recently sampled only the
U.S. marketplace, while many companies' fortunes hinge on
their international operations. Expanding Grassroots's
operations to include foreign markets is aimed at plugging
that hole.
   Nor is Grassroots's view of the world accepted as gospel
by RCM's own portfolio managers or traditional analysts; they
sometimes react testily when Grassroots' findings contradict
their own. "I get into shouting matches with the
(traditional) analysts upstairs," Mr. Gordon says. "Sometimes
I win and sometimes I lose."
   The problem, Mr. Gordon sniffs, is that "the analysts
upstairs are getting all their information from Wall Street."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NCNB Unit Will Auction
   $260 Million of Small Loans
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   NCB
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- The Texas banking crisis has been an auction
aficianado's dream as thrifts, banks and the federal
government have used the auctioneer's gavel to close sales of
land, houses, cars and antiques.
   Now brave bidders can go for actual loans. NCNB Texas
Corp., a unit of NCNB Corp. of Charlotte, N.C., said
yesterday that it will auction $260 million of small
commercial and consumer loans that the bank has already
charged off.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The loans, inherited by NCNB Texas from the banking units
of First RepublicBank Corp., will be auctioned May 30 in
about 40 portfolios packaged by market, such as Dallas,
Houston, San Antonio and Austin.
   The auction, a first for NCNB Texas, is patterned after
Bank of America's sale last July of $35 million in
credit-card debt. Since then, the auctioneers who handled the
sale, Ross-Dove Co. of Foster City, Calif., have wielded the
gavel in another credit-card debt sale for a private
collection agency and in two auctions of mixed loans for the
Federal Deposit Insurance Co.
   Unlike most loan auctions, which are conducted by sealed
bid with minimum bid amounts set by the sellers, these are
"open-cry" auctions with no minimums, said Ken Fisher,
regional vice president of Ross-Dove.
   Mr. Fisher said the sellers have collected as little as
one-tenth of 1% on the principal amount of the debt, or loans
to as much as 80% of the principal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ames Brings in Pistner as Chief to Turn
   Firm Around After Chapter 11 Filing
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   ADD WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ames Department Stores Inc., which last week filed for
bankruptcy-court protection, hired retailing consultant
Stephen L. Pistner to rescue the discount chain from the
financial misfortunes of its Zayre stores.
   Mr. Pistner, 58 years old, was named chief executive
officer and to the "office of chairman," a newly created post
he will share with James Harmon, who continues as chairman.
As chief executive, Mr. Pistner succeeds Peter B. Hollis, 46,
who resigned. Mr. Pistner's appointment is subject to
approval by the U.S. bankruptcy court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Styled a turnaround artist, Mr. Pistner helped reverse
problems at variety-store operator McCrory Corp.,
department-store chain Montgomery Ward &amp; Co. and at Dayton
Hudson Corp.'s Target discount chain since the late 1970s.
"He has the reputation of a contract executive," said Chriss
Street, bankruptcy specialist at Seidler Amdec in Los
Angeles. "He comes in, turns the company around and leaves."
   But the hard-driving executive, once known for flying
planes under Mississippi River bridges, will need to pull
some stunts to pull Ames out of a tailspin.
   Thursday, Ames filed for protection from its creditors
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, after
disclosing that it expects to report a $228 million loss for
the year ended Jan. 27, largely because of problems at former
Zayre operations Ames acquired in 1988. The filing, along
with $250 million in new financing, allows Ames to buy badly
needed merchandise from its suppliers and continue to operate
while trying to work out a plan to repay its debts.
   Mr. Pistner will attempt what Mr. Hollis, who himself was
described as a merchandising artist, was unable to accomplish
-- restoring profitability to the 680-store chain with annual
revenue of more than $4 billion.
   "It's going to take some work," admitted Mr. Pistner, who
said he began looking at Ames's problems eight days ago. He
said he has given the task "some thought," but added it would
be premature to announce any strategic plan. "Basically, it's
a question of how to reposition the company. But that's my
skill," he said. "I specialize in turnarounds."
   Ames's problems stem in part from poor marketing decisions
at the old Zayre stores. It tried to change the Zayre
philosophy of attracting discount hunters by advertising
bargains -- and even selling some merchandise at a loss -- in
hopes of getting shoppers into the stores to buy other goods
as well. Ames instead switched to an "every-day low price"
strategy. But many of Zayre's old customers who had been
programmed to buy heavily discounted items went elsewhere.
While sales at the old Ames stores continued to grow in the
5% range, this was more than offset by the double-digit
declines at its Zayre units.
   Analysts note that Mr. Pistner must choose to continue on
the path already set by Mr. Hollis or revert to Zayre's
one-time successful formula of promotions. "It's like
navigating a boat in mid-stream," said Mr. Street.
   Ames's new chief also faces another challenge -- all his
moves must be scrutinized by the bankruptcy court and lawyers
representing various interests, and funds to make changes
will be limited. "This already monumental assignment has to
be done with one hand tied behind his back," said Wayne Hood,
retail analyst for Prudential Bache.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Theater:
   Harlem Nights, High Court Drama
   ----
   By Melanie Kirkpatrick
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- "Spunk," George C. Wolfe's animated adaptation
of three short stories by Zora Neale Hurston, is a happy
exception to the rule that a good read rarely makes a good
show. In this case, the tales project their powerful blend of
pathos and charm both in print and on stage.
   Hurston, the Florida-born, New York-educated writer, is
admired today as an astute chronicler of black life and black
speech in the '30s and '40s. Scorned during her lifetime by
many blacks who considered her to be perpetuating low-life
stereotypes, she died in ignominy in 1960.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If Bessie Smith and Ma Rainey sang the blues, Zora Neale
Hurston wrote them. "Spunk's" three tales slide up and down
the scale of emotion. Like a good blues number, they're about
ordinary folks and the ordinary tragedies that happen between
men and women. Although they're mostly in a minor key, they
have frequent bursts of gleeful comedy.
   The principal stories are "Sweat" and "The Gilded
Six-Bits." The first is the brutal story of a pious,
hard-working washerwoman trying to shed a no-count, runaround
husband. The betrayal is reversed in the second story, and a
gentle husband must come to terms with his foolish wife's
indiscretion.
   In between comes the merry "Story in Harlem Slang," about
two young men strutting down Lenox Avenue. Both are penniless
and trying to put the make on a savvy domestic who just got
paid. In what must be the ultimate compliment on a lady's
figure, one of the dandies exclaims: "Oooo-eee] The shape you
got on you] I bet the Coca-Cola Company's paying you a lot
for the patent."
   Before the two would-be moochers get their comeuppance,
they primp, preen and prance around stage to the rollicking
tune of their own colorful slang, which is annotated in the
program. One example: "Beatin' up your gums" is translated as
"talking to no purpose."
   Part acted, part narrated and part sung, the three stories
are linked musically. A snappy guitar player and an
expressive blues singer frame the tales in song. They never
leave the stage, but circle round each story's four players,
constantly commenting on the action and occasionally taking
part.
   It's probably unfair to single out any member of the cast
since all six are so good, but I can't resist mentioning one:
Reggie Montgomery has a villainous charm as the abusive
husband in "Sweat." His flashy smile and flirtatious tilt of
the head are simultaneously beguiling and sinister. In
"Harlem Slang," he's the model coxcomb as he shows off his
zoot suit in a breezy gravity-defying strut.
   ---
   Hurston's Harlem is a far cry from that of "Mama, I Want
to Sing -- Part II," the continuation of the story of Doris
Winter, a Gospel singer turned pop star. In the sequel, based
loosely on the life of Doris Troy (who plays the mother
here), Doris (D'Atra Hicks) juggles the demands of marriage
and motherhood as her singing career takes her round the
world. She finally decides she'd rather be on Lenox Avenue
than on the Ginza.
   The plot, the dialogue and the acting are all pretty thin,
but the spirited music happily makes up for what they lack.
All the voices are strong and the church choir, played by the
New York Reach Ensemble, is a delight. When they unleash
their voices, pure joy escapes. The choral celebration is led
by Charles Stewart, in "real" life an English teacher at a
Newark, N.J., high school. As the lightfooted minister of
music, he shimmies and shakes his way through the Gospel
tunes with an exuberance that matches that of the choir.
   ---
   You'd think the life of Supreme Court Justice William O.
Douglas would make good theater. It's heartwarming: The poor
son of a preacher from a small town in the Pacific Northwest
breaks into the Eastern Establishment and, as liberal gospel
would have it, becomes the ardent defender of free speech in
the highest court in the land. There's adventure too: He
climbs the Himalayas and drives cross Persia. There's even
romance: He marries four women.
   All these elements make their way into "Mountain," Douglas
Scott's homage to the nation's longest-serving justice. But
it's all as untidy as one of Justice Douglas's famous sloppy
opinions, and it's about as much fun as watching the
recitation of a court brief. To indicate how platitudinous
and dull the script is, suffice it to say that some of
Douglas's better lines carry a touch of legalese, as if they
were lifted from the justice's decisions.
   Len Cariou makes a valiant effort as Douglas, who is
written as a saint at every age -- from childhood through
dotage. The opening scene, which takes place just before his
death, finds him on the floor trying to crawl up a wall he
mistakes for a mountain. "I don't need your help. I'm doing
it myself," he shouts. This is supposed to project Douglas's
indomitable individualism. Self-centeredness is more like it,
however, and Douglas's pious whining -- about his wives, his
fellow justices, his presidents, his mountains -- isn't
enough to build a character an audience can care about. Even
when discussing some of his famous opinions -- on the right
to contraception or the unconstitutionality of interring
Japanese-Americans during World War II -- he sounds more
petulant than judicial.
   John C. Vennema and Heather Summerhayes, dressed in sober
suits, play all the "memories," of which there are 25 or so,
including Nixon, FDR, Louis Brandeis, Mom, Dad and the four
wives. The two change roles about every other minute, which
is terribly confusing. Is the guy in the suit Harry Truman or
Douglas's neglected son? The best that can be said about this
guessing game is that it is at least a distraction from the
sanctimonious hagiography of a singularly unlikable man.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Colgate-Palmolive Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CL
</CO>
<LP>
   COLGATE-PALMOLIVE Co. -- Stephen K. Zrike was named
president and chief executive officer of Princess House, a
North Dighton, Mass., unit of this consumer-products concern.
Mr. Zrike succeeds Richard C. Brown, who is retiring. Mr.
Zrike joined Princess House in 1985 and was executive vice
president until recently. Princess House makes and markets
crystal and other gift and decorative products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   To Lower Infant Mortality Rate, Get Mothers Off Drugs
   ----
   By Harmeet K.D. Singh
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   It is a tragedy and a source of embarrassment that the
U.S. ranks 20th in the world in preventing infant mortality.
Singapore and Hong Kong, as well as Japan and most of Western
Europe, all do better. The statistics are particularly bad
for minority children: A black infant born in the District of
Columbia is more likely to die before the age of one than a
baby born in North Korea or Bulgaria. These shameful
statistics persist despite the 93 federal programs and $7
billion a year that the country spends to keep children
alive.
   Most thinking about infant mortality focuses on ways to
provide medical insurance for the one-sixth of all women who
are both uninsured and ineligible for Medicaid or to deliver
health care in their own neighborhoods to women who might be
intimidated by hospitals or clinics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But these proposals fail to address the most important
reason for America's high infant mortality: the behavior and
motivation of mothers themselves. The situation in the
District of Columbia exemplifies the problem. Mayor Marion
Barry has bragged that Washington's infant mortality campaign
is "the most comprehensive anywhere in the country," and he
is probably correct. In D.C., prenatal care is free to any
woman whose family income is less than $20,000. Eleven of the
city's 16 health clinics provide prenatal care and are
required to give a woman an appointment within two weeks (two
months is the average in many states). Convenient evening
hours make it even easier for women to reach a clinic, and
child care is also available. At the clinic, a woman can see
an obstetrician, a nurse, a WIC {Special Supplemental Feeding
Program for Women, Infants and Children} worker, a social
worker, even a dentist, and also be referred for drug
treatment.
   D.C. has marketed its services well. A highly visible
media campaign, called "Better Babies," has posted ads on
buses and posters, and broadcast them on television and radio
around the city. The MOM van (Maternity Outreach Mobile
project) makes the rounds of the city's poorest neighborhoods
every day, finding pregnant women, reminding them of their
appointments and getting them there if they have no
transportation. Nor are private practitioners in short
supply: Unlike many other areas of the country, D.C. has
plenty of obstetrical care providers, many of whom cater to
the Medicaid clientele and are conveniently located
throughout the city. Altogether, D.C. spends $105 million on
its residents' health.
   Despite all of this lavish attention, the District of
Columbia has the nation's worst infant mortality rate, 27 per
1,000 in early 1989, or nearly three times the national rate.
(In 1988, the most recent year for which there are data,
10,514 babies were born in D.C.)
   Other cities with equally costly infant mortality programs
are achieving equally dismal results. Infant mortality in
Detroit is almost as bad as in D.C., even though the city
employs, at considerable expense, teams of specially trained
paraprofessional outreach workers to comb neighborhoods, find
pregnant women and bring them into the public health system.
Hartford, Conn., has offered similarly liberal prenatal care
for poor women, yet only a third of its teen-age mothers
sought care in their first trimester.
   Why don't women in D.C. and other cities take advantage of
the prenatal care offered to them? Clearly, neither lack of
availability nor insufficient outreach is the answer. "Most
of the women I come into contact with know they can get free
care, but a lot of them don't really take prenatal care all
that seriously. Some of them say they didn't even know they
were pregnant until pretty late in the pregnancy," reports
one D.C. public health official.
   Another explanation for high infant mortality rates lies
in the staggeringly high number of babies born to
substance-abusing women. Ethel Hawkins, director of social
services at D.C. General Hospital, estimates that "well over
60% of the babies born here are born to women who used drugs
or alcohol while they were pregnant." Another health care
worker placed the toll closer to 70%.
   Even when these women are identified and counseled early
in the pregnancy, convincing them to stop destroying their
children often proves impossible, as the Infant Mortality
Research Program of the Department of Agriculture -- which
identifies pregnant women in D.C. by going door to door in
half the city's wards and distributing information in grocery
stores and laundromats -- has found. According to the
program's director, Lilly Munroe-Lord, "It's very difficult
to get through to the women who are using crack while
pregnant. They simply don't hear you. The ones who are casual
users can be convinced to stop during the remainder of the
pregnancy, but they usually go right back to it after the
baby is born."
   Dr. George Graham, professor of human nutrition at Johns
Hopkins University, confirms these observations from the
field: "I don't know how spending more on prenatal care is
going to make any difference to the woman who uses crack. A
recent study found that nearly 30% of the babies born in New
York hospitals were addicted to crack. Use of drugs, not poor
nutrition, is the leading cause of low birthweight. You hear
a lot about how nutritional deficiencies, lack of funds of
WIC, etc., are responsible for low birthweight, but that's
simply false. Low birthweight in the U.S. is not caused by
poor feeding programs -- it's usually caused by the behavior
of the mother."
   Teen pregnancy and illegitimacy are also important causes
of low birthweight and infant mortality. American Enterprise
Institute researcher Nicholas Eberstadt recently wrote in a
nationally syndicated column on Nov. 3, "If viewed as a
medical condition, illegitimacy would be one of the leading
killers of children in America." Mr. Eberstadt's work
suggests that a child born to poor, married parents has a
better chance of survival than a child born to a middle-class
single mother: Infant mortality rates, according to one 1982
study, can be higher for children of unmarried white college
graduates than for children of married white high-school
dropouts.
   Not so coincidentally, D.C., which trails the nation in
infant mortality, also has the nation's highest percentage of
births to unmarried mothers. Fifty-eight percent of all
babies in the city are born to unmarried women-nearly three
times the national average.
   Responsible maternal behavior may even compensate for
comparatively poorer prenatal care. A Japanese woman is four
times more likely to die during childbirth than an American
woman, because complex medical treatment is more likely to be
available here. Yet Japan has the world's lowest rate of
infant mortality -- about half that of the U.S. In Japan,
fewer than 1% of all mothers are either unmarried or
teenagers.
   America's high rate of infant mortality is more of a
social than a medical problem. Spending more won't fix it.
   ---
   Mrs. Singh is assistant editor of Policy Review. This is
excerpted from the spring issue of that magazine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<LP>
   Fish and Scraps?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Recycle plastic, save the world,
   The nature lovers urge;
   Now scientists in England have
   Prepared a plastic purge.
   Yes, little bits of plastic
   Have the same effect as bran.
   So, throw that plastic on your food,
   Not in the garbage can]
   -- Harriet Cooper.
   ---
   Passing the Brick
                                                                                                       

   I know the gist of most corporate announcements
   Long before any statement is made,
   For good news is given by our CEO
   And bad tidings by his PR aide.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Changing Times
                                                                                                       

   An old-timer is one who remembers that a hot line was once
the link between you and your fire department.
   -- Daisy Brown.
   ---
   Spiritual Note
                                                                                                       

   Would you say that an atheist is someone who has no
invisible means of support?
   -- Thomas Henry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nomura Units,
   Barr Rosenberg
   Join in Research
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   ----
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NOM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Two U.S. units of Japan's Nomura Securities Co. are
linking up with quantitative investment specialist Barr
Rosenberg to study ways in which computers can be applied to
managing securities portfolios.
   Shareholders of the new joint venture, Nomura Rosenberg
Investment Technology Institute, will be Mr. Rosenberg,
Nomura Holding America Inc. and Nomura's U.S. research arm.
Mr. Rosenberg, who designs mathematical models to manage
money, will be chairman. The institute will be staffed by
about 10 professionals from Nomura along with Mr. Rosenberg;
it will be located in San Francisco.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nomura said that the new institute will do research in
international investment theory, particularly focusing on
ways to use quantitative methods in managing diversified
portfolios, perhaps involving securities denominated in
different currencies and invested in various markets.
   Nomura already has a relationship with Mr. Rosenberg. In
1987, the two teamed up to form Rosenberg Asset Management in
Japan. The concern primarily uses quantitative methods to
manage funds for Japanese investors in the Tokyo market.
Nomura also owns 49% of Rosenberg Institutional Equity
Management Inc. of Orinda, Calif., which manages more than $2
billion of Japanese money in the U.S.
   While small, the new institute is another example of the
growing links between Japanese investors and U.S. portfolio
managers. It also reflects the increasing Japanese interest
in "quantitative" investing, in which funds are invested
according to computer-based models.
   Besides Nomura, Nikko Securities Co., Sumitomo Bank Ltd.,
Orix Corp., Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd. and Long-Term
Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. all have links with American money
managers. In addition, both Yamaichi Securities Co. and Daiwa
Securities Co. have hired U.S. academics to design
computer-driven investment models for various markets. In the
biggest "quantitative" connection to date, Nikko last June
agreed to pay $125 million for 50% of the money management
unit of Wells Fargo &amp; Co. The deal was completed earlier this
year.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   NOMURA SECURITIES Co., through several units and
subsidiaries, owns 49% of Rosenberg Asset Management, a
venture owned jointly with Rosenberg Institutional Equity
Management of Orinda, Calif. In yesterday's edition, the
relationship was misstated.
   (WSJ May 2, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Carter-Wallace Buys
   Hygeia Sciences Unit
   From Tambrands Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CAR TMB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Carter-Wallace Inc. said it acquired Hygeia
Sciences Inc., which markets First Response at-home pregnancy
and ovulation test kits, from Tambrands Inc. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   Carter-Wallace, a marketer of toiletries and
pharmaceutical products, said that the First Response will
complement its existing line of Answer at-home pregnancy and
ovulation test kits and will make it the leading marketer of
such kits. Tambrands said that First Response, with annual
sales of about $28 million, has about a 25% market share of
the in-home test kit market, while Answer has about a 10%
market share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tambrands, based in Lake Success, N.Y., is a maker of
personal-care products. In selling its Hygeia Science
subsidiary, Tambrands said that it has completed its plan to
divest noncore businesses to concentrate on marketing Tampax
tampons and Maxithins sanitary pads. Last February, Tambrands
sold its cosmetics subsidiary, Physicians Formula Cosmetics
Inc., to Pierre Farbre, a French-based cosmetics company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Time Off: Diversions and Excursions May 1-14
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   ART
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.: "The Passionate
Eye: Impressionist and Other Master Paintings From the
Collection of Emil G. Buhrle" -- The first exhibition in the
U.S. devoted to the collection of this Swiss industrialist
(1890-1956) includes 85 oil paintings and works on paper by
Italian, Dutch, French and Spanish artists. Represented are
early masters such as Frans Hals and Canaletto;
impressionists and post-impressionists such as Manet, Monet
and Gauguin; and 20th-century artists such as Kandinsky,
Matisse and Picasso. Fourth Street at Constitution Avenue NW,
May 6-July 15. The show then moves to the Montreal Museum of
Fine Arts, Aug. 3-Oct. 14; the Yokohama Museum of Art, Japan,
Nov. 2, 1990-Jan. 13, 1991; and the Royal Academy of Arts,
London, Feb. 1-April 14, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   National Museum of American History, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, D.C.: "Information Age: People,
Information &amp; Technology" -- This $10 million,
14,000-square-foot show, on indefinite display, examines how
information technology has changed our society in the past
150 years. A complete computer network ties together
interactive work stations, video, films and radio recordings.
More than 700 artifacts are displayed along with graphics and
objects from the museum's collections -- the Morse telegraph,
components of Bell's first telephone, early personal
computers. 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW.
                                                                                                       

   National Museum of Women in the Arts, Washington, D.C.:
"Elisabeth Frink: Sculpture and Drawings 1950-1990" -- Sixty
sculptures and 25 drawings by this British artist, best known
for her monumental cast bronze portrait heads, male figures,
birds and animals. 1250 York Avenue, through July 4.
                                                                                                       

   Baltimore Museum of Art: "Weston's Westons: Portraits and
Nudes" -- More than 100 vintage prints by Edward Weston
(1886-1958), focusing solely on Weston as a figurative
photographer. The nudes include the little known "Male Torso"
(circa 1918); the highly abstract prints of the 1920s and
'30s; his '30s nudes on the sand dunes at Oceano; and his
last, satiric works, such as "Civilian Defense" (1942). Art
Museum Drive, through June 10.

   China Institute in America, New York: "Clear as Crystal,
Red as Flame: Later Chinese Glass" -- Almost 70 pieces form a
comprehensive survey of the art of Chinese glassmaking from
the 14th to 19th centuries. The pieces range from clear glass
vessels to trompe l'oeil imitations of jade, turquoise,
porcelain and other precious materials. 125 East 65th Street,
through June 16.
                                                                                                       

   DANCE
                                                                                                       

   Tomov Folk Dance Ensemble -- Authentic dances from
Yugoslavia and the Balkans performed by some 40 dancers,
singers and musicians. The troupe, in anticipation of its
performing tour of southern Yugoslavia this summer,
highlights the many dances of Macedonia. Riverside Church
Theater, Riverside Drive at 122nd Street, New York. May 12 at
2:30 and 7:30. For tickets, write the Folkdance Foundation,
66-12 48th Ave., Woodside, N.Y. 11377.
                                                                                                       

   MUSIC
                                                                                                       

   Metropolitan Opera: Sharon Sweet, a newcomer to the
company, sings Leonora in Verdi's "Il Trovatore." Franco
Bonisolli sings her troubadour. Lincoln Center, 65th and
Broadway, New York. May 2 and 5.
                                                                                                       

   Otowa Yurikago Kai, Japan's leading children's chorus,
makes its American debut at Carnegie Hall as part of the 30th
anniversary celebration of the sister city relationship
between Tokyo and New York. The 30 children who've made the
trip range in age from three to 17 years. They will performe
ancestral and contemporary Japanese folk songs, with half the
proceeds going to the United National Children's Fund. 57th
Street and Seventh Avenue, (212) 247-7800.
                                                                                                       

   ORRA, a music organization devoted to producing and
performing works of contemporary composers, presents
"Rimshot," a new satirical opera by Russell Currie about the
life of a ficticious rock drummer, Joe Rimshot. Based on the
play "Best" by Scott Speed, the show explores the elusive
nature of fame and popularity in the music biz. The libretto
is by Ron Singer, Jennifer Johanos directs, and the Orra
Chamber Ensemble provides the accompaniment. Pace Downtown
Theater, Schimmel Center for the Arts, Pace University, Pace
Plaza, New York. May 10-12. (212) 620-4294.
                                                                                                       

   Opera Delaware presents Mozart's "The Abduction From the
Seraglio," set in exotic 18th-century Turkey. It stars Evelyn
de la Rosa as Constanze and tenor James R. Longacre as
Belmonte. Stephen Lord conducts and Sally Stunkel directs.
Grand Opera House, 818 Market Street, Wilmington. May 5, 11
and 12. (302) 652-5577.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrial Average Climbs 11.71
   In Rally; Blue Chips Move Higher
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices finished mixed as a late round of
buying, spurred by a decline in interest rates and some
encouraging news from International Business Machines, pushed
blue-chip issues higher.
   But while the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 11.71 to
2656.76, the broad market proved unable to shake off the
effect of a broad-based sell-off that kicked off the session.
Declining stocks led advancers by 749 to 732 on the New York
Stock Exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Big Board activity was the lightest since April 9 as
market players awaited this week's major economic reports,
including the April survey of corporate purchasing managers,
due for release today.
   Volume totaled just 122,750,000 shares, compared with
130,630,000 shares Friday. Traders also attributed the
sluggish activity to a lack of business from overseas.
Japanese investors were observing the Greenery Day holiday,
and today's May Day observance kept many European investors
on the sidelines.
   Among broader measures, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index
went up 1.69 to 330.80, the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Index gained 0.75 to 181.49, and the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index added 1.53 to 308.13.
   Selling in the wake of Friday's market retreat, in which
the Dow industrial average tumbled 31.53, sent the average to
a double-digit loss shortly after the opening. In addition,
losers opened up an early lead of more than 2-to-1 over
gainers on the Big Board.
   But the market stabilized above its early lows and then
drifted within a narrow trading range through midafternoon,
when the yield on the Treasury's bellwether 30-year bond
dropped below 9% and IBM stock began to attract buyers.
   IBM climbed 1 5/8 to 109 in Big Board composite trading of
1.6 million shares. Chairman John F. Akers told the annual
meeting that the company anticipates "substantially improved
financial performance" this year and that restructuring
efforts should lead to an annual savings of $1 billion next
year.
   Compaq Computer, during an appearance at a technology
conference in San Francisco, reiterated its forecast of 5% to
10% growth in the U.S. personal-computer market this year.
The firm's stock rose 2 1/8 to 99 1/2. Among other key
technology issues, Digital Equipment added 1 to 83, Cray
Research rose 1/2 to 42 1/2, and Tandem Computers rose 1 1/8
to 25 1/4.
   The Treasury's long bond was up about 1/4 point, or $2.50
per $1,000 face amount, in late trading. The yield, which
moves in the opposite direction from the price, stood at
8.99% -- its first retreat below 9% since surpassing that
level Thursday for the first time in almost a year.
   Buy programs resulting from stock-index trading
contributed to the late gains in stocks, just as some program
selling had figured in the early decline. In the final hour,
traders sold index-futures contracts and purchased baskets of
stocks in order to profit from price differences between
them. The process had gone the other way at the opening, as
traders bought the futures contracts and sold stocks.
   Merrill Lynch, citing its concerns about recent earnings
reports, cut the stock portion of its model portfolio to 35%
from 40% and boosted the cash position to 15% from 10%. The
other 50% of the model portfolio remains in bonds.
   Richard Bernstein, director of quantitative research, said
a model which takes current and projected earnings and
dividends into account indicates that stocks are overvalued
at their current price levels by about 20%.
   Earnings concerns prompted the portfolio change, he said,
since many companies appear to be suffering from "squeezed
margins" as wages are on the rise. "So far we haven't seen
the ability of companies to pass on" higher wages through
price increases, Mr. Bernstein said.
   PepsiCo, whose first-quarter earnings were in line with
analysts' forecasts, rose 1 3/4 to 66 1/4. The company's net
income went up about 10% from a year earlier to $181.9
million, or 68 cents a share. Coca Cola, its key rival in the
soft-drink business, added 1 to 76 1/4.
   Boeing added 1 to 69 3/4 after reporting that its
first-quarter earnings from operations jumped nearly 87% from
the year-earlier level. The concern projected a 33% sales
increase in 1990. Also, the company raised its quarterly
dividend by 25% and declared a 3-for-2 stock split.
   Nashua rose 7/8 to 40 3/4. The company boosted its
dividend by 20% and said it would begin a Dutch auction offer
later this week for about 30% of its common stock in a price
range of $39 to $44 a share.
   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi rose 1/2 to 4 7/8 after PaineWebber
raised its investment rating on the stock to "buy" from
"neutral." Analyst Alan Gottesman told Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report that the stock's price, which has been
steadily falling recently, fully reflects the company's
troubles.
   Chase Manhattan placed first on the Big Board's list of
most active issues as a result of trades designed to capture
its next dividend payment. The stock, which has a dividend
yield of 9.8%, finished up 1/8 at 25 3/8 on 1.9 million
shares.
   Texas Utilities rose 7/8 to 35 1/8 on 1.1 million shares
in the wake of its first-quarter earnings report. Its net
income rose 44% from a year ago and was on the upper end of
analysts' forecasts.
   Gulf States Utilities lost 1/2 to 10 5/8 after Shearson
Lehman Hutton lowered its 1990 earnings estimate to 13 cents
a share from $1. Analyst Edward J. Tirello Jr. told the
investor report that the earlier projection was "out of line
with reality."
   Baltimore Bancorp surged 3 1/4 to 15. The company received
a takeover bid of $17 a share from First Maryland Bancorp, a
unit of Allied Irish Banks.
   Union Texas Petroleum Holdings climbed 2 5/8 to 20 1/2.
Its board agreed to explore the sale of the company and other
alternatives for boosting the value of the company's shares.
   Computer Associates International advanced 1 to 14. As
expected, the company unveiled a software-development
strategy designed to unify the products it has acquired
through a recent takeover binge.
   Better-than-expected earnings for the first quarter
boosted the shares of Imperial Chemical Industries, which
added 1 3/4 to 70 5/8. While the company's pretax profit fell
6% from the year-earlier period, analysts had expected a
sharper decline.
   Lewis Galoob Toys tumbled 1 1/8 to 7 1/2 after reporting a
loss of 16 cents a share for the quarter. A year earlier, the
company posted net income of 25 cents a share.
   Consolidated Freightways rose 3/4 to 17. The company,
which reported a first-quarter loss of $1.06 a share last
week, declared a regular quarterly dividend of 26.5 cents a
share.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.46
to 343.10. Volume totaled 9,220,520 shares compared with
10,920,000 Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Omni Exploration Plans Hiring
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   OMNX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Omni Exploration Inc. directors
authorized hiring investment bankers to explore the possible
sale of the company or other transactions that would maximize
shareholder value.
   The market price of the common stock doesn't fairly
reflect the value of Omni's oil and natural gas reserves,
said Gary Novinskie, president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Omni Exploration is an oil and gas production company with
reserves mainly in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Kansas. For
the fiscal year ended last Sept. 30, the company had a net
loss of $235,000, or one cent a share, on revenue of $2.1
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ICH Sets Transaction for Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   ICH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- I.C.H. Corp. said it agreed to sell a
unit, Marquette National Life Insurance Co., to Consolidated
National Successor Corp. and I.C.H. Chairman Robert T. Shaw,
who owns 55% of Consolidated, which in turn owns 22% of the
common and all the Class B shares of I.C.H. The price wasn't
disclosed.
   I.C.H. said it doesn't expect the sale to result in
significant gains or losses in the current year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   States Gain
   Power to Pursue
   Antitrust Cases
   ---
   High Court Ruling Allows
   California to Challenge
   Purchase of Lucky Stores
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   ASC
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court, clearing the way for
California to challenge the merger of two major supermarket
chains, ruled that federal courts have broad powers to
dismantle anticompetitive mergers in lawsuits by states or
private citizens.
   The 9-0 decision substantially increases the risks to
companies involved in mergers that their deals won't succeed
because of court challenges. The ruling is likely to prompt
firms to cooperate more fully with state attorneys general
than in the past.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In practical terms, the ruling means that California
officials may proceed with their suit to block permanently
the takeover of Lucky Stores Inc., once the largest
supermarket chain in the state, by American Stores Co., which
owns Alpha Beta Stores Inc., another large chain.
   The $2.5 billion merger was completed on paper in June
1988. But American Stores has been forced to continue
operating the two chains separately during the state's suit
because of a federal court order. Now the case will be
returned to a federal court in Los Angeles for a trial to
decide whether the merger, which state officials charge is
anticompetitive, should be permanently dismantled by court
order.
   Antitrust law experts said the ruling will have a broad
impact beyond the California dispute. "This is the most
important antitrust ruling in a long time," says Joe Sims, a
lawyer here. "For mergers, where certainty has a lot of
value, this is a big problem," he said.
   California Attorney General John Van de Kamp, who hailed
the Supreme Court ruling, said the decision firmly
establishes the right of states to enforce their own
antitrust laws, whether the federal government is willing to
or not. Mr. Van de Kamp, who is seeking the Democratic
gubernatorial nomination, has campaigned long and hard
against the merger of American Stores and Lucky Stores.
   Lucky Stores, Dublin, Calif., declined to comment on the
ruling. Salt Lake City-based American Stores said, "No final
determination has been made that American's acquisition of
Lucky violated any laws, and American intends to vigorously
defend its position."
   Analysts said the decision clouds the American Stores
acquisition of Lucky even more now, raising concerns about a
complete divestiture of Lucky. Previously, the investment
community thought a worst-case scenario might have American
operating its Alpha Beta Stores and Lucky stores
independently, analysts said.
   At the least, analysts said, it was likely that American
Stores, in a settlement, might be forced to undertake an
asset sale to pare down its Lucky holdings to satisfy Mr. Van
de Kamp. That could hurt American, some analysts said, if the
sale included highly profitable Lucky Stores outlets. "This
thing could drag on for some time," said Edward Comeau, an
analyst at Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
   After the ruling yesterday, American Stores fell $1.75 to
close at $63.75 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   The ruling, written by Justice John Stevens, clarifies an
important step in the detailed framework of federal antitrust
law. Federal law allows the federal government to prosecute
criminal antitrust violations or to sue companies for damages
and to stop them from engaging in civil violations. This
authority for the federal government includes the power to
ask a federal court to require a company to divest itself of
assets obtained in a merger.
   Federal law also allows private citizens or businesses
hurt by anticompetitive conduct, as well as states
representing their residents, to sue for damages caused by
antitrust violations or to try to block mergers before they
take place. Damages may be tripled in state or private
antitrust lawsuits.
   But yesterday, the high court ruled for the first time
that antitrust law gives federal courts the power to order
divestiture in a merger in a lawsuit filed by a state or
private party; this may include a merger that has been
approved by the Justice Department or the Federal Trade
Commission. Allowing such lawsuits by states or private
parties for divestiture is consistent with Congress's "clear
intent to encourage vigorous private litigation against
anticompetitive mergers," Justice Stevens wrote.
   In American Stores' bid for Lucky Stores, the FTC staff
reviewed the merger and proposed to modify it, to which
American Stores agreed. Until those modifications could be
implemented and while the consent order was being reviewed by
the FTC commissioners, the FTC staff required American to
operate the Lucky and Alpha Beta chains separately.
   Meanwhile, California officials, arguing that the merger
would cost consumers $400 million annually in higher prices,
sued in federal court. A federal judge found the merger
anticompetitive based on his initial review of the case
before trial and issued a preliminary injunction ordering
American Stores to continue to run the two chains separately
while the case was pending.
   But a federal appeals court in San Francisco ruled in
March 1989 that the district court's order had the same
effect as requiring divestiture of Lucky Stores by American
Stores. The appeals court said federal courts may require
divestiture only in lawsuits brought by the government.
   Reversing the appeals court decision, the high court said
the district judge had the authority to order the chains to
operate separately during the appeals and may dismantle the
merger in the future if it is finally determined to be
anticompetitive.
   Last August, after the appeals court ruling, American
Stores proposed to complete the physical merging of the two
chains' operations, but Supreme Court Justice Sandra O'Connor
issued a stay that has required the separate operations to
continue to the present.
   In a friend-of-the-court brief, the Business Roundtable
said it was "seriously concerned" about the "high level of
uncertainty" that would be caused by lawsuits for
court-ordered divestiture.
   Mr. Sims said one effect of the ruling may be that
companies start providing detailed background and statistical
information to justify mergers to states at the same time
they provide it to the federal government. Many companies
have resisted sharing this type of data with state antitrust
enforcement officials. (California vs. American Stores Co.)
   ---
   William Celis III in San Francisco contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Bugs and Daffy
   Go Commercial
   In Warner Push
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX GIS TYSNA RD SC MCD GE GM IPG C
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Diet Pepsi endorsers Mike Tyson and Robin Givens ended up
in divorce court. Beef shill Cybill Shepherd admitted she
doesn't eat meat. Let's face it: Why bother with troublesome,
potentially embarrassing human spokesmen when you can have
Bugs Bunny instead?
   That, at least, is the hope of Time Warner's Warner Bros.
unit, which is kicking off a big campaign to promote Bugs and
the rest of the Looney Tunes cartoons as commercial pitchmen.
Using Bugs Bunny's 50th birthday this year as a hook, Warner
is touting the endorsement potential not just of Bugs but of
his 100-plus fellow "toons." Among other things, Warner is
plugging the possibilities in 32-page advertising inserts in
five current Time publications, including a Fortune insert
headlined, "Why Warner Bros. Cartoon Characters Make
Excellent Business Partners."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Warner's Looney Tunes join a growing list of cartoon icons
who are selling out. Mickey Mouse and Walt Disney's other
animated characters are almost everywhere, pitching
everything from Chevrolet's Lumina to Ultra Pampers diapers
to McDonald's. Snoopy, meanwhile, has gone commercial in a
big way this year as he celebrates his 40th birthday. As if
pitching Metropolitan Life insurance weren't enough, he's
added A&amp;W Root Beer, Chex Party Mix, and General Electric for
its Miser light bulbs, among others.
   "Disney and Snoopy both have been promoted widely," says
Dan Romanelli, president of world-wide merchandising for
Warner. "Looney Tunes have been underexposed for years, as
far as I'm concerned. We feel there's significant potential."
   Warner is pursuing its mission with such zest, though,
that some ad executives question whether overkill can be far
behind. After all, this is the movie company that
merchandised "Batman" to such excess that a quick death for
the frenzied Bat-fad was inevitable. While Bat-paraphernalia
raked in an estimated $500 million in retail sales while it
was hot, it's stone-dead as a Pet Rock now. Last year's Bat
T-shirt is buried at the bottom of the closet, forgotten in
this year's frenzy to collect Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
and Simpsons gear.
   "The one thing that will kill a character in the long term
is overexposure in the short term," says Al Ries, a marketing
consultant with Trout &amp; Ries. "You can go over the line, and
I think you'll find that ruins it -- just like Batman is dead
and I expect next year Teenage Ninja Turtles will be four
turtles floating belly-up."
   Indeed, Warner may be courting overkill already. Its
licensing push has barely begun, and already it has awarded
about 150 licenses for its Looney Tunes characters, primarily
Bugs Bunny. Some of those licenses have been around for
years, such as those for Bugs Bunny merchandise. But a
growing number are product endorsements: Bugs will grace
General Mills' Cheerios boxes and ads through summer. He'll
appear on canisters of Brach's jelly beans. He and the other
Looney Tunes will sell a new line of kids' microwave dinners
from Tyson Foods, called Looney Tunes meals. Holiday Inn is
planning a promotion around Bugs and friends, as are Shell
and McDonald's.
   With all that, Warner is trying to come up with even more.
"I don't think you can ever overexpose Bugs," insists
Warner's Mr. Romanelli.
   He adds that endorsement offers for Bugs and the other
characters are screened carefully and that inappropriate
offers have been turned down.
   Warner is so sure of Bugs's endorsement and merchandising
potential that it is predicting licensing revenue will double
by 1992 from about $50 million last year. That revenue
encompasses all of Warner's properties, including its movies.
Just a few years ago, licensing revenue from the Looney Tunes
characters was "fairly negligible," says Sandy Reisenbach,
Warner's executive vice president for marketing and planning.
Licensees typically pay anywhere from 1% to more than 5% of
wholesale sales for the privilege of using a character.
   To get even more companies thinking about Bugs as a
pitchman, Warner placed the advertising inserts in Time,
People, Life, Entertainment Weekly, and Fortune. Each 32-page
insert was slightly different. A 64-page free-standing
magazine compiled from the inserts will be sold in movie
theaters this summer, when a new cartoon short, "Box Office
Bunny," will be running. The multimillion-dollar magazine
package was negotiated with Time's magazine unit before last
year's Time Warner merger, executives involved say.
   While four of the five inserts are mainly consumer
oriented, the Fortune insert is geared specifically to sell
Bugs to corporations. It profiles Mr. Romanelli and
highlights Bugs merchandise such as watches (retailing at up
to $100), chess sets ($500) and gold charm bracelets ($600).
It boasts about endorsements Bugs has already lined up, such
as the Tyson Foods and Cheerios deals, and promotes "the
wisdom of pairing . . . consumer products with Warner Bros.'
popular and durable spokescreatures."
   "We're looking to announce to the world, `Look what we've
got, guys,'" Mr. Reisenbach says. "We utilized the birthday
as a spearhead for the promotion" of the characters'
endorsement potential.
   The magazine inserts are just the tip of a marketing
effort that includes Warner executives talking up scores of
companies on the appeal of Looney Tunes. Then there are the
special events surrounding Bugs's birthday, such as "Box
Office Bunny" and a prime-time TV special. Warner this fall
will also introduce a brand new cast of characters, Tiny
Toons -- basically baby versions of Bugs, Porky Pig and the
rest -- with a prime-time special and a new weekly series
executive-produced by Steven Spielberg. It's hoping Tiny
Toons will become another merchandising gold mine.
   "You might well ask yourself, is this overkill? Is there
room for all of this?" says Henry Scott, director of
merchandise for the children's division of retailer J.C.
Penney. But Mr. Scott believes the Tiny Toons will be a hit.
And as for the rest of the Looney Tunes bunch, "It's got
great characters, and they're a viable media for any kind of
advertiser. There's been a lot of Mickey and a lot of Disney.
It may well be time for Looney Tunes to have a resurgence."
   ---
   Thrifty Account Shift
                                                                                                       

   Thrifty Rent-A-Car System, Tulsa, Okla., awarded its $7
million ad account to a joint venture of Advertising Inc. and
Ciociola &amp; Co.
   Advertising Inc., also based in Tulsa, previously handled
the account alone. Thrifty said it threw the account into
review "to find new creative avenues." The link with
Ciociola, a small New York shop, helped Advertising Inc. save
the business, a Thrifty spokesman said. The combined agency's
first campaign is expected in August.
   Thrifty also heard presentations from GSD&amp;M of Austin,
Texas, and Ross Roy in Detroit.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NBC/GENERAL MOTORS: As expected, NBC said it signed a
multiyear agreement with General Motors that industry
executives said is worth well over $500 million over three
years. NBC, a unit of General Electric, wouldn't disclose the
terms of the agreement, except to say it represents the
largest commitment ever made by an advertiser in television
ad sales history.
                                                                                                       

   BEAUTY TITLE: Conde Nast, New York, said its new beauty
magazine, set to be launched in March 1991, will be called
Allure.
                                                                                                       

   SMIRNOFF RETURN: Heublein, whose Smirnoff vodka was
banished from Russia by the Bolsheviks, is trumpeting the
brand's return to Soviet duty-free shops with print ads in
the U.S. The ads, created by McCann-Erickson, carry the tag
line, "Back in the U.S.S.R."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S., Norway Settle
   Rift Over Cancelling
   An Amtech Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMTC EUROP G.SIE
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. and Norway have resolved a trade
dispute growing out of the Norwegian government's decision
last year to cancel a contract held by Amtech Corp. of Dallas
to supply electronic identification equipment for an Oslo
toll-road project.
   The accord was announced by U.S. Trade Representative
Carla Hills. An aide to Mrs. Hills said the Norwegian
government agreed to make certain "compensatory" cash
payments to Amtech to offset its financial loss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the amount wasn't specified in the announcement
of the settlement agreement Amtech said that Norway's
government agreed to pay about 7.1 million kroner, (about
$1.1 million) to it and its Norwegian partner, EB Lehmkuhl
AS, to reimburse costs incurred in the bidding process and in
preparing delivery of the system. Amtech said it received
about $700,000 of the payment, which will be recorded in its
second-quarter results.
   Mrs. Hills said Norway also agreed, in a formal exchange
of letters, to conform with rules of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade in all of its future government-procurement
operations. Generally, GATT rules require
"non-discriminatory" procedures in awarding contracts for
government-financed projects.
   The dispute involved equipment that can be used to
automatically read identification markers on cars using a
toll road. The equipment allows toll-road operators to bill
car owners later, rather than having to make them stop and
pay while actually using the roads.
   After the Amtech contract was canceled by the Norwegian
government transport ministry, a similar contract was awarded
to a Norwegian company that had offered to supply toll-road
identification devices manufactured by Siemens AG of West
Germany.
   As a result of the agreement with Norway, Mrs. Hills said
she terminated an investigation of a trade complaint filed by
the Amtech last August under the 1988 trade act and a
complaint the U.S. filed in Geneva against Norway under GATT
dispute-settlement procedures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   ABC Sought Truth About Khmer Rouge
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CCB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   In reference to Stephen Morris's April 26 editorial-page
article about our Cambodia broadcast of Thursday night: Your
headline, "ABC Flacks for Hanoi," is provocative, but hardly
accurate.
   It is difficult to respond to someone who does not wish to
address the same subject as we did in our broadcast. The
broadcast intended from the outset to examine the American
relationship with the political-military coalition led by
Prince Sihanouk. By every assessment, including that of
Prince Sihanouk and the U.S. government, the murderous Khmer
Rouge are the most powerful factor in that coalition. How Mr.
Morris concludes from this distance that the Khmer Rouge are
"far from likely to seize {power} soon" simply escapes me. By
way of contrast, the Australian ambassador to Thailand (it is
the Australian plan for a peaceful resolution in Cambodia
that the U.S. supports) told us early this year that, "our
intelligence people say the Khmer Rouge is capable of rolling
over the PRK." The PRK means the present Cambodian
government. "Not if," he said, "but when. It's a question of
whether this is the right time."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Morris says we make an "extraordinary statement" by
reporting that the Cambodian army, "without the Vietnamese,"
has "a real problem fighting" the noncommunist and Khmer
Rouge opposition, supported by the U.S. and China. Recent
reports of the Vietnamese returning to assist the Cambodian
army against the Khmer Rouge, to which Mr. Morris refers,
surely certify how vulnerable the Cambodian government feels.
   Mr. Morris claims we did not tell our audience that the
present leadership in Phnom Penh is still made up of
"unrepentant" Khmer Rouge. We most certainly told our
audience of Prime Minister Hun Sen's history as a former
member of the Khmer Rouge who defected to the Vietnamese and
that he was widely regarded as a Vietnamese puppet. I have no
idea whether he and others are unrepentant.
   Nor, I suspect, does Mr. Morris. We sought proof, not
merely innuendo, that the leadership is as Mr. Morris
describes it. We did not find proof and Mr. Morris does not
offer it. We did quote many sources, Cambodian and others who
felt that the political situation in Cambodia, with respect
to basic freedoms, was improving. Mr. Morris quotes Amnesty
International as reporting thousands of political prisoners
there in 1987. Perhaps he has missed the most recent Amnesty
report, which says that 430 people were detained for
political reasons in 1988; surely 430 too many, but an
improvement over thousands. Mr. Morris asserts that we
incorrectly report that there is cooperation on the
battlefield between the so-called noncommunist resistance and
the Khmer Rouge. It is, among others, Prince Sihanouk, the
leader of the coalition, who during our broadcast confirms
such battlefield cooperation. And then there is the question
of Col. Denny Laine. It has long puzzled many observers on
the Thai-Cambodian border, why a Special Forces colonel was
assigned as Mr. Morris states to worry about the "human
rights abuses in the {Khmer Rouge} refugee camps."
   Col. Laine had agreed to speak with us on camera, but as
we noted during the broadcast, "the Pentagon said, No." We
continue to wonder why the Pentagon refuses to let an officer
speak to us if his only job is to be concerned with the human
rights of civilians in refugee camps. Col. Laine told us, and
we reported, that he had been ordered to leave the border
area pending our arrival there. Mr. Morris neglected to
mention this.
   What I find insidious about Mr. Morris's commentary on our
broadcast is his personal, straight out of the '50s,
unsubstantiated attack on our producer Leslie Cockburn, to
whom he refers as a "committed left ideologue."
   Ms. Cockburn, who has worked for CBS Reports, 60 Minutes,
West 57th, Front Line on PBS, and now on assignment for ABC
News, does have the reputation of a producer/reporter who can
make life difficult for people who do not tell the truth. In
this day and age, Mr. Morris's treatment of Ms. Cockburn
seems an anachronism at best. Upon reflection, it appears to
me that we and Mr. Morris are destined to remain on different
planets. Our intention was to examine what the U.S. is doing,
if anything, to prevent the Khmer Rouge from returning to
power, and whether U.S. recognition of and assistance to the
coalition, which includes the Khmer Rouge, is in fact making
it easier for them. We have believed from the beginning this
was an important subject to anyone concerned with what the
Khmer Rouge did to their fellow Cambodians the last time they
were in power. In some respects Mr. Morris reaffirms our
central theme. He continues to be so preoccupied with Vietnam
that he can't see the Khmer Rouge coming.
   Peter Jennings
   Anchor and Senior Editor
   World News Tonight
   ABC News
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Hanoi Embraces Once-Reviled Capitalism
   ---
   Still Impoverished, Vietnam
   Economy Shows New Zip
   ----
   By Barry Wain
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam -- After communist forces
toppled the U.S.-backed South Vietnamese government in 1975,
ethnic-Chinese businessman Chau Hon persisted in running his
private bakery as Hanoi sought to impose strict socialism on
the reunited country. Arrested during a nationalization drive
in 1978, he was sent to toil in the countryside for two
years. Digging canals, the authorities figured, he would
learn the value of labor and forget his bourgeois ways.
   While Mr. Hon and his family endured what he calls "a dark
time," most of his friends -- traders, shopkeepers,
manufacturers -- joined the flood of refugees from Vietnam.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Back in Saigon, renamed Ho Chi Minh City, Mr. Hon was
recruited in 1981 by daring Communist cadres who were
convinced that free enterprise was the only way to save the
impoverished nation. They supplied the flour, and he made the
bread to feed a hungry population -- at a profit. Over the
next few years, he narrowly escaped prison again, along with
his Communist Party backers, as the party went through a
fierce internal struggle to decide which economic system
would prevail.
   Today, the outcome is beyond dispute. Mr. Hon, age 54,
owns six small factories that produce food products. He is
importing a $500,000 wafer-making machine from Austria and
has bought a $200,000 home for his wife and 10 children. He
also has opened a small department store and is seeking
approval to set up the country's first supermarket.
   With many of his old business friends returning from
abroad to invest in Vietnam, Mr. Hon believes Deputy Prime
Minister Nguyen Co Thach's repeated statement that the
government's commitment to an open economic policy is
irreversible. "If they return to the old way," Mr. Hon says,
"we'll lose one but they'll lose 10."
   Mr. Hon's experience parallels the country's fortunes
since the Communist takeover 15 years ago yesterday. With
their military victory, the Communists were able to realize
their dream of uniting Vietnam under a socialist banner. But
socialism didn't work.
   It is openly admitted now that the main result was to make
the South almost as poor as the North. To rescue the economy,
Hanoi had to embrace the U.S.-promoted capitalist system it
once fought with religious fervor. And in search of
management skills, the government has had to turn to
technocrats of the defeated South Vietnamese regime and to
entrepreneurs like Mr. Hon who flourished under it.
   Vietnam has a long way to go to overcome the double legacy
of war and socialism that has left it one of the world's
poorest nations. It also must contend with the international
economic embargo led by the U.S., which still doesn't
recognize Hanoi. The embargo severely limits Vietnam's
ability to attract much-needed private foreign investment and
loans from governments, multilateral lending institutions and
commercial banks.
   According to local and foreign economists, Vietnam's
reforms have made it more market-oriented than any other
communist country. "Eastern Europe is trying to do what we've
already done," boasts Nguyen Xuan Oanh, a U.S.-trained former
deputy premier and central-bank governor of South Vietnam who
has been recalled to serve as an economic adviser.
   If Vietnam's conversion to capitalism has escaped wide
attention, it is partly because it remains a one-party state
and Hanoi doesn't acknowledge its reforms as capitalism. It
prefers to call what is happening "doi moi," which translates
as "renovation."
   Socialism remains the official ideology and long-term
objective. But what passes for socialism today bears no
resemblance to the Soviet model -- characterized by rigid
central planning, rapid industrialization, collectivized
agriculture and suppression of private enterprise --
introduced in North Vietnam and imposed on the whole country
in 1975.
   The result was catastrophic. As northerners and
southerners alike resisted, the economy skidded and hundreds
of thousands of desperate people took to the seas in refugee
boats. To avert collapse, the government experimented with
market forces. For instance, it allowed farmers to sell in
the free market produce in excess of a state-fixed quota. But
the economy continued to stagnate.
   The turning point came at the Communist Party's sixth
congress in late 1986, when pragmatic new leaders admitted
that the party had been on the wrong track, and pledged real
reform. The new policies aimed to reorient investment toward
agriculture, light industry and exports, rely more on the
marketplace and encourage private initiative.
   To attract foreign companies, Vietnam adopted one of the
communist world's most liberal investment codes. In the past
three years, 140 projects representing a commitment of more
than $1 billion have been approved. Most are small, and most
are in the South. The bulk consists of just six contracts for
offshore oil and natural gas exploration.
   The government has also granted autonomy to state
enterprises and lifted most restrictions on private business.
Goods and services are traded mostly at negotiated prices.
The central-planning apparatus has all but disappeared.
   To stay afloat, state enterprises are issuing bonds,
taking on private partners and shedding staff. Some are
merging, recruiting skilled managers, or trying other ways to
upgrade their quality, marketing and efficiency. A few, such
as Hanoi-based Vietnam Airlines, the country's sole domestic
and international carrier for 15 years, face a double
challenge: It is expected to show a profit even as a
competitive airline springs up in the South to threaten its
monopoly and state subsidies run out.
   When the bureaucrats of one district in Ho Chi Minh City
decided to open a garment factory to ease unemployment, they
recruited Nguyen Thi Son, whose family had been in the
garment business before 1975. Mrs. Son, 40, demanded -- and
got -- approval to be boss in practice as well as title. "I
hire and fire, fix salaries and make other decisions" without
interference, she says.
   Three years later, her Legamex State Co. has 3,500 workers
in six units producing clothing, shoes and other leather
goods for local and overseas markets at a healthy profit.
Mrs. Son frequently visits customers abroad. One of her
management techniques: 40% of profit is distributed to staff
as a bonus.
   The liberated private sector, meanwhile, has spread
rapidly. The pace is almost frenzied in Ho Chi Minh City. The
city's 5.5 million people clog the streets with cars,
motorbikes and bicycles. Every home appears to have a
pavement work shop where family members make household items
to be sold or bartered.
   Stores are packed with Honda motorbikes, stereo equipment
and video movies from the West. Thousands of restaurants,
coffee shops, nightclubs, discos, billiard rooms and massage
parlors advertise with colored signs, flashing lights and
blaring pop music. Horse racing has resumed; a casino has
opened in nearby Vung Tau.
   In Hanoi, with less than half Ho Chi Minh City's
population and an infrastructure little changed since the
French colonialists were forced to leave in 1954, the
transformation is more orderly but no less striking. The
front room of almost every ground-floor dwelling has been
converted into a tiny coffee shop or store, bringing life to
the threadbare capital.
   One of the most eager investors is Nguyen Van Chan, 65,
who was jailed three times between 1960 and 1974 for selling
fountain pens, glue and bicycle tires he invented and made
from scrap. He recently recovered his confiscated property
and equipment and has opened a branch in Ho Chi Minh City.
"This regime has really changed," he says. "It's OK to be a
capitalist now."
   In the countryside, where 80% of the 66 million population
lives, farmers have responded to incentives that have halted
and rolled back collectivization. Record grain production
last year enabled Vietnam to export 1.5 million metric tons
of rice. It was a dramatic turnaround from the near famine
conditions of 1988, when Hanoi appealed to the world for food
aid.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Bank of New York, Bound by Merger Pact
   With Northeast Bancorp, Hurls Accusations
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   NBIC BK
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bank of New York Co., acting like a
prospective bridegroom with a serious case of wedding-bell
blues, is bickering ever louder with its fiancee of the past
seven years, Northeast Bancorp.
   Yesterday Northeast shares plunged 4 7/8 or 15% to close
at 28 1/4 as Bank of New York accused the Connecticut company
of breaking their merger pact by failing to maintain accurate
records. Unless the problem is corrected within 60 days, Bank
of New York said, it will terminate the deal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Poppycock, responded Northeast, which said its books are
in order and accused Bank of New York "of a transparent
attempt to avoid its contractual obligations."
   Up to now, some investors have been hanging on to
Northeast, believing that Bank of New York Chairman J. Carter
Bacot may simply be jawboning for a better price rather than
trying to kill the merger. But sentiment is growing among
analysts that Mr. Bacot really wants out of this deal.
   As Felice Gelman at Dillon Read put it: "It doesn't sound
like they're negotiating to me. Bank of New York has made it
really tough for Northeast to conclude this transaction."
   Nobody believes that Mr. Bacot, a black-belt
penny-pincher, is about to pay anything approaching $84 a
share (about $500 million) for Northeast, the parent of Union
Trust Co., Connecticut's third biggest commercial bank. Yet
on paper at least, Bank of New York is obligated to pay 250%
of Northeast's book value, which was $33.53 a share on March
30. The merger accord was stalled until Connecticut recently
changed its banking laws.
   Mr. Bacot is a tightfisted guy. He had his Morgan Stanley
advisers pick up the tab for the champagne that flowed after
Bank of New York won a takeover fight for Irving Bank in
1988. He personally reviews all of the bank's charitable
contributions in excess of $50. Yet some investors assumed
the merger accord was ironclad and bid up Northeast shares as
high as 72 last year. The shares later slumped as Northeast
was wracked by losses in the fourth and first quarters,
reflecting heavy additions to reserves for possible loan
losses.
   Recent changes in bank regulation have left Bank of New
York a potential escape hatch. Banks can't any longer count
good will -- an intangible asset arising from acquisitions --
as part of equity. Hence, the suitor would have to replace
with new capital any cash it paid in excess of Northeast's
book value. Raising capital by issuing new shares would
seriously dilute the interests of Bank of New York's current
holders. Bank of New York can scuttle the deal if regulators
impose "materially burdensome" conditions on it. The suitor
could argue that a new stock issue was burdensome.
   So far there's no sign that Northeast is caving in to Mr.
Bacot's hardball tactics. Northeast yesterday reiterated that
it "will pursue all available legal remedies if Bank of New
York doesn't fulfill its contractual obligations."
   Even before yesterday, Bank of New York was arguing that
Northeast's Dec. 31 book value was really only $12.31 a share
based on the outlook for its real estate loans. Northeast
scoffed. Bank of New York has even suggested that Northeast
seek other merger partners, an ironic turn because Northeast
did get a 1986 bid -- believed to be from Fleet/Norstar
Financial Group -- that prompted Bank of New York to boost
its price to 250% of book value from 180%.
   Behind all the posturing, some analysts suspect Mr. Bacot
still wants Northeast. But if so, at what price? If not, will
somebody else buy it?
   Union Trust has the premier retail banking franchise in
New York's well-heeled Connecticut suburbs, and would
complement Bank of New York's major presence in neighboring
Westchester County. The Irving acquisition hasn't sated Mr.
Bacot's appetite. In a development not previously reported,
Bank of New York early this year had serious discussions
about acquiring New Jersey's First Fidelity Bancorp. Mr.
Bacot was said to be keenly disappointed when First
Fidelity's board broke off talks and hired a new chief
executive officer.
   A bank merger specialist without ties to either party
estimates that Mr. Bacot could pay $30 to $40 a share in cash
and securities without hurting his holders severely. On the
other hand, buyers aren't paying 250% of book value for banks
anymore, particularly in New England where real estate losses
are growing. Merger experts say a price of 150% to 180% of
book value is more in line with today's market -- with
payment in securities rather than cash and perhaps a
guarantee against bad loans exceeding a certain level.
   If another bidder emerges, analysts expect it to be
foreign. They expect no sudden largesse from Bank of New
York. Says Lacy Shockley at Smith Barney: "I wouldn't want to
fool with Carter Bacot after seeing how incredibly foxy he
was on the Irving bid."
   ---
   Northeast Bancorp
   (OTC; Symbol: NBIC)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Banking
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Net income: $632,000; 8 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, March 31, 1990:
   Net loss: 88 cents a share vs. net income: $1.09 a share
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 23,915 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 7.3 million
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Small Firms are Buttonholing Members of Congress
   ---
   Owners Invading Washington Themselves
   Find Personal Touch Pays Off
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Bernard Hofmann, owner of a small
Pennsylvania manufacturing company, bounces toward the exit
of the tour bus as it stops on Capitol Hill.
   "OK, you paratroopers," he says to other passengers. "Hit
that rip cord and move on out the door."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Hofmann is part of the increasing invasion of
small-business owners who come here to personally buttonhole
members of Congress and their staffs on legislation that
means money for their firms.
   The personal touch is paying off. Last fall,
small-business owners led the successful fight to repeal the
complex Section 89 tax rule that required all companies to
offer comparable benefits to higher and lower-paid workers --
a law small companies found especially burdensome.
   "I'd never seen anything like the turnout for Section 89,"
says Glenn LeMunyon, a House Appropriations Committee staff
member for Rep. Tom LeMay, a Texas Republican. The
small-business lobby, he says, "has the potential to be far
greater than the labor lobby. Business owners are really
paying attention {to politics} now that they know they can be
successful."
   Rep. Jim Bunning, a Kentucky Republican, adds: "It
absolutely means a lot more to know what's happening to an
individual business." He says he wasn't aware that businesses
such as gas stations had a problem insuring underground
storage tanks until small-business people brought it to his
attention. "Some of them get very personal about it, like
saying, `This will cost me $25,000, and I don't make that
much, so you better pay attention,'" Rep. Bunning says.
   Labor lobbyists, who often find themselves opposing
small-business forces on Capitol Hill, call the
small-business agenda one-sided. "It's called selfishness;
they're not looking at the needs of the workers they employ,"
says Robert McGlotten, head of government relations for the
AFL-CIO. And small-business's refusal to compromise on issues
such as Section 89 could eventually backfire with some
lawmakers, a House Ways and Means staffer says.
   For now, however, small-business organizations are
capitalizing on the willingness of business owners to get
involved. The National Federation of Independent Business,
the largest small-business group with nearly 600,000 members,
several years ago adopted the computer targeting techniques
of political campaigns to organize its membership into a
lobbying force. Interest has grown so much that chief
lobbyist John Motley says, "My problem now is to keep them
all happy and working."
   The National Restaurant Association says that in the past
two years its network of members willing to lobby has grown
to about 1,100 people from about 150. "There's been an
upsurge of interest in doing this kind of thing now that
people know they can accomplish something," says spokesman
Jeffrey Prince.
   Judy Meador, a corporate planning consultant and officer
at Print St. Louis Inc., made separate trips here with three
different groups to lobby. "Calls and letters help, but the
ideal is person-to-person contact, particularly when someone
is straddling the line," she says.
   The business people also get attention from the executive
branch. National Small Business United and the National
Association of Women Business Owners will hold a joint
meeting here early this month to focus on health-care costs
and deficit reduction. President Bush will address them, and
they also expect to hear from Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole
and Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady.
   Trade groups have begun programs to formally advise
business owners how to be effective lobbyists. At a Small
Manufacturers Forum, part of the National Association of
Manufacturers, the phenomenon is described as "retail
lobbying" -- stressing how legislation affects one business
in a congressional district, as opposed to the "wholesale,"
or big-picture, lobbying the association does.
   At the forum, officials of small manufacturers get tips on
the tools of lobbying -- such as flattery. A lobbyist, they
are told, can't "overstroke" a legislator. And former
Pennsylvania Rep. Tom Dougherty advises: "Make the
relationship ongoing; do things {for the lawmaker} when you
don't need something."
   After being briefed on the latest issues, the business
people head to Capitol Hill to lobby. Mr. Hofmann stops by
the offices of his Pennsylvania lawmakers. "I'm drowning in
costs and you throw me a brick," he complains at the office
of GOP Sen. John Heinz about proposals to require health
insurance for all employees, including part-time workers.
   Health insurance rates for full-time workers at his
company, Hofmann Industries, which makes steel tubing,
increased 18% last year, Mr. Hofmann says. A Heinz aide
quickly assures him that the senator opposes any health plan
that doesn't strictly control costs.
   The business owners stress how regulations can put a
disproportionate cost burden on small businesses, says
Richard Kubach, the owner of Philadelphia's Melrose Diner who
finds himself visiting Washington more often these days to
lobby. "I'm losing an awful lot of time from my business, but
my viewpoint now is I can't afford not to do it," says Mr.
Kubach, who's fighting bills to require employer-paid health
insurance, although he already offers it to his full-time
workers.
   Some seasoned small-business activists say a few small
companies that are both financially secure and aware of the
importance of national issues still do the most lobbying.
But, increasingly, newcomers are joining the parade.
   David Pinkus, president of North Haven Gardens, a Dallas
landscaping concern, says he now comes here to lobby three or
four times a year. "Businessmen were too busy worrying about
how to make payroll next week to worry about what was going
on in Washington," says Mr. Pinkus. "But what was happening,
they were burying us slowly but surely and now we're in sand
up to our necks."
   A member of National Small Business United, a
50,000-member organization, he has buttonholed members of
Congress on past minimum wage and immigration bills, as well
as the pending Americans With Disabilities Act, which would
set requirements for access to businesses and employment by
the disabled. Small companies fear the bill's requirements
would open them to potential high costs and lawsuits, a fear
that backers say is unfounded.
   Despite their recent lobbying successes, small-business
people don't always get their way. Walter Young, a Wisconsin
business owner, complains in a visit to his congressman's
office about an Environmental Protection Agency demand that
he answer questions about a toxic waste dump he once used and
identify his insurance company, or risk daily fines of
$25,000. "The government has no right to ask me if I have
insurance before they find out if I'm guilty or not," he
says.
   But Rep. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican,
offers no sympathy, saying business will pay higher taxes if
the government has to pay to clean up every toxic waste dump.
   "I don't think I got a good answer, but I'll be back,"
declares Mr. Young, the president of EGA Products Inc., which
makes industrial containers. On environmental issues, he
says, business owners "are willing to cooperate, but they
don't like to be attacked."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   Still Pressing to Limit
   Phone-Company Information to 4-1-1
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN PAC AIT BEL BLS USW SBC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   One evening last week, conventioneers from the American
Newspaper Publishers Association attended a Los Angeles
reception next door to the La Brea Tar Pits. That's where you
find fossils of extinct species -- not the best omen for the
owners or managers of the U.S. daily press.
   A sour advertising market was Topic ANPA, related as it is
to declining margins and lower stock prices. But if it were
just another cycle, that wouldn't be so bad. The industry
remains quite profitable and circulation totals are OK.
Rather, what's so bothersome is the progressive dissection of
the customer base by rival media that are able to "segment"
ads in ways general-interest papers don't. That particularly
hurts when growth sectors of the population aren't loyal
readers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Newspapers want the public to pay them a call. Literally.
The phone is a powerful marketing device and publishers think
they offer a lot of information that would draw "readers"
into 900 lines and such. But as with electronic data
services, a sore spot for years, the broadsheet barons are
bumping heads with the "RBOCs" -- the Regional Bell Operating
Companies. Frank Blethen of the Seattle Times, interviewed
after chairing a panel that touched on the issue, said he and
his fellow publishers would like to team with the phone
companies.
   But he alleged Baby Bells are neglecting their rightful
role in order to jockey for position in a market where they
don't belong. The publishers, who have had the federal judge
who runs the U.S. phone system on their side, want a
legislated ban on local Bells going it alone in data.
   "Then it becomes clear to an R-BOC that their business is
going to be what they're good at and have always been good
at, and that's transmitting information on their lines,"
offered Mr. Blethen. "When you're dealing with the kind of a
mindset that says we're going to spend millions and millions
of dollars on attorneys, on public relations people and
advertising and on Capitol Hill to get into information
services, then how committed can they be on the operations
and application side when they have customers out there
saying help us get good at this business?"
   According to Newsday chief Robert M. Johnson, the
publishers' sentry on the issue, the phone companies' assault
has been turned back in the critical House Telecommunications
Subcommittee. Its staff is drafting a bill basically in line
with ANPA's stance, he said.
   If the beef against the Bells is they control nearly all
phone entry in their areas and could dominate electronic
data, wouldn't the same be true of a call-guzzling
information giant like the Seattle Times, which enjoys an
antitrust-exempt joint operating agreement (JOA) with the
other big daily, the Post-Intelligencer?
   "Bull]" Mr. Blethen responded. "We have more competition
than we have ever had in Seattle." Thirty years ago, the JOA
partners had about 80% of the ad revenue in the city, he
estimated, whereas today it's 15% to 17%. And instead of
reaching nearly every household, as they did then, their
combined "penetration" has been cut by a third. The JOA, he
maintained, actually has been good for peripheral competitors
because it's made the big two inflexible in responding to the
marketplace. (Does he want out of it? "No," he laughed.)
   In fact, Mr. Blethen said, the information-services
question could make or break the paper that has been in his
family's hands for four generations. "The Seattle Times is
one of, if not the, largest independent, private locally
owned newspapers left. We're committeed to staying there.
We're going to go $100 million in debt next year to build a
$175 million printing plant. It's the first debt we've had
since the Depression {when the company sold a 49% stake to
what is now Knight-Ridder Inc. in order to cover loans}. It's
roll your dice. We're betting our company that print's going
to be successful. . . . We feel good about that. The one
thing that could undermine us is something that doesn't make
marketplace sense." By that he means that U.S. West, the
area's Bell regional, might cross-subsidize electronic
challenges with local rate-payer revenues.
   Would or could the Baby Bells plunder if they fished the
ponds they stock? Peter Huber, whose 1986 study of the issue
for the Justice Department was widely cited, argues that on a
"short leash" from regulators, the Bells could be kept in
check while allowed out of their cage. Besides, the economics
of an integrated industry discipline even the mighty. As Mr.
Huber put it, "Do you think the phone company could change
the shape of the jacks?"
   Atlanta-based Cox Newspapers, a leader in adding call-in
services to its print features, complains that BellSouth has
obstructed it by setting unduly high charges for some
services and withholding available technology while fees are
studied for others. Again, Mr. Huber rose to the defense:
Setting tariffs is a minefield for the phone companies, and
further, what might appear discriminatory pricing against a
newspaper -- say, higher rates for a line that's called
repeatedly -- is really rational and ought to be applied to
all customers.
   What likely would occur in an openedup industry is a
version of economist Joseph Schumpeter's technological-change
model, in which the pricing niceties of perfect competition
are disrupted while entrants large and small scramble for
advantage amid innovation. As it is, some argue, innovation
in U.S. telecommunications is held back while other nations
advance.
   "That's a bunch of bunk," Mr. Blethen rejoined. "We're not
behind anybody. . . . They've been holding Minitel up for
years as this progressive new service that Americans are
deprived of, and we're finding out that Minitel in many parts
of France is considered a disaster to the government. . . .
The American consumer has more information than any consumer
in the world. Americans are on information overload and
looking for better ways to have that information packaged and
sorted and made to make sense. They're not deprived of
anything right now."
   One thing they certainly enjoy is cheap newspapers (even
in JOA towns), when you consider that those same papers are
angling to offer bits and pieces of their daily content over
the phone for a dollar a pop. Why the pulp product for a
pittance? For two reasons, Mr. Blethen explained: "One, to
have a mass market to deliver to advertisers, or a mass
market that they can segment; and two, because most
publishers do altruistically believe that you need to make
that paper available to the maximum number of people you can
possibly get it to." That's a little rich, but Mr. Blethen
said the daily press is "vital to this democracy functioning"
and a bulwark against elitism.
   Now the bastion is threatened, if not by the Baby Bells,
then by direct mail and the healthy market in free weeklies
(largely unrepresented at Los Angeles) that localize news and
advertising. Late in the game, the dailies are stirring to
protect their turf. Recall, however, that the dinosaur was a
fearsome force, too.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Torchmark Told
   To Halt Battle
   With Insurer
   ---
   State Order on Proxy Fight
   With American General
   Faces Legal Challenge
   ----
   By Michael Allen and Rick Christie
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   TMK AGC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Tennessee Department of Commerce and Insurance ordered
Torchmark Corp. to halt its proxy battle with American
General Corp.
   The order requires Torchmark, a Birmingham, Ala., insurer,
to stop soliciting proxies unless it obtains regulatory
approval, a lengthy process that would be impossible to
complete before American General's annual meeting tomorrow. A
spokeswoman for the department said Torchmark would risk
possible felony charges if it violates the order.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But some takeover specialists, while conceding that the
decision injects a new element of uncertainty into the proxy
fight, predicted Torchmark would obtain a court order
allowing it to continue.
   Although American General shares plunged in the early
afternoon, they closed at $39, down only 62.5 cents in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Torchmark shares
closed on the Big Board at $43.625, up 25 cents.
   Torchmark said it "strongly disagreed" with the ruling and
plans to immediately challenge its validity in court.
Torchmark added that its Tennessee counsel advised it that it
is free to continue to solicit proxies and that the Tennessee
order isn't effective until approved by a court.
   American General, based in Houston, said it is "gratified"
and added that it plans to hold its annual meeting tomorrow
as scheduled.
   The Tennessee decision, rendered by acting commissioner
Joe Huddleston, supported an earlier opinion by the
department's legal staff that Torchmark's actions constituted
an attempt to obtain control of American General without
proper regulatory clearance. Mr. Huddleston also ordered
Torchmark to drop its efforts to pass a nonbinding
shareholder resolution asking American General's board to put
the company up for sale.
   Torchmark has argued that its efforts wouldn't enable it
to control American General, in part because it only
nominated five people for the insurer's 15-member board.
Torchmark also describes its nominees as "independent."
Torchmark, which previously made a $50-a-share, or $6.3
billion, offer for American General in late March and later
dropped it, said it will make another takeover proposal if it
wins the proxy fight.
   But Mr. Huddleston, after hearing two days of testimony,
found that the department and American General "have
established by a preponderance of the evidence that Torchmark
will have control" of American General after the proxy
solicitation.
   The decision brought to light new details of Torchmark's
bid for American General. According to the acting
commissioner, Torchmark requested its investment banker,
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., to evaluate a possible merger with
American General in late January or early February. Dubbed
"Project Patton," the takeover strategy was approved by
Torchmark's board Feb. 26, Mr. Huddleston said. In mid-March,
Torchmark developed a two-prong attack, the acting
commissioner found: Seek first to negotiate a merger, and if
that failed, launch a proxy contest.
   Separately, Torchmark said an Indiana Superior Court judge
issued a preliminary injunction delaying a hearing on the
proxy solicitation before the Indiana insurance commissioner.
Judge Richard L. Milan delayed the hearing, scheduled for
today until Monday. In its lawsuit, Torchmark had alleged
that Indiana's insurance commissioner abused the office's
discretion and violated due process.
   ---
   Randall Smith contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Late Rally
   Gives Lift
   To Stocks
   ---
   Bonds Gain Modestly
   In Sluggish Trading;
   Dollar Ends Mixed
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   A late blue-chip rally driven by computer-assisted program
trading lifted stock prices out of the doldrums.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 11.71 to 2656.76
in very light volume. Bond prices posted moderate gains in
sluggish trading with the yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year issue slipping below the psychologically important 9%
level. The dollar ended mixed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The pace of trading was lethargic across financial
markets, partly because of holidays in Japan and in parts of
Europe. Japanese investors have been major players in the
U.S. bond market and their absence tends to keep other
players on the sidelines. And with the bond market nearly
moribund, stock investors are reluctant to make major moves
as well.
   In any case, analysts said the level of uncertainty about
the direction of the economy, interest rates and inflation is
keeping a lid on market activity. Last Friday's report on
first-quarter gross national product, which showed the
economy growing at an annual rate of 2.1% but inflation
leaping upward at a 6.5% annual rate, merely exacerbated the
confusion. While the stock market would ordinarily welcome
the seemingly modest rate of economic growth as a boon to
flagging corporate earnings, the inflation data hint that
higher interest rates may be just around the corner. Higher
rates increase the cost of doing business, taking a toll on
earnings, as well as cool the economy.
   In the bond market, traders are debating not if but how
soon the Federal Reserve will push short-term interest rates
higher in an effort to curb inflation. Many economists
contend that the first quarter's inflation was merely the
lingering effect of the December 1989 freeze that drove food
and fuel prices up sharply. But others believe that inflation
is becoming embedded in the economy, such as in stepped-up
wage increases. They are hoping for strong measures to bring
price increases to heel and they point out that the sooner
the Fed acts to drive up short-term interest rates, the more
confidence investors will have in the long-term economic
outlook.
   Indeed, if the Fed were intending to raise interest rates,
next week's big quarterly Treasury refunding auction would
provide the perfect opportunity. With an estimated $30
billion or more in Treasury debt likely to be sold, analysts
reason that the Fed isn't apt to wait until after the auction
to push rates up because such action would undermine
investors' purchases.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in light trading. Volume on the New York
Stock Exchange totaled 122.8 million shares. Declining issues
were ahead of gainers 749 to 732.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose modestly. The Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond gained about a quarter of a point, or about
$2.50 for each $1,000 of face amount. The yield on the issue
slipped to 8.989%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6796 marks and 158.90 yen compared
with 1.6775 marks and 159.30 yen Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Gorbachev vs. Reform-I:
   Realpolitik in an Information Age
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   The court of world opinion has accorded Mikhail Gorbachev
a degree of individual responsibility for his nation's future
perhaps not seen since the reign of the Sun King. Similarly,
Mr. Gorbachev's persona may be blinding policy elites to the
real course of events.
   The Bush administration has spent the past several weeks
wrestling with the question of Lithuanian sovereignty. There
now is some prospect that the Lithuanians and Moscow will
work out a compromise of sorts around the idea of
"suspending" independence for two years. If this compromise
is reached, it will be seen as validating the
administration's desire not to do anything that would
jeopardize Mr. Gorbachev and the reforms he represents. But
what about the next Lithuania, or the Lithuania after that?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Just within the last 48 hours, the Latvian Popular Front
said it had enough support to declare independence when its
parliament convenes this Thursday, the first Soviet congress
of free-trade unions met Monday in Siberia to declare its
opposition to state unions, and the newly formed Ukrainian
Republican Party said it would form the republic's first
noncommunist party with the intention of seceding. The West
may have to turn out the Kohl-Mitterrand compromise as a form
letter.
   Perhaps it is time to consider the significance of these
developments. Events are moving so rapidly in the Soviet
Union that Mikhail Gorbachev, once a proponent of the
policies favored by the West, may now be an obstacle to those
policies. At the least, the U.S. ought to be committing
itself to achieving a set of policies inside the Soviet
Union, instead of committing to one man whether he follows
those policies or not.
   Mr. Gorbachev is a figure caught in a polarization between
reformers and the old guard. For example, he recently gave a
presidential cabinet appointment to Valentin Rasputin, who
has ties to the intensely nationalistic Pamyat organization.
In the event, Mr. Gorbachev isn't developing any real
constituency in either group.
   Why then, in this uncertain and fluid context, do we not
support the people who favor the policies we want? And why do
Western elites seem to be having such difficulty recognizing
the powerful modern forces that are shaping and motivating
these people? It is as if the reformers are living in the age
of telecommunications, while the politicians are living in
the Age of Talleyrand.
   Ever since the shipyard workers of Gdansk formed
themselves into Solidarity, the words, actions and beliefs of
democratic reformers in one part of the world have been
transmitted via print, satellite feeds and fax machines to
their counterparts elsewhere. We have seen Lech Walesa and
Vaclav Havel describe the democratic spirit before the U.S.
Congress and a Statue of Liberty erected in Tiananmen Square.
We have read of a Czech brewery worker leaping onto a factory
table to recite Jefferson's Declaration of Independence and
of Latin Americans braving death threats to cast a free vote.
   The Lithuanians -- as well as the Ukrainians in Lvov ready
to sign economic agreements with Vilnius -- see themselves as
part of this same democratic force. Like it or not, the U.S.
sits at the center of this maelstrom of courage and change as
a moral anchor, an abiding symbol of what democracy is.
   Yes, the practitioners of Realpolitik reply, but Mr.
Gorbachev is the horse who is going to carry us to
significant arms-control agreements, complete a Soviet troop
pullout from Eastern Europe, allow Germany to unify, control
still-dangerous Soviet hardliners, and create opportunities
for the empire's real reformers. With so much headed our way,
they say, why rock the boat?
   The problem is that this forces us to deny repeatedly the
damage real events are doing to our own political principles,
such as the consent of the governed. We end up saying that
everything's OK so long as Mr. Gorbachev doesn't use force,
or too much force, while TV screens show him using force
before our eyes. In an information age, how can the
government supposedly supporting democracy publicly deny the
obvious truth?
   Do we believe that looking the other way while Mr.
Gorbachev and the KGB's troops cut off Lithuania's economic
lifelines will avoid civil war among a Soviet population that
is a seething time bomb?
   Do we really believe that any arms agreements he signs
will bind his successors? Or that they have any real
intention of stepping down from superpower status by
abandoning modernization programs for their strategic forces?
   Do we really believe that our forbearance will drive
internal economic reform forward, even now as Mr. Gorbachev
postpones it?
   Realpolitik has its uses, but doesn't it have to pay some
heed to the real world?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Financial Corp. of Santa Barbara:
   Big Board Says It Reviews
   Financial Status for Listing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   FSB
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The New York Stock Exchange said it is reviewing the
financial eligibility of Financial Corp. of Santa Barbara for
continued listing on the exchange, following last week's
seizure by federal regulators of the company's thrift unit.
   The Santa Barbara, Calif., concern, whose Santa Barbara
Savings &amp; Loan Association is its main unit, didn't return
phone calls yesterday seeking comment. The parent expressed
surprise last Friday when regulators seized the weak thrift
and placed it in conservatorship.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Santa Barbara Savings is one of several of California's
biggest S&amp;Ls that have failed recently, or are in danger of
failing, because of the latest wave of problems brought on by
ill-fated diversification, either outside the state or
outside traditional home-lending.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   IBM Shares Rise
   On a Forecast
   By Akers for '90
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- International Business Machines Corp.
expects "substantially improved" performance in 1990 and sees
a "very bright" future, a generally upbeat Chairman John
Akers told the annual meeting here.
   Though the remarks didn't go beyond previous statements by
the Armonk, N.Y.-based computer giant, and Mr. Akers didn't
give a specific forecast of IBM's 1990 results, his
assessment was notable for its unalloyed air of optimism.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Indeed, following the remarks, IBM shares rose $1.625, to
close at $109, in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange yesterday. The issue was the second-most active on
the Big Board, with volume of more than 1.5 million shares.
   "It didn't sound as if they said anything new," Steve
Milunovich, a securities analyst at First Boston Corp., said.
"But the tone is a little more positive. There's a little
more confidence at the company."
   Mr. Akers conceded that IBM's 1989 business didn't "live
up to our expectations," but he said the company is
encouraged by its healthy first-quarter results. And he
reaffirmed IBM's image of itself as "a growth company," an
image that has been questioned recently by securities
analysts.
   Mr. Akers attributed his confidence in part to the effects
of a 1989 restructuring that resulted in a $2.4 billion
charge against fourth-quarter earnings. He reiterated that
IBM would start to see the full benefit of that action -- $1
billion in annual savings -- in 1991. In 1989, IBM earned
$3.76 billion, or $6.47 a share, on revenue of $62.71
billion.
   He said he expects the industry to continue growing 7% to
10% a year, though this would be substantially less than the
15% annual growth the industry used to enjoy.
   Mr. Akers also said that the company's U.S. operations
will trim 10,000 employees by the end of this year, as
planned, and that IBM employment world-wide will hold steady
or decline from that level in the future.
   In response to shareholder questions, Mr. Akers said IBM
wants to expand its presence in two markets where the company
has fallen down so far: laptop computers and home computers.
He said that IBM wants to be "a much larger participant" in
the laptop market, where it has yet to produce a credible
product, and that it will pursue that segment.
   And while he emphasized that IBM hasn't confirmed media
reports that the company will soon introduce an inexpensive
home computer, Mr. Akers said that some elements of those
reports may be true and that home computers are "a very
attractive opportunity." He added, "We have our eye directly
on the home market."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- United Gaming Inc.:
   Wilms to Pay $10 Million
   To Lift His Stake to 59%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   UGAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   United Gaming Inc. said it reached an agreement in
principle under which Alfred H. Wilms, chairman, will buy an
additional $10 million of the company's common stock.
   Mr. Wilms now owns 3,732,091 United Gaming common shares,
or about 47% of its stock outstanding. The additional
investment, which is subject to several conditions including
board approval, would boost his stake approximately 12%, to
about 59% of the company's shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Based in Las Vegas, Nev., United Gaming operates gambling
machine routes and sells gambling equipment.
   David Scheinman, president, said the investment would give
the company capital to fund its entry into the casino hotel
business and is Mr. Wilms's vote of confidence in the
company's future.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Forest Oil Corp.:
   Gas Write-Down to Result
   In Loss for First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FOIL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Forest Oil Corp. said it will write down $84 million in
oil and gas reserves, reducing first-quarter earnings by $55
million and resulting in a loss for the quarter.
   Forest Oil said the write-down is primarily attributable
to a significant decrease in the spot market price of natural
gas between January and March. The Denver-based company said
it sells 80% to 90% of its natural gas on the spot market.
The company also attributed the write-down to a revision in
reserves and production-rate estimates on Gulf of Mexico
properties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first quarter last year, Forest Oil had net income
of $1.8 million, or 5 cents a share, on revenue of $63.9
million. Those earnings included a $12 million write-down of
oil and gas properties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   A Vote on the Item Veto
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The line-item veto is an idea born out of such common
sense that it resists every attempt to kill it. Last week,
the Senate Judiciary Committee voted 8 to 6 to approve two
versions of a constitutional amendment that would give
Presidents authority to veto individual spending items within
bills. It is the first time the committee has approved an
item-veto amendment since 1884.
   If anyone needs further evidence that a line-item veto is
needed to restore the integrity of the federal budget
process, he has only to look at what just happened to the
$800 million aid package for Panama and Nicaragua. Congress
stuffed it with more than $1 billion in unrelated domestic
spending. That's a good example of why after the committee
vote Senator Paul Simon said, "It keeps our hopes alive of
bringing some fiscal sanity into the budget process."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One of the two item-veto amendments approved by the
Judiciary Committee is sponsored by liberal Democratic
Senators Simon and Alan Dixon, both of Illinois. It would
help bring back the impoundment power that Congress took away
in the 1974 budget "reform" bill. Other Democrats, including
Fritz Hollings, Joe Biden, David Boren and Howell Heflin have
previously supported the concept. They all argue that 43
Governors have such veto power, and that Congress itself gave
the item veto to the Governors of Puerto Rico and the Virgin
Islands. If it was a good idea for them, why not for the
President?
   The Simon-Dixon proposal would allow the President to
reduce or eliminate individual spending items. Congress could
override the veto with a simple majority in both houses.
Another version by Senator Strom Thurmond would empower the
President to kill items but not reduce them. A two-thirds
vote of both Houses would be required to override.
   No one claims that the line-item veto would be a budgetary
cure-all. Much of the budget is in entitlements that few
politicians support cutting. Its power is that it turns the
President into a more active participant in the budget
process. Right now, the only way a budget is passed is if the
Congressional leadership buys most of the Members off with a
pet project or subsidy.
   President Bush has been talking up the item veto recently.
"The President needs the power to make the tough calls on
spending, take the heat," he said last week, "and I'm
perfectly prepared to do that."
   More Members, disgusted with a budget process that
resembles "The Price Is Right," have come to agree. As the
only elected official with a national constituency, a
President should have some oversight power over the parochial
interests.
   Along with lawyer Stephen Glazier, we have argued that the
Constitution already gives the President the power to veto
every bill, order or resolution that Congress passes and that
includes individual appropriations whether they are called
"bills" or not. President Bush has said he is looking for
just the right case to test the item veto in court.
   A President equipped with the line-item veto would be the
best insurance that the budget deficit would continue to
glide downward. It also would enhance accountability in
government. The Senate Judiciary Committee's favorable 8 to 6
vote indicates that opinion on Capitol Hill is beginning to
move in that direction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CBOE Fines Susquehanna
   For Intermarket Trades
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- In one of the first regulatory attacks on
alleged abuses involving trades spanning two different
markets, the Chicago Board Options Exchange fined Susquehanna
Investment Group, a prominent program trading firm, $170,000
for alleged abusive trading in the stock and stock options
markets.
   The fine is part of the exchange's crackdown on alleged
intermarket trading abuses. Exchange critics have often
claimed that traders illicitly profit from buying or selling
stock-index options or futures, based on advance knowledge of
large stock trades their firms or customers intend to make.
Such a practice is known as intermarket front-running of
orders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Susquehanna fine is among the largest levied against a
CBOE member firm in recent years. Responding to congressional
concern about lax market regulation, the stock and options
exchanges have stepped up their efforts to ferret out
intermarket trading abuses in recent months.
   Susquehanna submitted to the exchange findings and
censures without admitting or denying the allegations. But
the Philadelphia-based firm made its "compliance and
supervisory structure more stringent" following the events
cited by the CBOE, said Steve Bloom, a Susquehanna managing
director.
   Susquehanna, known for its sophisticated computer-driven
trading strategies, has long been a source of suspicion and
envy on Wall Street. Founded by some former college
classmates about four years ago, the tiny firm consistently
ranks among the top 10 program traders in the New York Stock
Exchange's monthly reports. The firm trades only for its own
account.
   A stock-index option is the right to buy (call) or sell
(put) the underlying value of a stock index, such as the
Standard &amp; Poor's 100-stock index, at a specified price
within a certain time period. Stock index options are settled
in cash, rather than by the delivery of the stocks on which
the index is based. The CBOE is the nation's largest options
exchange. Stock-index trading accounts for the majority of
its trading volume.
   The CBOE said that on Sept. 16, 1988, a Susquehanna trader
bought 935 stock-index options on the CBOE, while the firm
had already entered orders to buy more than 15 million shares
of stock as part of a program trade tied to the expiration
that afternoon of the CBOE options, which are based on the
Standard &amp; Poor's 100-stock index. The orders to buy the 15
million shares apparently gave Susquehanna a nearly risk-free
profit on the 935 call options.
   The CBOE said that the trader wasn't aware of the program
trade, but should have been.
   Program trades involve the nearly simultaneous purchase or
sale of stock and stock-index options or futures to profit
from momentary price differences between these markets.
   The CBOE fined Susquehanna $75,000 for the Sept. 16, 1988,
trade, which it said violated exchange rules, and fined
Susquehanna an additional $20,000 for the "potential gain"
stemming from the trade. The firm was fined another $5,000
for a trade made by a Susquehanna trader that same day, which
it said also violated exchange rules.
   Susquehanna apparently profited on the 935 stock-index
options contracts when the firm's program trade involving the
purchase of more than 15 million shares of stock boosted
stock and stock index option prices in the final minutes of
trading that Friday.
   For trades that involved only a single market, Susquehanna
was fined $70,000 for stock-index options trades made
December 13, 1988. The CBOE said that two Susquehanna traders
separately bought and sold the same number of the same
stock-index options for firm accounts "in a matter which
reduced or eliminated the risk otherwise inherent" in making
what are known as "spread" trades between different series of
options contracts.
   The traders also failed to report the transaction times
for some of these trades, the CBOE said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   North Star Says
   It May Consider
   Selling the Firm
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   NSRU MIKL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- North Star Universal Inc. said it may
consider selling all or part of the company, whose assets
include a majority interest in Michael Foods Inc., to enhance
shareholder value.
   Confirmation that North Star had retained Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co. to help explore restructuring options came as the company
announced a more restrictive credit agreement with its
primary lender, First National Bank of Minneapolis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the new loan, North Star was required to pledge its
53.9% holding of Michael common stock as collateral, along
with all other assets except its real-estate holdings. In
exchange, the bank increased its credit line by $3 million,
to $34 million. Terms now require that the value of the
Michael stock be twice that of the loan, which on the full
loan would mean a price of about $11.62.
   Should the price fall below that level, presumably the
bank would become the largest shareholder in Michael. That
Minneapolis-based company, whose business mix includes eggs,
milk and potatoes, has been a subject of debate on Wall
Street over whether it is primarily a commodity company or a
seller of food technology.
   One analyst predicted yesterday that news of North Star's
possible restructuring would depress Michael's stock. "I
could easily see the stock down in $10 to $12 area," said L.
Craig Carver of Dain, Bosworth in Minneapolis. Accordingly,
he changed his recommendation on Michael to a "sell" from a
"hold."
   Mr. Carver is among those who view Michael as basically a
commodity business that has been overvalued by some
investors. "There's a tremendous commodity influence on this
company, and I don't think it's being recognized," he said,
contending that the recent prices in the shell-egg market are
at a peak from which they won't remain.
   But Dennis Nielsen, director of research at Craig-Hallum
Inc., another Minneapolis brokerage house, said, "We're
coming around to a position that (Michael) is less vulnerable
to the egg and potato business through their value-added
approach." Still, Mr. Nielsen noted yesterday he is "neutral"
on North Star since "they really are very highly leveraged."
   North Star's first-quarter balance sheet shows the company
with $201.6 million in debt and shareholders equity of $36.4
million for a debt-capital ratio of 84.7%. To help finance
operations, North Star sells its own subordinated debentures
in Minnesota. Its new loan agreement discloses that the
company had been in technical default on the previous credit
line with the Minneapolis bank.
   A holding company with interests in graphics, computer
cabling, health-care services and other industries, North
Star wouldn't elaborate on its retention of Goldman, Sachs
other than to say that no decisions have been made on a
specific transaction, nor are there any assurances that any
would occur. Previously, North Star wouldn't comment on
reports that it was retaining an investment banker.
   Meanwhile, Michael Foods has gone elsewhere for its
borrowings. Severing a credit line with First Minneapolis
bank, the potato, egg and milk concern recently lined up a
$45 million revolving loan with Continental Bank N.A. and
Banque Nationale de Paris.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kay Jewelers Inc.:
   Virginia Chain Reports Loss
   Of $5.6 Million in Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KJI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kay Jewelers Inc., which had warned investors and analysts
that first-quarter results would be weak, reported a loss of
$5.6 million, or 45 cents a share.
   The loss exceeded the loss of $3.8 million, or 31 cents a
share, the Alexandria, Va.-based jewelry chain posted a year
earlier. Sales fell to $76.5 million from $79.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Company officials said higher interest costs from last
year's debt offering and higher borrowing to finance the
opening of new stores hurt results.
   As part of a cost-containment program, openings of new
stores have been cut to limit expenses. Kay is slashing
annual operating expenses $14 million.
   Sales remained sluggish in January, after a weak fourth
quarter. But the company said sales picked up a bit towards
the end of the quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Trade Official Cites
   `Helpful' Japanese Actions
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills said
Japan still has barriers to U.S. construction companies, but
she declined to designate it as a country that denies "fair
and equal market opportunity" to U.S. companies seeking
public-works contracts.
   Mrs. Hills was required to decide by yesterday whether to
invoke provisions of U.S. law that might be used later to bar
Japanese companies from bidding for contracts to help build
or supply equipment for U.S. airports.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   She noted that Japan has taken some "helpful" steps to
open up its market, and that some new contracts for
public-works projects in that country have been awarded to
U.S. construction companies. She added that the U.S. early
next month will initiate a new round of talks with Japan on
"the whole range of problems related to access to the
Japanese market for construction services."
   The U.S., she concluded, will continue to "monitor"
Japan's market-opening measures. If the next round of
bilateral negotiations prove to be "unsatisfactory," she
said, the Bush administration would consider "appropriate
action."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Huntway Partners
   Posts 1st-Period Loss,
   May Omit 1990 Payout
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HWY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   VALENCIA, Calif. -- Huntway Partners L.P. posted a
first-quarter loss of $2.6 million, or 24 cents a unit, and
said that it may be unable to make any distributions this
year to its unitholders.
   In the year-earlier quarter, the partnership had restated
net income of $655,000, or six cents a unit. Revenue rose 15%
to $20.4 million from $17.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Huntway, a refiner of asphalt and petroleum products, said
it would be unable to make any first-quarter distribution
"unless some form of guarantee or a capital infusion" is
obtained. Huntway also said it is in default of its current
bank-loan agreement and has obtained a waiver that expires
June 30.
   Under terms of a restructured loan agreement proposed by
the bank, Huntway's temporary $24 million facility would be
restructured into a $7 million working capital facility and a
$17 million three-year term loan. The bank also proposed that
all distributions be discontinued until the loan is reduced
to $11 million. "This would likely result in cessation of all
distributions" for 1990, Huntway said.
   Huntway said that an affiliate of its general partner may
purchase up to $5 million of newly issued Huntway preference
units. Proceeds would be used to satisfy the bank's request
for a guarantee or capital infusion, reduce the proposed $17
million loan by $2 million, pay first-quarter preference unit
distributions of $1.9 million and provide for working capital
needs.
   Huntway said that a special committee of its operating
committee has been organized to negotiate terms of a possible
sale of the preference units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aetna Files Lawsuit
   Against Massachusetts
   Over Car Insurance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AET
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON (AP) -- Aetna Casualty &amp; Surety Co., a unit of
Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co. of Hartford, Conn., filed suit
against the state, claiming that Massachusetts laws
controlling withdrawal from the state's car insurance market
are unconstitutional.
   "The insurance commissioner sets the prices so price
competition is nonexistent," said John J. Martin, president
of Aetna's personal financing security division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Worse still, an insurer that decides to leave the private
passenger auto insurance market in light of such conditions
confronts a massive hurdle to any orderly exit from that
market because it must pay what amounts to extortion or lose
all its licenses to any other insurance business," Mr. Martin
said in a statement.
   Dorothy Krenzer, a spokeswoman for the state Insurance
Division, said the agency wouldn't have any comment until
Commissioner Timothy Gailey has reviewed documents on the
suit.
   John Hawkins, an Aetna spokesman, said the firm seeks to
exit from the Massachusetts car insurance market.
   Mr. Hawkins said: "Over a period of years, we have either
lost money or made so little that it's not an acceptable
business environment for us."
   Under state law, insurers must pay an assessment for eight
years in order to withdraw from the Massachusetts car
insurance market without losing their license to sell other
kinds of insurance.
   The insurance commissioner also can revoke all licenses
granted an insurer if it pulls out of the car insurance
market because of the state's insurance laws.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former Salesman Sues
   Nordstrom Over Firing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   NOBE LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Nordstrom Inc. was sued in state court here by
a former salesman who claims the retailer illegally fired him
in 1988 because he tested positive for the AIDS virus.
   The former employee, Sean Mulholland, seeks unspecified
damages for emotional distress, lost compensation and other
factors. Mr. Mulholland described his firing in a page-one
story in this newspaper in February on working conditions at
the retail chain that is renowned for pampering customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Nordstrom denied the allegations. "He was
terminated for legitimate reasons," which "have nothing to do
with the allegations in the lawsuit," the spokesman said.
When pressed, the spokesman added only that Mr. Mulholland
"was terminated as a direct result of not coming to work."
   The spokesman branded Mr. Mulholland's suit part of a
negative publicity campaign by the United Food &amp; Commercial
Workers Union, which is locked in a bitter contract dispute
with the company. Mr. Mulholland "was unable physically to
handle the demands of a full-time sales position" and "we
have continually tried to offer him opportunities (to work)
in other areas of the company," the spokesman said.
   Mr. Mulholland's suit relating to acquired immune
deficiency syndrome was filed by Webster, Mrak &amp; Blumberg,
the Seattle law firm that represents UFCW Local 1001 in legal
matters stemming from its contract dispute with Nordstrom.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nestle S.A.:
   Capital-Boost Plan Dropped;
   `Deteriorated' Market Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.NES
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Switzerland-based Nestle S.A., the world's biggest food
concern, said as expected that it will withdraw a proposed
capital increase, citing "the deteriorated situation on the
stock market."
   The 1-to-20 rights issue of registered shares, through
which Nestle had hoped to increase its capital to about 364.9
million Swiss francs ($250.8 million) from 346.5 million
francs, wouldn't have improved the company's financial
structure, under current market conditions, Nestle said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nestle in late March said it would complete the capital
increase only "if the stock exchange conditions are
favorable." Nestle's withdrawal move follows decisions by
several other large Swiss companies, including Ciba-Geigy AG
and Alusuisse Lonza Holding AG, to cancel or postpone their
capital increases.
   Analysts and stockbrokers have been highly critical of the
number of planned capital increases announced by Swiss
companies in recent months, saying they were depressing an
already sluggish market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Clamor Builds
   For Automating
   Treasury's Sales
   ----
   By Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Momentum is building for Uncle Sam to automate
the huge auctions of U.S. Treasury securities.
   For the past 60 years, the sales of Treasury bills, notes
and bonds have been conducted mostly by hand by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, on behalf of the U.S. Treasury.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This quaint procedure is increasingly irritating many of
the Fed's 44 primary dealers, the elite group of securities
firms that must bid at every Treasury debt sale in exchange
for the privilege of trading directly with Fed.
   These dealers say the sales could easily be computerized,
providing results in minutes, instead of hours. The speedier
sales not only would help dealers avoid costly mistakes, they
say, but also would save the Treasury millions of dollars
annually in borrowing costs and lessen auction-day turmoil in
the world's largest bond market.
   "It's an antiquated system and it ought to change in this
day and age," says E. Craig Coats Jr., a managing director at
First Boston Corp.
   The Fed, as the Treasury's fiscal agent, conducts the
sales of Treasury securities, which totaled $1.25 trillion
last year, to fund the federal deficit. Tomorrow, the size of
the quarterly note and bond auction next week will be
announced, and it is expected to total about $30 billion.
   Dealers say they have periodically pleaded with Treasury
and Fed officials to automate auction procedures, which have
changed little since three-month Treasury bill sales started
in 1929. Their requests prompted officials two years ago to
quicken existing procedures by encouraging the clerks
involved in sorting and counting the bids to work faster.
That effort shaved about 40 minutes off the wait for auction
results.
   But even so, winners aren't notified of purchases until as
long as three hours after the 1 p.m. EDT bidding deadline.
The reason is that after the deadline has passed, the steel
boxes containing the bids are brought to the eighth floor of
the New York Fed for processing by hand. The preliminary
tally is then faxed to the Treasury for final compilation.
   Traders envision computerized auctions that would enable
them to type in their bids on a keyboard and send them
directly to the New York Fed, just as the World Bank's
trading desk in Washington already does.
   Bidders are concerned about market risk because auction
days -- especially those that involve infrequently offered
securities -- are among the most volatile days for the U.S.
bond market. The anxious wait for results breeds rumors that
can whipsaw prices of more than $100 billion of securities
that trade daily.
   For example, consider the Treasury's attempts earlier this
year to sell 40-year bonds for the first time since the
1950s. The auctions of $5 billion of these securities in
January and $3.5 billion in April by the Resolution Funding
Corp., the agency created to fund the federal government's
rescue of the thrift industry, drew considerable interest
because of their novelty.
   Around the bidding deadline at both auctions, rumors
surfaced about robust demand for the new "bailout" bonds,
which lifted the entire bond market. But results issued three
hours later showed that those rumors were false, and bond
prices fell a full point late in the afternoon on the day of
the first sale and half a point following the second auction.
"By having timely results, you would have avoided those
market slides," contends Joseph Liro, a money market
economist at S.G. Warburg Securities Co.
   The latest attempt to lobby for electronic auctions began
in February when a trade group representing primary dealers
met with New York Fed officials and offered to shoulder some
of the costs of automation. The discussions initiated by the
Public Securities Association were widened early last month
to include senior staff at the Treasury. The result is that
the Treasury and the New York Fed have agreed to study the
possibility of computerizing the auctions.
   The dealers are eager to move fast. "I would hope by the
fall we would have a working, automated auction system in
place," says Thomas Pura, chairman of the PSA's primary
dealer committee and a partner at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   But Michael Basham, deputy assistant secretary of federal
finance at the Treasury, cautions, "It's at least a year away
from implementation." The typically tight-lipped New York Fed
allows through a spokesman that "we are at a highly
preliminary point."
   Well, says Mr. Pura, the effort "is tentative, but the
important thing is that we have the dealers, the Fed and the
Treasury working together. The biggest hurdle has been
overcome."
   While all of the Fed's 12 regional banks and 25 branches
accept bids for the auctions, the New York Fed typically
collects 80% to 90% of the competitive offers because it is
close to the nation's largest brokerage firms and commercial
banks.
   Until auctions enter the computer age, the Treasury will
pay a hefty premium to finance its borrowing, many automation
proponents assert. That is because bidders usually add a
little extra to the interest rates they offer to pay on the
securities to compensate for the risk involved in waiting for
results, they say. "It's almost like a bit of an insurance
premium," says Mr. Liro of S.G. Warburg.
   In a volatile market, where prices can move a full point
in minutes, or $10 for every $1,000 face amount of a 30-year
Treasury bond, there is a chance that prices of the
securities offered at the auction will have edged lower by
the time results are announced. That trims the returns to
dealers, who resell most of these securities to customers or
in the secondary market. Of course, the opposite sometimes
occurs and prices move higher during the wait, earning the
firms a better-than-expected profit.
   But whether bidders win or lose, it is the Treasury that
pays for their risk, those who favor automation say. The
auctions are "a costly process for the Treasury and a
difficult one for dealers," says James R. Capra, a senior
vice president at Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc.
   Mr. Capra says the premium built into auction bids is
about what a broker would charge a client for a very
short-term option to sell bonds at a fixed price. In this
case, the broker's "customer" would be the Treasury and the
"option" would give the federal government the right to sell
securities late in the afternoon of auction day at the market
price of three hours earlier.
   On the day that the Treasury last sold 30-year bonds, Feb.
8, the cost of a three-hour option to sell a 30-year bond was
1/4 point, or $2.50 for a $1,000 face amount, according to
data of GFI Group Inc., a broker of over-the-counter Treasury
bond options. That option cost twice as much as on a typical
day because the bond sale made the market jittery. Using Mr.
Capra's estimate of bidders' "cushion," the hidden cost to
the Treasury for the $10 billion of 30-year securities sold
in February was $25 million.
   With automation, "hundreds of millions of dollars could be
saved over the years by the U.S. government," says Mr. Pura
of the securities group.
   The Treasury's Mr. Basham concurs: "Even if it saved a
fraction on the $1.25 trillion of securities that are
auctioned each year, that's a substantial savings."
   Not everybody agrees with these projections. Some dealers
say the auctions are so competitive that there is little, if
any, risk premium. "The savings would be minuscule," says
Scott E. Pardee, co-chairman of the U.S. unit of Yamaichi
Securities Co. and a former senior official at the New York
Fed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Control of BCCI Reported
   To Be Taken by Abu Dhabi
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The oil-rich government of Abu Dhabi,
effectively taking control of Bank of Credit &amp; Commerce
International, is paying a reported $528 million for a 20%
share of the company and will inject another $400 million in
new capital, people close to BCCI said.
   As a result, Abu Dhabi -- and its absolute ruler, Sheik
Zayed al-Nahyan -- will become the majority owner of BCCI,
which earlier this year pleaded guilty in Tampa, Fla., to
laundering more than $14 million of drug profits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to recent estimates, Sheik Zayed and the
state-owned Abu Dhabi Investment Authority together hold
about a third of the closely held bank's stock.
   Luxembourg-based BCCI, which specializes in trade finance
and deposit business, is expected to announce its 1989
results soon. According to individuals close to the bank
holding company, it will report losses as a result of
substantially increased provisions for bad and doubtful
loans.
   Abu Dhabi is apparently paying $40 a share for the 20%
stake currently owned by the Saudi Bin-Mahfouz family,
according to London news agency reports. The $528 million
total cost of the transaction implies that BCCI has 66
million shares altogether, and values the whole company at
$2.64 billion. The Bin-Mahfouz family owns National
Commercial Bank, the largest Saudi Arabian commercial bank.
At one time, the family seemed to have ambitions to turn BCCI
into its international arm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Reports
   Strong Results,
   Splits Stock 3-2
   ---
   First-Quarter Net Declined
   Only Because of '89 Gain;
   Operations, Sales Soared
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Boeing Co., while reporting that first-quarter
net income slid 34% from a year-earlier period swollen by an
accounting-related gain, posted an 87% surge in operating
profit on a 60% rise in sales.
   The world's leading jetliner maker also boosted its
dividend and split its stock 3-for-2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those steps, mirroring moves taken a year ago, were
announced yesterday at the aerospace company's annual meeting
here. Boeing increased the dividend 25% to 37.5 cents a share
from 30 cents. Both the quarterly payout and the split, after
which the dividend will be adjusted to 25 cents a share, are
payable June 8 to stock of record May 18. Boeing has raised
its dividend annually since 1984.
   Net income for the latest quarter was $302 million, or
$1.31 a share. That compares with $459 million, or $1.99 a
share, when Boeing recorded a one-time gain of $298 million,
or $1.29 a share, from the adoption of a new accounting
standard. On an operating basis, the company earned $161
million, or 70 cents a share, a year ago.
   Sales shot up in the quarter to $6.44 billion from $4
billion. For the full year, Boeing said it would register
about $27 billion in sales, up from $20.28 billion in 1989.
   Yesterday's dividend actions were widely anticipated on
Wall Street, where Boeing is the only airframe maker whose
fortunes are viewed favorably these days, because of its
strong commercial airliner business. "We just can't build
airplanes fast enough," Dean Thornton, president of Boeing's
commercial aircraft unit, told shareholders. He noted that
the demand for new planes is so great, carriers are beginning
to place orders for equipment that they won't even receive
until the year 2000.
   By contrast, most aerospace concerns are stuck exclusively
in a faltering military market. And McDonnell Douglas Corp.,
the only other U.S. company with a commercial jetliner
operation, is having problems on the factory floor, causing
it to lose money on every plane it ships.
   Boeing, though, has had few such troubles. Last year, it
did experience some manufacturing hiccups with the 747-400
jumbo jet and endured a 48-day strike by the machinists
union, but it has recovered nicely and is currently
assembling an average of 31 jets a month. The company is in
the process of increasing that to 34 a month. And yesterday,
Mr. Thornton unveiled plans to possibly increase the rate to
38 monthly by mid-1991 and 41 by 1992.
   Wolfgang Demisch, who follows Boeing for New York-based
UBS Securities, said he thought such a plan was realistic,
adding that because the company's commercial lines are well
developed at this stage, a heightened production schedule
isn't likely to trigger any problems. "Once you're up and
running, there isn't any reason why you shouldn't be able to
increase the numbers," he said.
   Frank Shrontz, Boeing's chairman, said a more robust
schedule was needed to help offset the company's declining
defense business, which, despite streamlining, is still
expected to lose money this year. Last year, Boeing's
military transport subsidiary suffered a $559 million loss,
while the missiles and space segment earned $85 million.
"We're readdressing the balance between commercial and
defense," Mr. Shrontz said.
   Considering the bottom line, there was a lot of downbeat
talk yesterday by Boeing executives, who predicted the
Pentagon budget will decline 5% annually in real terms until
1995. Mr. Thornton also issued warnings that the company's
work force desperately needs to improve its level of
productivity and not become insouciant in the commercial
arena. Moreover, Mr. Shrontz said, Boeing's first-quarter
earnings represented about 4.7% of sales, a figure "below the
margins needed to fund the investment required for projected
growth and new product development in the years ahead."
   Nonetheless, it was difficult to hide all the good news.
For one thing, Boeing's commercial backlog stands at 1,701
airplanes valued at nearly $90 billion. The company's overall
cash and short-term investment position also bounced back
from the effects of the union walkout in the first quarter,
rising to $2.9 billion from $1.9 billion at the end of 1989.
   Besides cranking up the commercial aircraft lines, Mr.
Shrontz said, Boeing's commitment to build the 767-X is also
a response to the slip in defense work. The new wide-body
twin-jet, the chairman said, will most likely be launched by
the summer, and is set to take to the skies five years
afterward.
   The meeting yesterday was largely routine, though there
were some particularly passionate words from shareholders
about Boeing's choice to continue to do business with
racially divided South Africa. The company maintains that it
has an obligation to deliver reliable jets to those who order
them, and then help maintain the planes to ensure the safety
of all air travelers. At one point, a shareholder asked that
George Shultz, the former secretary of state and a Boeing
director, give his views on the matter. He declined, however,
to speak.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advanced Micro, Unit
   Of Samsung Settle
   Dispute Over Patents
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AMD C.SEL CY
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and
Samsung Semiconductor Inc. said they settled two-year-old
litigation over Advanced patents covering semiconductor
circuits.
   In its suit, filed in August 1988 in federal court in San
Jose, Calif., Advanced said that Samsung infringed on patents
covering its AM22V10 programmable array logic chip, one of
Advanced Micro's leading products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As part of the settlement, Samsung Semiconductor, the San
Jose, Calif., unit of South Korea-based Samsung, acknowledged
that the Advanced patents are legally valid and said that in
two years it would stop selling certain products, including
chips protected by the patents.
   Advanced said it would receive royalties from the
resulting sales, which cover existing Samsung commitments to
customers, although an Advanced spokesman declined to
elaborate on the monetary amount.
   The Advanced Micro complaint was a countersuit to an
earlier lawsuit filed by Samsung against Advanced Micro, in
which Samsung was seeking to have the basic patent covering
Advanced's chip invalidated. Advanced Micro sued three other
concerns on the same patent-infringement claims.
   Those claims remain outstanding against Atmel Corp. and
Cypress Semiconductor Inc., both of San Jose; and Gazelle
Microcircuits Inc., Santa Clara, Calif.
   With the settlement of the litigation, the two companies
said they agreed to discuss possible future business
relationships in areas of mutual technological interest.
   Advanced Micro stock rose 12.5 cents yesterday to close at
$8.75 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Denmark Submits Filing
   For S&amp;P 500 Equity Notes
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Kingdom of Denmark filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to offer $100 million
principal amount of S&amp;P 500 Index Protected Equity Notes.
   The notes are designed to permit an investor to
participate in the appreciation in the U.S. equity market
between the issue date and the maturity date of the notes.
The appreciation is measured by the increase, if any, during
this period in the S&amp;P 500 Composite Stock Price Index. If
there is no increase in the index during this period,
investors will be paid the amount of their initial investment
at the maturity of the notes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Denmark said it is selling the notes as a means to
decrease the cost of its debt.
   Underwriters for the offering will be led by PaineWebber
Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Concert Promoter
   Sentenced to Prison
   For Leasing Scheme
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.BOT UBNK GWF GE I
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- U.S. District Judge Manuel Real sentenced a
former concert promoter to 15 years in prison for his role in
a leasing scheme that defrauded 14 banks, thrifts and other
financial institutions of $23 million.
   Kimball Dean Richards of Whittier, Calif., will be placed
on five years' probation after completing the sentence and
will be barred from engaging in any entertainment-related
businesses during that time. The issue of restitution hasn't
been made final, said Assistant U.S. attorney Richard E.
Robinson. A lawyer for Mr. Richards wasn't immediately
available to comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On March 8, a federal jury convicted Mr. Richards, 34
years old, for his role in a scheme to defraud the
institutions by the sale of leases on non-existent audio
recording and concert sound and lighting equipment. Last
year, two other men involved in the scheme were sentenced to
prison and each ordered to make restitution to the victims of
$21.9 million.
   The defrauded institutions include Union Bank; a unit of
Bank of Tokyo; a unit of Great Western Financial Corp.; and
units of General Electric Credit Co. and First Interstate
Bancorp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Soybean Futures Prices Fall on Profit-Taking
   After Run-Up; Weather Forecast Is Also Cited
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Soybean futures prices declined on profit-taking,
following a sharp run-up in price last week.
   "There was massive commodity-fund buying last week; we
were due for a respite," said one analyst. Many commodity
fund managers follow price trends, so that their purchases on
the heels of rising prices fuel subsequent rallies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Adding to the slump yesterday was a 30-to-90-day weather
forecast, released after the close of trading Friday, that
predicted moderate temperatures and normal moisture levels
across many U.S. growing regions. Some speculators last week
were buying soybeans on the belief that the forecast would
call for hot, dry weather, possibly leading to a
drought-induced crop shortage this year and higher crop
prices, analysts said.
   Soybean futures for July delivery slid 2.5 cents a bushel
to close at $6.4850 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.
   Export demand and favorable weather forecasts buoyed corn
futures prices slightly. July corn futures gained 0.25 cents
a bushel to close at $2.83 a bushel on the Board of Trade.
   The outlook for potential frost in certain winter-wheat
growing regions in coming days sent wheat futures prices
higher. Wheat futures for July delivery advanced 4.75 cents a
bushel to close at $3.4575 a bushel on the Board of Trade.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude oil contracts were generally higher, though
trading was thin ahead of tomorrow's meeting of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The market
opened strongly on anticipation that OPEC may agree to cut
back its production in May and June. Prices were then knocked
down by waves of selling, before they recovered late in the
session. Crude oil for June delivery actually ended
unchanged, at $18.54 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, but outer-month contracts finished higher. July
crude, for instance, wound up seven cents higher, at $19.27 a
barrel. Heating oil rallied while spot prices for gasoline
plunged, both mainly for technical reasons. The expiring May
heating oil contract gained 2.79 cents a gallon to 56.53
cents. Gasoline for May delivery fell 0.95 cent to 60 cents a
gallon.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Copper for May delivery fell 2.7 cents a pound, to
finish at $1.1690. Futures prices started off weak, recovered
and then settled back again. The April contract had expired
Thursday at a very high price because of tight supplies, and
"after an expiration like that, there is a tendency for the
market to pause and for prices to sag," said Robert Green,
president of Connecticut Minerals &amp; Metals Inc., a Darien,
Conn., metals consulting and trading company. April's final
price of $1.35 a pound last week was 15 cents a pound above
the May contract's close, one of the biggest premiums traders
could recall. John Gross, president of J.E. Gross &amp;
Associates Inc., a New City, N.Y., consultant to the copper
industry, said that when a spot month expires at a premium,
the next month usually rises to pick up the firmness or a
good part of it. "That didn't happen this time because the
April premium over May was so large," he said. Meanwhile in
Peru, a miners' and smelter workers' strike continues at
Southern Peru Copper Corp. despite recent indications that
union and management may be coming closer together, another
analyst said. "Management has made offers but none have been
accepted," he said. There has been talk that a national
miners' strike might be called next Monday if the strike at
Southern Peru Copper -- a walkout that began March 12 --
isn't settled by then.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices rebounded from early
declines but ended mixed. June delivery gold was off $2.60 an
ounce at $371.40. At the day's low in early trading it dipped
to $367.70, just 70 cents above its life-of-contract low.
July silver ended higher, with a gain of 1.5 cents an ounce
at $5.0150, after dropping to a new life-of-contract low of
$497.00 (the previous low was $497.70.) July platinum
declined $1.50 an ounce at $474.10. At one point, July
platinum traded as low as $467.00. The early declines in
precious metals appeared to be influenced by active selling
earlier in Europe, according to Ian MacDonald, vice
president, Credit Suisse, New York. Many European traders
will be observing May Day today. Platinum was weaker than
gold mostly because platinum is a thinner market and tends to
exaggerate price movements more than gold, Mr. MacDonald
said. Gold's rebound was touched off by demand from Europe
and the Middle East when the metal dropped to its low for the
day, he said: "It was apparent that, as the June gold price
approached the $366 level, new demand was attracted."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Off the Blacklist:
   Did Hospital Supplier
   Dump Its Israel Plant
   To Win Arabs' Favor?
   ---
   Audit Committee at Baxter
   Probes Venture in Syria;
   Firm Denies It Broke Law
   ---
   Memo From Boycotters' Files
   ----
   By Sue Shellenbarger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST BAX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   DEERFIELD, Ill. -- As the world's largest hospital
supplier, Baxter International Inc. was sorely tempted by the
Middle East's rich and growing health-care market. Increasing
the company's global business was a top priority for
ambitious Vernon R. Loucks, who became chief executive
officer of Baxter in 1980, and the Middle East market seemed
destined over the years to produce sales in the billions of
dollars.
   But for Baxter, the door was slammed shut. In 1971, Baxter
had built a plant in Israel to synthesize intravenous body
fluids, and since the mid-1970s had been on the Arab League's
blacklist of corporations that do business with Israel. If
Baxter were to sell the plant for the purpose of getting off
the Arab blacklist, the company would violate American
anti-boycott law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Then last year, apparently out of the blue, Baxter seemed
to get lucky. By doing nothing more than agreeing to a joint
venture with a Syrian government agency to build an
intravenous fluids plant in Syria, the company insists, it
was removed from the blacklist.
   Was it mere coincidence that the previous year, without a
public announcement, Baxter sold its plant in Israel? Baxter
insists it was. It says it had been trying to rid itself of
the plant for years for economic reasons having nothing to do
with the Arab boycott. The plant, Baxter says, was simply a
loser.
   At first, pro-Israeli groups that monitor the compliance
of corporations with American anti-boycott law seemed willing
to accept Baxter's explanation. But they are no longer.
   In February, Baxter directors received a copy of an
explosive memorandum allegedly on file in the Arab League's
boycott office in Damascus. The memorandum was sent to the
directors by a disgruntled former Baxter executive in the
Middle East, Dr. Richard Fuisz, a physician and Washington,
D.C., businessman. The memorandum suggests a hitherto
unacknowledged connection between the sale of the Israeli
plant and the Arab League's delisting of Baxter. Dr. Fuisz
provided The Wall Street Journal a copy of the memorandum and
other documents dealing with Baxter's involvement in the
Middle East.
   According to the boycott committee memorandum, Baxter
itself requested removal from the blacklist through its Swiss
subsidiary, Baxter AG. In support of the request, Baxter's
International Medical Technologies subsidiary in the Middle
East supplied the Arab boycott committee detailed
documentation on the Israeli plant sale and even promised not
to deliver Israel modern technology or do any other business
with it, the memorandum says.
   Baxter's senior vice president and general counsel, G.
Marshall Abbey, says the company hasn't violated the law. He
confirms, however, that the audit committee of the Baxter
board of directors has commissioned a lawyer from the New
York firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham &amp; Taft to conduct an
independent investigation. The Commerce Department and the
Securities and Exchange Commission are reviewing Baxter's
Middle East activities. Neither will comment on the matter.
   Influential Jewish leaders who have learned of the affair
are demanding a full accounting from Baxter. The
circumstances "raise serious questions about the process
Baxter went through" in getting off the Arab blacklist, says
Jess N. Hordes, Washington director of the Anti-Defamation
League of B'nai B'rith. Mr. Hordes wrote Baxter's Mr. Loucks
a letter on April 6 inquiring about evidence suggesting that
Baxter cooperated with the Arab boycott. Mr. Abbey reiterated
in a letter last week that the sale of the Israeli plant was
unrelated to its blacklisting; Mr. Hordes in turn says he
still isn't satisfied.
   Baxter insists that it never contacted the boycott
committee to request removal from the blacklist. Mr. Abbey
says International Medical Technologies never supplied any
information directly to the boycott committee. He also says
Baxter never under any circumstances "made a promise not to
get involved in Israel" in the future.
   The anti-boycott law was enacted in 1977 to discourage
corporations from continuing to seek Arab business with
promises to avoid commerce with Israel. Some companies had
even refused to deal with other American firms that were on
the Arab blacklist, strengthening the boycott. Former
President Jimmy Carter had called the situation "a disgrace."
   The law forbids American companies to participate in any
foreign boycott and requires the public disclosure of any
requests to cooperate with any boycott and of any acts of
compliance. It also forbids companies to supply blacklist
officials any information that demonstrates cooperation with
the boycott.
   Because of the law, some blacklisted companies have simply
abandoned pursuit of the Middle Eastern market. Others --
among them Coca-Cola Co. -- have gradually won access to
markets in moderate Arab League nations without halting
dealings with Israel. But the incentive to find loopholes in
the law has been strong.
   "Large corporations are on the horns of a dilemma," says
E. John Keller, a consultant in international asset
protection and risk assessment in Southlake, Texas. "If they
believe the Arab market is a lot larger than the Israeli
market -- and most of them do -- they will go that route. Yet
they are concerned," he says, about violating anti-boycott
laws or offending supporters of Israel in the U.S. "It's a
difficult line for U.S. companies to walk," he says.
   Being shut out of the Middle East market, enriched by the
oil boom of the 1970s and eary 1980s, was painful for Baxter.
The Middle East promised rich rewards for a hospital supplier
with an early foothold in the region, and Baxter wanted to be
that company. But thanks to the blacklist, every Baxter
initiative in the region turned to sand.
   In 1982, Baxter acquired Medcom Inc., a New York
manufacturer of hospital-employee training materials that had
close relations with Saudi Arabia, for $53 million. Despite
the blacklist, Baxter hoped to use the company's connections
to sell all kinds of medical supplies in that kingdom.
   "As it turned out," Baxter later said in documents filed
in a legal case, it "could not do so." After losing money on
Medcom for more than a year, Baxter executives were told by
Saudi officials to "stop wasting their time" in the Middle
East, according to a Baxter document. Baxter sold Medcom in
1986 for just $3.77 million, or 7% of what it had paid for
the company. "The deal from hell," a lawyer who researched
the transaction characterized it.
   Worse yet, Baxter's biggest acquisition ever, its $3.8
billion purchase of American Hospital Supply Corp. in 1985,
was also bruised by the blacklisting. American Hospital's
business in Saudi Arabia dried up as soon as Baxter bought
the company.
   The source of all the trouble was just one among dozens of
facilities that Baxter operated around the world, a small
intravenous fluids plant in Ashdod, Israel. Building the
plant "seemed like a good idea at the time," says Mr. Abbey,
but it was only occasionally profitable. In 1980, Baxter
says, it began seeking a buyer. Mr. Abbey says Commerce
Department officials at the time told Baxter that a sale
wouldn't violate the anti-boycott law. The Commerce
Department won't comment.
   There was talk among Baxter employees in the U.S. and the
Middle East that Baxter wanted to dump the plant to expand
elsewhere in the Middle East. One of those who heard the talk
was Ghazi Braiche, a former employee of Saudi Medical
Services Ltd., a firm that had served as Saudi agent for a
Baxter subsidiary. "I said, `That's practically impossible to
do (under the law),'" Mr. Braiche recalls telling a Saudi
Medical executive. "How can you hide such a transaction?'"
   Baxter's talks with a prospective buyer for the Israeli
plant fell through around 1983. Discussions about a possible
joint venture with the Israeli government also failed, Mr.
Abbey says. Mr. Loucks met with the Israeli prime minister at
the time, Menachem Begin, to tell him why Baxter wanted out
of Israel, "but Begin was beating him over the head to get us
to export. We just couldn't do it," Mr. Abbey says, because
the Israeli plant's production costs were too high. "By 1985
or 1986," he says, "it was my conclusion that we would always
have an Israeli subsidiary, whether we wanted to or not."
   Another thing seemed clear: If Baxter were ever to win
delisting, Arab officials would demand proof that the Israeli
subsidiary had been sold.
   Nazir Sinan, a prominent Damascus attorney and specialist
in boycott affairs, appeared at Baxter headquarters in this
quiet Chicago suburb on a spring day in 1985. Although Mr.
Abbey says Mr. Sinan was uninvited, he managed to see Mr.
Abbey and discuss delisting. "My recollection is that I said,
`Don't call me, I'll call you,'" Mr. Abbey says. He says that
Saudi Medical Services sent Mr. Sinan to Deerfield. Ahmed
Al-Sanousi, president of Saudi Medical Services at the time,
won't comment.
   In any case, Mr. Sinan later wrote to Mr. Abbey to outline
the steps Baxter must take to get off the blacklist. "It is
imperative," one letter said, that a sales contract for the
Israeli operations "should provide that your company has sold
the factory and has terminated fully and finally its legal,
technical, scientific, financial, labor and consultative
relations" with Israel. There's no evidence that Baxter
pursued the matter further with Mr. Sinan. But the next year,
1986, Mr. Abbey flew to Damascus to explore a joint venture
with Syria.
   American law doesn't prevent a U.S. company from getting
off the blacklist by investing in an Arab country. The
trouble can lie in getting the Arab League to agree that the
investment alone is sufficient to remove the U.S. company
from the blacklist.
   Syria, at first glance, wouldn't seem to offer a
hospitable entry. It takes an especially hard line toward
Israel and has tolerated anti-Western terrorist groups. Its
economy, a socialist thicket penetrated mostly by
multinational oil companies, makes profit from any joint
venture questionable at best. A severe foreign-exchange
shortage, steep inflation and dubious public-health
conditions had kept many of Baxter's competitors away.
   But Syria, as one of the Arab League boycott committee's
toughest members, is also one of its most influential. And
Mr. Abbey had a card to play: an offer of Baxter capital and
expertise in building a Syrian intravenous fluids plant, the
kind of facility seen critical to national security in the
war-torn Middle East -- and the kind of facility Baxter had
tried to sell in Israel.
   After "some false starts," Mr. Abbey says, Baxter
ultimately found a joint-venture partner, the General
Establishment for Blood and Medical Industries, which
supplies military and civilian hospitals. Last year, Baxter
and Syria reached a general agreement for Baxter to build the
plant in return for payment in Syrian pounds and part of the
plant's production. Terms of the agreement, highly favorable
to Syria, were finally completed on April 9.
   Coincidentally, Baxter says, in 1988 the same potential
buyer that had lost interest in the Israeli plant in 1983
contacted Baxter again. Soon after, Baxter sold the plant to
the Israel concern, Teva Pharmaceuticals, for a price under
$20 million, Baxter says. Baxter had stopped referring to the
Israeli plant in its yearly Form 10-K reports to the SEC
beginning in 1986. Its 1985 acquisition of American Hospital
Supply made Baxter so large, the company says, that the
finances of so small an operation as the Israeli plant were
no longer material.
   Last fall, while terms of the Syrian joint venture were
still being negotiated, the boycott committee in Damascus
removed Baxter from the blacklist. The company won the
unusual distinction of being sponsored by Syria. In the U.S.,
watchdog groups began almost immediately to question the
circumstances surrounding Baxter's delisting. The company
asserted its innocence. In a letter, Mr. Abbey assured the
American Jewish Congress that the Israeli plant sale and the
delisting were unrelated.
   The Boycott Law Bulletin, a newsletter published in
Houston that monitors anti-boycott law compliance, wrote that
Baxter had made "no overt or covert effort of any kind" to be
removed from the blacklist, adding in a headline that Baxter
was delisted "without even trying." Baxter confirmed the
account, attributing its delisting to its Syrian joint
venture.
   Although the Commerce Department and the SEC continued to
study Baxter's removal from the blacklist, the matter seemed
to rest -- until Dr. Fuisz sent his package of documents
along with a cover letter to Baxter directors on Feb. 2.
   Dr. Fuisz, a founder and former chief executive officer of
Baxter's Middle Eastern Medcom subsidiary, had been ousted
from his job and demoted in 1982. He filed a wrongful
termination and defamation suit against Baxter in federal
court in New York in 1985. During the litigation Baxter and
Dr. Fuisz each accused the other of improper payments or
gifts to influential Saudi Arabian businessmen and government
officials in attempts to win Middle Eastern sales or to get
off the Arab blacklist. None of the allegations were proven
or disproven.
   In a settlement, Baxter gave Dr. Fuisz an $800,000,
five-year consultancy. But Dr. Fuisz remains bitter toward
Baxter and unhappy with the outcome of the litigation.
   Dr. Fuisz says he spent about $35,000 to send an agent to
Damascus to obtain the Arab League memorandum last year. He
says the agent used $10,000 to pay a boycott office employee
to permit the copying of the memorandum, which Dr. Fuisz says
was considered secret. Why did Dr. Fuisz go to all this
expense and trouble? "I didn't do it for money," he says. "I
did it because -- it may sound dumb, but it's the way I feel
about it -- I feel like I went to a Western movie and the bad
guys won. I hang with it because I want the Western movie to
turn out right."
   "We are looking at it," John J. Louis, head of Baxter's
audit committee and former American ambassador to Great
Britain, says of the memorandum. As for the implications of
the document, he says, "We don't know enough to say for sure
(what they are)."
   Without being specific, Mr. Abbey says the document
contains "a number of things that are just factually wrong."
But he acknowledges "some connection between the subjects
referred to in (the memorandum) and materials I furnished our
joint-venture partner" in Syria. If such a partner gave the
boycott committee the anti-Israel assurances described in the
memorandum, rather than Baxter itself, Baxter's conduct might
escape sanctions under the "local law exception" to U.S.
anti-boycott regulations. To determine whether an incident
qualifies as a local-law exception, a Commerce Department
official says, the circumstances "must be examined very
closely."
   While the Commerce Department won't discuss its probe of
Baxter, it acknowledges that determining a company's
motivation in the divestment of Israeli operations is
difficult. "If the company did it because of the boycott,
that would constitute a violation" of the law, a department
official says. "But if they did it for legitimate business
reasons, it's not illegal. Obviously, we would have an
evidence problem . . . in any effort to determine what their
motives were."
   Whatever the legal resolution of the affair, Baxter stands
to take its lumps from anti-boycott groups. The civil fines
typically imposed by the Commerce Department for anti-boycott
violations seldom are large enough to punish large
corporations. "The real strength of U.S. anti-boycott law,"
says Joe Kamalick, editor of the Boycott Law Bulletin, "is
the power of public disapproval."
   American firms, he says, "really hate being connected in a
public way with any questions about anti-boycott violations."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Right Kind of Missile Ban for Europe
   ----
   By Richard Perle
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   President Bush was right to stop pressing NATO plans for a
new American short-range nuclear missile in Europe. Such a
missile is militarily unnecessary and politically infeasible.
But how the president and his NATO colleagues decide the more
fundamental issue of the future of nuclear weapons in Europe
is another matter.
   American nuclear weapons in Europe, and specifically in
West Germany, are crucial to the safety and stability of
Europe. Without them, Germany would face the nuclear-armed
Soviet Union with only non-nuclear forces. The result would
be a dangerous imbalance in the center of Europe. And,
whatever Germany may say or think today, this imbalance would
in time lead Germany to seek nuclear weapons of its own.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The French and British understand the implications of this
and have strongly supported a continuing American nuclear
presence on German soil. The Germans, given as they are to
romanticism, pacifism and self-absorption, aren't sure
whether they will allow American nuclear weapons to remain in
Germany much longer. Those Germans who don't want the
missiles seem to believe one of two things: Either that no
Soviet military threat exists any longer, or that even, if
they send us and our weapons packing, the U.S. will continue
to protect Germany with its American-based strategic weapons.
   The signs from Germany are disquieting. A typical
statement is the one made by Count Otto Lambsdorff, the
leader of the Free Democrats, Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich
Genscher's party. Count Lambsdorff has said that Germany may
have to honor East German "obligations" even after
reunification. What this could mean is reimbursing Moscow for
the cost of keeping Soviet troops in Germany. With the
leading figure of a centrist party saying that, anything is
possible]
   When President Bush recently leaked the decision to
reverse his earlier insistence on a missile to replace the
aging Lance missile now deployed in Europe, he let it be
known that a new arms-control policy was being readied to
make the most of his unilateral change. After all, he
reasoned, if the U.S. has got to give up short-range missiles
in Europe because the Germans won't accept them, let's see if
the Soviets can be made to give up theirs.
   A treaty banning all short-range missiles would be a good
thing. But only if it covers all of them. A treaty that
allowed the Soviets to keep some limited number would be
hopelessly unverifiable. If they chose to cheat, there isn't
a prayer that we could know how many the Soviets had.
   With a total ban on short-range missiles, however, we
could have substantially more confidence in Soviet
compliance. This is because the testing of short-range
missiles and the training of troops to fire them would also
be banned. Testing and training are much easier to verify
than the actual number of weapons. Weapons are easily hidden
while test and training activities are not.
   Properly negotiated, the elimination of the entire class
of short-range missiles world-wide could have the added
advantage of taking them from the likes of Syria and Iraq,
both of whom possess Soviet missiles and the potential to use
them with chemical weapons. A treaty banning the missiles
should require the Soviets to retrieve any sent abroad.
   Without any short-range nuclear missiles in Europe, the
U.S. would still have a sizable number of nuclear weapons in
Germany and elsewhere in Europe. These include bombs
deliverable by European-based aircraft and artillery shells,
some of which have been recently modernized. Moreover, the
U.S. is developing improved weapons for tactical aircraft,
the so-called "tactical air-to-surface missile."
   There is a justifiable fear among British, French and some
American policy makers that a treaty eliminating short-range
missiles would intensify German pressure to remove the
remaining nuclear weapons from German territory, especially
the nuclear artillery. Presumably this is why President Bush
supported a successor to the Lance when he first took office
and why the administration has in the past argued -- wrongly
in my view -- for an unverifiable limit on short-range
missiles rather than a complete ban.
   There is no doubt that the denuclearization of Western
Europe, a dream of Soviet foreign policy since Stalin's day,
would give the Soviets the military predominance they
consistently sought, but failed to achieve, during the long
twilight of the Cold War. It would be ironic indeed if
Western victory in the Cold War were to bring Moscow its most
elusive Cold War goal.
   Yet the unnamed sources who leaked the president's
decision gave an argument which, more than any other, drives
the Germans toward denuclearization: That short-range weapons
can strike targets only on German territory. This idea,
expressed in the pernicious slogan "the shorter the range,
the deader the Germans," misses the central point: Nuclear
weapons with small, controllable yields would be used only
against invading forces (i.e. the Red Army) in the
battlefield. Properly developed, deployed and controlled,
tactical nuclear weapons would be used only against military
targets and, even then, only in the most extreme
circumstances. The probability of an invasion that would
warrant their use has always been slight. With the Cold War
now receding into history, it is smaller than ever. Thus the
principal purpose of American nuclear weapons in Germany
would be to deter the use of nuclear weapons against German
territory.
   Which should we suppose to be the greater threat? That a
monopoly of theater nuclear weapons might one day tempt a
Soviet leader or that maintaining a small number of American
nuclear weapons in Germany might somehow lead to their
unacceptable use on German territory?
   President Bush should go no further down the path of
changing American nuclear policy in Europe without an
understanding with the German government that would provide
for a continuing American nuclear presence there. This
probably means waiting until after the German elections in
December. A negotiation on these issues now would become
caught up in the emotional Sturm und Drang of German
electoral politics.
   Even after the German elections, securing German approval
for a continuing nuclear presence on German soil will not be
easy. But the Germans can hardly expect the U.S. (or France
or Britain) to assume the risks entailed in a nuclear
guarantee for Germany if they opt for the illusory security
of a nuclear-free zone.
   A continuing American nuclear guarantee for NATO would
mean a continuing American troop presence. The number of
troops could be substantially fewer than the 305,000 there
now. Almost any of the numbers now being discussed, from a
high of 225,000, to figures on the order of 100,000, should
be considered. Whatever number of troops remain though, the
U.S. should insist that they not face Soviet nuclear weapons
without nuclear weapons of a similar nature close at hand.
The issues of troops and weapons are inextricably bound up
together. Both are in turn woven deep in the fabric of NATO
strategy.
   That strategy can and should adapt to the collapse of the
Soviet empire in Eastern Europe, and the disintegration of
the Warsaw Pact. Reciprocal force reductions are part of the
response. So is a reorientation of NATO's nuclear doctrine
away from a readiness to use nuclear weapons early in a war
to compensate for conventional weakness. But without a
continuing nuclear presence, there is no NATO strategy at
all.
   The U.S. should take advantage of the movement toward
NATO-Soviet parity in Europe by redeploying tactical nuclear
weapons there. We should make the weapons more survivable by
pulling them away from the front lines to more secure and
flexible storage in the rear. This should go a long way
toward resolving the dilemma of the early use of weapons
deployed in spots where they would be overrun before their
use could be ordered.
   The future of NATO's nuclear force and strategy is the
most sensitive issue to arise from the profound changes now
sweeping Europe. The U.S. had better take its time and get it
right. The Cold War was too important to be left to the
generals. The way the world organizes for peace is too
important to be left to the diplomats. And neither Cold War
nor present peace should be left to the Germans.
   ---
   Mr. Perle, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise
Institute, served as assistant secretary of defense in the
Reagan administration.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Texas Air Corp.:
   Continental Airlines Earned
   $21.3 Million in 1st Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Continental Airlines, a unit of Texas Air Corp., reported
first-quarter net income of $21.3 million, largely because of
a one-time gain from a lawsuit settlement. The carrier had a
net loss in the year-ago quarter of $16.5 million.
   Continental, based in Houston, was pushed into the black
by special items totaling $69.7 million, mostly from a hefty
settlement with UAL Inc.'s United Airlines on a computer
reservations system lawsuit. In the year-ago quarter
Continental had $30.6 million in special items, mostly from
sale-leaseback of aircraft.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Quarterly revenue was $1.27 billion, compared with last
year's $1.24 billion. Operating profit was $8.8 million,
compared with $19.8 million in 1989, although the loss before
income tax and special items was mostly unchanged. In 1990,
Continental's loss before special items was $48.4 million;
last year it was $47 million.
   A spokesman for Texas Air said the parent would report its
earnings shortly.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pittston Unit's Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PCO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- Pittston Co. said its Brink's Inc.
unit purchased all the shares it didn't already own in an
air-courier and armored-car company based in the United
Kingdom. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Brink's, which previously owned 35% of Brink's-MAT Ltd.,
London, purchased the remaining 65% from its partner, MAT
Group Ltd. Brink's-MAT, which operates in several European
countries as well as in Bahrain and Hong Kong, had revenue of
about $65 million last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pittston is a coal, security and transportation concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Imperial Chemical Industries PLC:
   First-Quarter Pretax Profit
   Fell 6%, Bettering Estimates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ICI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, a British chemical and
pharmaceutical concern, said first-quarter pretax profit fell
6% to #414 million ($677.1 million) from $442 million a year
earlier.
   But the results still were far better than market
expectations, which ranged from #340 million to #380 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit after taxes and minority interests fell 1.1% to
#265 million from #268 million a year earlier. Per-share
earnings eased 2.8% to 38.1 pence from 39.2 pence.
   Sales rose 7.5% to #3.45 billion from #3.21 billion.
   Chairman Denys Henderson said earnings were "relatively
encouraging in a period of considerable economic
uncertainty." Pretax profit was hit by declining profit
margins in general chemicals, petrochemicals and plastic
products, amid sagging demand world-wide, ICI said, but
strong sales in pharmaceuticals and agrichemicals helped
offset this decline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Belo Says Complaint
   Filed by Dallas Rival
   Is Dismissed by FCC
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   BLC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- A.H. Belo Corp. said the Federal Communications
Commission dismissed a complaint filed by the Dallas Times
Herald calling for Belo's Dallas television license to be
revoked.
   In a complaint filed last year, the Dallas Times Herald
charged that a recent agreement between Belo, owner of the
Dallas Morning News and WFAA-TV in Dallas, and Universal
Press Syndicate was intended to reduce media competition in
Dallas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As part of the Belo-Universal Press agreement, Universal
Press moved 26 features, including "Doonesbury," "The Far
Side" and "Dear Abby," to the Morning News from the Times
Herald. The agreement called for the two companies to study
developing television programs based on Universal's features
and to develop an advertising campaign for newspapers using
Universal's characters.
   Belo said the FCC found that the Times Herald failed to
establish a case against it. The Times Herald, owned by DTH
Media Inc., couldn't be reached for comment.
   A trial is under way in state court in Houston in which
the Times Herald has charged Belo and the Morning News with
violating antitrust laws and interfering with its contract.
Belo said a decision in that case is expected within a few
days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Noriega Lawyers Ask to Quit on Fee Woes
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan and Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Attorneys for Manuel Noriega asked to withdraw from his
criminal case, complaining that the U.S. has stopped the flow
of attorneys' fees by freezing the deposed Panamanian
strongman's assets.
   The defense team filed papers in U.S. district court in
Miami yesterday, asking the court's permission to drop Mr.
Noriega as a client in the federal drug-racketeering case
because the lawyers haven't been paid in almost four months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We're running out of money," said Steven Kollin, one of
four attorneys on the team. Mr. Kollin said he began meeting
with government prosecutors three weeks ago to try to resolve
the funding problem. Mr. Kollin said that Michael "Pat"
Sullivan, an assistant U.S. attorney in Miami who is in
charge of the case, said he would have to discuss the matter
"at the highest levels" in Washington. "Last Friday, he told
me `no way,'" Mr. Kollin said.
   In a statement, the U.S. attorney in Miami, Dexter
Lehtinen, said Mr. Noriega's rights haven't been violated by
the U.S. government's freezing of various bank accounts
around the world. "Mr. Noriega has been accorded all the
protections of due process and right to counsel," Mr.
Lehtinen said.
   The issue of the right to legal counsel has come to center
stage in the criminal defense community recently, in light of
increasingly aggressive efforts by the U.S. government to
seize the assets of drug traffickers and to force the
forfeiture of attorneys' fees that are paid with ill-gotten
funds. Many lawyers believe the U.S. will risk intense
international criticism if it is unyielding in its position
of freezing assets in the Noriega case.
   "If there is a basis for tying up his funds, it is correct
from a law-enforcement position," said Thomas P. Puccio, a
criminal defense lawyer with the New York firm of Milbank,
Tweed, Hadley &amp; McCloy. "But from a public-relations
standpoint, if you're trying the head of state of another
country, it seems in your best interest that he get the best
representation available. It plays very badly."
   Theodore Klein, a Miami defense lawyer, said he is
surprised the defense lawyers hadn't "made adequate
arrangements before getting into this morass." He said it was
unlikely the judge would allow the attorneys to withdraw from
the case, although he could make them court-appointed public
defenders. U.S. District Judge William M. Hoeveler, who
presides over the case, scheduled a hearing tomorrow
afternoon to consider the issue.
   Mr. Kollin said that while the defense team had received
fees prior to Mr. Noriega's arrest, "since his arraignment,
we have gotten very little -- less than six figures -- to pay
expenses."
   In court papers, the defense lawyers assert that the
government concedes that not all of Mr. Noriega's wealth is
subject to forfeiture under U.S. law, noting "he received
considerable sums of money from various nations' intelligence
services." Mr. Kollin said the defense's position is that
none of Mr. Noriega's wealth is drug-related.
   He said the defense needs at least $1 million just to
cover support staff, investigative and travel costs. The team
-- currently comprised of Mr. Kollin, Frank Rubino, and Jon
May of Miami and New York attorney David Lewis -- had planned
to hire at least three more lawyers. Mr. Kollin declined to
estimate the full cost of the defense but put it at "much
less than what we understand they are going to spend on the
prosecution." The court filing cites reports that the U.S.
has already spent $12 million and may spend another $25
million on the case.
   ---
   CONSUMER GROUP CALLS state legal systems "woefully
inadequate."
   The nationwide survey was conducted by Help Abolish Legal
Tyranny, or HALT, a Washington legal-reform organization that
has been highly critical of lawyers.
   States were rated on such matters as whether they require
contracts to be written in plain language, whether consumers
can purchase legal advice from paralegals, and whether a
client can gain access to his lawyer's complaint record.
   In report cards timed to commemorate National Law Day
today, HALT gave its highest grade -- a "C" -- to California.
"It's not a bell curve," explained HALT spokeswoman Carla
Bundy. "We tried to do everything possible to jack the grades
up."
   The organization's lowest grades went to Nebraska,
Mississippi and Wyoming, all of which received an "F."
   "I reject their categorization," said U.S. District Judge
Lyle Strom, president of the Nebraska State Bar Association,
citing the state bar's "broad" legal-aid program and its
current efforts to target legal services to the elderly.
   Frank Crosthwait, president of the Mississippi State Bar,
said his state bar spends more than 43% of its dues on lawyer
discipline. He said the Mississippi bar also provides a
variety of other consumer protections, including "very active
committees in the areas of alternative dispute resolutions."
   In Wyoming, "the bar has been very concerned with becoming
more responsive to the public," said Tony Lewis, the state
bar's executive director. During the last year, he said, the
state has reduced the average time spent processing
grievances against attorneys to less than three months from
more than nine months.
   Alan Rothenberg, president of the State Bar of California,
expressed satisfaction with his state's position in the
rankings. The fact that HALT was willing to give California a
passing grade, he said, suggested that "any objective group
would have given us an A-plus."
   HALT's survey was conducted by five researchers who phoned
state bars to ask questions about consumer issues. The
organization also relied on previously published information
that was then updated.
   ---
   BROKERAGE FIRM executives encouraged deceitful sales
tactics, judge says.
   In federal court in Manhattan, Judge Kevin Thomas Duffy
issued a preliminary injunction against Wellshire Securities
Inc., a penny-stock firm based in New York. The injunction
bars the defendants from engaging in any similar transactions
violating securities laws. It also applies to Robert Cohen,
its president and owner; Carol Martino, its executive vice
president; and two traders. Such an injuction could only be
issued if the judge found a reasonable likelihood that
alleged wrongdoing would be repeated.
   In a civil suit filed in March, the Securities and
Exchange Commission accused Wellshire of making false and
misleading statements about stocks it was promoting out of
its "boiler room" operations. The SEC is asking that
Wellshire be forced to turn over at least $1.4 million in
allegedly illegal profits.
   Mr. Cohen and Ms. Martino argued that they shouldn't be
included in the injunction, claiming that, at most, they were
merely negligent in supervising their brokers. Judge Duffy
disagreed, however, ruling that Mr. Cohen and Ms. Martino
trained brokers to make bogus claims in touting stocks to
investors.
   Judge Duffy said that many Wellshire customers were
induced to buy stocks "based upon unfounded and often
inflated price predictions, false and misleading information
about the issues, high-pressure sales tactics, and in many
instances placement of unauthorized trades in accounts."
   Mitchell Lampert, an attorney for Wellshire and the two
executives, said his clients deny committing any
securities-law violations.
   ---
   MANDATORY PUBLIC INTEREST work by lawyers recommended by
panel.
   A committee appointed by New York State Court of Appeals
Chief Judge Sol Wachter has suggested that a rule be adopted
requiring New York's 88,000 lawyers to perform a minimum of
40 hours of non-criminal legal service for the poor every two
years. The proposed rule would have to be voted on by the
Court of Appeals.
   The recommendation was the most far-reaching issued by the
Committee to Improve the Availability of Legal Services,
which has been studying pro bono services for two years. The
committee found that voluntary pro bono service in the state
was not meeting the increasing legal needs of the poor
because no more than 15% of the state's lawyers handle civil
cases for the poor.
   Between 1979 and 1987, the number of poor people in New
York grew by 400,000, according to the committee's report.
The committee said the crisis "jeopardizes both the welfare
of poor persons and the legitimacy of the legal system
itself." Voluntary pro bono work has become a low priority
for most law firms, the committee concluded.
   Committee Chairman Victor Marrero, of the New York law
firm of Brown &amp; Wood, says it may take as long as a year
before the proposed rule is put into effect. He says that
mandatory pro bono already is the rule in some counties in
New York, Texas and Florida.
   In the past, arguments by lawyers that mandatory pro bono
violates due process or is involuntary servitude have not
prevailed in court, Mr. Marrero said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Veba AG:
   Firm Earned $208.4 Million
   On Its Feldmuehle Holding
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   G.FDN S.STO G.VEB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Veba AG Chairman Klaus Piltz said the West German
chemicals and energy group earned 350 million marks ($208.4
million) on the sale of its 51% holding in Feldmuehle Nobel
AG to Sweden's Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags AB.
   Mr. Piltz said the total consists of 300 million marks in
profit reflecting the difference between purchase and sales
price of the holding, and an additional 50 million marks in
dividends.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Veba chairman said the company is selling the holding
it bought 11 months ago mainly because there isn't enough
synergy between Feldmuehle's main paper business and Veba's
activities. He also cited Feldmuehle 5% limit on individual
shareholders' voting rights as a factor that made taking full
control of the company too expensive.
   Bo Berggren, chief executive of Stora Kopparbergs
Bergslags, said Stora will offer 540 Deutsche marks a share
to holders of the remaining 15% of Feldmuehle shares it
doesn't hold. It paid an average of 567 marks a share for
Veba's holdings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Confidence Off,
   Index Shows, on Job Fears
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Consumer Confidence Index in April gave up
the gain it posted in March because of "growing uneasiness
about jobs," said the Conference Board, a nonprofit,
nonpartisan group that compiles the indicator.
   The index fell to 106, a low point for 1990 and down 4.6
points from the revised 110.6 level for March, when the index
rose 3.5 points. The index uses 1985 as a base of 100.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fabian Linden, executive director of the Board's Consumer
Research Center, attributed the loss in confidence to
jobmarket concerns. Though the unemployment rate has remained
unchanged at about 5% for months, the number of new jobs
dropped sharply in March.
   In fact, 19.7% of consumers surveyed in March felt
business conditions were "bad," up 1.6 percentage points from
February. In April, that number eased slightly to 19.4%, but
the percentage of respondents who said they felt business
conditions were "good" fell 1.6 percentage points to 23.3%
   And the outlook for the next six months isn't optimistic.
Respondents planning to buy an automobile dropped two
percentage points to 6.1%, and intentions to purchase a home
also were down. Plans to buy appliances were unchanged.
   The monthly survey, covering 5,000 households throughout
the U.S., is conducted for the Board by National Family
Opinion Inc. of Toledo, Ohio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boise Cascade Mill for Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BCC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOISE, Idaho -- Boise Cascade Corp. said it plans to seek
a buyer for its Vancouver, Wash., paper mill.
   The forest products concern said its intent to sell
reflects a decision not to focus on carbonless paper, which
is produced at the mill. The mill is the smallest of the
company's 10 paper-manufacturing plants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Whitehall Corp.:
   Cambridge Capital's Effort
   To Unseat Board Defeated
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   WHT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Whitehall Corp., a Dallas-based defense concern, said its
management's slate of directors was re-elected, defeating a
slate nominated by Cambridge Capital Fund Limited
Partnership, a New York investment fund.
   Neither side could give the actual voting results, but
Cambridge said one of its candidates received as much as 46%
of the votes cast. Whitehall wouldn't comment on that claim.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cambridge also said that while it questions the proxy
tabulations, it acknowledged that it didn't receive the votes
needed to unseat Whitehall's board. It also said it is
withdrawing its offer to acquire the 90.4% of Whitehall that
it doesn't already own for $20 a share, or about $62 million.
Still, a Cambridge spokesman said the group is "contemplating
our alternatives." In New York Stock Exchange composite
trading yesterday, Whitehall shares closed at $14.375, down
62.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tosco Corp.:
   Effort to Sell the Company
   Or Refining Business Ended
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TOS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tosco Corp. said it abandoned efforts begun late last year
to sell the company or its refining business.
   But the Santa Monica, Calif., oil refiner said discussions
would continue on the possible sale of its Seminole
Fertilizer Corp. unit, which it purchased last June for about
$135 million including expenses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tosco's chief executive officer, Thomas D. O'Malley, said
in a statement that offers received for the company didn't
"reflect the strategic position and earning power of the Avon
refinery. Therefore, we will continue to operate and improve
our refining assets and explore alternative methods to
maximize values for our shareholders."
   Tosco also said it will resume its stock buy-back program,
which had been suspended after Tosco had acquired about $20
million of a possible $50 million of its own shares.
   Tosco also reported a first-quarter loss of $6.9 million,
or 66 cents a share, compared with a loss of $8 million, or
$1.48 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $477.2 million
from $274.7 million. The 1990 results include a $9.4 million
loss for the Seminole Fertilizer unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amgen Patent Claim
   On Drug for Anemia
   Is Rejected by Court
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   J.CGP AMGN GENI
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A U.S. Court of Appeals here ruled last week
that Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. didn't infringe a patent held
by Amgen Inc. when Chugai imported erythropoietin, an
anti-anemia drug, into the U.S.
   In January 1988, Amgen asked the U.S. International Trade
Commission to block Tokyo-based Chugai's importation of the
gene-spliced drug. A year ago, an administrative law judge at
the commission dismissed Amgen's request. Amgen appealed the
decision.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Technically, the commission dismissed Amgen's request on
the basis that the commission didn't have jurisdiction. The
appeals court ruled that the commission should have dismissed
Amgen's request for the reason that the request lacked merit
and not because the commission lacked jurisdiction.
   In Thousand Oaks, Calif., an Amgen spokesman said the
ruling "leaves the door open" for further efforts to block
Chugai's importation of the drug. "We have a whole series of
applications pending before the patent office, which offer
the opportunity to go back to the {commission}."
   Chugai has licensed its version of the drug from Genetics
Institute Inc., Cambridge, Mass. Amgen and Genetics Institute
are embroiled in separate legal actions over patent rights to
erythropoietin. Amgen's version, called Epogen, is the only
version that has been approved for sale by U.S. regulatory
authorities. Chugai's version is currently limited in the
U.S. to clinical tests only.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Construction Contracting
   Seen Slipping This Year
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Construction contracting in 1990 will slide a
bit, reflecting the continuing decline of commercial
building, according to Dodge/Sweet's Construction Outlook.
   The construction market forecasting arm of McGraw-Hill
Inc. valued construction activity this year at $263 billion,
down 1% from 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   George A. Christie, vice president and chief economist of
McGraw-Hill's Construction Information Group, said the
national housing performance reflected regional variations.
"Slowdown may be the proper term for what has happened to the
national economy, but for the Northeast real estate market it
is spelled recession," he said.
   Mr. Christie said that although one-family housing starts
are likely to increase 10% in central and western regions, a
decline in multifamily construction principally in the
Northeast will keep total housing starts from advancing much
beyond 1.4 million units, a 2% gain. He added that the
contracting value of nonresidential building will drop 7%
this year, continuing a slide that began in 1986. "Although a
temporary rebound is possible as the national economy
improves, the overriding weakness of commercial construction
will again become dominant before year end," Mr. Christie
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cargill Ordered to Renew
   Chicken Delivery Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- Cargill Inc. has been ordered by a
U.S. District Court judge to renew its contract with a
northern Florida chicken grower.
   Under such contracts, Cargill delivers baby chicks to
growers, who raise them and are paid per pound by Cargill for
the weight the chickens gain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cargill quit delivering baby chicks to Arthur Gaskins,
president of the Northeast Florida Broiler Growers'
Association, in August after that group filed a lawsuit
against the big, Minneapolis-based agribusiness concern. That
continuing lawsuit alleges, among other things, that Cargill
underpaid the chicken growers.
   The case was discussed in a page one story in The Wall
Street Journal in January detailing the plight of chicken
growers around the country.
   Mr. Gaskins had petitioned the court for a preliminary
injunction requiring Cargill to continue to do business with
the chicken farmer.
   In his order granting a motion for preliminary injunction,
Judge John H. Moore ruled that Mr. Gaskins and the U.S.
Justice Department, which has joined the ongoing growers'
case, have a substantial likelihood of winning their case on
several claims, including the claim that Cargill terminated
Gaskins in order to discourage growers from supporting the
growers' organization.
   A spokesman for Cargill said the company received the
order late yesterday and "will be studying the next
appropriate action on our part."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Union Texas
   Putting Itself
   On the Block
   ---
   Sale Could Yield $2 Billion
   To KKR, Allied-Signal,
   Two Owners of Oil Firm
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   UTH ALD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Union Texas Petroleum Holdings Inc. said it is
putting itself up for sale, a step that industry experts say
could yield its owners about $2 billion if all its pieces are
sold.
   The company, just a step below the nation's major oil
companies in size, owns considerable natural gas and crude
oil reserves in Indonesia, the British North Sea and the Gulf
of Mexico. It also has an interest in large petrochemical
operations in Louisiana.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Union Texas is 40%-owned by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.
and 40%-owned by Allied-Signal Inc.
   The company said directors have authorized executives "to
explore a sale of the company and other alternatives." The
sellers haven't picked an investment banker to handle the
sale.
   Union Texas said that a transaction isn't guaranteed,
recalling the difficulty the company had in its initial
public offering in September 1987, when the two controlling
shareholders pulled out of the sale at the last minute. The
result was a drastically reduced offering in both price and
size. The company said any sale probably wouldn't be
completed before November.
   Still, the current outlook for oil companies is more
bullish than a few years ago, and Union Texas's assets are
viewed favorably. "This is a quality company," said Ronald J.
Barone, an oil analyst at Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. in New York.
   Wall Street experts yesterday valued the company at $1.85
billion to $2.06 billion, though many energy properties sold
in the past two years have exceeded their appraised values.
The estimates work out to a range of $22 to $24.50 a share.
Union Texas shares rose $2.625 yesterday to $20.50 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Allied appears to be somewhat more optimistic, setting a
target of about $1 billion for the sale of its 40% stake in
Union Texas. "That's in the ballpark of what we think we
might be able to get," a company spokesman said in Morris
Township, N.J.
   Edward L. Hennessy Jr., chairman of Allied and a Union
Texas director, told shareholders at the annual meeting
yesterday that the aerospace and automotive products company
would use proceeds to reduce debt and buy back stock.
   KKR owns 33.3 million shares plus warrants. A sale at $25
a share would give KKR $832 million on its stock and $145
million for its warrants, or a total of $978 million -- or
nearly four times KKR's original investment of $250 million
in 1985. That's a total return of a little more than 30%
annually.
   While that sort of return doesn't match the 50% annual
rates that some leveraged buy-out funds once boasted of, it's
a piece of good news in comparison with some of the woes that
have afflicted KKR and other buy-out firms since the collapse
of the junk-bond market.
   KKR had been criticized for the deal a few years back
after oil prices plunged from $28 to $8 a barrel. Now that
oil prices have rebounded, the investment looks a lot better
-- particularly in comparison with some of KKR's leveraged
buy-outs which have soured, such as Seaman Furniture Co. and
Hillsborough Holdings Inc.
   In New York, KKR declined to comment on the planned sale.
   While Allied has wanted to sell its stake for some time,
it isn't clear what triggered yesterday's announcement. Some
on Wall Street believe that Allied was prepared to sell even
if KKR wasn't, and that may have prompted KKR to go along to
avoid either a partner it wouldn't like or a minority
position.
   Commenting on the timing, a Union Texas spokeswoman said,
"There continues to be a lot of interest in oil and gas
properties. The Huffco sale is an example of that," she said,
referring to the sale of Huffington Corp. to Taiwan's
national oil company last month.
   Huffington's primary asset was a 20% interest in an
Indonesian joint venture in which Union Texas has a stake
almost double that size. The venture supplies natural gas to
one of the world's largest liquefied natural gas facilities.
A sale price wasn't disclosed but oil industry speculation
puts it roughly at $500 million to $700 million.
   Mr. Barone of Kidder Peabody values Union Texas's
Indonesian interest at $1.1 billion. It accounts for 1.24
trillion feet of the company's 2.01 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas reserves. U.S. operations, at 581 billion cubic
feet at year-end 1989, represent the second-biggest portion
of the company's gas reserves. Along with 30 million barrels
of oil reserves, combined U.S. reserves are valued by Mr.
Barone at about $688 million.
   Union Texas's total world-wide crude reserves are 140
million barrels, the biggest part of which -- 79 million
barrels -- lie in the British North Sea.
   The company also holds a 42% interest in a Geismar, La.,
chemical plant that produces ethylene, valued by one industry
expert at about $300 million.
   Union Texas reported first-quarter earnings of $31
million, or 23 cents a share, on revenue of $311 million, and
has maintained an aggressive capital spending program,
raising its budget 41% this year to $361 million.
   Allied acquired Union Texas in 1962, though the company's
growth accelerated only in the late 1960s. Union Texas began
as a sulfur company in Sulphur, La., in 1896 and entered the
oil business in 1926.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BC Gas to Sell Preferred
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   T.BCG
</CO>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- BC Gas Inc., a natural-gas
utility, said it agreed to sell to Scotia-McLeod Inc., a
Toronto securities dealer, 20 million Canadian dollars
(US$17.2 million) of preferred shares.
   BC Gas said proceeds will be used to reduce debt. The
dividend rate on the shares, which will be cumulative,
redeemable and non-convertible, will be 9% annually for the
first five years, and set by negotiation subsequently, it
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nashua Corp.:
   Dutch Auction Buy-Back
   Of Common Shares Begins
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   NSH
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nashua Corp. launched a Dutch auction tender offer for as
many as 2.75 million of its common shares.
   The Nashua, N.H., maker of coated paper and computer
products and photofinishing concern will offer tendering
shareholders a price in the range of $39 to $44 a share. The
company has 9.2 million shares outstanding. In such a Dutch
auction, a company states the number of shares it will buy
during a stipulated period with a price range within which
shareholders can tender their shares. The company will select
a single purchase price within the range to enable it to buy
all the shares it wants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nashua said the offer isn't conditioned on any minimum
number of shares tendered. Funding for the offer is coming
from a portion of the proceeds of the recently completed sale
of the company's international office systems business to
Gestetner Holdings PLC of London. Salomon Brothers Inc. will
manage the offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First Bank System Inc.:
   Lawsuit Over Management
   Of Bond Holdings Settled
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   FBS
</CO>
<LP>
   First Bank System Inc., Minneapolis, said it reached an
out-of-court settlement of a lawsuit filed in 1988 against
the company in connection with the investment strategies of
its bond portfolio, a major portion of which was sold in
1988.
   The bank-holding company said the agreement won't result
in a loss to First Bank or a cash benefit to shareholders
other than the six plaintiffs, who will receive "nominal
payments."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First Bank said its insurance carrier will pay $2.5
million to the company, which will be used primarily to pay
costs associated with the lawsuit.
   As part of the agreement, First Bank said it agreed to add
an outside director who has senior investment-services
experience; revise and formalize guidelines and policies
relating to its remaining bond portfolio; and retain an
independent expert to advise it on the management of the bond
portfolio and balance sheet.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bolt Beranek &amp; Newman Inc.:
   Fiscal Third-Quarter Loss
   Widened to $32.4 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BBN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bolt Beranek &amp; Newman Inc. reported a net loss for the
third quarter ended March 31 of $32.4 million, or $1.77 a
share, widened from a net loss of a $5.2 million, or 29 cents
a share, in the year-earlier period.
   The loss in the latest quarter included $20.4 million, or
$1.12 a share, in pretax one-time charges related to laying
off 300 workers, and scaling down its communications and
advanced computers units. The Cambridge, Mass., concern said
its software and technology divisions remain profitable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The widened loss came on a 13% revenue decline, to $64.9
million from $74.5 million. A spokesman said the decline
reflected the end of funding from a limited partnership and
the end of a Delta Airlines contract held by a now-defunct
subsidiary. He said those factors "didn't affect" the
bottom-line losses.
   Stephen R. Levy, chairman and chief executive officer,
said that Bolt Beranek's "poor operating performance over the
past 18 months" reflects slower defense spending and
increased competition in the computer industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Superior Auto Is Sued
   By U.S. for Failing
   To Install Seat Belts
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department filed a $543,000 suit
against Superior Auto Sales Inc., an auto importer, charging
that the Buffalo, N.Y., company failed to install seat belts
or air bags as required by law.
   The company is believed to be the nation's largest "gray
market" importer of cars to the U.S., according to a
statement issued by the department.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Buffalo, was
brought by the Justice Department on behalf of the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration. It is intended to
enforce a law requiring foreign-car importers to install
passive restraints. The law was passed in 1984 and took
effect on a phased-in basis. By last September, all imported
cars were required to comply with the safety regulations.
   A Justice Department spokesman said the number of cars
involved wasn't known at this time. A company spokesman
couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Allegheny International Inc.:
   Partnership Secures Funding
   For Plan of Reorganization
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   AG
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Japonica Partners said it has lined up $425 million of
bank financing for its plan to reorganize Allegheny
International Inc., which is operating under Chapter 11 of
bankruptcy-law procedures.
   An attorney for Japonica, a New York investor group trying
to take over Pittsburgh-based Allegheny, said it has obtained
loan commitments of $175 million from Chase Manhattan Bank,
$175 million from Security Pacific and $75 million from
Midland Montague, an affiliate of Midland Bank PLC., a
British bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japonica said previously the partnership would supply more
than $120 million of equity capital.
   Allegheny, which produces Sunbeam and Oster appliances and
other consumer products, filed for bankruptcy court
protection in February 1988. Allegheny management has its own
plan for reorganizing the company, which involves paying
creditors mainly with stock.
   With the bank commitments, cash that Allegheny has on hand
and the Japonica equity, Japonica said, it has the funds
needed to gain control of Allegheny and provide it with
working capital.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Anti-Communists Won't Concede Victory
   ----
   By David Frum
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Should some future historian ever want to mark a precise
date at which neo-conservatism passed from the political
scene, this past weekend would do as well as any. This was
the weekend of the convention of the Committee for the Free
World, an annual event that brings together in Washington a
large number of the grand names of anti-communism:
Jean-Francois Revel, Norman Podhoretz and Jeane Kirkpatrick.
It might have been expected that the first meeting of this
group in the immediate aftermath of the collapse of the
communist regimes of Eastern Europe would have been a giddy
celebration. But no.
   Frank Gaffney, a former Reagan Defense Department official
and now director of the Center for Security Studies, reported
at the final session, on Sunday morning, "Never since 1945
has the Soviet Union been so close to military pre-eminence
in Europe as it is today." Grim news, but what really seemed
to be depressing the conferees was not a frightened
confidence that Mr. Gaffney is right, but the disturbing
suspicion that he is wrong. And if he's wrong, what next?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Irving Kristol expressed an unpopular minority view:
"Communism is over. Collectivism isn't over, but communism is
over. And that means that anti-communism is over too." The
few under-30 guests applauded, but the great majority of the
conferees, over 50 for the most part, shook their heads. They
reserved their approbation for the remarks expressed at the
Saturday sessions: NATO was still alive and still vital to
the future of Europe; without support from the U.S., a
unified Germany would be vulnerable to Soviet bullying;
American culture was in decline. The closest anyone came to a
bold vision of the future was Mel Lasky, editor of Encounter:
"We must be imaginative, innovative. We must do again what we
did in 1945."
   It is no disparagement of what was done in 1945 to find
repeating the past not an especially imaginative plan. Of
course, what was accomplished between 1945 and 1955 was
stupendous. It was in those years that the institutions that
formed the modern West -- the West that Eastern Europe is now
begging to join -- were created. If the Committee for the
Free World does not represent the generation that devised
those institutions, which is dead, it does at least represent
that generation that argued for them when they were young and
fragile. As such, that generation deserves immense credit; as
such, it is understandably reluctant to concede that new
institutions might be necessary.
   Or new habits of thought. Mr. Kristol's warning that
collectivism did not die when communism did was strikingly
vindicated by the conference itself. Carl Gershman, the
executive director of the National Endowment for Democracy,
delivered an impassioned plea for U.S. government assistance
to democratic forces in Eastern Europe.
   Not everybody present agreed with Mr. Gershman, or with
Mr. Lasky's even more ambitious demand for massive
government-to-government assistance to Eastern Europe. But
everybody who expressed an opinion on U.S. help for the East
did seem to assume that the only assistance worth discussing
is the sort of the assistance that governments can offer.
   The Czech finance minister, Vaclav Klaus, has said
repeatedly that Czechoslovakia needs investment, not aid. The
best help that the West can give will come not from the NED
or the Peace Corps or AID, but from General Electric, Suzuki,
News International, Oxford University, Medecins sans
Frontieres, Deutschebank, the SmithRichardson Foundation and
CNN. The best help Western governments can offer is an open
international trading system.
   The sharpest sign of generational clash at the conference
was not the statism of the older generation, but its tone. In
a question-and-answer session, one of the younger guests
accused the panel of excessive pessimism: "You'd never know
that six communist regimes had been toppled within the past
six months." That, replied one of the dour speakers, is why
we are so worried.
   Other speakers went beyond pessimism to downright
bitterness. American culture is in decline, lamented Hilton
Kramer, editor of the New Criterion. John O'Sullivan, editor
of National Review, corrected him: Decadence is a state of
low vitality, and American culture was undeniably vital.
Might it not be more accurate to describe American culture as
poisonous rather than decadent? Gertrude Himmelfarb, a
historian, gloomily complained, "The state of the
universities has never been worse."
   And things are just as bad overseas. "The president of
Lithuania is a music teacher, and the president of
Czechoslovakia is a playwright," Mr. Kramer scoffed. Worse,
Vaclav Havel is reported to have a poster of John Lennon on
the wall of his Prague apartment.
   All in all, a disappointing weekend. The definitive
failure of a generation's work means that it is time for a
new generation to take over. But so too, it turns out, does
the definitive success.
   ---
   Mr. Frum is an assistant features editor of the Journal's
editorial page.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Material Sciences Corp.:
   Board Reviewing Strategic,
   Financial Options for Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MSC
</CO>
<LP>
   Material Sciences Corp., which recently reported a big
loss for fiscal 1990, said its board is reviewing "various
strategic and financial alternatives" for the company.
   Last month, the maker of coatings and laminates said
charges from the sale of a unit and a write-down of some
assets led to a loss of $30.4 million, or $6.10 a share, for
the year ended Feb. 28. Sales were $152.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman said the board is "very concerned" about the
value put on the Elk Grove Village, Ill., company by the
stock market. In American Stock Exchange composite trading
yesterday, the stock was unchanged at $9.25, its 52-week low.
The company's announcement came after the close of trading.
The spokesman said the board believes the company is "worth
much more than $45 million," the indicated market value based
on its nearly five million shares outstanding. The company
wouldn't say what alternatives it's exploring.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Aca Joe Inc.:
   Licensees Accuse Retailer
   Of Fraud, Contract Breach
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aca Joe Inc. said it was sued by licensees, who charged
the clothing retailer with fraud and breach of contract,
among other things.
   The plaintiffs, who filed the suit in federal district
court in San Francisco, said they are seeking $10 million in
compensatory damages and unspecified punitive damages. The
San Francisco company said it was reviewing the complaint. It
declined to comment further.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the suit, the plaintiffs, which include four current
licensees and two former licensees, alleged that the company
deceived them by publicly stating its intent to continue
operating a licensed outlet system when, the suit alleges,
the company had decided to switch to wholesale systems. The
suit also alleged that the company failed to ship merchandise
the licensees had ordered and paid for.
   Aca Joe, which filed for protection from creditors under
the federal Bankruptcy Code in May 1988, emerged from Chapter
11 last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Reliance Group Holdings Inc.:
   Insurance Subsidiary Is Sold
   For Total of $630 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.WIN REL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Reliance Group Holdings Inc. said it completed the
previously announced sale of its General Casualty Co.
subsidiary to Winterthur Swiss Insurance Co. for $630
million.
   As a result of selling the Sun Prairie, Wis., insurance
company, Reliance said it will post a pretax gain of about
$380 million in the current quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New York-based Reliance sold General Casualty at nearly
three times its book value. Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the
rating service, has said that the sale to the Swiss company
"will strengthen the statutory surplus of Reliance's
insurance operating subsidiaries" and improve its
consolidated financial leverage.
   In the 1989 second quarter, Reliance posted a $6 million
net loss, including an after-tax charge of $8.6 million to
settle lawsuits.
   Reliance shares closed yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at $5.625, up 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bank Building &amp; Equipment Corp.:
   Company Seeks Protection
   In U.S. Bankruptcy Court
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bank Building &amp; Equipment Corp. of America, St. Louis,
said it filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11
of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
   Last autumn, the company disclosed that it had uncovered
financial irregularities at one of its divisions, and that it
expected the problems to reduce earnings by $3.3 million. It
subsequently launched a corporate "downsizing" and financial
restructuring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the fiscal year ended Oct. 31, the company had a loss
of $10.4 million, which it said was attributable "primarily
to mismanagement and irregularities in the Loughman Cabinet
division."
   Bank Building filed the petition for reorganization in
federal Bankruptcy Court in St. Louis. It said it plans to
sell off all its real estate, plant machinery and equipment
that won't be required for operations in the reorganized
concern, and that it expects all existing contracts to be
"completed as scheduled." Company officials couldn't be
reached for comment.
   Bank Building plans, designs and constructs facilities for
financial and medical clients.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Air Products Names
   Harold A. Wagner
   To a New Position
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   APD WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ALLENTOWN, Pa. -- Air Products &amp; Chemicals Inc. appointed
Harold A. Wagner executive vice president in charge of
world-wide gases and equipment, the company's largest
business, with about $1.5 billion in annual sales. Mr.
Wagner, 54 years old, president of European operations for
the industrial gases and chemicals concern since July 1988,
assumes the new position June 1.
   Analysts say the promotion suggests that Mr. Wagner is
being groomed to succeed Dexter F. Baker, chairman and chief
executive officer, following the recent abrupt departure of
Frank J. Ryan, president and chief operating officer. Mr.
Ryan, 58, who had been considered Mr. Baker's likely
successor, was forced out in a management clash with Mr.
Baker, who assumed Mr. Ryan's positions. Mr. Baker is 62 and
must retire at 65, but the company said discussion of a
successor is "premature."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joseph J. Kaminski, vice president for corporate planning,
will succeed Mr. Wagner as head of European businesses. Wayne
A. Hinman, director of corporate marketing development and
planning, succeeds Mr. Kaminski.
   The company also announced these management changes: James
H. Agger, vice president and general counsel, was appointed
to the additional position of corporate secretary, succeeding
Richard A. Gray Jr., who is retiring. Donald J. Orr, vice
president of business divisions in the chemicals group, was
promoted to senior vice president; Robert E. Gadomski, vice
president and general manager of process systems, was
appointed group vice president; and Stanley R. Roman, vice
president and general manager of industrial gases, was named
group vice president.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Dresdner Bank AG:
   Talks on a Joint Venture
   In East Germany Reported
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   DRSDY
</CO>
<LP>
   Dresdner Bank AG said it is holding talks with Deutsche
Kreditbank AG over a banking joint venture in East Germany.
   Dresdner confirmed a statement by Kreditbank President
Edgar Most that the two banks are holding talks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But West Germany's second-largest banking group declined
to disclose details of the negotiations, which Mr. Most said
involved the establishment of a joint banking network of
around 50 branches.
   Frankfurt-based Dresdner has a stated strategy of
expanding broadly and swiftly into East Germany as soon as
regulations and the contemplated economic and monetary union
between the two Germanys allow.
   Mr. Most, who is chief executive officer of East Germany's
first full-service, or universal, banking institution, didn't
disclose further details of the contemplated venture, other
than to say that Kreditbank expects to sign a letter of
intent soon to set up the joint venture. Mr. Most was quoted
as saying that one-month-old Kreditbank is aiming to broaden
its business ties with West German banks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Armstrong Claims
   That It Won 3 of 4
   Contested Seats
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACK T.FCY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LANCASTER, Pa. -- The management of Armstrong World
Industries Inc. said that it won at least three of the four
board seats contested at yesterday's annual meeting by
nominees of Canada's Belzberg family, which has repeatedly
said it might make a bid for the company.
   The Belzbergs, owners of an 11.5% stake in Armstrong, said
they were "confident" they had elected at least one
candidate, Harvard Business School Prof. Michael C. Jensen,
based on proxies submitted to them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The flooring and building products concern said that a
final tally of the votes cast by shareholders wouldn't be
available until at least May 11. The counting process is
complicated by Armstrong's cumulative voting system, in which
shareholders were given four votes per share and allowed to
divide those votes among the eight candidates in any way they
chose. In addition, Armstrong said that some proxies may be
contested.
   Although no Belzberg family members attended the meeting,
their representatives called the election a victory for
shareholders. "(Mr. Jensen) is a voice that will give a
different shareholder perspective," said Robi Blumenstein,
senior vice president of First City Capital Corp., a Belzberg
merchant bank. "We weren't seeking control of the board,"
added Scott D. Robbins, a First City vice president.
   But William W. Adams, Armstrong's chairman and chief
executive officer, said that capturing one of four seats
hardly constituted an endorsement of the Belzbergs or their
agenda. "My arithmetic doesn't call that a victory," Mr.
Adams said in an interview.
   The annual meeting was calm, with no argument over the
candidates or five governance proposals offered by the
Belzbergs. The audience of about 600 people was mostly made
up of local shareholders and retired employees.
   Mr. Adams drew a standing ovation when he reiterated the
board's longstanding position against selling the company. He
added that Armstrong is committed to keeping its furniture
business, which the Belzbergs would like to see sold.
   The company said it will allocate the votes from the
proxies it controls after a preliminary tally of other votes
is made. Armstrong's nominees for re-election to the
13-member board are Barbara Hackman Franklin, Joseph L.
Jones, Robert F. Patton and Harry K. Wells.
   Yesterday, in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, Armstrong common closed at $33 a share, up 37.5
cents.
   Representatives of the Belzbergs said their fight with
Armstrong's management isn't over. The family is contesting a
second board seat, for Richard E. Bennett, chairman of
Scovill Inc., a Belzberg-owned fastener manufacturer.
   And the Belzbergs continue to seek a binding shareholder
vote on five proposed amendments to Armstrong's charter that
would make it easier for shareholders to take action without
the board's consent, such as accepting a buy-out offer.
Although some stockholders expressed opinions on the
proposals on their proxy cards, a federal judge has yet to
rule on their validity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ashton-Tate's
   Esber Resigns
   Two Top Posts
   ---
   Loss-Plagued Software Firm
   May Be for Sale; Official
   Denies It's on the Block
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TATE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Edward J. Esber Jr. resigned yesterday as chairman and
chief executive officer of Ashton-Tate Corp., and executives
close to the once-dominant software company said it may be
for sale. However, a company official denied it was on the
block.
   Ashton-Tate, which has reported sinking sales and four
quarterly losses in a row, didn't immediately name a clear
successor to 37-year-old Mr. Esber, who held the top spot for
more than five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company named Carmelo J. Santoro, 48, a board member
and chief executive officer of Silicon Systems Inc, a Tustin,
Calif., semiconductor company, to the position of chairman.
It also named William P. Lyons, 45, who was previously vice
president and general manager of AshtonTate's applications
group, to the positions of chief operating officer and
president.
   People close to the company said Ashton-Tate retained
PaineWebber Inc. to solicit offers, but it hasn't made any
announcement that it is for sale. At least one serious buyer
surfaced, but backed off this month when it decided that
Ashton-Tate's price tag, reportedly $300 million, was too
high, according to individuals familiar with the talks.
   Mr. Esber's departure may have changed any plans to sell
Ashton-Tate. The company has a current market capitalization
of about $300 million. At $300 million, though, Ashton-Tate
might still be a good buy to certain software companies
seeking to extend their product line. "Whoever buys Tate is
buying the database market," said Nancy McSharry, an analyst
at International Data Corp. Currently, Ashton-Tate holds an
estimated 42% of the personal-computer database market, down
sharply from almost 60% three years ago.
   Mr. Lyons denied that Ashton-Tate is for sale, although a
spokeswoman for the company confirmed that PaineWebber has
been retained to "investigate proposals brought before it."
   A 19-year veteran of International Business Machines Co.,
Mr. Lyons joined the company about two years ago. He said he
was "delighted" to take the helm of Ashton-Tate and promised
to improve the company's performance by introducing new
products in "regular, predictable releases."
   That could be a tall order. Competitors have hired some of
Ashton-Tate's best technical people, and customers are tired
of seeing the company fail to meet promised deadlines for the
completion of new products.
   "When will Ashton-Tate ship a product that lives up to
expectations? It has yet to be proven they will," said Scott
Smith, an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. "Talk is
cheap here. They have to deliver."
   For years, Ashton-Tate dominated the business of selling
database software to users of personal computers, but
recently its position has slipped badly because it failed to
keep pace with technical changes in its field. The company
also faces continuing embarrassment from its inability to
ship a long-delayed new version of its flagship dBASE
product.
   In recent months, Mr. Esber had suggested that Ashton-Tate
had almost completed work on a long-delayed revision of its
flagship product called dBASE. But industry sources now say
that the company won't have the revision out by June, as Mr.
Esber had hoped.
   "I'd certainly say Ed Esber's resignation doesn't increase
my confidence in the imminent shipment of {a new} dBASE," Mr.
Smith said.
   In an interview yesterday, Mr. Lyons said that Mr. Esber's
resignation had nothing to do with finishing work on the new
version of dBASE. He added that he was "very pleased with the
progress we're making" on dBASE and noted that on April 19
the company sent its sixth test version of the new product to
2,000 potential customers. However, he declined to estimate
when the company would ship the product.
   Without a new version of dBASE, Ashton-Tate's sales have
slumped. For the first quarter, the company reported a loss
of $1 million on sales of $57 million. A year ago, it earned
$11.5 million on sales of $89.8 million. For all of 1989,
Ashton-Tate posted a net loss of $28.6 million on sales of
$265.3 million.
   Various software companies have benefited from
Ashton-Tate's miscues, but analysts said the biggest winner
long-term seems to be Oracle Corp., which built its business
on sales of database software for minicomputers and is now
going after personal computers, too.
   Mr. Esber served as Ashton-Tate's chief executive for
almost six years. Early in his tenure, the company grew
rapidly, but an acquisition strategy aimed at easing the
company's dependence on database sales was a failure, and the
departure of key engineers made it difficult for the company
to keep pace with technical advances in its core business.
   Last year, sales tumbled when the company discovered
excessive inventory of some products and announced that a new
version of dBASE had fallen far behind schedule.
   Mr. Esber will remain on Ashton-Tate's board. In an
interview yesterday, he said he believed his decision to
resign was "in the best interests of the company" and cited
personal reasons for his departure, including the birth of a
child last week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Allied-Signal Inc.:
   Hennessy Foresees Decade
   Of International Expansion
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   ALD
</CO>
<LP>
   Allied-Signal Inc., Morris Township, N.J., will expand its
international business in the 1990s, according to Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Edward L. Hennessy Jr.
   Speaking at the company's annual meeting, Mr. Hennessy
noted that 36% of the company's revenue is generated outside
the U.S. and about 30% of the employees work in other
countries. He said, "I intend for these percentages to grow
in the 1990s as we improve our positions in markets
throughout the world."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Hennessy said capital expenditures will rise this year
from $541 million in 1989.
   Company-funded research, development and engineering will
fall this year from 1989 levels to "slightly more than $600
million," because of "some divestitures and a tighter focus
on our key development programs," Mr. Hennessy said. However,
a rise in customer-funded research, development and
engineering will keep total research spending at $1.2 billion
this year, the same as 1989, Mr. Hennessy said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ITC Rules Imports
   Of Gear Used for Print
   May Be Unfairly Traded
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP AM G.LTY
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. International Trade Commission
ruled that imports of photo-typesetting and image-setting
machines from West Germany may be injuring domestic
manufacturers of similar equipment.
   The preliminary ruling stems from a complaint filed under
the Anti-Dumping Act by Varityper Inc., a subsidiary of AM
International Inc., Chicago. The complaint contends that
Linotype AG and other West German manufacturers are exporting
this equipment to the U.S. at "unfairly" low prices. The
ruling means the Commerce Department and the ITC will
continue to investigate the complaint, which involves imports
from West Germany of about $50 million a year. The proceeding
could lead to duties on the imports.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In its trade complaint, Varityper alleged that the West
German machines are reaching the U.S. market at prices
ranging from 6.3% to 17% below the home-market price for the
same products or below the foreign cost of production.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   CORPORATE MERGERS can be dismantled by federal courts
through antitrust suits by states or private citizens, the
Supreme Court ruled. The decision, clearing the way for
California to challenge the merger of supermarket chains
Lucky Stores and American Stores, raises the risks for
companies involved in mergers.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Personal spending rose 0.4% in March, mainly because
consumers paid higher prices to keep up with inflation.
Personal income jumped 0.8%, but much of that stemmed from a
boost in farmer subsidies.
                                                                                                       

   Inflation worries are rising among economists, in part
because the Fed is under pressure to avoid moves that might
hurt the economic expansion.
   ---
   Bank and thrift failures in New England could surge in the
next few years, surpassing the more than dozen insolvencies
of the past two decades, analysts and regulators say.
   ---
   A major program trader, Susquehanna Investment, was fined
$170,000 by the CBOE for alleged abusive trading in stocks
and stock options. The fine is part of a crackdown on alleged
intermarket abuses.
   ---
   Ashton-Tate's chairman and chief executive, Edward Esber,
resigned from the troubled PC-software maker. Executives said
the firm may be for sale, but an official denied it.
   ---
   Union Texas Petroleum is seeking a buyer, and analysts say
the company could fetch up to $2 billion. Union Texas is
controlled by Kohlberg Kravis and Allied-Signal.
   ---
   Donald Trump's Taj Mahal casino had a strong first month
of operation, but his two other Atlantic City casinos appear
to have suffered as a result, unaudited early tallies
indicate.
   ---
   IBM expects a "substantially improved" performance this
year and sees a "very bright" future, Chairman John Akers
told the annual meeting. The more positive tone sent IBM's
stock up $1.625, to $109.
   ---
   Torchmark was ordered by Tennessee regulators to halt its
proxy battle with American General. But Torchmark plans a
legal challenge.
   ---
   Boeing's profit plunged 34% in the first quarter, though
operating earnings surged 87%. As expected, the aerospace
giant boosted its dividend and split its stock three-for-two.
   ---
   Armstrong World Industries said it won at least three of
the four board seats contested by Canada's Belzberg family,
which has been mulling a bid for the company. The final tally
isn't expected until at least May 11.
   ---
   GM was dealt a blow in the Supreme Court, which let stand
a ruling allowing ex-workers to sue GM for refusing to
consider rehiring them.
   ---
   Ames Department Stores hired retailing consultant Stephen
Pistner to rescue the discount chain from the financial woes
of its Zayre stores.
   ---
   PepsiCo's profit rose 10% in the first quarter despite
continued expenses from previous acquisitions. Operating
earnings jumped 22%.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 122,750,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2656.76, up 11.71; transportation 1129.98, up 1.78; utilities
203.09, off 0.63.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3230.80, up
9.48.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.92, off 0.44;
spot index 133.73, off 1.76.
   Dollar: 158.90 yen, off 0.40; 1.6796 marks, up 0.0021.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- British Steel PLC:
   Spain's Aristrain Is Expected
   To Accept Takeover Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   BST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   British Steel PLC could soon be about to realize its
ambition of acquiring one of Spain's most profitable steel
companies, Jose Maria Aristrain S.A.
   Industry sources said Aristrain's board is expected to
decide later this week in favor of selling the
Olaberria-based company to British Steel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A British Steel spokesman in London refused to comment,
but the company is understood to have offered around $410
million for the family-owned company, which has annual
revenue of about 50 billion pesetas ($471.5 million).
   The planned purchase, if it materializes, is part of
British Steel's strategy for expansion in continental Europe,
where it has servicing and stocking centers but no
manufacturing subsidiaries.
   Aristrain is Spain's largest producer of steel sections
and has an extensive marketing network in Spain. Its
acquisition would provide British Steel with a valuable base
in Southern Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Second Hostage
   Freed in Mideast
   By Terrorists
   ---
   Latest Move by Kidnappers
   Put Pressure on Bush
   To Reciprocate to Iran
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Lebanese Shiite terrorists released the
second American hostage within eight days -- putting new
pressure on President Bush to reciprocate with some gesture
of gratitude toward Iran, which influences or controls the
kidnappers.
   Bush administration officials continued to insist the U.S.
won't improve relations with Iran until all the remaining
hostages are freed. But while ruling out direct American
concessions, there were signs the U.S. wouldn't mind if Iran
reaped some benefits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   President Bush said: "We cannot have normalcy as long as
any American is held against his will." But he added that
he'd have "no objection" if Israel releases a Shiite cleric
it seized last year, as Iran has demanded. And a senior
official said the administration would be willing to respond
favorably to new Iranian initiatives in negotiations over
freeing its assets frozen in the U.S. or to an Iranian move
to hold direct talks with the U.S. -- even if such responses
are interpreted by others as reciprocation for the hostage
releases.
   The Iranian leadership broke with its past policy and
immediately took direct credit for the freeing yesterday of
hostage Frank Reed by an unknown Lebanese group.
   An editorial in the English-language Tehran Times, which
is often used to communicate the regime's views, asserted
that Iran wouldn't seek further hostage releases unless Mr.
Bush responded first. It asked the U.S. to "pressure" Israel
and its Lebanese allies to free Shiite prisoners.
   In a statement, President Bush publicly thanked Iran and
Syria. Damascus handled the logistics of the release. But
administration spokesmen continued to repeat past statements
asserting that no significant gestures would be made toward
Iran until the remaining six American hostages, and possibly
even 10 other Westerners, are freed.
   A senior State Department official said the U.S. hasn't
any intention of unilaterally releasing frozen Iranian
assets. But, he added, if Iran suddenly softened its terms on
negotiations over the assets, the administration wouldn't
block a resulting asset deal, even though it might be seen as
a payoff for the hostage releases.
   Similarly, he said, if Iran suddenly proposed direct talks
involving "authoritative" representatives of its government,
the U.S. would honor its previous offer to meet, though not
to trade for hostages. Finally, the official said, if Israel
and Iran or the Lebanese groups want to arrange a prisoner
swap, the U.S. wouldn't block it, although he asserted the
administration isn't pressing Israel to do so.
   The official insisted there isn't any evidence that any of
these possible developments is imminent. "There is no
specific thing we're planning to do," he said, adding: "But
we're not going to avoid doing things, if Iran moves the
ball, just because the Iranians might want to interpret them
as gestures by us."
   The Tehran Times editorial complained that the U.S. and
the West didn't reciprocate for the April 22 release of
Robert Polhill. "Now the ball is in the court of the U.S. and
the Western countries," it said. The newspaper said an
"appropriate" response would be for the U.S. to "pressure
Israel" and its Christian allies in Lebanon to release "a
significant number" of Lebanese Shiite prisoners, including
Sheik Abdul-Karim Obeid, a radical Shiite cleric Israel
seized last summer.
   "Naturally, without an appropriate response from the
West," the editorial said, "there is no chance for the
continuation of Iranian mediation and requests."
   Tehran may be angered by the State Department's annual
report on terrorism, which was issued yesterday. The study
accused Iran of being the "most active state sponsor" of
terrorism last year, saying "the events of 1989 indicated
that Tehran continued to view the selective use of terrorism
as a legitimate tool."
   The report specifically charged that President Hashemi
Rafsanjani, who is credited with the recent hostage releases,
publicly "encouraged" the killing of Westerners and the
hijacking of aircraft last year.
   Overall, the terrorism report concluded there had been "a
steep decline" in the number of terrorist acts world-wide
last year. Incidents fell 38% and deaths of innocent victims
fell to 390 from 638 in 1988, when Pan American Flight 103
was blown up.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nuclear Power Plant
   At Seabrook Is Shut
   For Up to six Weeks
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PNH
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEABROOK, N.H. -- The Seabrook nuclear power plant, which
recently received a commercial operating license, will be
shut down for four to six weeks to modify a turbine.
   The plant has been in a phase-in period and was operating
at less than 10% capacity when it was shut down on Saturday
because readings indicated a shaft in the turbine could
vibrate beyond specifications.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The shutdown is the third for the plant since the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission issued the license in mid-March.
Critics of Seabrook called for an "independent construction
inpsection" of the plant, contending that the shutdowns are a
sign of poor workmanship and an indication that it isn't safe
to operate.
   New Hampshire Yankee, which manages the plant for 11 New
England utilities that own a stake in Seabrook, has rejected
such criticism, noting that previous studies have determined
that Seabrook has been built to NRC guidelines. Regarding the
problems found while the plant is working up in stages to
full-power production, a spokesman for New Hampshire Yankee
said a purpose of the phase-in period is to find "areas where
improvements can be made."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Tootal Group PLC:
   Annual Pretax Net Slipped
   16%, First Fall in 9 Years
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TOT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tootal Group PLC, a British clothing, textile and thread
maker, said pretax profit for the year ended Jan. 31 fell 16%
to #35.7 million ($58.4 million) from #42.3 million a year
earlier, the first such decline in nine years.
   Profit after taxes and minority interests, or profit
attributable to shareholders, dropped 18% to #24.4 million
from #29.7 million. Per-share earnings slumped 22% to 8.53
pence from 11 pence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 7.8% to #529.8 million from #491.5 million.
   Tootal is to recommend a final dividend of 3.05 pence a
share, raising the total payout for the year 2.1% to 4.95
pence from 4.85 pence.
   Despite the earnings decline, Tootal said its streamlining
strategy, begun in 1986, showed a "major advance" in the past
year, shifting the balance of earnings away from a heavy
dependence on Africa and the commodity end of British
textiles into more growth markets, especially Asia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CleveTrust Realty Investors
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   CTRIS
</CO>
<LP>
   WESTLAKE, Ohio -- CleveTrust Realty Investors said the
$1.5 million sale of a shopping center in Endinboro, Pa.,
will result in a gain of about $340,000 in the fiscal third
quarter, ending June 30. Proceeds will be used to pay debt,
the real-estate investment trust said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   British Agency Says
   Stock Trading Rule
   Is Anti-Competitive
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The Office of Fair Trading said a London Stock
Exchange rule change that allows for a delay in reporting
large trades is anti-competitive.
   Sir Gordon Borrie, director general of fair trading, said
the 24-hour delay in reporting certain details of large deals
deprives the market of information relevant to the price of
shares and gives trading opportunities to those market makers
involved in the deals that are denied to their competitors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decision to postpone reporting trades of more than
#100,000 ($163,550) until 24 hours after completion of the
transactions came in early 1989, as market makers complained
that instantaneous publication of large share deals on the
Stock Exchange Automated Quotation, or SEAQ, system spoiled
its liquidity and led to spurious volatility in share prices.
The stock exchange earlier this year proposed shortening the
publication delay for big trades to only 90 minutes. But Sir
Gordan indicated even that delay might be too long.
   Sir Gordon said he hadn't uncovered any evidence that
on-line publication of large trades led to less liquidity or
that there was a major problem of off-exchange dealing. He
also said the 24-hour delay hasn't achieved the exchange's
aim of cutting down on volatility.
   Sir Gordon said another rule change, which removed the
obligation of market makers to deal with each other, doesn't
hurt competition.
   The director general's report was forwarded to Britain's
secretary of state for trade and industry, Nicholas Ridley,
for comment. Mr. Ridley has the authority to request that the
exchange change its procedures, but a spokesman declined to
comment on Mr. Ridley's position. The exchange said that the
Office of Fair Trading report wasn't expected, and that it is
still reviewing its proposed rule changes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   MOSLEM MILITANTS FREED an American captive, the second in
eight days.
   Kidnappers in Beirut, putting pressure on Bush to
reciprocate with a goodwill gesture toward Iran, released
Frank Reed, who had been held since September 1986. The
57-year-old educator, who called his captivity "lonely" and
"boring," headed to West Germany after a stop in Syria.
Robert Polhill, freed April 22, delivered a message from his
captors to Bush, who hailed Reed's release and thanked Iran
and Syria. The president also said he'd have "no objection"
if Israel frees a Shiite Moslem cleric, as Tehran has
demanded.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The State Department issued its annual report on
terrorism, which accused Iran of being the "most active state
sponsor" of terrorism last year.
   ---
   A former HUD official told a congressional panel that the
housing agency under Secretary Pierce operated "basically on
political favoritism." DuBois Gilliam, once a deputy
assistant secretary who currently is serving an 18-month
prison term for bribery, said Pierce personally made
decisions on project approvals.
   ---
   NASA engineers untangled a cable on one of the Hubble
Space Telescope's main antennas, a move that could allow at
least limited operation of the orbiting device. Ground
controllers hadn't been able to communicate with the
telescope since its launch Wednesday by the space shuttle
Discovery.
   ---
   A House Democratic task force said El Salvador's inquiry
into last year's killings of six Jesuit priests has come to
"a virtual standstill." The report, which questioned whether
full justice would be done, is expected to influence efforts
to reduce aid to the government of President Cristiani.
   ---
   A citizens' group in Latvia demanded that the Baltic
republic emulate Lithuania and proclaim its independence from
the Soviet Union. The group, claiming to represent hundreds
of thousands of Latvians, termed the republic "an occupied
country." The call came as the legislature prepared to meet
this week to discuss secession.
                                                                                                       

   About 20,000 Lithuanians gathered to mourn a man who
burned himself to death in Moscow last week to protest the
Kremlin's efforts to end the republic's independence bid.
Officials in Vilnius, meanwhile, were quoted as saying the
republic was prepared to suspend its secession drive if
Moscow agrees to open negotiations.
   ---
   West German leaders attempted to overcome Kremlin
opposition to a united Germany's membership in NATO, saying
Bonn wouldn't overlook the Soviet Union's "justified security
interests." The assurances came as the two Germanys and the
four World War II victors prepared to open unification
negotiations Saturday in Bonn.
   ---
   South Korean riot police stormed the headquarters of the
Korean Broadcasting System in Seoul, crushing 19 days of
demonstrations by workers that have disrupted state radio and
television networks. In the southeastern city of Ulsan,
shipyard workers clashed with riot police for a third day,
and labor unrest spread across the nation.
   ---
   Bush conferred in Washington with Panama's President
Endara and announced the nomination of the first-ever
Panamanian to manage the Panama Canal. The president, who
hadn't met with Endara since the U.S. invasion of Panama last
December, also chastised Congress for moving slowly on aid
for the Central American nation.
   ---
   The EPA will issue rules aimed at reducing the amount of
dioxin that gets into water and soil through the making of
bleached paper. The agency said, however, that the risk posed
by dioxin in paper products is "no cause for alarm," and
referred this area to the FDA.
   ---
   The Supreme Court let stand a ruling by a federal appeals
court in New York that abortion-rights groups lack standing
to challenge the tax-exempt status of the Roman Catholic
Church. The justices also let stand a lower-court ruling that
allows random drug testing of Transportation Department
employees who have safety-related jobs.
   ---
   Israel's Herzog called for changes in the nation's
electoral system and criticized politicians for showing a
"total contempt for the principles of democracy." The
president's Independence Day address came amid political
divisions that have blocked formation of a coalition
following the March 15 collapse of Prime Minister Shamir's
government.
   ---
   South Africa's foreign minister said the country's blacks
couldn't push the white minority too far without risking a
backlash that could destroy the nation. His remarks came as
the Pretoria government and the African National Congress
prepared for discussions this week aimed at exploring the
possibility of black-white power-sharing.
   ---
   Authorities in China announced the lifting of martial law
in Tibet's capital. The move came nearly 14 months after the
restrictions were imposed in Lhasa to quell three days of
nationalist rioting that left at least 16 people dead and
more than 100 injured.
   ---
   The U.S. resumed diplomatic relations with the Marxist
government of South Yemen after a break of nearly 21 years.
The country has had close ties with the Soviet Union. In
announcing the move, the State Department said Aden has begun
liberalizing its economy and political system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Amity Bancorp Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   AMTY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMITY BANCORP Inc. (New Haven, Conn.) -- Robert J.
Hausman, chairman of Loews Corp.'s Loews Hotels, New York,
and Marcial Cuevas, executive director of Community Action
Agency Inc., New Haven, were named directors of this bank
holding company, increasing the board to 15 members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Considers
   Options After Failing
   To Sell Defense Units
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   C F
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. is "considering its
options" after unsuccessful attempts to sell two
defense-related subsidiaries, the company said in a
Securities and Exchange Commission filing.
   The company said it hasn't received satisfactory offers
for the two units, Electrospace Systems Inc. and Airborne
Systems Inc. The statements came in an amended registration
statement involving its $1 billion bond offering last week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Chrysler spokesman said the company wouldn't elaborate
on possible options. But financial analysts said Chrysler may
decide to wait out current conditions depressing the defense
market in hopes of attracting better offers, or to enter a
joint venture with another company.
   Chrysler's stock price has been sliding lately, but
analysts say the main reason is poor car sales rather than
fruitless efforts to sell the two defense-related companies.
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Chrysler closed
Monday at $14.50, down 25 cents.
   The defense and aerospace market turned sour a few months
before December, when Chrysler put up for sale its Chrysler
Technologies unit. That unit includes Electrospace, Airborne
and Gulfstream Aerospace. In March, Chrysler sold Gulfstream,
a manufacturer of commercial aircraft, for $825 million.
Selling the other two units would help raise additional cash
that Chrysler needs in its core automobile business.
   Industry observers say uncertainty about future funding
for defense-related contracts has brought more sellers than
buyers into a depressed market. Ford Motor Co. also is trying
to sell its aerospace operations, but hasn't succeeded so
far.
   "The climate now is like trying to roll a lead ball up the
hill," said Howard Rubel, an aerospace industry analyst at C.
J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New England Banks and Thrifts Face
   Wave of Insolvencies in Next Few Years
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TONE EBKC NEB HFS HNCP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- New England, which had little more than a dozen
failures of banks and thrift institutions in the past two
decades, faces a wave of insolvencies that could surpass that
total in the next couple of years, according to bankers,
securities analysts and regulators.
   The first edge of the wave arrived Friday, as federal
thrift regulators took control of Home Owners Savings Bank in
Burlington, Mass., and a smaller Massachusetts bank disclosed
that it is seeking financial assistance from the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Regulators privately acknowledge that they will soon be
stepping in at more New England institutions.
   At least a dozen more banks from Connecticut to Maine have
seen their capital shrink to perilously slim levels in recent
months, and even more could find themselves tottering at the
brink of insolvency if the region's anemic real estate market
doesn't pick up soon, analysts say. Gerard Cassidy, a bank
analyst at Tucker Anthony Inc.'s Portland, Maine, office,
predicts "a minimum of two dozen bank and thrift closures
over the next three to four years, when this {real estate
glut} finally washes out."
   Some companies have issued warnings to shareholders in
recent weeks. One Bancorp, a Portland company with $2.3
billion in assets, told investors that its "ability to
preserve any value in its securities would remain in doubt,"
unless it carries out an ambitious capital-recovery plan.
Eliot Bank, Boston, reported a $13.8 million deficit in
shareholders' equity and warned that "if additional capital
is not raised, it is expected that . . . regulatory agencies
would take such actions as they consider appropriate,
including the possible appointment of a receiver for the
bank."
   Bank of New England Corp., one of the region's largest
commercial banks with more than $20 billion in assets, is
working on a plan to recover from a $1.1 billion loss last
year. But company officials have acknowledged that the plan's
success may hinge on the health of the New England economy.
   Veribanc Inc., a Wakefield, Mass., company that rates the
financial condition of banks, placed 24 Massachusetts banks
in its "red" category in last year's fourth quarter, up from
two in the 1989 first quarter. The classification covers
institutions with equity of less than 3% of assets, or with a
net loss such that it may become insolvent in less than a
year if the loss continues at the same rate. In New
Hampshire, red-rated institutions jumped to 13 from zero last
year, and the number in Connecticut climbed to eight from
one.
   That isn't to say that New England faces anywhere near the
problems that the Southwest faced in the 1980s. Despite
growing concern about a possible credit crunch in the region,
most banks remain fairly well capitalized. A study by the
Boston office of Grant Thornton, the accounting firm, found
that average equity capital for Massachusetts banks with
assets from $25 million to $500 million was 8.98% of assets,
still above the 8.65% for comparable banks nationwide. And,
so far at least, only scattered incidents of executive fraud
have been uncovered in New England.
   But after long enjoying a reputation as among the soundest
and most conservative in the nation, many New England
financial institutions now find themselves paying the price
for recklessly aggressive commercial real-estate lending in
the mid-1980s. Many of the region's mutual savings banks
cashed in on Wall Street's bull market and New England's
new-found cachet by converting to stock ownership and issuing
shares during those years. With real-estate values soaring
throughout the region, most promptly raced to lend the
proceeds to developers.
   But as the economy cooled in the past two years, scores of
developers were driven into bankruptcy and banks found
themselves trying to collect on unsold condominiums and
half-vacant office buildings, structures that in some cases
are now valued at half the original appraisals.
   Few were as aggressive -- or as controversial -- as Home
Owners. After converting from mutual to stock ownership, the
company bought up mortgage-banking firms and savings-and-loan
associations around the country. It also invested heavily in
arcane mortgage-related assets whose estimated value depended
on assumptions about interest-rate movements and other
factors. The company's assets soared to more than $4 billion
from $547 million in 1984. But critics called it a house of
cards built with 1980s accounting gimmickry.
   Whether or not those charges were true, it was apparent by
last fall that Home Owners would have a hard time surviving
under the new, more conservative thrift regulations. Albert
Holgerson Jr., who led the company throughout the 1980s, was
forced out by federal regulators. Remaining company officials
said they would try to turn back the clock, returning to the
plain-vanilla business of taking deposits and making loans.
But a loss of nearly $130 million in the quarter ended Sept.
30 left the company badly crippled.
   The Office of Thrift Supervision said it had placed Home
Owners under government conservatorship because it "was
operating in an unsafe and unsound manner." The agency also
noted that the company had negative tangible capital
amounting to $106.3 million at Dec. 31.
   Meanwhile, Home National Corp. of Milford, Mass., said it
expects a $4.8 million first-quarter loss to reduce its
shareholders' equity to a deficit of at least $4.1 million.
The company, which has $486 million in assets, said its Home
National Bank subsidiary has asked the FDIC for a capital
injection that would enable it to continue operating, a form
of government assistance that has been granted to some banks
in Texas and Oklahoma.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Art Mall Story Contrary
   To Picture You Painted
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your March 28 article concerning the New York City art and
antiques center known as Place des Antiquaires ("Art Mall
Tries to Be More Than a Still Life") makes the gratuitous
statement that Place des Antiquaires is one of New York
City's "most glaring retailing mistakes," yet never supports
this claim with objective criteria. Some of the shops are
bringing in an impressive $2,000 per rentable square foot in
sales.
   You also omitted the fact that 16 of our 45 dealers have
expanded beyond their original premises and rented more
space.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   You apparently talked to a handful of dealers who are not
doing as well as others or who have complaints about a
variety of noneconomic factors. Obviously, such situations
exist, but that is perfectly normal for a group of 45
competing merchants, and no cause for the alarming
conclusions drawn.
   John C. Lesher
   Director of Leasing
   Place des Antiquaires
   New York
   ---
   As a retailer within the premises of Place des
Antiquaires, I was among the first of the pioneers who shared
a vision of success that this innovative and elegant
atmosphere would afford the "smaller" antique dealer. In our
gallery the art-buying public has overwhelmingly given Place
des Antiquaires "thumbs-up" with its checkbooks and charge
cards. Indeed, we expanded our premises this past January.
   Obviously, we find the "traffic" more than adequate, and
are considering a further expansion in the future here.
   You would have the reader believe that half of Place des
Antiquaires is vacant and unrented. This is simply not true.
The resident dealers are renting 90% of the available gallery
space, and that doesn't leave much room for many new faces,
which must first pass muster with management.
   Eugene Tosk
   President
   Orientations Gallery
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trump Luck
   At Taj Hurts
   Plaza, Castle
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AZTR BLY PHC PRI SBO RT.A X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Donald Trump's Taj Mahal casino did a smashing business in
its first month of operation, but his two other Atlantic
City, N.J., casinos appear to have suffered as a consequence.
   Unaudited preliminary tallies indicate the Taj Mahal
grossed $31.6 million through April 28, which industry
executives called an impressive showing. However, the Trump
Plaza's casino revenue of about $18.3 million was down about
25% from the same period last year. The Trump's Castle
property had a decline of 11.8%, with about $17.2 million
during the period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall, the entire Atlantic City market gained 7.4% for
the month, but the gain was nearly totally attributable to
the opening of Mr. Trump's $1 billion Taj Mahal. The casinos'
revenues were provided to this newspaper by individuals
familiar with the casinos' daily revenue figures. Revenues
are reported monthly to the New Jersey Casino Control
Commission.
   In a development that Mr. Trump said is related to the
Plaza's poor showing, Trump Plaza President Jack O'Donnell
resigned late Friday, saying, "I got tired of working for
Donald Trump." Mr. O'Donnell declined to comment on the
reasons for his decision.
   However, a person close to Mr. O'Donnell said the
executive was concerned that Mr. Trump's marketing of the Taj
Mahal would hamper Mr. O'Donnell's efforts to operate the
Trump Plaza. This person said Mr. O'Donnell felt uneasy
handing over the casino's data base of special clients to Taj
officials both because he felt it was poor business practice
and because the action might violate covenants in the Trump
Plaza's publicly traded bonds.
   Mr. Trump confirmed the sharing of data but denied such a
practice was unusual or a violation of covenants, and said
other casino companies with more than one property did the
same thing.
   "Outside of the Taj Mahal, Trump Plaza is the best
facility in Atlantic City, and I wasn't satisfied with its
performance," said Mr. Trump. "It was No. 1 in `win' {for
1989} with $306 million, but it made less money than it made
the previous year when it was No. 2 in `win.' " A casino's
"win" is the amount of money lost by gamblers.
   For all of 1989, Trump Plaza had a net operating profit of
$24 million, while Trump's Castle had a loss of $6 million,
according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
   From January through March, before the Taj opened,
revenues for Trump Plaza and the Castle generally were stable
from the same period a year before.
   Mr. Trump said he was pleased with the results of the
first month of the Taj's operations. The casino's April 2
opening was met with great fanfare, coupled with speculation
over whether the Taj could earn enough to break even -- $1
million to $1.3 million a day.
   Because the casino's slot machines were fully operational
only part of the month, people in the industry said it is
difficult to project future performance from that month's
figures. However, Taj competitors said they were impressed
with the early results.
   "They're better numbers than I thought they would be,"
said Peter G. Boynton, president of Caesars, a competing
boardwalk casino, which posted a 7.4% decline in revenue in
April. The Caesars World Inc. casino's drop-off, he said, was
totally attributable to the Taj's opening. He cautioned that
when Showboat opened in 1987, "it had a great month, and then
went into the toilet for the summer."
   Mr. Boynton said he didn't expect that the Taj would
suffer the same fate.
   Mr. Trump said that while his two other casinos were hurt
by the opening of the Taj, their numbers weren't as bad as
they appear. He said both facilities suffered an unusually
low "hold" percentage, which measures the percentage of the
total amount wagered that the casino ultimately retains.
"What happened was the other two properties played unlucky,"
he said.
   The Taj's opening also appears to have soured the luck of
many Atlantic City casinos not owned by Mr. Trump. According
to the preliminary April report, Tropworld, owned by Aztar
Corp., had an 8.8% drop in revenue from the same period last
year, while Bally's Grand revenue dropped 19.3%. Both of
those casinos are located at the opposite end of the
boardwalk from the Taj and were expected by many analysts to
suffer the most from its opening.
   The Claridge casino's revenue dropped 2.3%, while Bally's
Park Place fell behind 0.9%. However, the Sands, owned by
Pratt Hotel Corp., gained 12.3%. And Harrah's casino, which
is located in Atlantic City's marina area and competes most
directly with Trump's Castle, gained 2.1%. Harrah's is owned
by Promus Cos. while both of the Bally's casinos are units of
Bally Manufacturing Corp.
   The two casinos located closest to the Taj, the Showboat
and Resorts International, were widely expected to benefit
most from the new casino's debut. But neither appear to have
gained as much as expected: The Showboat Inc. casino's
revenue was up 0.6%, while the Resorts International Inc.
casino declined 6.6%.
   The results could be disappointing to Resorts officials
and bondholders who hoped the Taj's opening would lift that
property from its doldrums. Resorts is currently under
federal bankruptcy court protection in Camden, N.J., and is
undergoing a restructuring of its $925 million in publicly
traded debt. A Resorts spokesman said: "We are roughly on
target according to the plan that was submitted to
bondholders and the bankruptcy court. The plan always called
for 1990 revenue to be less than 1989's."
   The performance of Mr. Trump's casinos last month has
taken on added interest in light of his remarks last week
that he intends to sell, refinance or securitize many of his
holdings, including his Atlantic City properties. Included in
his plans is a possible sale of the Trump Shuttle.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UPS Could be Fined
   As Much as $625,000
   On OSHA Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- United Parcel Service faces possible federal
fines of $625,000 on charges of worker-safety violations
after a call from Nassau County, N.Y., police warned OSHA
that a UPS driver was injured by a hazardous chemical carried
by his delivery truck.
   The Labor Department's Occupational Safety and Health
Administration charged UPS with 312 willful record-keeping
violations at its Uniondale, N.Y., facility, including 310
instances of improper recording of employees on restricted
work activity. OSHA said it has issued numerous citations for
record-keeping violations by UPS over the past 16 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   United Parcel Service of America Inc., the closely held
package-delivery company based in Greenwich, Conn., said it
was studying the complaint and hadn't decided on a response.
Most of the citation, however, dealt with "alleged violations
of written procedures and guidelines," which are "complex and
subject to conflicting interpretations," UPS said.
   The company also was cited for failure to develop an
emergency response plan, or to train all workers in how to
respond to an emergency involving hazardous materials, and
for not supplying a proper respirator for employees handling
hazardous-materials spills.
   OSHA said its inspection of the Uniondale facility
resulted from a call from the Nassau County police
hazardous-materials team, after methylene chloride, a
suspected carcinogen, spilled from a box bound for delivery
in the truck. The driver touched the chemical, then put his
hand to his face, sustaining hand and facial injuries, OSHA
said.
   UPS has 15 working days to contest the citations before
the independent Occupational Safety and Health Review
Commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Staloff Resignation at Comex Is Viewed
   As Sign of Internal Strife at Exchange
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- After a quiet winter, things have started
popping in the past two weeks at the Commodity Exchange,
which has been trying to rejuvenate itself.
   -- On Friday, Arnold Staloff, president and chief
executive officer of Comex, resigned effective today after
only nine months on the job.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   -- Comex and the New York Mercantile Exchange are
considering pulling out of the common price quotation ticker
of all five New York futures exchanges and creating their own
joint ticker.
   -- Comex lost some trade-processing business it had been
handling for the New York Cotton Exchange, which said it was
going to move trade processing operations to the Board of
Trade Clearing Corp. in Chicago.
   Mr. Staloff's resignation was not unexpected given the
stories that have been coming out of Comex since August 1989
when he took the position. Mr. Staloff was brought in from
the Philadelphia Stock Exchange with considerable fanfare
because of his reputation as a developer of new financial
products such as the first foreign-currency options and a
computerized trading system. New successful products are
considered by many in the industry to be the key to exchange
growth.
   One widely accepted view of Mr. Staloff's resignation was
that he fell victim to a power play by Martin Greenberg, who
was elected chairman of Comex last month and is president of
Sterling Commodities Inc., a futures brokerage firm. But one
Comex member of long standing said Mr. Greenberg doesn't need
a power base because "he knows where all the bodies are
buried."
   Mr. Greenberg said in an interview that he wishes Mr.
Staloff well.
   An officer at another exchange characterized the split
between Messrs. Staloff and Greenberg as a personality
conflict. He described Mr. Staloff as a low-key, soft-spoken,
thoughtful and creative executive. Mr. Greenberg is known for
his outspoken and strongly opinionated personality.
   Others say that Mr. Greenberg simply wanted to put into
the presidency someone he knew and trusted. "It's sad. He
never gave Arnie a chance," commented one member.
   Mr. Greenberg says that Comex staffers are happy and that
his goal is to make the exchange more efficient and
prosperous. On the search for a new president he added,
"There is no shortage of viable candidates from both inside
and outside the exchange."
   Mr. Staloff was criticized for taking credit for things he
did not do at the exchange. For example, one member said Mr.
Staloff was claiming the hand-held trade reporting device
developed at Comex as his. Another questioned Mr. Staloff's
record in creating new products for the exchange.
   Mr. Staloff was not available for comment. However, a
longtime business associate said it would have been
impossible for him to satisfy the exchange's floor traders
because he could never shake the tag of "outsider." Mr.
Staloff "never claimed he invented the hand-held unit, but he
does say he focused attention on it to get it moving."
   This associate also notes that the Comex board at its
April meeting approved the gold asset participation contract.
"This was 100% Arnie's project," says Mr. Staloff's
associate. He notes that if this product is approved by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission it would be the first
traded on a commodity exchange that could be sold by
securities brokers. The GAP is a security-like instrument
designed to appeal to small investors who want to trade gold
without using futures.
   It isn't clear whether Mr. Staloff's failure to fit in at
Comex stemmed from the highly charged political atmosphere of
the exchange or the short-term orientation of many member-run
organizations. Tom Walker, a former Comex marketing official
and now president of Creative Marketing Solutions Inc. of
Edison, N.J., observed that "Nothing's changed. The exchange
is driven by locals, and they have no vision." "Locals" are
members of the exchange who trade for themselves on the
floor. They rarely hold market positions for more than a few
minutes.
   Although merger talks between the New York Merc and Comex
resumed Thursday night, two other recent events suggest a
grand merger of all New York futures exchanges might not be a
prospect.
   Since 1977 the five New York commodity exchanges have
pooled their price data on a common ticker. Revenue from the
sale of this data is estimated at around $27 million annually
and is currently divided according to a formula that reflects
equality among exchanges and to a lesser extent volume of
trading.
   The two larger exchanges would like to see ticker revenue
allocated by volume of contracts traded. If a new agreement
cannot be worked out with the other exchanges, Comex and Merc
are considering abandoning the common ticker and offering
their own price data separately or forming a joint ticker.
   Such a move, noted one exchange official, could result in
millions of dollars in increased revenue for the two
exchanges. It would also substantially reduce revenue for the
three smaller exchanges. According to an exchange spokesman,
the new ticker could come about as early as this summer.
   Additional signs of divisiveness came from an announcement
by the New York Cotton Exchange that by Jan. 1, 1991, its
trade processing operations would be handled in Chicago.
Since 1983 the Cotton Exchange's trade processing had been
handled by Comex Clearing Association Inc.
   A Comex official said the Cotton Exchange's decision to
move its trade processing was obviously a business decision.
An official at the Cotton Exchange said that he was surprised
that Comex did not come up with a more competitive price for
trade processing given that "they obviously have excess
capacity." No other New York exchange has indicated that it
will move its trade processing to Chicago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Mark Loses Ground on Labor Problems
   In West Germany; Trading Is Sluggish
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Concern about labor trouble in West Germany
weakened the mark against the dollar and other currencies
amid dealings made sluggish by the observance of the Greenery
Day holiday yesterday in Japan and the impending May Day
holiday today in Europe.
   Selling of marks was sparked by news of warning strikes
yesterday by some members of West Germany's IG Metall, the
metal workers union. The news combined with other
developments supporting the Swiss franc and the British pound
to give the mark greater losses against those currencies than
against the dollar, participants said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dollar, which gained only slightly against the mark,
failed to capitalize strongly on the mark's weakness because
of general reluctance in the market to take new positions
during the holiday period, traders said. Japanese markets
also will be closed Thursday and Friday.
   In the absence of the Japanese, the U.S. unit remained
static against its Japanese counterpart, spending most of the
day in a band near 159 yen.
   The holiday slowdown also coincided with the end of the
month, catching many participants at a time when their
business for April has been concluded, noted Clement Cypra,
chief dealer at Creditanstalt Bankverein in New York.
   "People are waiting for the Europeans and Japanese to come
back in on Wednesday," Mr. Cypra commented.
   Because of reluctance to act until tomorrow, the market
showed little reaction to yesterday's announcements of U.S.
personal income and single-family home sales data for March,
Mr. Cypra said. Figures showed a 0.8% rise in U.S. personal
income, against a pre-announcement expectation of a 0.5%
gain, and a 5% fall in new single-family home sales to a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 574,000, against an
expectation of a rate of 615,000.
   Although the rise in personal income was seen as positive
for the U.S. economy, the market is more interested in
today's release of the National Association of Purchasing
Management's April survey and Friday's report on U.S.
employment data for April, said Thomas Benfer, senior
marketing representative at Bank of Montreal in New York.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6796 marks, up from 1.6775 marks late Friday, and at
158.90 yen, down from 159.30 yen late Friday. Sterling was
quoted at $1.6408, up from $1.6350 Friday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was quoted
at 159.05 yen. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about
1.6806 marks.
   The economic reports released yesterday weren't expected
to have any bearing on the Federal Reserve Bank's monetary
policy, traders said.
   In activity made up mostly of non-dollar transactions,
traders said the Swiss franc showed a firm tone against the
dollar, mark and other currencies because of Switzerland's
attractive political and economic stability, high interest
rates and a perception in the market that participants have
heretofore been underinvested in the currency. The mark fell
to about 0.86509 Swiss franc from 0.8662 franc Friday in New
York.
   Sterling edged higher against the dollar, mark and other
currencies. The British unit was underpinned by participants
who held on to long positions so as to avoid the cost of
keeping short positions while British interest rates are at
15%, said Mark Morris, a corporate foreign exchange dealer at
Lloyd's Bank in New York.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $368.40 an ounce, down $2.70. The close
was the lowest since March 26. Estimated volume was a
moderate 3.3 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Tuesday, gold was quoted at $360.15 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900501-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900501-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   AET NMK SSPW PGL ABIO WLM APS MDW FOE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Aetna Life &amp; Cas      $1.61  $1.20 (3)  $1.23  (8)   34.17
  Niagara Mohawk          .60    .51 (3)    .54  (5)   17.65
  Sun Sportswear          .22    ...        .19  (3)   15.79
  Peoples Energy         1.22    ...       1.12  (3)    8.93
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Applied Biosys        $ .16  $ .19 (3) $  .21 (10)   15.79
  Wellman                 .55    .63 (3)    ...        12.70
  Amer Presidents        (.21)   ...       (.01) (5)    ...
  Midway Airlines       (2.39)   ...       (.81) (7)    ...
  Ferro Corp              .26    ...        .47  (5)   44.68
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
