<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   And Here Comes
   A Chopper, to Make
   Neighbors See Red
   ---
   Sales of Personal Helicopters
   Rise, Bringing Squabbles
   About Noise and Safety
   ----
   By Charles W. Stevens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MCCANDLESS, Pa. -- When the late Igor Sikorsky built the
first helicopter 50 years ago, he dreamed of one in every
garage. Hereabouts, only Frank Zokaites has one, but Mr.
Sikorsky's dream already seems a nightmare to the neighbors.
   From the lawn behind his Tudor-style house in this leafy
Pittsburgh suburb, Mr. Zokaites climbs into his two-seater,
starts the engines and rises into the sky. Neighbors round up
their kids and seethe at the noise. "It's like Vietnam," Jeff
D. Bergman says. Paul Spurney, who lives up the street and
worries about a crash, says, "The noise is a nuisance, but
safety is the No. 1 issue." His wife, Darlene Spurney, adds,
"If we wanted to move near an airport we would have."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite fear and controversy, sales of small, personal-use
helicopters are taking off. American manufacturers delivered
403 last year, up 51% from the year before and more than
three times the number in 1985.
   R22 Betas, built by Robinson Helicopter Co. in Torrance,
Calif., account for more than 75% of U.S. personal helicopter
sales. The R22 is "affordable, easy to take care of and
parkable in the garage," says Barbara K. Robinson, marketing
vice president. Still, affordability lies in the eye of the
beholder. The R22's base price is $99,000.
   Ms. Robinson's husband -- company founder and president
Frank Robinson, an engineer -- says he started his company in
1973 because he could interest none of the big helicopter
makers who formerly employed him in building a small,
personal helicopter. The industry's biggies, including Mr.
Sikorsky's old company, now a division of United Technologies
Corp, shun little choppers to turn out turbine-powered models
starting at $500,000 and running into the millions of dollars
each.
   The R22, smallest of the piston-powered models, stands
nearly nine feet high and isn't quite 29 feet long from the
front tip of its twin-blade main rotor to the rear tip of the
tail rotor. The main rotor has a span of 25-feet two-inches.
Landing pads can be as simple as a small area marked in the
grass, with a wind sock.
   Although the R22 is beyond the reach of the masses, it
competes with luxury sports cars and yachts for wealthy
buyers. "It's become a status thing," says Mr. Robinson.
"Like having a Maserati." Maseratis are cheaper to operate,
though. Mr. Robinson says the R22, which cruises at 110 mph,
costs about $42 an hour, or 38 cents a mile, to fly. That
includes maintenance but not liability and hull insurance,
which run around $5,500 a year.
   Still, owners trumpet the choppers' ability to leap over
suburban sprawl, and snarled traffic. During the past year
Andrew Wolf, a Beverly Hills developer, took flight lessons,
bought a $230,000, three-seat Enstrom F28F Falcon and
installed a helipad at his ranch outside Los Angeles. He
expects to get his pilot's license this summer and then use
his four-cylinder, turbocharged aircraft, built by Enstrom
Helicopter Corp. in Menominee, Mich., to zip him to
development sites and an airport near his office.
   Jim Goodman, a Thousand Oaks, Calif., chiropractor, says
his Hollywood practice requires him occasionally to land on
movie sets, mansion lawns, tennis courts and poolside patios.
Recently a woman who had injured her back while heaving a
saddle onto a horse gave Dr. Goodman telephone directions to
her estate eight miles away. Following a main artery from the
air, he spotted the patient's red tile roof with a green
tennis court nearby, touched down next to her stables, and
was adjusting her bones within minutes of the call.
   To obtain a federal license to operate a helicopter, a
novice must attend 20 to 30 hours of ground school at an
average cost of $50 an hour and log 40 hours of flight time,
20 with an instructor, at a cost between $120 and $180 an
hour. The Federal Aviation Administration must approve all
landing pads to ensure that approach and departure paths
don't interfere with other air traffic routes. In most places
home helipads must also meet specifications imposed by state
aviation authorities.
   Local regulation varies greatly. A few communities
prohibit home helicopter operation, and some restrict it to
some degree, but most have no regulation at all. In places
where helicopters have annoyed residents, however, they have
begun to demand regulation or prohibition. Many people think
helicopters make lousy neighbors.
   Until last year, several residents of wealthy Rancho Santa
Fe in San Diego County, Calif., choppered themselves to and
from work.
   Then, after complaints, the county's board of supervisors
set tough requirements for home heliports around the county
and effectively banned non-emergency helicopter landings in
Rancho Santa Fe.
   In Pennsylvania, Mr. Zokaites is running into flak. "The
problem," he says philosophically, "is the social acceptance
of a helicopter as personal transportation."
   A home builder, he uses his chopper to get to distant
projects and to obtain aerial perspectives of potential
development sites. But neighbors have complained loudly, and
the town of McCandless has responded. To ground Mr. Zokaites
the town two years ago enacted an ordinance prohibiting
landings within 150 yards of an occupied house.
   Ticketed for violating it, and assessed a $300 fine, Mr.
Zokaites successfully challenged the ordinance in court on
the ground that a public-safety measure couldn't legally
govern land use. The town responded last year with a zoning
law aimed at helicopter flights. Mr. Zokaites got two more
$300 tickets and went to court. When the judge, Ralph C.
Freedman Jr., wanted to see the helicopter in operation, Mr.
Zokaites flew it to his house, landed in the backyard and
took the judge for a spin. "He seemed in perfect control and
it seemed pretty safe," Judge Freedman says.
   Judge Freedman sided with Mr. Zokaites in a ruling
supporting the argument that his helipad is protected from
the zoning law because it existed before the ordinance. The
neighbors, however, are still complaining, and some have
taken videotapes and still photographs of what they assert is
Mr. Zokaites's reckless flying in an effort to get his
pilot's license revoked.
   Helicopter enthusiasts say fears of the craft are
unwarranted. They are safe and really not very noisy, says an
official of the Helicopter Association International, a trade
group in Alexandria, Va., "but it's hard to convince people
of that."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Family Bancorp Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   FMLY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   HAVERHILL, Mass. -- Family Bancorp said that in an
agreement with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., it
acquired the assets and certain deposits of the insolvent
U.S. Savings Bank of America, Seabrook, N.H., which was
closed Friday.
   Family, which has assets of about $480 million, said it
infused $1.5 million of capital into U.S. Savings and renamed
it Family Savings Bank of New Hampshire, with assets of about
$14 million, including the infusion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Varity Proposes
   Plans to Improve
   Shareholder Value
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   VAT T.VAT CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Varity Corp. announced an array of measures
intended to improve shareholder value, including a plan to
reincorporate in the U.S. and undertake a 1-for-10 share
consolidation.
   Victor Rice, chairman and chief executive officer of the
industrial holding company, told the annual meeting that he
will seek shareholder approval of Varity's plan to become a
Delaware corporation before the fiscal year ends on Jan. 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We are for all intents and purposes already a U.S.
company with a Canadian address," Mr. Rice said. More than
80% of Varity's shareholders are U.S. residents, the U.S.
will account for about 50% of corporate revenue in fiscal
1991, and the bulk of trading in Varity shares is conducted
at stock exchanges in the U.S., he said.
   Mr. Rice also said Varity's future acquisitions are likely
to be made in the U.S., as the company has US$450 million in
tax-loss carry-forwards at its disposal there.
   The proposed share consolidation, Mr. Rice said, would
benefit Varity holders by reducing the large number of common
shares outstanding, now totaling about 250 million.
   Rumors that Varity would re-incorporate in the U.S. have
drawn heated criticism from Canadian labor groups concerned
about job losses. The governments of Canada and the province
of Ontario also have said such a move might violate terms of
an accord under which they invested 200 million Canadian
dollars (US$173.6 million) in Varity to help it stave off a
bankruptcy-law filing in the early 1980s.
   Mr. Rice said he expects to meet with provincial and
federal government officials to discuss the proposed move.
   "Our advice is we're not in violation of the accords," he
said. "Reasonable negotiations between reasonable people
produce reasonable agreements."
   While the agreement doesn't provide for any specific
penalties, should Varity relocate to the U.S., such a move
would require approval by two-thirds of the company's common,
Class I preferred and Class II preferred shares, voting
separately. The federal government owns 1,250,000 of the two
million Class II preferred shares, and the remainder is held
by the Ontario government.
   Varity also announced plans to slash its debt and offer
cash incentives to encourage holders of Class I preferred to
convert their shares to common stock. Varity holders voted to
approve a special resolution, authorizing the board to offer
such inducements, which Mr. Rice said directors could develop
within the next few weeks.
   Removing the Class I preferred shares would eliminate
US$15 million in annual dividend payments, Varity said, and
probably would reduce the short position in Varity's common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange. A short position is
that held by an investor who sells stock that he doesn't yet
own by borrowing it from a broker to deliver to the
purchaser, hoping to make a profit by buying an equal number
of shares later at a lower price to replace the borrowed
stock.
   A large number of holders of the Class I preferred shares,
which are convertible into common stock at a ratio of 6.8493
to 1, have shorted the underlying common to provide security
for their investment, while still collecting the dividend on
the preferred. At July 13, Varity's short position was more
than 13 million shares.
   But Mr. Rice said Varity probably won't begin paying
dividends on common shares for at least two years, or until
the company's debt-to-equity ratio is close to the level of a
year ago, before its US$577.3 million acquisition of
Detroit-based K-H Corp. last October.
   "A large share" of Varity's free cash and proceeds from
any asset sales will go toward reducing about US$765.6
million of long-term debt by about US$150 million this year,
Mr. Rice said.
   Analysts said that most of the measures announced
yesterday had been anticipated, and that Varity stock
probably won't rise in value substantially until the
preferred shares are redeemed. In Big Board composite
trading, Varity common shares closed at US$3, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trimac to Buy Transit Business
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   T.TMA CP T.CP
</CO>
<LP>
   CALGARY, Alberta -- Trimac Ltd. said its Trimac
Transportation System subsidiary agreed to acquire CP Bulk
Systems, a unit of Canadian Pacific Ltd. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   Trimac said CP Bulk is a transportation concern
specializing in bulk commodities and generated revenue last
year of about 40 million Canadian dollars (US$34.7 million).
The proposed transaction is subject to regulatory approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IMF Approves Honduras Loan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund approved a
$41 million loan to Honduras to support economic adjustments
in the Central American country during the next 12 months.
   Honduras qualified for the IMF financial assistance after
paying overdue loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The IMF noted that Honduras also cleared up its loan
arrears to the World Bank and the Inter-American Development
Bank in late June and early July and thus has regained
eligibility for new credits from all three international
agencies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Soviet Defense Ministry Seeking Support
   For Shift Toward an All-Volunteer Force
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The Soviet military, facing a growing generation
gap within its ranks, is preparing to take tentative steps
toward an all-volunteer force.
   The Ministry of Defense will ask the Supreme Soviet, the
nation's legislature, for money this fall to begin
contracting for skilled sailors who volunteer to serve
three-year terms in the Soviet navy, a spokesman said. The
new volunteers will be paid 200 rubles a month, 20 times the
pay of sailors who are drafted and a level that approaches
the average Soviet worker's pay. At the same time, the
spokesman said, the navy will drop the service period for
conscripted sailors to two years from three.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Defense Ministry's position is a compromise between
older generals and admirals, who oppose any changes in the
draft system, and a rising group of younger officers, such as
30-year-old Maj. Vladimir Lopotin, who are pushing for rapid
change to a smaller, all-volunteer force.
   In the formerly rigid hierarchy of the Soviet military the
top brass would win, hands down. But Maj. Lopotin and his
allies have outflanked their commanders, establishing a
beachhead in the Supreme Soviet, which must decide the issue.
   Maj. Lopotin, a political commissar in the Russian
merchant marines, was recently named by the Supreme Soviet's
defense committee to head a commission that is drawing up a
list of needed reforms, and the all-volunteer force is one of
the main proposals. "It is best," says Maj. Lopotin, who sees
Soviet forces some day operating as allies with U.S. troops
in a revised North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
   Working with him, he says, are a core group of 20 younger
officers who serve as elected members of the Supreme Soviet
or, like Maj. Lopotin, as elected members of the larger
Congress of Peoples' Deputies, which meets less frequently.
   Despite their political powers, the major says, this is
still a dangerous game for the young officers. "The military
leadership is now rooting out dissidents in the army, using
the pretext of reduction of military forces to give the sack
to anyone who doesn't agree with them," he says.
   The result, he worries, could be a much more conservative
military. "If part of the military falls to the bait and
joins with the most conservative part of the society, they
together would become a most dangerous force. It gives
conservatives more chances to turn society back to the past.
This is dangerous not only to the U.S.S.R. but to the whole
world."
   The major contributor to the growing unrest in the
military, he says, is the reluctance of the Soviet military
hierarchy to provide housing for some 300,000 families of
officers who have left the services. Recently, the government
announced that it is the job of local communities to find
housing for returning officers.
   This is unacceptable, Maj. Lopotin says, because it pits
the needs of the officers against the needs of the poor. His
group is lobbying to have housing funds come out of the
military budget.
   Little is known here about the costs of an all-volunteer
force, and discussion of reform proposals is prohibited
within the military. Outside groups, such as the Institute of
the U.S.A. and Canada, have been studying the U.S. shift from
the draft in the late 1970s.
   Olga Pobortseva, a researcher at the institute, was sent
to the Brookings Institution in Washington this spring to
study the U.S. experience. "I think our congress will approve
some sort of all-volunteer army," she says, noting that a
smaller Soviet force must rely more on skilled soldiers for
high-technology weaponry.
   Citing a recent shortfall in army conscription, especially
from the Baltic and Central Asian republics, she asserts: "It
is stupid to draft those who don't want to serve and to make
those resign who want to stay in."
   Pvt. K. Avilov, a Muscovite drafted into the Soviet army
in the fall of 1988, says the experience convinced him that
the army should be further reorganized along ethnic lines to
prevent racial strife, which, he says, makes life a
"permanent war" within the enlisted ranks. Writing in the
magazine Ogonyok, Pvt. Avilov says he found a "very
oppressive situation" in his regiment, which was sent to stop
ethnic fighting in the Caucasus last winter.
   The force, he said, broke down into ethnic gangs that
often fought each other. Officers didn't punish the
ringleaders, he wrote; rather, they tried to cool off
passions by having the troops stand in the frost in their
shorts. Such cruelty, he said, "might destroy the army from
inside."
   Vadim Bakatin, who heads the Soviet Ministry of Internal
Affairs, also favors the all-volunteer format for his MVD
troops, whose primary mission is to curb ethnic fighting. In
a recent newspaper interview, he said he has asked the
Supreme Soviet for additional money to shift away from the
use of draftees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Vintage Wisdom
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   White wine with fish,
   Red with meat.
   With the main course, dry;
   With dessert, it's sweet.
   But there's one wine for sure
   That's bound to no norm,
   Since, as everyone knows,
   It's any port in a storm.
   -- Peter Friedman.
   ---
   Sad Cycle
                                                                                                       

   Not only do parents start out with another mouth to feed,
they end up with another mouth they have to listen to.
   -- John Drybred.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Mount Ararat: point of Noah return.
   -- Jon Allen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   U.S. Consumer
   Spending Rose
   1% Last Month
   ---
   June Gain, Following Weak
   May, April Results, Was
   Strongest Since January
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The vast consumer sector of the economy
mustered some energy in June after languishing for the
previous few months, the latest Commerce Department figures
indicate.
   Americans' personal spending rose a strong 1% in June
after remaining flat in May and edging up 0.2% in April, the
department reported. After adjusting for inflation, consumer
spending grew 0.5% after declining 0.3% in May and inching up
0.1% in April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The hearty June gain, the biggest since January, was
welcome news. Just last Friday, the Commerce Department had
reported that in the second quarter, consumer spending --
which accounts for two-thirds of the nation's economic
activity -- actually declined, along with business
investment, construction and exports.
   "Consumer spending is sluggish, but what these numbers
confirm is it's not sluggish to the extent of being
recessionary," said Anthony Vignola, an economist and
managing director at Kidder Peabody in New York, after the
new spending figures were released. "The second quarter ended
on a much stronger note than it began."
   But Americans' personal income continued to grow only
modestly, the report said, edging up 0.4% in June after
rising 0.3% in both May and April. Wages and salaries, the
bulk of most people's income, grew 0.5% following a 0.4%
increase in May.
   Slow growth in job markets throughout much of the nation
suggests that gains in income could continue to be mild for a
while. And that means spending isn't likely to gather much
more vigor.
   Last month, however, a key sector of consumer spending --
purchases of big-ticket items known as durable goods -- grew
for the first time since January. Analysts attributed much of
the improvement to a jump in car sales in late June, but few
expect substantial increases in auto purchases in the near
future.
   Purchases of nondurable goods -- items including food and
clothes, whose sales are less likely to be affected by
economic trends -- also increased.
   With spending outstripping income growth last month,
Americans' savings rate fell to 4.9% of disposable income
from 5.4% in May.
   Low savings has been a nagging problem for the nation for
years, leading to a scarcity of funds to finance private
business investment and the federal budget deficit. That has
forced the government and industry to seek capital overseas.
   Overall, personal income equaled a $4.64 trillion annual
rate in June, while spending came to a $3.64 trillion annual
rate.
   All the numbers were adjusted for regular seasonal
fluctuations.
   ---
                       PERSONAL INCOME
                                                                                                       

   Here is the Commerce Department's latest report on
personal income. The figures are at seasonally adjusted
annual rates in trillions of dollars.
                                                                                                       

                                       June           May
                                       1990          1990
                                                                                                       

 Personal income .................... 4.640          4.623
   Wages and salaries ............... 2.705          2.692
   Factory payrolls ................. 0.551          0.549
   Transfer payments ................ 0.690          0.685
                                                                                                       

 Disposable personal income ......... 3.946          3.928
                                                                                                       

 Personal outlays ................... 3.752          3.717
   Consumption expenditures ......... 3.643          3.609
   Other outlays .................... 0.109          0.109
                                                                                                       

 Personal saving .................... 0.194          0.210
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   Tight-Money Measure Flags Friedmanite at the Fed
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- The inflation hawk of the Federal Reserve
has spotted something that might change his flight path
though not his target. Monetarist that Lee Hoskins is, it's
no surprise that while some wail about a squeeze by lenders,
the president of the Cleveland Fed bank has his eye on the
money supply.
   "Credit's available, it seems to me. But having said that,
I have some concerns currently about the rate of growth in
M2," he says, referring to the aggregate of currency,
checking accounts and most saving accounts. "A large part of
the M2 slowdown in the last quarter is unexplained."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With all their predictive problems, you might have thought
(or hoped) that the monetary aggregates like M2, watched so
closely by financial markets in the early '80s, had been sent
to a statistical morgue. But Mr. Hoskins's camp especially is
still counting on them to provide a policy-making clue. And
right now M2 is giving the banking system's hardest liner a
start.
   As one of 12 voting members of the Federal Open-Market
Committee that sets direction for the central bank, Mr.
Hoskins dissented -- as he frequently does -- earlier this
year in favor of lower M2 targets. He thought staying aimed
at M2 growth of 3% to 7% would be inflationary. But
subsequent money-supply totals ("almost no growth at all in
the second quarter") have relaxed him on the upside and
perplexed him on the downside. About 4% annually ("right now
we're still on that path") would be a sound footing, "but I
don't want to come in two percentage points below that. That
could provide a monetary shock for the economy."
   Monetary shocks are the last thing this 49-year-old
economist wants. His mantra is long-run price stability,
which is to say zero inflation within five years. He believes
monetary policy, unless steady, distorts markets. That view
is associated, of course, with Milton Friedman, though Mr.
Hoskins was most directly influenced at the UCLA Economics
Department by Armen Alchian and his work on the centrality of
property rights.
   The Cleveland Fed presidency, which Mr. Hoskins assumed in
1987, lets him roam widely in pursuit of his larger
interests. He was in San Francisco last week to attend a
conference on Pacific Rim economies. His dissents
notwithstanding, he is representative of the sort of
non-lending professionals who head most of the 12 regional
Fed banks. All dozen of them participate with the seven
Federal Reserve Board governors in deliberating broad U.S.
monetary policy, with five of the regional chiefs actually
holding votes at any one time. The 12 presidents, typically
economists or lawyers, are a virtually invisible yet potent
element in shaping national economic policy (often toward
tighter money). Yet not only aren't they chosen by the
people, they aren't even appointed by elected officials as
the Fed governors are. The district banks' quasipublic boards
pick them.
   That may be one reason for another of Mr. Hoskins's lonely
crusades. "It's important to have accountability independent
of the political process, to be open," he says of the Fed
policy body. So he wants to have its actions made public
immediately, rather than weeks later as currently. A
congressional move in that direction died last year when
central bankers complained it would inhibit their ability to
right wayward markets. Diminishing that sway is basically
fine with Mr. Hoskins, an opponent of "monetary fine-tuning."
He argues that his institution can control only one type of
economic shock: the price instability it engenders.
   In that spirit he supports a second effort in Congress, by
Rep. Stephen Neal (D., N.C.), to establish zero inflation as
the objective of the Fed and to set a five-year timetable for
achieving it. Mr. Hoskins admits this is symbolism, but
maintains it effectively would quiet noise from other
directives, such as the Humphrey-Hawkins Act of 1978, that
beg full employment. On this issue, fellow central bankers
are allied, but most politicians balk.
   The markets remain dubious of the Fed's credibility,
judging by recent discounting of the key 30-year "long bond."
Nevertheless, Mr. Hoskins says, the momentum for price
stability is gathering. Economists debate whether zero
inflation really is desirable, given that a standard such as
the Consumer Price Index is so skewed that reducing it flat
would leave much of the economy shrinking in recession in
order to compensate for areas of stubborn price rises. Mr.
Hoskins says he's not wedded to a particular measure, but
doubts that a stable-price equilibrium would deter growth.
   Moreover, short-run economic results aren't in his scope.
Contrary to Fed chairman Alan Greenspan, he doesn't seek to
use monetary policy to sustain the present expansion, but
neither does he believe anti-inflation considerations place
any bounds on economic growth rates. He preaches humility
about our ability to manage or predict the economy. Of a
potential tradeoff of looser money for negotiated reduction
of the federal deficit, Mr. Hoskins remarks, "I don't think I
would view a fiscal policy change as being significant enough
to want to alter monetary policy, because we don't know a lot
about the effects of those fiscal policy changes."
   Back in Cleveland, Mr. Hoskins says, he's heard little
about borrowing problems. He monitors economic data for his
industrial-belt district but isn't sure there's much to do
with it given the Fed's clumsy relationship with the real
economy. He saw the effects of hard times as economist for
the old Pittsburgh National Bank in the early 1980s, but of
today's "credit crunch" simply offers that banks "have
applied standards more rigorously and probably rightly so. I
don't think that there's much that monetary policy could or
should do about that."
   He is, however, suspicious of the way the Fed sought in
the first half of 1990 to rein in excess money it created a
year ago. Instead of pegging the money supply, his colleagues
stuck to a high "federal funds," or interbank interest, rate.
"We think there's a relationship between the amount of
reserves we're supplying and a particular interest rate. When
that has not held true, we adjust the reserve pattern rather
than the interest rate . . . If you put that rate too high,
then you're going to have to keep shrinking the amount of
reserves out there, or putting them in at a slower pace. The
aggregates will slow . . . One concern of mine about M2 is
exactly that."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Loan to Turkey Guaranteed
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP UTX CCI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Export-Import Bank said it will
guarantee a $37.5 million loan by Citibank N.A., New York, to
the Turkish government for the purchase of five Blackhawk
helicopters from the Sikorsky Aircraft division of United
Technologies Corp.
   The helicopters, which will be used by Turkey's national
police for law enforcement, medical emergencies and rescue
operations, will cost $44.4 million, including spare parts
and related ground-support equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Guardian Bancorp Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GB
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Guardian Bancorp said it will periodically
purchase as many as 75,000 of its common shares in the open
market or in unsolicited private transactions at market
prices.
   Paul M. Harris, chairman, said the holding company for
Guardian Bank believes that at current levels, the stock is
undervalued.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In American Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Guardian
Bancorp fell 25 cents to $12.875.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   U.S., Japan Appear Headed for a Clash
   Over Allied-Signal Complaint on Alloys
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN ALD
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The U.S. and Japan appear headed toward a trade
clash over a complaint by Allied-Signal Inc., despite efforts
by the two countries to settle the issue.
   U.S. and Japanese trade negotiators will meet Wednesday
for the fourth time since April, when Allied-Signal agreed to
suspend a complaint that Japan has blocked its efforts to
sell amorphous metal alloys to Japanese utilities. Amorphous
metals are an advanced material now used mostly to improve
the efficiency of electrical power lines, but engineers say
the material could ultimately have a broad range of
industrial applications.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. had persuaded Allied-Signal to withdraw the
complaint for 150 days so the issue wouldn't undermine the
Bush administration's efforts to defuse U.S.-Japan trade
tensions. At the time, the two countries were involved in a
sweeping set of talks on so-called structural impediments to
trade. Those talks ended in late June, with Japan agreeing to
make its markets more accessible to foreigners.
   But, in separate interviews, U.S. and Japanese officials
concede that the two sides remain far apart on the amorphous
metals issue, and are doubtful of making headway soon. "We
were persuaded by many of the U.S. arguments" during the
recent talks on structural impediments to trade, says one
Japanese official. "We're not persuaded on this" one.
   Allied-Signal doesn't seem to be doing any better in its
private talks with Japanese companies. David Hill, senior
vice president in charge of the Morristown, N.J., company's
engineered materials sector, says Japanese utility industry
executives in recent meetings have shown little interest in
buying from the U.S. concern.
   If the disagreement isn't settled by Sept. 15,
Allied-Signal is expected to renew its formal action, which
could lead to retaliatory measures under U.S. trade law.
   Allied-Signal estimates the annual market for metal used
in transformers in Japan at $100 million, but it isn't clear
how much of that market amorphous metals would capture. Even
in the U.S., only 5% of new transformers use the material,
though the proportion is growing.
   Allied-Signal has charged that Japan for years
systematically blocked its efforts to sell in that market,
while encouraging Japanese companies to develop amorphous
metals technology. A Japanese government agency organized and
financed a group of 34 companies to develop a competitive
product. The group was able to use information in a patent
application filed by Allied-Signal in Tokyo in the late 1970s
but not approved for more than a decade, the company says.
   Now, with less than three years left on the patent,
Allied-Signal and U.S. officials believe Japanese utilities
are stalling on decisions to buy amorphous-metal transformers
so that they can buy from Japanese suppliers after the patent
expires.
   "There's ample evidence to support the conclusion that
they are holding the market closed until they can produce it
themselves," says a U.S. trade official. The U.S. side has
suggested remedies, including extension of the patent or
government steps, such as official endorsement of the
technology, to encourage purchases.
   But Japanese negotiators say they continue to believe that
Allied-Signal's inability to sell is the result of
independent business decisions by the utilities, not an
orchestrated boycott.
   Should Allied-Signal reinstate its complaint in September,
the U.S. Trade Representative's office would have roughly six
months to settle the dispute with Japan, or to select
retaliatory measures designed to limit Japanese access to
U.S. markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   The Nation's Hometown Art Center
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   It is regrettable that the July 12 editorial-page article
"Congress Plays Impresario, Peoria Pays" by Amity Shlaes
appeared when the prospects were never better for putting the
Kennedy Center of the Performing Arts on a sound fiscal
basis.
   The article creates false impressions, using figures like
a "$45 million rescue to pay off old debts and fix up the
plant" and "some $6 million in federal money annually." The
numbers are used out of context and, therefore, are
misleading -- and so are the comparisons with Lincoln Center
($69 million in annual contribution vs. the $14 million
generated by Kennedy Center).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The physical plant occupied by Kennedy Center and its six
theaters is indeed a living memorial to John F. Kennedy. As
such, it is among Washington's top half-dozen sightseeing
destinations. Of that "some $6 million in federal money
annually," $5 million goes to the Interior Department -- not
the Kennedy Center -- for heating and cooling, lighting,
security, cleaning services and other services required by
the memorial established by Congress to honor an assassinated
president; $1 million supports an education program that
reaches six million people annually across the country.
   No mention is made of the $1 million paid by Kennedy
Center to the federal government for its share of building
expenses. The center is a building of enormous proportion and
complexity -- 25 million cubic feet and 7,000 seats under one
roof.
   The annual federal contribution toward Kennedy Center
programming has been minimal -- 3.9% of total budget --
absolutely comparable with the 3.5% combined New York City,
New York state and federal contributions to Lincoln Center.
   The one-time $45 million requested by Congress and the
administration is necessary to put the Kennedy Center on
sound financial footing. The largest part of that $45 million
-- $30.5 million -- is for long-deferred repairs of the U.S.
government-owned building. The remaining $14.5 million wipes
out a deficit accumulated over 18 years, even while the
center has been able to cover all its artistic operations
with box-office income and private contributions.
   The comparison of private-sector support of Lincoln Center
($69 million) and Kennedy Center ($14 million) is also
misleading. Even were one to concede that the missions of the
two entities are analogous (they are not: Kennedy Center was
established by Congress as the national center for the
performing arts), the Kennedy Center record in fund-raising
would seem to hold up. The New York community from which
Lincoln Center derives its support has a population of some
10 million; Washington has something over two million; $14
million is about one-fifth of $69 million -- not bad for an
institution whose home base, unlike New York, is devoid of
large corporate headquarters.
   Rather than bashing Kennedy Center at a time when it is on
the threshold of fiscal well-being, the public would be best
served by knowing that Kennedy Center is one of the
taxpayer's best bargains.
   Harold Burson
   Chairman
   Burson-Marsteller
   New York
   ---
   According to Ms. Shlaes, the Kennedy Center should fend
for itself without help from Congress because "Americans like
their culture supplied where it grows, in small towns and
cities." Under that reasoning, the Smithsonian should be
converted into a municipal museum and The Mall should be
declared a city park.
   The Kennedy Center is deserving of federal support
precisely because Washington is not, and was not ever
intended to be, just another city. It is our national
hometown, as evidenced by the millions of visitors who every
year flock to the national monuments -- especially the
Kennedy Center. Moreover, the Kennedy Center is not just
another theater complex. From the start it has been our
national arts center -- designed to be a showplace for the
best in the arts.
   Christopher Wolf
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Magna to Sell Unit to Siemens
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MAGAF TMG.A G.SIE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MARKHAM, Ontario -- Magna International Inc. said it
agreed to sell its automotive electric-motors division to a
unit of Siemens AG of West Germany. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Magna, an auto-parts maker, said earlier this month that
it was in the final stages of negotiating the sale of the
division, which has annual sales of about 120 million
Canadian dollars ($104 million), to the Siemens unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   June Construction
   Contracts Eased 2%,
   Says F.W. Dodge
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- New construction contracts eased 2% in June
from May, reflecting stability in the second quarter,
following a volatile first quarter.
   F.W. Dodge, the forecasting unit of McGraw-Hill Inc., said
nonresidential building contracts rose 5% in June, to $86.02
billion, from a seasonally adjusted $82.06 billion in May.
Non-building construction, including public works and
utilities, dropped 14%, to $44.8 billion, from $52.3 billion.
The non-building construction drop was essentially a retreat
to its former level after a spate of projects temporarily
elevated May's total. The value of newly started one-family
homes slipped 1%, to $109.94 billion, from $111.34 billion in
May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   George A. Christie, chief economist at F.W. Dodge, said
the steepest part of the decline in construction activity
this year, amounting almost to a "free fall," was confined to
the first quarter. A smaller second-quarter decline and more
recent firming of monthly contracting data suggest a more
stable building market, Mr. Christie said.
   In the first six months, new construction totaled $121.3
billion, which was 8% below the year-ago level and the first
interruption of continuous expansion in construction activity
in seven years.
   At midyear, the Northeast region posted the deepest
decline in building, 24%, followed by the South, down 11%.
The only gain was in the North Central region, still ahead of
1989 by 5%. The West was virtually even with its year-ago
level of contracting.
   ---
                              a-June '90     Seasonally
                             Construction    Adjusted %
                             Contract Val.   Change From
                               (000,000)     Prev. Month
                                                                                                       

   Nonresidential bldg. .....  $ 86,017         +  5
   Residential building .....   109,936         -  1
   Non-building constr. .....    44,769         - 14

                                                                                                       

   a-Monthly construction contract values are reported on an
annualized, seasonally adjusted basis.
                                                                                                       

                              6 Months  6 Months  Cumu-
                                1990      1989    lative
                              (000,000) (000,000) % Chg
                                                                                                       

   Nonresidential bldg. ...... $40,852   $44,870  -  9
   Residential building ......  56,513    61,465  -  8
   Non-building constr. ......  23,956    25,034  -  4
   Total construction ........ 121,321   131,369  -  8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raw-Steel Production
   Fell 0.1% Last Week
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by the nation's mills
decreased 0.1% last week to 1,845,000 tons from 1,847,000
tons the previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute
said.
   Last week's output was unchanged from the same period a
year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry operated at 82.7% of its capacity last week,
compared with 82.8% the previous week and 83% a year ago.
   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                                 Net tons      Capability
                                 produced      utilization
                                                                                                       

 Week to July 28 .............  1,845,000         82.7%
 Week to July 21 .............  1,847,000         82.8%
 Year to date ................ 56,604,000         84.5%
 Year earlier to date ........ 58,503,000         88.2%
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   CNBE
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alta Health Strategies Inc., initial offering of 1.8
million common shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. and
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

   Burlington Environmental Inc., initial offering of seven
million common shares, three million sold by the company,
four million by other holders, via Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. and
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   CNB Bancshares Inc., offering of $15 million of
convertible subordinated debentures due 2005, via Edward D.
Jones &amp; Co. and Burns, Pauli &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Vetco Gray, initial offering of nine million common
shares, seven million to be sold in the U.S., two million
internationally, via Lehman Brothers and Salomon Brothers
Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Soccer Snobbery
   Could Hurt Business
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   The Journal certainly jumped on the soccer-bashing
bandwagon in David Brooks's "World Cup: Hooligans and Mad
Cows" (Leisure &amp; Arts, June 19).
   No, I'm not an English hooligan or a West German partial
to funny hats. Born in the U.S., I began playing soccer at
age 12 and haven't stopped. I still play on an over-30 team.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I think the Journal, and the American media in general,
misses an important point when it comes to soccer. Just as
golf has evolved as a prized means of doing business in
corporate America, a knowledge and understanding of and
affinity for soccer among American business people could be
critical to our economic well-being in the emerging global
economy.
   If that sounds like balderdash, consider some of the
asinine reasons the media give for soccer's flagging success
in America: low-scoring, no hand-eye coordination required,
hooligans, mad cows. Enough already.
   The whole world plays the game. America is part of the
world, even though some closet jingoists continue to deny the
fact.
   It's time to get off our myopic high horse. We may not
know much about soccer, but then again, ask some Italian,
German or Cameroonian who won last year's Super Bowl.
   Jack Bell
   Patterson, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ball to Acquire
   European Line
   Of Peter Kiewit
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   BLL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ball Corp. took a big step in its effort to develop a
"more global" focus, by reaching a definitive agreement to
pay $1.03 billion in cash and stock for the European
operations of Continental Can Co.
   Continental Can is a unit of Peter Kiewit Sons' Inc., an
Omaha mining and construction concern. Under the pact, Kiewit
will receive $625 million in cash, and $400 million in Ball
common and preferred stock -- representing a 29% voting stake
in the Muncie, Ind.-based packaging concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ball, which has said previously it wants to widen its
international operations, said yesterday it sees "major
strategic opportunities" in the expansion of its currently
small presence in Europe.
   The European packaging market, "and in particular the
beverage can market," Ball said, "is positioned for
significant growth" because of factors including the
reduction in national trade barriers scheduled for 1992, and
the opening of Eastern Bloc markets.
   Continental Can Europe, the region's third-largest
packaging manufacturer, had sales last year of $1.47 billion;
while the unit is profitable, earnings weren't disclosed.
With about 10,000 employees at 32 manufacturing sites in the
United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, France and Germany,
the operation concentrates in metal containers for food,
beverages and other general containers. It also has interests
in plastic containers.
   Ball "has paid a high price to enter the European market,"
said Rothschild Inc. analyst Jerry Melin, in a reference to
the sales-to-price ratio Ball has agreed to. "From a
long-term strategic perspective," he said, "it's good they
moved into the European market." But after listening to a
Ball presentation yesterday, Mr. Melin said he thinks the
company is at this point "unclear what it is they bought."
   Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben analyst Timothy Burns told Dow
Jones Professional Report, however, that the European
operations are a "crown jewel" whose planned acquisition
represents "outstanding" news.
   Kiewit acquired what was then known as Continental Group
Inc. in 1984, for $2.9 billion, then sold off a number of
non-container operations to pay down the debt. In two
separate transactions, it sold U.S. and Canadian operations
to Crown Cork &amp; Seal Co. for a total $636 million.
   Ball is perhaps best known for the glass preserving-jars
it began manufacturing more than a century ago, but such
products, at 3% of sales, are now overshadowed by its metal
beverage-can operation, which last year provided 58% of
sales. Ball's remaining operations are in diverse aerospace
and industrial markets.
   In 1989, pinched by a competitive can market, the company
reported net income of $35.8 million, or $1.44 a share, on
sales of $1.22 billion. Analysts expect those earnings to
strengthen in the current year as can prices improve.
   Ball said that, in addition to the cash, it will issue
$200 million of common stock, $129 million of voting
convertible exchangeable preferred, and $71 million of a
nonvoting form of the preferred. The company decided to
finance the purchase "with a significant amount of equity so
that we wouldn't be financially constrained from pursuing the
growth prospects of the business, which appear to be
excellent," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard
M. Ringoen.
   The company said it anticipates a "fairly rapid reduction"
in the financial leverage the deal will create.
   The planned acquisition is subject to approval by Ball
shareholders, as well as clearance by certain U.S. and
foreign regulators.
   Ball also announced yesterday that it will pay $65 million
to buy the remaining 50% interest in its Ball-InCon joint
venture from partner Holland American Investment Corp. The
company said it expects the profitable operation, which had
sales of $536 million last year, to "provide good cash flow."
   Under accounting rules, the venture's sales haven't
previously appeared in the company's totals, and Ball's sales
will now be swollen by the addition in future years of the
operation's sales. Ball said it expects both transactions to
close by year's end.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
shares of thinly traded Ball inched up 25 cents, to close at
$32.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Possible Solution
   To S&amp;L Quagmire
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   I have a possible solution to the S&amp;L mess (page one, July
3).
   Have two types of deposits: uninsured and insured. The
uninsured deposits will pay market interest rates to the
depositor, the insured ones two points below. The two points
will go to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., to cover the
insurance. Thus, the cost to the financial institution will
be the same. The depositor will watch the performance of his
bank and decide how safe its operation is. We eliminate giant
federal supervision. The financial institution should publish
figures monthly so everybody can figure out the depositors'
confidence in the financial institution and its performance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some private evaluators will appear to advise depositors,
the funds generally will stay close to home, the amount of
large, brokered deposits will decrease, and the two points
going to the FDIC may be used to pay for the current bailout.
   Michael Hoch
   Professor Emeritus of Materials Science
   University of Cincinnati
   Cincinnati
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Beverly Enterprises
   To Offer Debentures
   Totaling $40 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   BEV
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PASADENA, Calif. -- Beverly Enterprises Inc. said it plans
a public offering of $40 million of convertible debentures,
which would be the second major sale of securities this year
by the health-care concern.
   Beverly, which is moving its headquarters to Fort Smith,
Ark., effective tomorrow, said proceeds from the new issue
will be used in its continuing financial restructuring. The
offering will be managed by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Beverly shares closed at $6.375, down 25 cents.
   A Beverly spokesman said the debentures will be
convertible at the greater of either $8 face amount of
debenture for each new common share, or a 20% premium over
market value at the time the sale is completed. At the
$8-a-share rate, the issue is convertible into a total of
five million new common shares. The company has about 65
million common shares outstanding.
   Beverly, which operates nursing facilities,
retirement-living centers and home-health centers, sold 11.5
million new common shares last March through a public
offering that netted the company about $45.7 million.
Proceeds from that issue, as with the plan for the latest
offering, were used to refinance debt.
   Schuyler Hollingsworth, Beverly vice president and
treasurer, said the company has about $470 million in debt to
be restructured. Following completion of the planned
debenture sale, Beverly plans three further transactions
later this year, including bank borrowings and private
placements, to complete the debt refinancing, Mr.
Hollingsworth said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Otis, Soviet Agency
   Form Joint Venture
   For Elevator Market
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST UTX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FARMINGTON, Conn. -- Otis Elevator Co. said it is forming
a joint venture in the Soviet Union to pursue the $1
billion-a-year market for new elevators.
   Otis, a wholly owned subsidiary of United Technologies
Corp., said it will own 55% of a new company that will
manufacture, install and service elevators in the Soviet
Union using Otis designs, manufacturing technology, and
installation and maintenance methods. The rest of the
partnership will be formed by Shcherbinka Lift Plant, a unit
of Liftmash, the Soviet agency responsible for making
elevators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Otis said it also will supply manufacturing equipment,
management personnel and training for Soviet workers at a new
facility under construction at the existing Shcherbinka Lift
Plant, 15 miles from Moscow. The plant will make elevator
equipment for offices and small hotels, Otis said.
   The Soviet Union is the world's largest national market
for new elevator equipment, with demand for 60,000 new units
a year, Otis said.
   Otis is the world's largest elevator company, with 1989
revenue of $3.3 billion, 70% of which came from outside of
the U.S.
   United Technologies, based in Hartford, Conn., also has
interests in aerospace, air conditioning and automotive
products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Teamsters' Contract With United Parcel
   May Set Pattern for Trucking Industry
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR X.UPS
</CO>
<IN>
TRUCKING (TRK)
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- Under pressure from labor and
competitors, United Parcel Service of America Inc. has
negotiated a Teamsters contract that could set a pattern for
major freight trucking companies in the spring.
   It's not only the terms of the contract that shippers and
labor economists are tracking, but also Teamster tactics at
the union's largest employer. "This will set a precedent for
a lot of labor contracts," this year and next, said Paul
Schlesinger, an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So far, ambivalent national Teamsters leaders have
negotiated a contract to replace the one expiring at midnight
tonight EDT -- but now are advising their 140,000 members at
UPS to reject it in balloting extended until Aug. 10.
   Trucking executives, UPS competitors and analysts believe
the vote is too close to call, but they expect both sides to
continue to negotiate if Teamsters reject the UPS contract. A
strike is considered unlikely. "A strike would hurt UPS and
the Teamsters, because UPS could permanently lose substantial
market share in both the air and ground package services to
nonunion competitors," said George Robertson, an analyst at
Alex. Brown &amp; Sons in Baltimore.
   UPS, the nation's largest deliverer of packages, already
pays its full-time truck drivers about $16.10 an hour, making
them the highest-paid unionized workers in the trucking
business. The company proposed a wage increase of 50 cents an
hour, or about 3%, each year of the three-year contract. UPS
also offered a one-time signing bonus of $1,000 for full-time
workers and $500 for part-timers and a cost-of-living
increase for all unionized workers, capped at 20 cents an
hour, in the second and third years of the contract.
   The contract includes a boost in the company's annual
health, welfare and pension contributions to $10,500, from
$8,300 currently, for each full-time employee by the third
year of the contract.
   Having negotiated all this, Teamster leaders then decided
they don't like the size of the wage increase, a UPS plan to
use additional part-time workers and the company's strict
adherence to demanding production quotas. What's more, a
power struggle within the Teamsters has complicated
negotiations. Meanwhile, UPS is trying harder than ever to
hold down costs and gain labor flexibility as it battles
effective, nonunion competitors on the ground and in the air.
   "These may be the toughest circumstances surrounding a UPS
contract in the past decade," said Mr. Schlesinger.
   The outcome will reverberate through the ranks of
Consolidated Freightways Inc., Roadway Services Inc. and
other less-than-truckload carriers faced with expiration of
their Teamsters contract March 30, 1991. What happens to UPS
"will provide some indication of what we can expect later
this year," when freight carriers begin to negotiate a new
three-year contract, said James R. Allen, a vice president of
Palo Alto, Calif.-based Consolidated Freightways.
   Less-than-truckload carriers, which carry the freight of
several shippers in one trailer, could gain business if the
Teamsters strike UPS. "Some of their freight would flow to
us," said Kenneth Mayhew, president and chief executive
officer of Carolina Freight Corp., Cherryville, N.C.
   But such carriers, facing overcapacity, stiff competition
and marginal profits, can't be as generous when they bargain
with their 200,000 Teamster workers. UPS is a "rich employer,
whereas we're part of a poor industry," said Mr. Allen.
   Last year UPS reported net income of $693.4 million on
revenue of $12.4 billion. But the company's profit margin
declined to 5.6% from 8.1% in 1987, reflecting the costs of
both meeting increased competition for packages in the U.S.
and expanding into air delivery at home and abroad.
   Kent C. Nelson, UPS chairman and chief executive officer,
said the company wants to use additional part-time workers,
earning about 60% of full-time hourly wage rates, to better
compete with nonunion Federal Express Corp. He added that
with more part-timers the company could afford to deliver
overnight air packages earlier in the day and on Saturdays.
   Also influencing the vote on the contract are worker
attitudes about the rigid production standards to which UPS
holds its drivers and package sorters. UPS "zeroes in on the
least-best employees and harangues them until they meet the
standards," said Walter Mitchell, president of package
deliverer ZoneSkip Inc. and a former UPS national marketing
manager who is writing a book about his ex-employer. UPS has
become very successful managing labor "with the whip and a
chair," said Mr. Mitchell.
   UPS is trying to court union labor with changes in style,
including rewards for workers who exceed the standards and
more comfortable, contemporary uniforms. Next month the
company will test Bermuda shorts for some West Coast drivers.
   Mr. Nelson said the company is trying to "manage all of
the people in a more positive way" while preserving its
vaunted efficiency based on close scrutiny of its workers.
"We pay them more and they produce more," said Mr. Nelson,
adding that any relaxation of UPS's emphasis on production
would be the "death knell for this company."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Somebody Send Them a Fat Lady
   So They'll Know When It's Over
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   RIO DE JANEIRO -- Brazilians don't play baseball, so they
worry little about who's on first. But they're passionate
about soccer, and they wonder who's in first. First place,
that is.
   "In the end, who is the champion?" asked the headline in
Monday's Jornal do Brasil. Perplexed fans asked the same
question Sunday after watching both Botafogo and Vasco da
Gama run victory laps after their game at Maracana Stadium,
the 200,000-seat temple of soccer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the face of it, it was simple. Botafogo won the game,
1-0, and has more points overall this season than Vasco.
   But this is Brazil, and nothing is ever that simple. Rules
are rules and, apparently, the rules say Botafogo may have
been the best team overall and won the final, but it didn't
win the championship. That's if you believe the rules that
were adopted in midseason, which aren't the same as the rules
that were enforced at the beginning of the season.
   Under the old rules, the soccer season is divided into two
legs, one won by Vasco and another won by a third team,
Fluminense; Vasco won the playoff between the two. On top of
that, however, if another team has more overall wins than the
two champions when the two legs of the season are combined,
it also has a right to dispute the prestigious championship
of the state of Rio de Janeiro. That was Botafogo's case, so
it had to play Vasco to determine the championship.
Botafogo's victory Sunday sealed the matter, so far as its
players and fans were concerned.
   But the rules were changed during this season's recess for
the World Cup, when the Soccer Federation decided that the
winner would be determined by a point system. Under that
system, Botafogo and Vasco were tied with one victory apiece
at the end of regulation time in Sunday's game and should
have played an overtime period to determine the overall
winner.
   Botafogo refused and left the field after a victory
celebration, so Vasco dubbed itself "the legal winner"
despite its defeat. "The rules exist and we complied with
them," proclaims Eurico Miranda, Vasco's vice president.
   Which leaves the championship a matter for a court
decision, and Botafogo faces expulsion for refusing to comply
with the rules. A ruling is expected within 20 days, but
soccer fans may have to be patient: The last time there was a
dispute over the title was in 1907, and the final decision on
that didn't come until 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Verit Industries
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   VER
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   VERIT INDUSTRIES, a real estate concern, said it completed
the private sale of 61,500 shares of a new Series B
convertible preferred stock to a Liechtenstein investment
company for $15.4 million. A spokesman for Verit, based in
Phoenix, Ariz., declined to identify the purchaser. Verit
said it used $14.7 million from the sale proceeds to buy a
67% interest in Touristic Club International AG Vaduz, a
leisure company, which has as its principal asset the Hotel
Viking, a resort hotel in southern Portugal. Each Series B
preferred share is convertible into 100 Verit common shares.
The purchaser agreed to vote its shares in the same manner as
Verit's management for five years. The agreement also places
a limit on the number of common shares that the purchaser may
sell in any 12-month period for five years. Verit is involved
in real estate development in California and Texas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   WSGP Partners Limited Partnership
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WSGP PARTNERS Limited Partnership (Los Angeles) -- Richard
K. Roeder, 43 years old, previously a partner in the law firm
Paul, Hastings, Janofsky &amp; Walker, was named a managing
director at this investment firm founded by William E. Simon,
a former Treasury secretary, and Gerald L. Parsky.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wang Reports
   Widened Loss
   For 4th Period
   ---
   Charges and Write-Downs
   Totaled $496.7 Million;
   Revenue Declined 13%
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   WANB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wang Laboratories Inc. took $417.4 million in one-time
write-downs and restructuring charges, resulting in a widened
net loss of $496.7 million, or $3.01 a share, for the fourth
quarter ended June 30.
   The Lowell, Mass.-based maker of minicomputers and office
automation equipment said revenue continued to decline,
dropping 13% to $652.2 million from $750.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the loss, Richard W. Miller, chairman and chief
executive officer, was upbeat. He said that without the
one-time charges Wang would have had a loss on continuing
operations of $5.6 million, which he characterized as "near
break-even." He added, "We achieved our fourth-quarter goal
of bringing our operating revenues and operating expenses
into balance."
   Mr. Miller, who was brought in as president last summer in
the midst of a financial crisis, predicted that in fiscal
1991, Wang will achieve its first profitable year since
fiscal 1988. He said he doesn't expect any further
write-downs or restructuring charges.
   Stock analysts, while praising Wang's cost-cutting moves,
remained skeptical about Wang's future. "The underlying issue
remains whether and when they can get revenue to expand
rather than contract," said Marc Schulman, an analyst with
UBS Securities Inc.
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading, Wang Class B
stock rose 25 cents to $4.125.
   In the year-earlier fourth quarter, Wang had a net loss of
$374.7 million, or $2.29 a share. That loss included one-time
charges of $234 million and an operating loss of $61.1
million.
   Mr. Miller said Wang took the latest round of write-offs
to cover declines in value "in the whole infrastructure
rather than having this plague us as we go forward."
   Some of the write-offs involve inventories of unneeded
parts, inventories of older Wang computers, service depot
inventories that aren't needed because new computers are more
reliable then older ones and sales and service facilities
that have been consolidated or have declined in value. He
said Wang has closed an operation that previously rebuilt and
resold Wang computers that were traded in by customers.
   Mr. Miller said in the current quarter Wang will reduce
its staff by more than 1,000 people to about 19,500. Wang
currently has 20,900 employees, down 27% from a year earlier.
In Lowell, it has cut employment 34% to 6,085 from 9,174 a
year ago.
   Mr. Miller said that after the write-downs "we've done
everything we wanted to do. Revenue and expense are in line."
He noted that Wang has paid off all but $30 million of the
$575 million in bank debt that caused the cash crisis last
year. Despite the charges, Wang has $165 million in cash and
is generating cash from operations, he said.
   Mr. Miller declined to predict results for the current
quarter. Jay P. Stevens, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds
Inc., said "the tone for the whole industry is to be careful
about (predicting) the summer quarter." He said he thinks
Wang may earn 25 cents a share for the full fiscal year.
   For fiscal 1990, Wang reported a net loss of $715.9
million, or $4.35 a share, compared with a net loss of $424.3
million, or $2.59 a share. The latest year includes
restructuring and other special charges of $388.3 million and
losses from discontinued operations of $87.3 million. The
year-earlier period included restructuring and special
charges of $142 million and losses from discontinued
operations of $100.1 million.
   Revenue for the year fell 14% to $2.5 billion from $2.91
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Bookshorts: Our Contributors on Poetry and Management
   ----
   By Raymond Sokolov
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Willard Spiegelman, perhaps best known in these quarters
as the Leisure &amp; Arts page's man in Dallas, spends his days
professing English at Southern Methodist University, editing
the Southern Review and writing about poetry, notably
Wordsworth. Lately, however, he has been turning his mind to
poets of his own time. The result is "The Didactic Muse:
Scenes of Instruction in Contemporary American Poetry"
(Princeton, 278 pages, $39.50 cloth, $10.95 paper).
   While Mr. Spiegelman brings a scholar's precision to this
work, he has obviously been at pains to open up the subject
for outsiders, as it were, by showing how the eight writers
he has chosen all have set themselves up as teachers in their
poems. This is something of a radical notion, joining such
apparently unrelated temperaments as the Beat standard bearer
Allen Ginsberg and the patrician James Merrill to a chain of
pedagogic forebears stretching back to the Vergil of the
"Georgics."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The more immediate mentor of this lyrically educative gang
is W.H. Auden, whose "easy speech," Mr. Spiegelman says,
sounds like meditation "at random" but actually propounds
serious lessons about the state of the world. From Auden, the
analysis proceeds from poet to poet, construing their very
different work as a rhetoric of instruction and
argumentation. If this sounds arid in summary, in the doing
it becomes a didactic revelation, a literal introduction or
leading-in to some great writers, the best of them often
misunderstood.
   Adrienne Rich benefits most from this approach. Although
few readers of this feminist poet will be surprised to see
her treated as a didactic, many will be amazed to see how
what may have looked like artless preaching actually gets its
power from an eminently calculated and interesting rhetoric.
As Mr. Spiegelman shows, one of Ms. Rich's characteristic
methods is to make a point with lists (a feature of didactic
poetry as old as Homer's catalog of Greek ships). A woman in
the poem "Transcendental Etude" goes off by herself to the
kitchen and fusses quietly with "bits of yarn, calico and
velvet scraps,/laying them out absently on the scrubbed
boards/in the lamplight, with small rainbow-colored
shells/sent in cotton-wool from somewhere far away/and skeins
of milkweed from the nearest meadow . . ."
   Such poetry -- really all serious poetry -- has only a
handful of readers today, perhaps because in a previous
generation, T.S. Eliot and the other high modernists cut
themselves off from the large public poetry had always had
before. The more recent landscape of verse is not nearly such
a dark wood, but its paths need mapping. Mr. Spiegelman has
been working at this task in a timely way, then, and a direct
benefit could accrue from his efforts to Anthony Hecht, whose
complete works have just been republished as "Collected
Earlier Poems" (Knopf, 288 pages, $22.95), along with a new
volume, "The Transparent Man" (Knopf, 96 pages, $18.95). Mr.
Spiegelman also makes it his central task to clarify the
importance of Mr. Merrill's encyclopedic long poem, "The
Changing Light at Sandover," declaring that it "has
permanently altered the course of American poetry for the
rest of our century."
   ---
   No one needs to be persuaded that management is important
or taught that business's ignore it at their peril. The
difficulty, in a way oddly parallel to the problem of talking
cogently about poetry, is to find a rhetoric, a way into
writing about the subject that will not strike the
intelligent reader as empty, jejune, bombastic or all three
at once. David Asman's job, as editor of this newspaper's
"Manager's Journal" column since 1983, has been to solve this
problem. Now he has edited "The Wall Street Journal on
Managing: Adding Value Through Synergy" (Doubleday Currency,
256 pages, $19.95). All of the essays originally appeared in
the "Manager's Journal," but they have been re-edited for
this book and brought up-to-date, to take into account late
developments in the economy and a rapidly changing
geopolitical setting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Bush, Congressional Leaders to Meet
   Again on Scheduling of Budget Talks
   ----
   By David Wessel and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Still maneuvering over schedules rather than
substance, President Bush and top congressional leaders are
to meet again this morning to attempt to fashion a timetable
for the deficit-reduction talks, the White House said.
   As Republican budget negotiators left a meeting with Mr.
Bush yesterday, they complained that their Democratic
counterparts were dragging their feet. "We've walked the
extra mile on revenues," said Senate Republican Leader Robert
Dole of Kansas. "We've laid out a specific plan and we're
still waiting to hear from the Democrats."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rep. Bill Frenzel (R., Minn) said he and some other
Republican budget negotiators urged Mr. Bush to demand that
Congress delay the start of its scheduled recess. But other
GOP congressional leaders -- and some administration
officials, as well -- counseled a less confrontational
approach and are resigned to waiting until the fall to get
down to hard bargaining. White House Chief of Staff John
Sununu is already meeting with Republican strategists to
develop a consistent public explanation for the plodding
progress of the talks.
   Democrats, though not refusing to put forward a plan,
continue to question the wisdom of doing so before Congress
begins its August recess. "It is not particularly useful to
have plans publicly aired, and then not the subject of
negotiations in an active, continuous basis for days or a
couple of weeks," Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.) said.
   Democrats are divided internally on both tactics and
substance, but privately say they are prepared to agree to
present a proposal on a specific date in late August or early
September. If Republicans threaten to delay the congressional
recess, then Democratic staff members expect Democratic
leaders to endorse a plan -- crafted largely as a political
statement of the party's priorities -- that relies on deep
cuts in defense and on tax increases aimed at the rich.
   As previously reported, the draft Republican
deficit-reduction plan for fiscal 1991, which starts Oct. 1,
would raise taxes on beer, wine and liquor; cap the deduction
for state and local income taxes at $10,000; cut capital
gains tax rates; trim spending on defense by $7 billion and
trim spending on government benefit programs -- but not
Social Security -- by about $16 billion.
   Meanwhile, Sen. Daniel Moynihan is preparing to unveil a
revision of his proposal to reduce Social Security payroll
taxes. He wants to make it more attractive to his
deficit-fearing colleagues when he offers it as an amendment
to a must-pass bill to raise the federal debt ceiling this
week or next.
   Instead of slashing the payroll tax over two years, aides
say the New York Democrat today will propose phasing in the
tax cut by dropping the Social Security tax by 0.2 percentage
point a year for five years beginning in fiscal 1991. Workers
currently pay 6.2% of their earnings under $51,300 for Social
Security; employers match that.
   The new plan would cost the Treasury $6.6 billion in
fiscal 1991 and $147.6 billion over five years, Sen. Moynihan
figures. His original proposal to cut the tax rate to 6.06%
in the current year and 5.1% in 1991 would have cost the
Treasury $4.4 billion this fiscal year and $38 billion in
fiscal 1991. Sen. Moynihan wouldn't alter the additional
1.45% payroll tax that goes to finance Medicare.
   The House is scheduled today to consider raising the debt
ceiling to $3.444 trillion from $3.122 trillion, sufficient
to allow government borrowing through September 1991. Mr.
Foley warned that the measure may fail the first time, but he
has said that the House won't begin its recess until it lifts
the debt ceiling.
   The House Ways and Means Committee has approved an
alternative, which isn't slated for consideration today, that
would authorize the Treasury to keep borrowing only through
Oct. 15.
   The Treasury says it will default unless Congress lifts
the debt ceiling by Aug. 15.
   The congressional recess is scheduled to begin Friday,
although Senate leaders say they may delay their departure.
Mr. Bush is currently scheduled to begin a vacation in Maine
on Aug. 10.
   ---
   Carl Johnston contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                            Week Ended:
                                       July 27,     July 20,
                                         1990         1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a ... 7.88          7.94
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day)   7.98          8.04
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b ........ 8.05          8.14
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b ............. 8.00          8.05
   Treasury bills (one year)-c ........ 7.85          7.87
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ...... 8.21          8.23
   Treasury notes (five year)-c ....... 8.30          8.31
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c ........ 8.48          8.47
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c ......... 8.54          8.51
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, July 25, 1990
and Wednesday, July 18, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted for constant
maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Lumex Says Hillery
   Resigned Two Posts;
   Firm Will Cut Staff
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LUM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BAY SHORE, N.Y. -- Lumex Inc. said that David Hillery,
53-year-old vice president of the health-care products
company and president of its Cybex division, resigned to
pursue other interests.
   Separately, Lumex said it would cut staff through
attrition and dismissals and would pare expenses as it
reported a second-quarter net loss of $849,000, or 20 cents a
share, on 2.2% lower sales. In the 1989 second quarter, Lumex
earned $469,000, or 11 cents a share. Sales eased to $20.8
million from $21.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One factor in the weaker results was that U.S. sales of
Cybex's rehabilitation equipment fell from the year-earlier
period; international sales continued to be strong, Lumex
said.
   Lumex division sales of bathroom seating and safety aids
for the sick and the elderly rose from the year-ago period
but fell short of expectations, the parent said. The Lumex
division also makes canes, crutches, wheelchairs and other
ambulatory aids.
   Lumex employs about 1,030; the company declined to
estimate the number of staff cuts it anticipates.
   Lumex expects to return to profitability for the rest of
the year, said Lawrence Cohen, 58, chairman and chief
executive officer. Mr. Cohen will assume Mr. Hillery's duties
in the interim.
   Mr. Hillery, who was also a director of Lumex Inc., was
unavailable for comment.
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Lumex shares fell 50 cents, to close at $6.25.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Hippos and Calliopes: A Great Circus Parade
   ----
   By Gail King
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Milwaukee -- Had Baraboo, Wis., been better equipped with
bathrooms, Baraboo would be the dateline on this story. As it
happened, Baraboo, a town of 8,000 residents 120 miles
northwest of Milwaukee, had the world's greatest collection
of circus wagons, but Milwaukee had bathrooms and Ben Barkin,
and that's why The Great Circus Parade takes place in
Milwaukee each July.
   Mr. Barkin got involved back in 1963 when C.P. "Chappie"
Fox, who was director of Baraboo's Circus World Museum,
wanted to stage a parade to show off the museum's collection
of rare circus wagons. He met turndowns on all sides until he
got to Mr. Barkin, Schlitz's PR man, who had happy childhood
memories of watering circus animals on the Milwaukee
lakefront in exchange for free tickets. Mr. Barkin believed
there was a good market for the authentic nostalgic Americana
that circus parades represent, but he insisted that the
thousands of people who might come would need the facilities
of a city. In 1963, Schlitz put up $125,000 for Milwaukee's
first Great Circus Parade. Now years past official
retirement, Mr. Barkin has found a second career as full-time
volunteer coordinator of the parade. For the July 15
production he raised $1,403,000 (the budget called for
$1,375,000) from several large corporate donors, some
foundations, and thousands of individual circus fans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Barkin has his hand in every aspect: loading the
wagons onto the circus train at Baraboo, riding the train
through Madison and the Chicago suburbs, unloading the wagons
on the lakefront in Milwaukee, and locating, housing and
feeding the animals (762 horses, 21 camels, one pygmy hippo,
a giraffe, four boa constrictors and assorted other creatures
-- Mr. Barkin's budget allowed for 2,800 bales of hay and 50
mammoth tents).
   It rained on the parade this year, a cold intermittent
drizzle that cut the crowd a tad, but very little else went
wrong. The Baraboo High School band kept its white clown
suits spotless through blocks of mud and manure. The giraffe
behaved admirably (although he refused to enter his
high-canopied parade wagon without a bribe of Froot-Loops);
the pygmy hippo (who had spent the pre-parade days napping)
rose to the occasion and roared; the 40-horse hitch clomped
forward, backward and neatly around corners; the harem girls
(members of the Milwaukee Ballet) stayed atop their camels
with varying degrees of grace; the eight-camel hitch pulling
the Temple Tableau did not spit or split; the top hats and
tail ribbons on the elephants stayed put; the sunburst wheels
did not spin off the antique wagons; the 50-year-old steam
calliope did not explode; the arms of the stupendously
energetic carillonneur playing the Musical Bells of Moscow
(built in 1892 in Milwaukee for Ringling Bros.) did not give
out; and the bands played on and on.
   The threats of racial violence that bedeviled parade
planners had pretty much quieted down before parade time;
nevertheless there was a high profile of uniformed police.
(Let's hear a circus hurrah right here for No. 1939 {a black
man} and No. 1371 {a white man}, who handled the corner of
Third and Wisconsin with amazing teamwork and patience.)
   Circus parades developed in the early 19th century as a
means of transportation and an advertising ploy for traveling
shows. Wagons were added to the entourages around 1850, when
circuses started using tents. Circuses having always involved
heavy hype, the wagons immediately became moving posters,
touting (with liberal doses of artistic and advertising
license) the shows' attractions.
   Baraboo got more than its fair share of such equipment,
because the Ringlings wintered their show there from 1884 to
1918. Their Baraboo cousins, the Moellers, built circus
wagons. This circus heritage is commemorated in the town by
the State Historical Society of Wisconsin's Circus World
Museum. When the museum opened in 1959 there were three or
four wagons on display, but more importantly, there were
still people in Baraboo who understood and appreciated
circus-wagon construction and decoration. The 76 wagons that
rolled through Milwaukee's streets with their perfectly
restored, repainted and regilded wooden carvings were
selected from the museum's collection of more than 150.
   Circus wagons fall into three general categories: tableau,
band wagons and animal cages, all built to be heavily loaded
and pulled by horses over rutted roads and muddy circus
grounds. The tableau wagons evolved from decorated baggage
carts to elaborately engineered telescoping masterpieces
designed to transport only imaginations. They still do. The
heavily gilded red-and-green Twin Lions Telescoping Tableau,
built in England more than 100 years ago (four-layered and 17
feet, seven inches from the street to the tips of the lion's
ears), was one of the most fantastic things in the parade.
   Mr. Barkin's insistence on authenticity has made parade
day a magnet for horse fans. In addition to the hitches of
Belgians, Clydesdales and Percherons that pulled most of the
wagons, there were mules, Morgans, Lippizaners, miniature
horses, tiny donkeys and spectacularly costumed equestrienne
teams.
   (The horses account for one of the prime sideshows of the
affair. Sidewalk bookies take bets on where horse droppings
will land; for a quarter you chalk out and initial a circle
on the street. There apparently are unlimited -- and probably
unprintable -- refinements to this activity, but this year
the rain washed away the whole business.)
   In the days of circus street parades, most shows owned a
band wagon that served as a Pied Piper at the end of the
procession.
   The Great Circus Parade sported a dozen, including the
111-year-old superbly carved Lion and Mirror; the gloriously
painted, red, white and gold Great Britain Bandwagon (pulled
by a matched set of eight black Percherons with red
trappings); and the wonderful 40-horse hitch, the 10-ton Two
Hemispheres, the largest band wagon ever built. The Two
Hemispheres and the rollicking, steam-spewing calliope made a
truly grand Grand Finale.
   "It's the joy," Mr. Barkin declared as the last strains of
the calliope faded away. "It is the joy that this brings to
people; it lifts the spirit of the community -- that's the
one thing this means to me."
   ---
   Ms. King is a free-lance journalist based in Henderson,
Ky.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   First Constitution Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FCON
</CO>
<LP>
   FIRST CONSTITUTION FINANCIAL Corp. (New Haven, Conn.) --
John J. Crawford, 45 years old, was named president and chief
executive officer of this thrift institution, after holding
the posts on a temporary basis since April, following the
resignation of Walter R. Miller Jr. Mr. Crawford was
previously a director of the thrift and a financial
consultant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM's European Operations Chief Says
   Sales, Market Share May Drop in 1991
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM EUROP JAPAN FREST S.SAA
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The head of General Motors Corp.'s highly
profitable European operations said production constraints
will make it "very difficult" for GM to maintain its current
European sales and market share levels in 1991.
   Factory shutdowns needed to retool for new models probably
will cut GM's European car output next year to below this
year's record levels, GM of Europe president Robert J. Eaton
said in an interview yesterday. Reduced production might
threaten GM of Europe's three-year string of record annual
earnings, but Mr. Eaton said: "I don't expect to go down in
profits."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In other comments on the European market, Mr. Eaton said:
   -- Japanese auto makers are on track to double or triple
their current 10% share of the 13 million- to 14 million-car
European market by the end of the 1990s. "Europe will be the
battleground of the 1990s," he said. The six major auto
makers that now dominate Europe, including GM and Ford Motor
Co., all risk losing share to the Japanese, he said.
   -- GM expects European car sales will continue to expand,
with growth in the East outpacing growth in the West. By the
end of the decade, he said, Eastern Europeans and Soviets
could buy as many as five million vehicles a year, up from
1.8 million vehicles a year currently. However, "there's a
lot of uncertainty" in that outlook in light of Eastern
Europe's massive economic and political problems, Mr. Eaton
cautioned.
   GM's European vehicle sales are less than a third of those
in the U.S. But Europe's importance to the No. 1 auto maker
far outweighs its sales volume. GM earned $1.83 billion in
Europe last year -- more than it earned in the U.S. and
Canada combined. And in sharp contrast to the U.S., where GM
has more plants than it needs, GM's European operations are
running flat out. GM's European market share is now dictated
by its capacity, Mr. Eaton said.
   Through the first six months of this year, GM sold 824,600
cars in Europe to take 11.3% of the market. That's up from
791,780 cars and a 10.9% share a year earlier. But output in
1991 almost certainly will drop from this year's record
levels, taking sales and market share along with it, Mr.
Eaton conceded.
   "We've been struggling to find out how to maintain
{production} next year" during the scheduled model changes,
Mr. Eaton said. "That's going to be very difficult. We'll
probably lose production."
   GM is launching a campaign to boost its European capacity
by 25% to two million cars a year. Some of that will be
accomplished by adding third shifts at existing GM assembly
plants, and possibly reopening a closed facility in Belgium.
But some of the bottlenecks in assembly and parts-making
operations won't be fixed by next year.
   GM is looking to new joint ventures in Hungary and
Czechoslovakia to boost output of engines and transmissions.
But those operations aren't scheduled to begin production
until 1992.
   Early next year, GM plans to begin production of its new
Calibra coupes at a plant in Finland owned by Saab Automobile
AB, the 50-50 joint venture between GM and Saab-Scania AB of
Sweden. GM also plans to begin limited production this fall
at plants in Turkey and East Germany. But these efforts
combined will add only about 45,000 cars to GM's European
capacity in 1991, company officials say.
   Despite product shortages, GM will continue to move into
the Eastern European market, Mr. Eaton said. GM's 340 newly
recruited East German dealers have taken orders for some
6,000 cars since the two Germanys merged currencies last
month, Mr. Eaton said. GM could sell as many as 25,000 cars
in East Germany this year, he added.
   But Mr. Eaton said that sales pace could cool down as East
Germans deplete their savings. And other Eastern European
markets are handicapped by the lack of hard currency.
   "Our moves into the East bloc are not based on the belief
that it will convert to a Western economy overnight," Mr.
Eaton said. Indeed, he said, GM is structuring its operations
so they can "operate forever without hard currency
convertibility."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Right to Die: Living Wills Are Inadequate
   ----
   By Bernard D. Davis
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   Fifteen years ago a group of faculty and students at
Harvard Medical School tried to formulate a model "living
will," although we knew that it would not be legally binding;
we could only hope that it might provide support for
sympathetic physicians. The recent Supreme Court decision in
the Cruzan case, confirming the legal force of such a
document, is a real step forward.
   Nevertheless, the decision was disappointing. The minority
(four justices) felt that the court should provide leadership
in dealing with the agony and the bankruptcy that heroic
medical treatment of such hopeless cases is forcing on
thousands of families. The majority (five justices), however,
focused on the constitutional aspects of the case, and it
upheld Missouri's right to require "clear and convincing"
evidence that the patient would have wished life support to
be terminated. At the same time, these justices were
evidently not altogether happy with the consequence of their
decision, for they expressed sympathy with the family's
position, and they saw no constitutional barrier to future
state laws that would accept less formal evidence than
Missouri now requires.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, any who wish to avoid unwanted life support
will have to express the preference in advance, though the
requirement may be less formal in some states than in others.
The safest solution is a living will. But this mechanism is
unfortunately unlikely to be widely used outside a small,
highly educated fraction of the population. Moreover, even in
this group young people are the least likely to take formal
steps in anticipation of possible major brain damage,
although they are the ones most often involved in automobile
accidents. Even if we enlarge the coverage by moving toward
accepting less formal evidence, as the court expects, the
majority of cases might still end up in the same situation as
Nancy Cruzan today.
   We will therefore no doubt encounter increasing pressure
to find a more general solution. I would suggest that there
is one. Since by now essentially everyone is aware of the
problem, it would not be difficult to get a meaningful
estimate, in a survey or a referendum, of public attitudes
toward prolonged support of bodily life in clear cases of
irreversible loss of mental life. I suspect the fraction
opposed to such support would be very large. If so,
legislators and the courts would be justified in
reconsidering the current assumption: that in the absence of
a prior expression of individual preference we must presume
an interest of the individual, or the state, in continuing
life support, even with irreversible loss of consciousness.
   As an alternative to this presumption, we might decide
that in such extreme cases evidence of a prior request should
no longer be required for the termination of support. The
medical profession would then have the power, when the family
agrees, to remove such support. To ensure that this grave
decision be made responsibly we would need safeguards. Also,
some people would no doubt wish, for religious reasons or
from mistrust of medical predictions, to have their bodies
kept alive as long as possible under any circumstances. Their
desire should be respected. However, the burden of
demonstrating a preference would now be shifted to that
group.
   Permanent coma is one end of a wide range of impairments
that render people incompetent to express their wishes. Among
the less extreme cases, in which the individual retains some
degree of consciousness, one would not presume, in the
absence of a prior statement, an individual preference for
termination. This decision would continue to depend on prior
expression of that preference, or on appointment of a
surrogate to make the decision. But irreversible coma is so
clearly definable, as a special class, that it could be given
special treatment without starting on a slippery legal slope.
   This suggestion is not a radical response to a familiar
problem but a reasonable response to radical changes in
medical technology, and to growing public awareness of the
problems that these changes create. In an earlier time the
law naturally had a strong presumption in favor of sustaining
the body as long as possible, built on the feeling that while
there's life there's hope. Today, however, both aspects of
the problem have changed a great deal: We not only have
techniques for keeping the unconscious body alive for years
rather than days, but we also have much more reliable
techniques for assessing the extent and the irreversibility
of brain damage.
   In addition, the issue is a substantial part of a broader
set of problems that are increasingly gaining public
attention. Among our medical expenditures (12% of the gross
national product) is a large fraction devoted to prolonged
terminal care. The benefits are often exceedingly dubious
while the emotional and other costs are enormous -- and the
problem continues to grow. We will eventually have to come to
grips with it. And with respect to the moral aspects of
deciding how much, and by what mechanism, to limit medical
care, irreversible coma may be the simplest case that we will
have to face.
   When I attended medical school, in the 1930s, physicians
not only had much less power than now to keep terminally ill
bodies alive, but they also were allowed much more discretion
in the use of the powers that they had. The inevitability of
death was more readily accepted.
   Today we see large changes -- not only in medical
technology, but also in social attitudes, as reflected in the
establishment of committees to govern the use of human
subjects in medical research. And just as these committees
have been very effective, there is little reason to doubt
that placing decisions about the irreversible step of
terminating life support in the hands of such a committee,
rather than in those of the individual physician, would lead
to more reliable evaluation and greater public confidence.
The alternative, to maintain a conservative attitude and deny
the medical profession and the family all discretion in this
matter, harms the interests of all who are involved.
   ---
   Dr. Davis is a professor emeritus at Harvard Medical
School.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Britain Sells Out U.S. Interests in Hong Kong
   ----
   By William McGurn
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- When the White House announced late last
month that it was renewing China's most-favored-nation status
in part because "Hong Kong should not be the innocent victim
of our disappointment with the Chinese administration," folks
here were happily surprised.
   True enough, the Hong Kong card is being used largely as a
club to beat back charges of a Bush kowtow and fend off
congressional efforts to overturn his most-favored-nation
decision. But many here hope this development and the
resolution passed last week in support of Hong Kong citizens
signal a new appreciation in Washington for America's
enormous stake in the colony's future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While most American images of Hong Kong revolve around
sweatshops and Suzie Wong, this Asian dragon has matured into
an international financial center that is the U.S.'s
14th-largest trading partner, the regional base for American
firms in Southeast Asia and the home to some $6 billion in
U.S. investment -- more than twice the U.S. investment in all
China.
   In the run-up to the 1997 handover of sovereignty to
Beijing, these critical American interests are jeopardized by
the steady erosion of confidence, whose most visible symptom
is the unprecedented exodus of Hong Kong residents to any
free nation that will give them a passport. The more than 900
U.S. firms here have been especially hard hit by the outflow
because of U.S. immigration laws that make these companies
less attractive in this area than their competitors. For all
these reasons, American businessmen are hoping that the
president's defense of Hong Kong is a sign that at this
critical time the U.S. is waking up to what it stands to lose
here.
   "The MFN statement was the first time Hong Kong has
figured in a U.S. foreign-policy decision since World War
II," says John Kamm, president of the American Chamber of
Commerce in Hong Kong (AmCham). "Hong Kong is an American
outpost, a fact only dimly perceived in Washington."
   Indeed, counting one way, the U.S. owns the largest
outside investment in Hong Kong (the Japanese also have a
claim) and thus stands to be the biggest loser if Hong Kong
crumbles. Despite this, notes Mr. Kamm, in last year's
congressional debate on China sanctions, Hong Kong was not
mentioned once. If Congress overrides the most-favored-nation
renewal, the decision could cost the territory $10 billion in
business, at least 20,000 jobs, and 2% to 3% off its gross
domestic product.
   For these economic reasons, the British welcomed AmCham's
intercession in the most-favored-nation debate on behalf of
Hong Kong. But they are leery of American political interest
because they understand clearly what few Americans or Britons
will say openly: Through conflicting interests, Britain is
undermining the American stake in Hong Kong. Britain itself
has little real stake here. Its real interest is to get out
as quietly as possible, and without being obliged to grant
passports to the Hong Kong Chinese. By contrast, America's $6
billion investment and use of the territory as a base for
Asian trade mean U.S. interests are closely aligned with
those of Hong Kong's people: keeping the place as free and
open as it is now.
   Contrary to the British line, the crisis of confidence had
set in well before the massacre in Tiananmen Square. For
American companies in Hong Kong, this dissatisfaction
translates into a staggering 30% average annual turnover in
staff, as employees scurry for refuge. The problem is
compounded by a restrictive U.S. immigration policy that has
virtually no room for business sponsorship of key employees.
When the U.S. is aiming to put immigration on more of a
skills basis, allowing U.S. firms abroad to sponsor
immigrants would make immigration more market-oriented and
give these firms a competitive edge in labor markets. In Hong
Kong the absence of such a program is proving painful.
   While the British would welcome changes in U.S.
immigration law that would help companies retain people in
Hong Kong, they're reluctant to grant Americans any say over
the policies that brought about the crisis in the first
place. Americans are not appointed in significant numbers to
any of the consultative committees that are an important part
of running the colony, have almost no representation in the
all-important civil service, and are virtually invisible on
the general commission of the Hong Kong General Chamber of
Commerce.
   Even today, when the Hong Kong government's official line
is to favor more U.S. involvement, Americans are more likely
to get lucrative contracts than a voice. Already, America is
the largest supplier to the Hong Kong government. U.S.
companies stand to come out on top in the bidding for $2.6
billion of infrastructure upgrades, including a new airport
and the doubling of port facilities.
   In the short term these contracts might make a number of
companies very rich, but they won't do much to build
confidence. The threat to Hong Kong's continued prosperity is
not economic but political. As long as the British
authorities continue to do the mainland's bidding, Hong
Kong's people will continue to doubt, while the potential for
violence will increase.
   The American business community recognizes this -- in
October 1988 AmCham lobbied Beijing for stronger human-rights
guarantees for post-1997 Hong Kong -- but U.S. executives
have been silent about Britain's refusal to protect Hong
Kong.
   Business leaders say that the next two years will be the
critical test, and without pressure from Washington the
British and mainland Chinese are likely to continue down the
same destructive path. At House hearings in June on
most-favored-nation status, concern for Hong Kong was voiced
again, not only by the White House but by Sen. Robert Dole
(R., Kan.), Rep. Stephen Solarz (D., N.Y.) and Rep. John
Porter (R., Ill.). As Hong Kong lurches toward 1997, the U.S.
government would do well to keep two overriding principles in
mind: that Hong Kong is most valuable to the U.S. as it
exists today, and that even if Hong Kong is destined to go
the way of Shanghai, its people should find a new home for
their talent and entrepreneurship in the U.S. -- not Canada
or Australia.
   "America has a lot more at risk here than Britain," says
the leader of the newly formed United Democrats of Hong Kong,
Martin Lee. "The question these American businessmen have to
start asking themselves is, `Is Britain's handling of the
political situation in Hong Kong in America's best
interests?'"
   ---
   Mr. McGurn is the Washington bureau chief of National
Review.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Plunges to Lowest Level
   Against the Mark in 31 Months
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar slumped yesterday to its lowest
level against the mark in nearly 31 months, weighed down by
rising interest rates overseas and signs of a slowing economy
at home.
   Late in New York trading, the dollar stood at 1.6041 marks
and 147.83 yen, down from 1.6120 marks and 149.15 yen late
Friday. Meanwhile, the British pound rose to $1.8470 from
$1.8375 on Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At its nadir yesterday, the dollar traded at 1.6023 marks,
its lowest level since Jan. 4, 1988, when the dollar briefly
touched 1.5615 marks, its lowest level since the modern
exchange rate-system was established after World War II.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was quoted
at 147.65 yen; it closed in Tokyo Monday at 148.60 yen.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.6058
marks, down from Tokyo's Monday close of 1.6128 marks.
   "We feel {the dollar} has got further to go down," said
Joe Scott-Plummer, joint managing director at Martin Currie
Ltd., an Edinburgh, Scotland, money manager.
   Analysts said the U.S. currency is caught in a vise.
Interest rates in Europe and Japan have been rising as major
foreign economies -- especially those of West Germany and
Japan -- are booming. At the same time, a softening U.S.
economy is raising the prospect of lower U.S. interest rates.
   "It seems we're heading into a recession or a moderate
slowdown, which would imply lower U.S. interest rates," said
Ian Spence, chief dealer at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co.
"In conjunction with that, it appears that Europe --
particularly Germany -- is on a roll with a booming economy
and opportunity for investment."
   Lower U.S. rates, combined with higher rates overseas,
generally hurt the dollar by reducing its allure to
international investors and speculators. The dollar is also
burdened by big U.S. budget and trade deficits.
   Although U.S. stocks and bonds rose yesterday, analysts
and money managers warned that the weakening U.S. currency is
damping foreign investors' appetites for dollar-denominated
securities. Foreign investors have never held the same sway
over the U.S. stock market as they have over the bond market,
but Japanese and British investors at times do influence U.S.
share prices.
   Traders said there was scant buying of U.S. bonds by
Japanese investors yesterday. This comes as other foreign
investors are generally shunning U.S. markets in favor of
either high-yielding fixed-income securities abroad or
foreign stock markets.
   In the first quarter, foreign investors dumped a net $3.3
billion of U.S. stocks and $900 million of American bonds,
according to the Security Industry Association. The Japanese
alone unloaded $700 million of U.S. shares and $3.9 billion
of U.S. Treasury securities. Analysts say that evidence
points to the trend continuing in the second quarter.
   "All the Japanese money that had been heading into the
U.S. is either heading for Europe or remaining at home in
Japan," said Mr. Spence.
   Yesterday, the dollar in intraday trading also tumbled to
a 30-month low against the Swiss franc and nearly a 20-month
low against the British pound.
   For Americans, a weakening currency is a double-edged
sword. It can help to lower the U.S. trade deficit by
reducing the prices of U.S. exports while boosting the prices
of foreign imports purchased by American consumers. At the
same time, however, higher import prices contribute to U.S.
inflation by allowing domestic companies that compete with
foreigners to raise prices.
   If the dollar fell far enough, it could also make it more
expensive for the U.S. to finance its budget deficit. That's
because foreign investors would demand higher yields on
Treasury securities to compensate for the weakened dollar.
Those higher rates, in turn, might damage U.S. economic
growth.
   While the dollar has been weakening for several weeks,
traders and analysts say that the U.S. currency was hurt by
last Friday's Commerce Department report that the U.S.
economy grew at an anemic annual inflation-adjusted rate of
1.2% in the second quarter -- down from 1.7% in the first
quarter.
   Traders saw the report as evidence that U.S. interest
rates will fall further and the dollar with them. By
contrast, the West German and Japanese economies each zoomed
at annual rates of 10.4% in the first quarter.
   But it is the rising gap between U.S. and foreign interest
rates that is the biggest factor driving down the dollar,
analysts said. In the past year, yields on three-month
Eurodollar deposits -- dollar deposits held offshore -- have
fallen to 7.88% from 8.55%. Meanwhile, yields on equivalent
mark deposits have jumped to 8.24% from 6.84%, and those on
equivalent yen deposits have climbed to 7.69% from 5.32%.
   "It's the expectation that U.S. rates will continue to go
lower in the second half of the year, and we expect rates in
Germany and Japan to rise," said Nigel Randell, an
international economist at James Capel &amp; Co. in London. "With
that as a background, there is little reason to be buying the
dollar aggressively."
   There is an even greater gap between U.S. and British
interest rates; threemonth Eurosterling rates currently stand
at 15.08%, up from 13.75% a year ago.
   "With something like a 15% yield, you can't go wrong" with
sterling, said George Kuster, a portfolio manager at Gulf &amp;
Occidental Investments S.A. in Geneva, who is also buying
French bonds, Swiss franc bonds issued by foreign
corporations and German time deposits. Mr. Kuster said that
only 3% to 5% of the portfolios he manages are in
dollar-denominated investments.
   Japan's money supply is expanding at a rapid annual rate
of 12.6%. And many analysts predict that West German
inflation will grow along with the increased expenditures
associated with the monetary union between East and West
Germany.
   Mr. Randell predicts that Japan will raise its official
discount rate -- which the central bank charges on loans to
financial institutions -- by 1/2 or 3/4 percentage point from
its current 5.25% level "over the next couple of months." He
also forecasts that after German rates remain stable for a
few months, West Germany will push them higher in October.
   Higher rates abroad would mean more pressure on the dollar
and could even prompt the Federal Reserve to prop up the
dollar by raising U.S. rates.
   The weakening dollar has made Martin Currie, the Edinburgh
money-management company, pessimistic about buying U.S.
stocks. For its non-dollar based investors, the company's
U.S. stock holdings currently represent about 80% to 85% of
what they would be if the firm's portfolios were weighted to
reflect the value of the U.S. market relative to the rest of
the world. That's down from roughly a 135% weighting six
months ago. The capitalization of the U.S. stock market is
about 34% of the world's market, according to Morgan Stanley
Capital International.
   Said Mr. Scott-Plummer of Martin Currie: "While we aren't
bearish on the U.S. stock market, we feel any returns {there}
could be eliminated by the weakness of the U.S. dollar."
   Roberto Bianchi, a first vice president at Union Bank of
Switzerland in Zurich, noted that investors who were selling
dollars yesterday were buying mostly high-yielding currencies
such as the pound, Spanish peseta and Italian lira. He
predicted that in the next week or two, the dollar could
tumble another 2% to 3% against the mark, bring it to its
record lows against the German currency.
   And the Martin Currie company sees the dollar falling an
additional 7% against the yen to 135 yen over the next five
to six months.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August
delivery settled at $367.80 an ounce, down 20 cents.
Estimated volume was a heavy five million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Tuesday, gold was quoted at
$368.55 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Horseshoes With the Prez
   ----
   By Joe Queenan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   George Plimpton is at it again. The only editor of a
pretentious, money-losing literary magazine ever to risk
having his teeth knocked down his throat while playing pro
football, Mr. Plimpton has written "The X Factor" (Whittle,
85 pages, $11.95), a book about his latest adventures as a
jock: a series of horseshoes matches with George Bush. This
man fears nothing.
   Except losing. Edged out in a match in which Mr. Bush
continually bellowed, "Remember Iowa]" -- a reference to his
nearly fatal 1988 primary defeat in what has become the most
important state in the Union -- Mr. Plimpton sets out on a
voyage of spiritual self-discovery, seeking to find the X
Factor, that elusive psychological edge that all great
champions possess. He hopes he can find it "in a small,
earthenware jug corked at its mouth."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His quest takes him to the homes of such proven champs as
tennis star Billie Jean King, Green Bay Packers Hall of Famer
Willie Davis, and the short but muscular leveraged-buy-out
specialist Henry Kravis. These people give him predictable
advice: Go for the throat, don't quit, never give a sucker an
even break, screw management.
   But his travels also take him to the home of Peter
Buterakos, a cemetery-plot salesman from Flint, Mich., who
advises him to show up at Mr. Bush's house with his own
horse, knock it to the ground, wrench the horseshoes from its
flailing feet, and use those in the rematch. Let's just see
what Mr. Bush makes of that. Actually, it isn't clear how
much of this stuff Mr. Plimpton is making up. An adroit
dissembler who once fooled zillions of Sports Illustrated's
subscribers when he published an idiotic but plausible story
about a flame-throwing New York Mets pitching phenom named
Sidd Finch, Mr. Plimpton seems to have invented the George
Bush material, but actually gone to see Mr. Kravis, Ms. King
and all the rest.
   Whether he's lying all the way through, or he actually did
crisscross the globe seeking what the Soviets call "the white
moment," what Tibetans call "lung-fom," or what Joe Garagiola
calls "being in the zone," Mr. Plimpton has written a dandy
book.
   "The X Factor" is one of those 85-page affairs that
Whittle Communications publishes every few months as part of
its "Larger Agenda" series, and it is filled with two-page
color ads for Federal Express. So you actually only have to
read about 65 pages of stuff about horseshoes, which is
probably right at the limit anyway. The 65 pages are quite
good, particularly Mr. Plimpton's suggestion that American
Express Co. President James D. Robinson III rethink his plans
to have "Quality" etched on his tombstone, and instead use
the words, "I Left Home Without It."
   Equally funny are quotes from two of our finest
sportscasters: former St. Louis Cardinals catcher Tim
McCarver, who believes that "the mind is a great thing as
long as you don't have to use it," and former Oakland Raiders
football coach John Madden, who has often declared, "Don't
worry about the horse being blind; load up the wagon."
   ---
   John Buckley has loaded up the wagon, and the horse is
quite, quite blind. Like "The X Factor," "Statute of
Limitations" (Simon &amp; Schuster, 365 pages, $19.95) deals with
a president of the U.S., but this time it's a man whose
administration is imperiled by revelations that one of his
speechwriters has been bribed by a drug-dealing boyhood
friend into smuggling 44 pounds of cocaine out of Venezuela
and onto Air Force One.
   Mr. Buckley's book obviously was inspired by reefer-toking
Douglas Ginsburg's aborted nomination to the Supreme Court,
and, as such, it has the feel of yesterday's news tomorrow,
today's news yesterday, or last month's news a week from
Thursday. Mr. Buckley, a Washington political consultant who
has become a walking sound bite, tries to fashion a novel out
of wisecracks, using it as a forum to tee off on people or
institutions -- including the Washington Post -- that he does
not like. When you write sentences such as, "Her eyes still
had the Hyperborean mirth of a prankster," you should be very
careful whom you tee off on.
   A man who elevated himself to the spotlight as press
secretary for presidential candidate Jack Kemp while Mr.
Blow-Dry was going down the tubes, Mr. Buckley's political
savvy is in serious doubt: My advance copy of "Statute of
Limitations" includes passages about Presidents Mario Vargas
Llosa of Peru and Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua, suggesting that
the book is past its expiration date. Moreover, the novel is
set in an America ruled by a Democratic president and a
Republican Congress. What year is this, anyway? 2240?
   The book has a desperately hip quality, as the author
endlessly drops the names of rock bands he apparently liked
when he used to work for a New York countercultural
newspaper, the SoHo Weekly News, in the late 1970s. Uh-oh.
When young Republicans who are former press secretaries to
Jack Kemp start raving about the Dead Kennedys, the Sex
Pistols, the Clash, and Richard Hell &amp; the Voidoids, it's
clear that rock 'n' roll has forfeited all claims to being a
subversive art form.
   As to the drugs, I agree with the author that it is wrong
to condemn baby boomers for the indiscretions of their infant
years at college. But I do approve of random testing for
novelists who write sentences such as, "If the air hadn't
been so soft as to reverse engines on even the most
plummeting of manic depressives, he might have been thrown
into a funk." If that won't throw you into a funk, nothing
will.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Heritage
   And Life Care Centers
   Call Off Their Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   NHR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- National Heritage Inc. and Life Care Centers of
America said they decided to call off their planned merger
because of recent reversals concerning National Heritage
assets.
   Under the terms of a deal struck last April, National
Heritage and its 22% owner Southmark Corp. were to contribute
general partnership interests, management contracts,
mortgages and other assets to a new publicly traded entity in
exchange for a 40% equity stake in the concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Life Care Centers, a closely held company based in
Cleveland, Tenn., was to contribute its assets in return for
a 60% stake in the new entity.
   Since then, Southmark has ceded control of its private
limited partnerships to Lpimc Inc. of Southbury, Conn., after
losing a proxy contest. Southmark is disputing an apparent
loss in a second proxy vote. The takeovers not only reduce
the Southmark assets to be contributed to the new company,
but also jeopardize National Heritage management contracts at
the nursing homes owned by the syndicates.
   National Heritage said it is actively seeking management
and lease contracts with unaffiliated nursing home companies.
It is also streamlining its operations by divesting
subsidiaries unrelated to nursing home care. In New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, National Heritage
stock closed at 68.75 cents a share, down 18.75 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Technology Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ITX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORRANCE, Calif. -- International Technology Corp. said it
signed a definitive agreement with U.S. Testing Co. to
acquire for cash the assets of U.S. Testing's analytical
laboratory located in Richland, Wash.
   Terms were not disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition, which is subject to certain conditions,
including the completion of an environmental audit and
survey, is expected to close in mid-August, International
Technology said.
   U.S. Testing, a Hoboken, N.J.-based environmental-testing
concern, is a unit of SGS North America, a subsidiary of SGS
S.A., Geneva, Switzerland.
   The Richland laboratory performs analytical testing of
hazardous nuclear, chemical, and mixed-waste substances.
   International Technology is an environmental management
company providing services to government and industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Congressional Crackdown on S&amp;L Fraud
   Is High on Rhetoric, Low on Effectiveness
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- "Put the S&amp;L crooks in jail]" has become the
election-year battle cry on Capitol Hill.
   But despite the ubiquitous slogan -- on banners draped at
hearings and on buttons pinned to blazer lapels -- lawmakers
are pushing criminal statutes that won't have much effect on
anyone associated with the savings-and-loan debacle of the
1980s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Life prison terms for "S&amp;L kingpins," stiff new mandatory
minimum sentences for other "S&amp;L violators," new criminal
statutes for obstructing government regulators -- these are
just a few elements of what's being presented as a punitive
panacea on Capitol Hill.
   "Whether bank robbers steal their loot with a pistol or
with a pencil, they should serve hard time," declares Senate
Judiciary Chairman Joseph Biden (D., Del.).
   What Sen. Biden and other lawmakers fail to stress in
their get-tough admonitions is that the proposed new criminal
offenses and penalties wouldn't apply retroactively. That
means that any criminal acts committed before President Bush
signs new S&amp;L enforcement provisions -- which he would do at
the earliest this fall -- wouldn't be covered by the new
laws.
   "It is misleading to justify new criminal penalties on the
notion that they will be used to punish the people who
allegedly caused these losses," says John Villa, a Washington
lawyer. "New criminal statutes and increased penalties do not
apply retroactively to past conduct" under the constitutional
prohibition of "ex post facto" laws.
   Lawmakers are creating "a smokescreen to shift the
culpability for the S&amp;L mess from the Congress and onto a few
unscrupulous businessmen," says Sen. William Armstrong (R.,
Colo.), the lone dissenter in the Senate's 99-1 vote on the
thrift enforcement measures. "The fact is the S&amp;L mess . . .
was not primarily the result of wrongdoing of a few thrift
executives, but of a collapse of a thrift system established
by and overseen by the Congress."
   Robert Davis, a senior Justice Department official in the
Reagan administration who now practices privately in Dallas,
says Attorney General Dick Thornburgh also deserves blame for
orchestrating news conferences announcing S&amp;L indictments --
an effort to counter Democratic charges of lax S&amp;L
prosecution. "He's distorting things; criminality had to do
with only 5% of the losses," says the lawyer, citing an
estimate used by some private consultants. Mr. Thornburgh
puts the figure at 30%, while civil regulators say it's 50%
or 60%.
   In contrast to the criminal counterparts,
civil-enforcement measures moving through Congress could have
a Draconian impact. Such provisions as those expanding
prosecutors' ability to freeze and forfeit personal assets of
officers and directors of failed thrifts "could destroy
someone who made bad {but not criminal} business decisions,"
says David Baris, executive director of a Washington trade
association that represents bank and thrift directors.
   To be sure, proposed funding authorizations for the hiring
of hundreds of federal agents and prosecutors would enable
the Justice Department to chip away at mountainous backlogs
of financial fraud cases. And certainly, were there ever a
repeat of the S&amp;L blow-out, lawmakers would be lambasted if
they hadn't increased criminal penalties.
   But given the likely future state of the thrift industry
-- greatly consolidated and more rigorously regulated -- the
bulk of the proposed criminal legislation appears to be more
backward-looking rhetoric than substantive cure or deterrent.
   Some provisions approved by the House Judiciary Committee
-- such as a ban on obstructing regulators -- create
redundant criminal statutes for acts already prosecutable
under existing fraud law.
   Other measures are entirely bureaucratic in nature. Both
the House and Senate legislation would establish a Financial
Institutions Fraud Unit within the Justice Department to
coordinate S&amp;L fraud prosecutions. The department created
such a unit on its own months ago.
   Prosecutors are happy about proposals to strengthen
procedural weapons in financial fraud cases, such as the push
to expand the applicability of the federal anti-racketeering
law to bank and thrift fraud.
   But some of the new legal weapons aren't well suited to
these crimes. At the Justice Department's behest, lawmakers
in the House and Senate have proposed to expand wire-tap
authority to investigate thrift crime. But prosecutors and
agents privately admit that such surveillance is rarely, if
ever, possible in cases that typically involve recreating
intricate paper trails long after suspicious transactions
have occurred.
   The Justice Department vehemently opposes a House proposal
to create a bi-partisan national commission to investigate
the causes of the S&amp;L crisis and propose solutions. "Such a
commission would not . . . make any meaningful contribution,"
but would result in considerable second-guessing of
enforcement efforts, charges James Richmond, the department's
recently named special counsel for financial fraud.
   Rep. Charles Schumer (D., N.Y.), prime sponsor of the
House legislation, defends the commission as a cornerstone of
restoring the thrift industry and preventing future crises.
The panel, he says, will enable all involved "to move forward
to solve rather than snipe."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Roger Smith Reflects on Role at GM
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GME GMH
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Roger B. Smith retires today after leading General Motors
Corp. for nearly a decade -- certainly the period of greatest
change in the company's modern history.
   Mr. Smith completely reorganized GM in 1984, shelled out
billions of dollars to modernize factories and spent billions
more on high-tech and defense acquisitions. He started a
joint venture to build cars with Toyota Motor Corp. and
created Saturn Corp., a separate subsidiary, to develop new
ways of making and selling cars. To his backers, all this
indicates Mr. Smith's vision, and it has made him the most
visible GM chairman since the legendary Alfred P. Sloan Jr.,
who ran the company between 1937 and 1956.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Smith, who became chairman on Jan. 1, 1981, has
also been GM's most controversial chairman ever. He clashed
with dissident director H. Ross Perot and became the subject
of three critical books and a scathing movie.
   Mr. Smith's detractors say his vision was no substitute
for focusing on the basics of the car business: building
exciting, high-quality vehicles and making customers happy.
GM lost nearly 10 points of U.S. market share during Mr.
Smith's tenure, mainly because of look-alike cars and poor
quality in the mid-1980s. The share loss saddled GM with so
much extra plant capacity that its huge North American auto
business barely breaks even.
   Mr. Smith spent 41 years at GM. His official duties took
him around the world. But he never found the time, he says,
to visit the Tower of London or stroll through the Louvre.
Mr. Smith recently discussed his record with Paul Ingrassia
and Joseph B. White of the Journal's Detroit staff. Here are
excerpts from the interview:
                                                                                                       

   Q: If you gave yourself a letter grade for your
performance as chairman, what would it be?
   A: I don't know that there's any single grade. We went
from a $763 million loss {in 1980} to making more money than
anyone in the world except Royal Dutch Shell. That probably
isn't too bad. A lot of the grades have to be incomplete.
What kind of grade do you give Saturn? On mergers and
acquisitions, you've almost got to have an A-plus there, when
you look at $2.5 billion for EDS {Electronic Data Systems
Corp.} that's now worth $10 billion. Preparedness for the
21st century should get a pretty good grade. . . . Overseas
{performance} should get a good grade.
   Market share, obviously, we're not happy with that. I had
a guy {who} wrote me a letter the other day. He said, "If you
ask Jack Nicklaus the best round of golf he ever had on the
easiest golf course, and he told you it was 60, but yesterday
he shot an 82 on St. Andrews, would you say he lost 22
strokes off his game?" The market share we had in the late
'70s and 1980s was on a course that was a lot easier to shoot
than the one we're on today.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What's your proudest accomplishment?
   A: Getting the corporation ready for the 21st century is
what I feel the best about. I'm convinced the automobile
industry has yet to catch up with Hughes technology. {GM
bought Hughes Aircraft Co. for about $5 billion in 1985.} And
when the auto industry catches up, you'll see us kick in the
afterburners.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What's your biggest disappointment?
   A: The thing we didn't do right was the communication on
the restructuring. {The move in 1984 eliminated two huge GM
operations -- Fisher Body and the Assembly Division -- and
reorganized GM's car divisions under two umbrella groups.} We
got a little misled, overconfident, that this thing was going
to go down better than it did.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What, in hindsight, could you have done to avoid the
drop in market share? Why didn't GM act sooner to fix the
look-alike car problem and the quality problems that hurt
market share?
   A: To get the look-alike thing {fixed}, you can't come
with paper and paste. You have to come with new models. We
did get locked into basic body designs. If you and I, with
all the resources in the world, said, "Hey, we want a new
body so they don't look alike and have higher quality," it
takes three to five years. And in those days it took even
longer. We had to re-equip our plants. We took the long-term
approach not to go in there with Band-Aids.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Did you suspect from the start that the relationship
with Mr. Perot wouldn't work out? {GM bought EDS in 1984. Mr.
Perot left the company he founded and GM's board in 1986 as
part of a $700 million buy-out.}
   A: The board discussed that. One director said in his own
company, with something like 20 acquisitions, he'd only saved
one CEO. We thought we could do it. A lot of people did a lot
of surface reporting {on the Perot controversy}. That stock
was $33; now it's $140 {adjusted for splits}. That's not too
bad.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Early in your tenure, the company focused on
technology. Recently, there's been more emphasis on people.
Does that reflect an evolution in your own thinking?
   A: People said you guys made a horrible mistake, you
overshot on technology. That's not a mistake, that's a
deliberate thing. If you keep pulling string out of the box
and stop, you never know how much string is in the box,
right? We've taken technology out of some places that we put
it in. But I would tell you if we hadn't put it in, we'd
never know we should take it out.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What's the strategic importance of Saturn?
   A: We wanted to find out if we could build a car of that
size and that quality in this country at a competitive cost
and sell it at a profit. No U.S. manufacturing company has
done that yet. Using our regular designs, our regular
production techniques, you can't do that. So we said: "Have a
go at it on a clean sheet." You've got to see Saturn when
it's running. That plant is so different from our normal
plants.
                                                                                                       

   Q: You've been the subject of books, of a movie, and a lot
of critical news coverage. How did that affect you
personally, and how did you deal with it?
   A: Fair criticism I never minded. It's difficult when you
read in a book that you foam at the mouth and throw paper on
the floor. The only time I foam at the mouth is when I brush
my teeth. I've never thrown a paper on the floor in my life.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Do you put the criticism out of your mind?
   A: You like to say that you do that. I don't know that
that's true. {What} almost bothers me as much is what I call
surface reporting. If someone had looked just one more little
bit into GM's actions to try and understand the long-range
consequences of what we were doing, then people would have
gotten a better story.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Why did you decide to make higher pensions retroactive
to executives like yourself, who are retiring now, if the
stated goal was to attract and retain management talent?
   A: They weren't retroactive. It was over a year ago, last
June or July, that the incentive compensation committee {of
GM's board}, who'd been tracking compensation programs, told
management our pensions were pretty bad. By October 1989, the
board acted to make the change {subject to shareholder
approval}. They made it effective the end of that month.
Seventy-nine percent of companies had better pensions than we
did. Even today, 61% of companies have better pensions.
                                                                                                       

   Q: How do you think you'll be regarded by history?
   A: I'm more concerned about what I've been able to do for
the corporation and the stockholders. I was never out to make
my mark in history. I wanted to do it for the company.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What does U.S. industry overall, not just the auto
industry, need to do to become more competitive?
   A: Manufacturing technology is really undergoing
tremendous change. . . . The whole approach to design for
manufacturability is undergoing a big revolution. . . .
You've got to take out levels of management. You've got to
get decision-making pushed down in the organization to where
the action is.

   Q: The Japanese got 28% of the car market during the first
half of the year, which was a record. Is it going to go
higher?
   A: One thing that's happening is U.S. quality is coming
up. I'm certainly never going to tell you we're going to
drive the Japanese from the shores. Customers get more from
the competition, and in being competitive everybody has to do
better. I like it.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Japanese companies have built eight plants here. Why
don't you go over and build one in Japan?
   A: You can't do that. We have a piece of Isuzu and a piece
of Suzuki. But that really is a closed market over there. . .
. When they came out of World War II, they closed that market
up tighter than a drum. It's only in recent days that you see
any opening.
                                                                                                       

   Q: You think the Japanese don't play fair?
   A: They've got an enviable position. They're able to get
along in world trade without giving people access to their
home markets.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Their answer is that BMW is doing fine in Japan. {BMW
is the leading import luxury make and sold 33,076 cars in
1989, giving it a market share of 0.8%.}
   A: What's doing fine? In a market of that size, I call 38%
doing fine, or 28%.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What are your retirement plans?
   A: I don't believe I'm the type of person who can slam on
the brakes and run for the rocking chair. I want to do a lot
of things I owe my wife and family, and then I want to do
some real estate development. I want to do something, be
active, then complete it and then not have to start another
one for two to three months if I don't want to.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What will you do for play?
   A: Hunting, fishing, traveling. You'd be surprised, with
all the places I've been, how few things I've really seen
that people go to see. {There are} lots of things in this
country I haven't seen. Lots of great rivers I haven't
fished. . . . I wish I were 20 years younger, in some
respects. There are so many terrific things happening. {But}
it wouldn't be to spend 20 more years as chairman, I'll tell
you that. If I were 20 years younger, I'd want to start down
the ladder.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   GE's Culture Turns Sour at French Unit
   ---
   Woes at CGR Show How Big, Mature
   Firms Can Stumble Abroad
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson and E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   GE EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- After General Electric Co. took over the troubled
French medical-equipment maker Cie. Generale de Radiologie in
1988, the U.S. company decided to boost the morale of its new
French employees.
   GE called a training seminar for French and other European
managers. In their hotel rooms, the company left colorful
T-shirts emblazoned with the GE slogan "Go for One." A note
urged the managers to wear the T-shirts "to show that you are
members of the team."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The French wore them, grudgingly, to the seminar, but, as
one of the French managers recalls: "It was like Hitler was
back, forcing us to wear uniforms. It was humiliating."
   GE insists it wasn't trying to force anyone to wear the
shirts. "It's just one of those things that Americans
sometimes do at meetings," says a spokeswoman.
   That gaffe was the opening round in a bitter and prolonged
cultural clash at GE-CGR. The French company, formerly a
sedate state-owned concern that had been run much like a
government ministry, found itself in the hands of brash,
all-American, profit-hungry GE.
   After two years of restructuring, massive layoffs and a
continuing flight of French managers and engineers -- the
work force has shrunk to about 5,000 from 6,500 -- GE-CGR is
still posting losses. It has shuttered about half of its
dozen plants in Europe, and more closings are planned. Worse,
instead of its projected $25 million profit last year, GE-CGR
had a $25 million loss and expects to lose nearly as much
this year, say individuals close to the company. The chief
executive officer GE brought in two years ago has just been
replaced by Steve Riedel, from its medical-equipment
headquarters in Milwaukee; his job is to halt the hemorrhage.
   GE's troubles show that even a big, mature company
renowned for its management skills can stumble when entering
a starkly different business environment. Some analysts
wonder if GE can avoid the management faux pas it made at
GE-CGR at its other new European subsidiaries, such as the
recently acquired Hungarian light-bulb maker Tungsram.
   "Integrating cultures is one of the major challenges of
business today; it's an acute problem," says Martin
Waldenstrom, president of Booz-Allen Acquisition Services in
Paris. "It's humiliating enough for a company to be acquired.
If you add to that a very different style of management,
chances are that both sides are going to have problems."
   At CGR, employees accustomed to government subsidies and
guaranteed purchases by state-owned hospitals have been
shocked by GE's corporate style. A maker of X-ray machines,
CAT scanners and other large diagnostic machines for
hospitals, CGR had little competitive-market experience
either at home or abroad. And GE has had trouble teaching it.
   For example, soon after the takeover, GE set out to fix
CGR's financial-control system. U.S. computer specialists are
said to have imposed a GE system that was unsuited to French
financial-reporting requirements or to the way CGR kept
records, and the company spent months seeking a workable
compromise. Paulo Fresco, GE's senior vice president for
international operations, says such events taught a lesson
for managing a foreign acquisition: "Don't scrap the old
system before the new one is running."
   GE managers made the painful restructuring even worse by
plastering English-language posters everywhere, flying GE
flags and otherwise making GE's culture ubiquitous. "They
came in here bragging, `We are GE, we're the best and we've
got the methods,'" says a CGR union leader. "The more they
said, the worse it got."
   GE's culture is an extension of the strong personality of
its combative chairman, John F. Welch Jr. He preaches a
philosophy of self-reliance, hard work and big profits -- a
sort of evangelical capitalism. At company meetings in Paris,
gung-ho American staffers would chant his credo -- "speed,
simplicity and self-confidence" -- to skeptical French
managers.
   GE's goal in acquiring CGR was to make France the center
of its European medical-equipment business, and it insists
those plans haven't changed.
   "I think there is trauma in every acquisition," says
Vincenzo Morelli, the 35-year-old GE whiz kid who was sent to
run CGR after the takeover and who has just been transferred
to London. "Company cultures are always different."
   An Italian who became a solid convert to GE's philosophy,
Mr. Morelli calls the purchase "a brilliant strategic move."
GE took control in a complicated swap with state-controlled
electronics giant Thomson S.A. It got CGR and $800 million in
cash from Thomson in return for its RCA consumer-electronics
division.
   Mr. Morelli says the purchase already has given GE a
strong European presence. The company won't give figures for
Europe, but says its world-wide medical business is
profitable. Orders for the first half at GE-CGR were up 18%
over last year's period, GE says, and sales rose 10%. It
expects CGR to turn a profit in 1991.
   But Mr. Morelli and other GE executives acknowledge that
the company did underestimate the cultural problems it would
encounter. "We've tried to avoid the impression of imposing a
victorious culture on a vanquished culture," says Mr. Fresco.
"But nobody has discovered the perfect formula for cultural
integration."
   French employees say they knew CGR was uncompetitive even
before GE appeared. They expected layoffs and restructuring,
but say they haven't yet seen the organization and leadership
they expected from GE.
   "The impression you get is that they are going to make a
(serious) effort for a year or two, and if it doesn't work GE
will just pull out of most manufacturing here," says Michel
Houeix, who heads GE-CGR's biggest union. GE insists it is
committed to making the CGR operation a success.
   In the short term, GE faces possible further defections by
key white-collar staffers, some of whom fear it is slowly
closing CGR as a center of product development and
production. The original plan, which many French employees
accepted, was to make CGR part of the broader GE
medical-equipment network. CGR would stop producing some of
its most advanced items, such as scanners and
magnetic-resonance imagers, but would become a world leader
for sophisticated ultrasound machines and devices for
detecting breast cancer.
   But GE says it found some CGR products were uncompetitive
technologically and much more expensive than GE's competing
products being produced in Japan. So GE moved its ultrasound
production and development to Japan, entailing
production-line closures and layoffs.
   Thus, morale is low. Some of the best people are leaving,
union leaders say, and turmoil at CGR makes it hard to
recruit replacements. Today, only five of the 12 vice
presidents are French. Most key business functions --
finance, marketing and personnel -- are run by Americans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Diagnostek Unit Acquires Epic
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   DXTK EPIC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -- Diagnostek Inc. said its Saga
Acquisition Corp. unit acquired Epic Health Group in a tender
offer valued at $13.5 million.
   Saga purchased 10.5 million, or 96%, of Epic's common
shares and 200,000, or 100%, of Epic's Series A convertible
preferred shares. Both Diagnostek and Epic are mail-order
providers of prescription drugs. Diagnostek also manages
pharmacies for health care institutions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   MONTEDISON S.p.A., a proposed holding company that would
control the agro-industrial and chemical interests of Italy's
Ferruzzi Finanziaria S.p.A., will have annual sales of about
35 trillion lire ($29.60 billion). The dollar equivalent was
misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (See: "International: Ferruzzi Units Will Merge Into New
Holding Concern" -- WSJ July 30, 1980)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Art: Modified Hangouts for Tate, Courtauld Galleries
   ----
   By Isabel Fonseca
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   London -- Henry Tate, the Victorian collector for whom
London's Thameside museum of British and 20th-century art is
named, made a mint in sugar cubes. It was perhaps in homage
to him that for as long as anyone could remember, the rooms
in which his collection was housed had the compressed and
boxy atmosphere of his invention. But earlier this year, in a
major renovation and rehang of the Tate Gallery, all
partitions and false ceilings were banished to reveal a
splendid and airy structure. And the Tate's director,
Nicholas Serota, has replaced the famously incomprehensible
patchwork that was the old installation with a chronological
hang that allows viewers to see the sweep of British art, and
its development within the context of European and American
art, in a beautifully simple loop around the building.
   Before, the collection of "Historic British" works, which
begins with a signed 1545 portrait of a man "made by John
Bettes, Englishman," was an island of dutiful pilgrimage off
the mainland of "International Modern," which occupied the
rest of the gallery. The British contribution to the latter
was consigned to marginal galleries, giving the (arguably
correct) impression that modern art was foreign art. With
chronology rather than the provenance of school or nation
dictating the contiguity between rooms, we now see Stanley
Spencer next to Mondrian, Paul Nash alongside dada and
surrealism and David Bomberg flanked by Italian futurists on
one side and Pierre Bonnard on the other.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though Britain does not often benefit from such
comparisons, it is fascinating to see how radically different
these simultaneous achievements were, and elsewhere to
discover cross-fertilizations that were lost when one had to
crisscross the museum between chicken and egg.
   Just as sugar cubes must have been controversial when Mr.
Tate introduced them, these accessible and streamlined
galleries, which will seem merely serene to future
generations, are the result of some radical thinking. There
is no pop art on display (which means that the gallery's most
visited painting, David Hockney's "Portrait of Mr. and Mrs.
Ossie Clark With Percy," is in storage). There is no St. Ives
painting, nor any by the Camden Town or Euston Road groups.
If this suggests that English art -- which it is one of the
galleries principal jobs to represent -- is getting
shortchanged, the opposite is true.
   Bloomsbury and vorticism, which previously appeared only
as a local variant of cubism, now get a room of their own.
But the radical thinking lies not in the burying of Andy
Warhol; it rests in Mr. Serota's policy of giving us a break
once in a while, every nine months to be precise. As the
museum becomes more like a gallery, with "new" exhibitions
culled from its own collection, favorites will return with
freshness in new configurations. Mr. Serota clearly believes
that the gallery's job is not just to preserve and make
available the nation's treasure, but to instruct and to
surprise.
   The first exhibition in the new Tate, "On Classic Ground:
Picasso, Leger, de Chirico and the New Classicism 1910-1930"
(until Sept. 2), also has re-education as an aim. So you
thought classicism had to do with the glories of Greece and
the grandeur of Rome? With some idea that beauty lies in the
harmonious proportion of the parts of the body and not in the
irregularities that make them so fetching? To be sure,
wavy-haired maidens in lace-up sandals and drapery abound in
this show, but they are the earthbound, thick-limbed peasant
girls of Catalonia and Provence. Greco-Roman sculpture does
appear in the background of canvases by de Chirico, Matisse,
Braque, Severini, Mario Sironi and Ubaldo Oppi; but
classicism in these rooms might as easily signify a debt,
both in imagery and in approach, to secondary sources -- to
Poussin, Ingres, Corot and, above all, to Cezanne.
   Unlike the academicians, with their slavishly copied and
therefore kitsch appurtenances of antiquity, the exhibited
artists have preferred to honor the values of classicism.
Guillaume Apollinaire's assessment of Andre Derain could
apply to the others on display, who "owed so much to the
ancients yet {whose} work bears not a trace of archaism."
   Picasso, as usual, emerges as the most robust
practitioner. In his paintings of monolithic women, perhaps
with a child or an overflowing amphora, the "return to
order," in Jean Cocteau's catch phrase of the period, clearly
involved an adherence to classical notions of harmony, the
harmony in composition, in nature, in mythological images,
but these concerns are always subordinate to the most urgent
claims of a purely plastic art.
   Owing as much to the golden life as to the golden section,
the notion of classicism celebrated in this show is
identified by the curators, Elizabeth Cowling and Jennifer
Mundy, as uniquely Mediterranean. There, they argue, "the
classical tradition was the native tradition -- the heritage
and source by natural right." So we get the rare chance to
see the Spaniards -- not just Picasso, Juan Gris and Dali but
some weird naive early landscapes by Miro, paintings by the
sculptor Julio Gonzalez, and works by Joaquim Sunyer, Jose
Clara, Manolo and Josep de Togores, among others. But there
are serious omissions, such as the influential painter and
theorist Joaquin Torres Garcia, who was then concerned with
neo-classicism and a central figure in Barcelona. And,
particularly as the catalog points to Nietzsche as a crucial
figure in the debate over classicism, the exclusion of the
Germans would seem to need a better explanation than the fact
that they didn't live enough in the sun. Although nefarious
uses of classicism are ostensibly kept out of this
exhibition, there is something ominous in the early works of
a few of the Italians, notably of Sironi, who was becoming an
exemplary fascist; for the rest we part with them in 1930, in
their olive groves with their ripe fruit and riper women,
feeling, as we leave, the chill of the impending expulsion
from Arcadia later in the decade.
   It will seem churlish to leap from that expulsion to a
discussion of the recent removal of the Courtauld Institute
to its luxurious new home in Somerset House. But anyone who
remembers the old, desperately inadequate fifth-floor
galleries in Woburn Square may nevertheless now wish to
breathe a nostalgic sigh. The galleries were so well hidden,
and opening hours so inconvenient, that you often would find
yourself alone in this wonderful collection, which includes
such masterpieces as Manet's "Le Dejeuner sur L'Herbe,"
Cezanne's "Card Players," Van Gogh's "Self-Portrait With a
Bandaged Ear," and Cranach's "Adam and Eve." The move to
Somerset House, a massive Georgian government building with a
Palladian facade (the $15 million refurbishment of which cost
10 times that of the Tate), means that nearly all of the
collection, including Goyas and Botticellis that have been in
storage will be on display together for the first time. The
Adamesque interiors -- turquoise walls foaming with
decorative patches of white wedding-cake plasterwork --
certainly are impressive. In a lesser collection they would
be welcomed in the category of added interest. But, with what
the Courtauld's got, they are distracting. One longs to see
masterpieces, well-lit and in plenty of space, on a
background of cool cream.
   It may be that the re-education has been successful: Our
way of looking at art has been so changed by places as
serious and serene as the Tate that the chaotic rococco of
the Courtauld can now seem to trivialize great works; it may
be a simple longing to see them. In the resolutely old-world
environment of even the new Courtauld, pictures compete with
carpets, furniture and ornate window frames; they are still
stuck up high over doorways and between flimsy temporary
dividers with "interesting" displays of the wonders revealed
by infrared reflectographs; many are behind reflecting glass;
and none of the money seems to have been spent on what was
most urgently needed: good lighting. Still, we must resist
defeat by imperfect viewing conditions -- whether the
interference comes from curatorial terminology or from
upholstery -- for all we can ever do is look, squint and try
to see.
   ---
   Ms. Fonseca is a writer based in London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Japan's Masterpieces
   Never Leave Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   In discussing the Japanese preference for van Gogh (page
one, June 11), you showed just how little you know about
culture in Japan. For most of this century, Japan
scrupulously has maintained laws forbidding the export of
important artworks. It is ludicrous to compare van Gogh's
"Portrait of Dr. Gachet," one of his finest works, with the
17th-century screens, produced in one of Kyoto's anonymous
commercial art studios for tourists, that recently sold at
Christie's for $1.76 million. A Japanese painting even half
the stature of van Gogh's would not be permitted to leave the
country. Works of high quality in Japan can be sold only to
Japanese or to foreigners willing to store their collections
in Japan and fly over to visit them on occasion. In practice,
few Western buyers would recognize a Japanese masterpiece
even if it did come on the auction block in New York.
   Since the great works don't leave Japan, the international
auction market for them is virtually nonexistent. At the van
Gogh level, Japanese art is sold in extremely discreet,
entirely private transactions. In 1984, at the same time that
Mantegna's "Adoration of the Magi" set a world auction record
at $10 million, a masterpiece hand scroll quietly changed
hands in Japan for $13 million. Buyers consider it a
privilege to be given an opportunity to buy a great work of
traditional art at any price. They do not want their
photographs splashed across the world media. Ryoei Saito,
despite his spectacular gesture in buying "Dr. Gachet," is
not one of Japan's leading collectors, just as Alan Bond (who
briefly owned "Irises") does not represent the great
collectors of the West.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The truth is that screens like the pair at Christie's
would have sold three years ago for about $200,000.
   Andrew Pekarik
   Executive Director
   Museum of Asian Art
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Health Club Entrepreneur Gets a Workout in Court
   ---
   Barrage of Suits and Countersuits
   Shows the Perils of Partnerships
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Even William Hubner's enemies concede that
he has done well.
   At the age of 20, the entrepreneur started his own
barbell-making company. In the decades since, the 56-year-old
Mr. Hubner has built a multimillion-dollar fitness empire. He
owns several homes, a yacht and a private jet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But along the way, Mr. Hubner bilked business partners and
consumers by draining assets from clubs and then closing
them, some former associates and law enforcement officials
charge in lawsuits.
   Mr. Hubner says allegations of wrongdoing on his part are
"bogus bull." He says dishonest partners have filched his
assets and spread lies about him. And he has filed suit
against some of the people accusing him.
   With one countercharge after another, the warfare offers a
sobering lesson in the pitfalls of partnership for
entrepreneurs. Indeed, the one thing that Mr. Hubner and his
former associates can agree upon is that life for each would
have been much calmer if they had never met.
   The seeds for much of this discontent were planted in
1981, when Mr. Hubner and others bought control of Health
Industries Inc., a money-losing chain of about 140 health
clubs nationwide.
   Critics argue in court documents that Mr. Hubner bought
Health Industries with the idea of draining the clubs of
millions of dollars of assets and eventually closing them. To
insulate himself from angry customers, Mr. Hubner set up
"shell" corporations to own the clubs and offered minority
interests in the clubs to "unwitting" local partners who were
supposed to help operate the facilities, three former Hubner
associates assert in a lawsuit filed in Philadelphia federal
court. When the clubs failed, Mr. Hubner would blame the
minority partners, the suit says.
   James Latham, one of the former associates suing Mr.
Hubner, says he was long entranced by Mr. Hubner. "He can
charm you to death," says Mr. Latham.
   The two eventually became partners in health clubs in
Arizona, which Mr. Latham operated. The clubs were doing well
until one day in June 1983, when Mr. Latham returned to his
office to find that Mr. Hubner had ordered it closed, had
terminated all the employees and ordered some $1.5 million in
cash, accounts receivable and computer equipment taken away,
according to Mr. Latham's lawsuit. Mr. Hubner's actions
"broke the back" of the Arizona operation, says Mr. Latham.
   Aside from the business loss, Mr. Latham says he feels
betrayed. "I would have done anything for this guy," he says.
   Mr. Hubner denies the charges in the Philadelphia suit,
and an attorney for Mr. Hubner says that any transfer of
assets from the Arizona operation had Mr. Latham's permission
and didn't harm the clubs. Mr. Hubner says most of the Health
Industries clubs have been closed, but says that's because
they couldn't be turned around due to aging facilities and
poor locations. He says almost all members were placed in
other nearby clubs.
   One of Mr. Hubner's most tenacious critics is Win Paris.
The two became partners by default when Mr. Hubner bought
Health Industries, which co-owned four Los Angeles area
health clubs with Mr. Paris. In a lawsuit in Los Angeles
county court, Mr. Paris asserts that Mr. Hubner and others
defrauded him of his interest in the clubs and then closed
them.
   The 58-year-old Mr. Paris says that before he met Mr.
Hubner he was a multimillionaire with a six-figure annual
income from his fitness businesses and a fancy home by the
Pacific Ocean. Because of Mr. Hubner, "I was financially
wiped out," says Mr. Paris, who several years ago changed his
name from Irwin to Win because he felt it gave a more
positive image. He says he had to move into a small apartment
with his 82-year-old mother. He says he even contemplated
suicide.
   Instead, he decided to fight and launched what he now
calls the "spa wars" against Mr. Hubner, a battle that has
already consumed half a decade of litigation and
name-calling. Mr. Paris says he has rummaged through trash
bins seeking incriminating documents, and at one point even
assaulted and broke the nose of one of Mr. Hubner's
attorneys.
   Mr. Hubner calls Mr. Paris a "loser" and says his charges
are "scurrilous garbage." He insists he had nothing to do
with Mr. Paris's financial misfortunes. In a suit pending in
Los Angeles County court, Mr. Hubner and others claim that
"false" and "defamatory" statements by Mr. Paris about them
to lenders, employees and customers undermined the business
of the four Los Angeles clubs.
   But law-enforcement officials echo some of the complaints
of Mr. Hubner's former associates. In a 1985 lawsuit filed in
Louisville state court, the Kentucky attorney general
contended that corporations Mr. Hubner controlled "drained"
income and assets from a local spa to the point that it
couldn't pay its utility bills and had to close. At the same
time they were draining the club, Mr. Hubner and his
companies continued selling long-term memberships to the
public, the suit contended.
   Mr. Hubner and his companies recently settled that suit by
paying about $18,000, two-thirds of the damages that had been
sought by the state. The defendants didn't admit any
wrongdoing.
   Still pending is a suit by the Pennsylvania attorney
general against Mr. Hubner, a former partner and several of
their companies. The suit, in a Harrisburg state court,
charges the defendants with "unfair or deceptive acts" in
connection with the marketing of memberships for five health
clubs that eventually were closed.
   In an April letter to Mr. Paris, J. Douglas Austin, the
Pennsylvania deputy attorney general handling the case, said
he had little hope that individual state actions would affect
Mr. Hubner. He said he believed the federal government should
take a look at Mr. Hubner's operations nationwide. But in his
letter and a subsequent interview, Mr. Austin said he didn't
know of any such federal probe under way.
   Mr. Hubner's attorney complained about Mr. Austin's
statements and got a letter of apology from his boss. That
letter said that as a matter of policy the attorney general's
office doesn't "characterize any person's conduct" outside of
appropriate legal proceedings.
   Mr. Austin was "duped" by talking too much with Mr. Paris,
asserts Mr. Hubner. Mr. Austin says he stands by his
statements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Evil in Afghanistan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The war in Afghanistan supposedly ended with the peace
accords guaranteed by the U.S. and Soviet Union in 1988. Two
years after the Soviet occupation troops rolled home, the war
goes on. The Soviet puppet ruler Najib still holds sway in
Kabul, the mujahedeen rebels still are fighting Najib, some
of the rebels are fighting each other and Afghan watchers
warn of another Lebanon. Shaping a genuine peace remains one
of the messier tasks facing Secretary of State Baker, who
will tackle the project again later this week in talks with
Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze.
   The two sides are haggling over the terms of a complex
post-peace-accords peace settlement. The U.S. wants Najib to
step down, opening the way for internationally supervised,
fair elections. This would give the rebels at least a chance
of sorting out their factional disputes without gunfire. The
Soviets have a fair idea who might win an election, so insist
that Najib preside over an "election."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What's at stake here goes beyond the borders of
Afghanistan. It's common wisdom by now that smoothing out
wrinkles such as Afganistan's war is just one of those odd
jobs left over from the Evil Empire days. The assumption, as
Mr. Baker and President Bush negotiate new arms treaties and
consider Soviet requests for aid, is that the Soviet Union
has pretty much abandoned its adventures abroad.
   But in Asia, where no Communist government has fallen yet,
the old Empire's dark side remains on show. There, the
Soviets, for all their talk of peace, have done little more
than put their adventures on hold. There has been no
reduction in the force of their Pacific fleet, the biggest of
their four fleets. The Soviets continue to supply the
Vietnamese army, which still keeps troops in Laos and
Cambodia.
   Though the Soviet army finally was beaten back in 1988 by
the Afghan resistance, the Soviet Union still supplies
Najib's regime with military aid variously estimated at $3 to
$5 billion a year. This is more than 10 times what the U.S.
supplies to the guerrillas, and more than five times what the
guerrillas get from all sources, including Saudi Arabia and
America.
   Soviet aid since the vaunted 1988 troop pullout has
included such hardware as hundreds of tanks, armored
personnel carriers and SCUD surface-to-surface missiles.
According to the U.S. special envoy to the Afghan resistance,
Peter Tomsen, as of April, "Over 1,700 SCUDs have been
supplied since the Soviet pullout; more than 1,400 have been
fired." The Soviet-backed Afghan secret police, or KHAD,
estimated at some 20,000 strong, also protects the regime.
   It is preposterous for the Soviet Union to be pouring
billions of dollars of military supplies into Afghanistan
while pleading with the West for aid. No one should forget
that it is the Soviet-backed government in Kabul that caused
the deaths of one million Afghans and drove another five
million into refugee camps these past 11 years.
   Before Mr. Baker resumes haggling with a Soviet government
that still does not play fair in Afghanistan, there should be
one clear condition. The Soviets must cut their aid to
Najib's Communist regime. Only then will there be a chance of
peace. If the Soviets refuse, the conclusion must be that in
Asia at least the Evil Empire still bides its moment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   The Blue Pencil Ax
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Gov. George Deukmejian and a sufficiency of legislators
have agreed to hit up Californians for $800 million in
miscellany taxes and fees and to install a Gramm-Rudman type
spending fix. This is not exactly a precedent for any budget
deal in Washington. The governor can make this deal stick by
line-item vetoing $400 million from the budget, but President
Bush still has no blue pencil in his kit bag.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   For Stock Funds, the Glow Starts to Fade
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The rush into stock mutual funds is petering out. Stock
funds took in $1.7 billion more than investors withdrew in
June, a much smaller inflow than May's $4.4 billion. And fund
industry executives say that sales are continuing to slide.
   "Business has slowed a little bit," says Robert Leo,
Shearson Lehman Hutton's director of mutual funds. "We're not
seeing the level of activity {in stock and bond funds} we saw
earlier in the year."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock fund inflows in June were the most sluggish since
January. Sales easily outpaced redemptions during the month,
but investors switched more money out of stock funds than
they switched in.
   That pattern continued into July. At Fidelity Investments,
stock fund inflows so far this month are down compared with
June. Although new stock fund sales have stayed strong,
current holders have taken profits by switching money out of
stock funds and into Fidelity's other funds. Massachusetts
Financial Services, meanwhile, reports a slight net outflow
from its stock funds this month. Vanguard Group says that
while July's net flow into stock funds is comparable with
June's, current holders have been switching out of stock
funds.
   But few fund executives are complaining. Despite the
recent sales slowdown, 1990 promises to be a banner year for
mutual fund companies. According to the Investment Company
Institute, stock funds have had net inflows of $13.8 billion
so far this year, putting the industry on track for its best
year ever. This figure includes new sales less redemptions,
plus the net result of switches between stock funds and other
funds in the same fund family. Reinvested dividends are
excluded.
   Fund managers turned moderately more bullish in June,
cutting their cash positions to 10.9% of assets from 11.3% in
May. It was the second consecutive month in which fund
managers cut back their cash hoards.
   But the bulls may have pulled in their horns during July,
according to figures from Indata, a service of Gordon,
Haskett &amp; Co. Indata, which keeps tabs on 57 stock mutual
funds with $22 billion in assets, says the cash position at
these funds now stands at 10.3%, up from 10% at the end of
June.
   International funds remain the industry's hottest stock
fund product, pulling in $3.9 billion so far this year.
During July, T. Rowe Price Associates' three international
funds accounted for 57% of stock fund sales at the
Baltimore-based fund group. Oppenheimer Management Co.'s
Global Fund has been the fund group's top seller this month,
accounting for 30% of all sales. Fidelity's new Worldwide
Fund, a global stock fund launched in late May, has already
pulled in $71 million. A global mutual fund can invest both
in the U.S. and internationally.
   Among bond funds, "there's been an international
short-term bond product that has really caught the public's
imagination," says Shearson's Mr. Leo. Since the marketing
success of the $2.4 billion Alliance Short-Term Multi-Market
Fund, which invests in foreign bonds with less than three
years to maturity, other fund groups have been rushing to
bring out similar products. The SLH Short Term World Income
Fund, which was brought out this month, has pulled in $100
million. The Merrill Lynch Short-Term Global Income Fund,
launched in June, has raised $1.3 billion so far.
   In June, high-yielding junk bond funds pulled in $171
million more than they surrendered to departing holders. That
marked the second month in a row of positive net inflows
after 10 months in which junk funds hemorrhaged assets.
   But overall, June was a slower month for bond fund sales.
Despite the upturn in junk, bond funds had net inflows of
just $1 billion, half of May's total. The biggest losers were
government bond funds, which lost $719 million.
   Bond fund sales appear to have recovered in July. Fidelity
reports strong new net inflows, with long-term government
bond funds, municipal bond funds and junk among the biggest
winners. At Vanguard, July's net inflows into taxable funds
are running 40% ahead of June, and sales of municipal funds
are 35% ahead of last month's pace.
   At Franklin Resources, July's gross sales of municipal
bond funds are up 18% from June's pace. Much of the money
went into municipal bond funds holding bonds with maturities
of 20 years or longer.
   Gregory Johnson, a marketing vice president at Franklin,
says investors' interest in long-term munis probably reflects
fears of rising state and federal taxes and the prospect of a
decline in interest rates.
   Acorn Fund, one of the top performing small-company growth
funds, has closed its doors to new investors.
   The $950 million fund said that its assets have been
growing rapidly and that its size was getting "unwieldy" in
relation to its investment objective. Current Acorn Fund
holders still can add to their accounts.
   The fund, managed by Ralph Wanger since 1970, returned
16.7% a year for the decade ended in June, compared with
13.9% for the average small-company growth fund tracked by
Lipper Analytical Services Inc. Acorn Fund joins a
distinguished list of top funds that are closed to new
investors, including Mutual Shares, Sequoia Fund and Windsor
Fund.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Duke Power Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DUK
</CO>
<LP>
   DUKE POWER Corp. (Charlotte, N.C.) -- Two new directors
were named, bringing the total to 20. They are: William
Coley, senior vice president, customer operations, and
Richard Priory, senior vice president, generation and
information services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Jesse and Pat Bill
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   To your average Congressperson, a vote to choke off shoe,
textile and clothing imports seems like a nice opportunity to
make everybody happy. Members can stand up to crafty
foreigners and collect brownie points -- and maybe a little
PAC money -- from trade unions and the textile lobby. Then
the President will veto the bill and the world trading system
can chug on unharmed.
   That's what happened with the 1985 and 1988 textile bills.
But the 1990 bill, which passed the Senate last week and
probably will come before the House this week, is not just
innocent grandstanding. The real aim of its backers is to
wreck the current Uruguay round of free-trade talks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Important Republicans -- Senate leader Bob Dole for one --
are joining the protectionist camp. And other Senators,
ranging from Jesse Helms to Pat Moynihan, are quite willing
to forsake their usual principles to add their votes and
voices.
   Even without the 1990 textile bill, the textile industry
is by far the most protected in the country. Under the terms
of the Multifiber Agreement, the U.S. has signed 38 bilateral
"agreements" imposing quotas on the textile and clothing
exports of Japan and 37 other countries. (European countries
and the U.S. refrain from imposing such restrictions on each
other under what trade lawyers call "the white man's rule.")
   Those imports that the U.S. does accept are then smacked
with tariffs of nearly 20%, four times the average U.S. rate.
The Federal Trade Commission calculates that the restrictions
cost the American consumer an extra 58% on every towel,
shirt, dress and pair of underwear, which adds up to a total
yearly bill between $7.5 billion and $11.5 billion (in 1984
dollars).
   That's not enough for the textile lobby. The bill the
Senate enacted last week rips up those 38 quota agreements
and imposes a single import quota on the whole world -- a
quota that is permitted to grow by no more than 1% per year.
In effect, the U.S. textile and clothing industries are
guaranteed their present market share of about 65% forever.
   Whatever the average Senator thought he was doing, the
principal backers of this legislation were signaling the
administration: Don't bother bringing home a treaty from
Uruguay if it includes free trade in textiles. And they were
signaling the rest of the world: Don't bother making
concessions to U.S. trade negotiators on intellectual
property, high technology and agriculture in exchange for
U.S. concessions on textiles, because the administration's
promises won't be honored by the Senate.
   President Bush, who bravely defended free trade in the
1988 primary in textile-producing South Carolina, is almost
certain to veto the bill, and his veto probably will be
sustained. But the message would be sent nonetheless. Both
the administration and foreigners will notice that the number
of free-trade Senators is steadily eroding: 39 voted against
the 1985 textile bill, 36 against the 1988 bill and just 32
against this year's version.
   This is a shameful situation, and no two Senators should
be more ashamed of it, or their part in it, than the
arch-conservative Mr. Helms and the arch-liberal Mr.
Moynihan. Plenty of other Senators agree that Americans
should be forced to pay half again as much for their socks as
they need to, but no two other Senators have had to stray
quite so far from their principles.
   It's certainly strange to see Mr. Helms -- who opposes
quotas so fiercely when they are enacted in, say, a
civil-rights bill -- lobby for them so passionately in a
trade bill. In other contexts, Mr. Helms is one of the
Senate's staunchest advocates of competition and
self-reliance. Yet for the textile industry of North Carolina
he demands that competitors be excluded from the market and
that the 30 years of special government favors to the
industry be continued indefinitely.
   It's even stranger to see Mr. Moynihan, supposedly a
friend of the poor, voting for more textile protectionism,
which hits the poor hardest. He's even more outspoken about
his commitment to the international rule of law, but his vote
for the textile bill was a vote to tear up 38 U.S. government
foreign agreements without so much as an "excuse me." Mr.
Moynihan finds an affront to international law in unilateral
American action to liberate small Caribbean countries; but
unilateral American action to devastate the economies of
countries like Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Thailand apparently
is perfectly OK.
   Uruguay offers the hope that international trade can move
toward greater competitiveness and legality. That's an
aspiration that both Sen. Moynihan and Sen. Helms, who claim
to be politicians of conviction, say they support. They --
and their colleagues -- should cease sabotaging it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Panel
   To Propose New
   Weapons Rules
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Armed Services Committee is
expected to propose ground rules today aimed at continuing
development but delaying production of several major weapons,
including the next generation of Air Force fighters and Army
helicopters.
   The committee, in a major departure from traditional
weapons-buying plans, is leaning strongly toward shelving
production of the so-called Advanced Tactical Fighter and LH
attack helicopter until prototype aircraft are thoroughly
tested, according to lawmakers and congressional staff
members. The programs carry a combined price tag of nearly
$85 billion, and they are inviting targets for deep cuts
because neither has begun production.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, proponents of the B-2 Stealth bomber, built by
Los Angeles-based Northrop Corp., have given up the struggle
to try to buy two more of the embattled planes next year.
Instead of fighting for the nearly $2.5 billion of B-2
production funds requested by the Bush administration, House
supporters are now resigned to trying to retain a symbolic
$200 million in long-lead production money to avoid layoffs
and keep subcontractors in place.
   But Rep. Ike Skelton (D., Mo.), one of the radar-evading
plane's leading supporters, yesterday failed to convince a
subcommittee to authorize the $200 million during a
closed-door session. His amendment, Rep. Skelton said, "means
{the B-2} would, at least, stay alive." But it isn't clear
whether he and his supporters will push for a vote in the
committee, which is strongly opposed to buying more planes.
Supporters of the B-2, however, are betting that the Senate
will salvage the bomber.
   Blaming much of the B-2's political troubles on months of
lukewarm White House support, Rep. Skelton acknowledged that
the House is almost certain to eliminate all 1991 production
funds for the bomber. The Senate version of the bill,
however, contains nearly $2 billion for B-2 production. And
both measures include money to complete research and testing.
   Under the broad new procurement guidelines, spearheaded by
Chairman Les Aspin (D., Wis.), the Pentagon would have to
demonstrate the effectiveness of sophisticated avionics,
engines, computers and related equipment before committing to
even low-rate production of proposed aircraft. The goal is to
help the military and industry avoid making multibillion
dollar investments in tooling and other expensive overhead
before weapons have undergone rigorous testing. The B-2 isn't
expected to be affected by the proposal, lawmakers and
committee aides said.
   A number of former high-ranking Pentagon acquisition
officials have testified that such changes are necessary in
light of shrinking military budgets, and Rep. Aspin and his
aides have mulled over the idea since at least January. But
as late as yesterday, lawmakers were working out some of the
details.
   Many industry and Pentagon officials, however, are opposed
to the concept of developing weapons but then stopping short
of full-scale production, while research begins on a
more-advanced version of the same weapon. Air Force Secretary
Donald Rice, for instance, has said that putting
technological advances on the shelf rather than in the field
will provide arms makers in the Soviet Union and other
nations an opportunity to catch up to the U.S.
   Some lawmakers and committee aides said the new ground
rules, if they are part of the final defense spending bill
for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, also will slow down
procurement of the Navy's fast, super-quiet Seawolf attack
submarines.
   The Senate Armed Services Committee earlier this month
voted to withhold production or full-scale development
funding for the Seawolf, LH helicopters, the Air Force's ATF
and the Navy's proposed A-12 carrier-based attack plane. But
the House panel, according to lawmakers and aides, is
expected to propose specific criteria for production
decisions.
   Rep. William Dickinson (R., Ala.), the committee's ranking
GOP member and a major supporter of Army aviation, said in an
interview last week that he was ready to accept significant
delays and cutbacks in the LH's planned production schedule.
"I wouldn't fall on my sword" over cuts, he said, adding, "I
think we've got a fight on our hands" simply to keep the
program alive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LITERACY IN BRITAIN
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   One in four young adults in Britain has difficulty reading
and writing, according to a new survey.
   The survey of 1,000 people ranging in age from 16 to 20
years old found that 35% had difficulties spelling and 43%
rarely or never read books. Nine percent rarely or never read
newspapers or magazines, the survey found.
   Another finding was that 94% of adults with literacy
problems had not received any help since they were 16 years
old.
   The survey was commissioned by Director, the monthly
magazine of the Institute of Directors, one of Britain's
largest organizations for business people. Director said the
survey showed "an enormous waste of human resources and an
unnecessary burden on the British economy."
                                                                                                       

   MISSION TO BEIJING
                                                                                                       

   A Japanese government mission arrived in Beijing yesterday
to begin bilateral discussions on resumption of Japanese aid
to China. The talks will focus on specific projects proposed
by China for financing, said a spokesman for Japan's Foreign
Ministry. If the mission returns with a favorable report,
Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund will send staff to
China for working-level talks on the aid, the spokesman said.
                                                                                                       

   BURDEN OF EAST GERMANY
                                                                                                       

   East Germany's financial problems will mean at least an
extra 30 billion marks ($18.47 billion) in expenses this year
for the West German government, according to a report in the
weekly Der Spiegel magazine. The extra money is needed in
budgets ranging from health insurance to unemployment,
according to the article. The magazine also said that the 10
billion marks offered to East German companies having trouble
meeting their bills is proving to be far from enough and that
20 billion marks more will be needed in August and September.
                                                                                                       

   DEATH IN AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                       

   Responding to a spate of robberies by criminals
brandishing syringes believed to be filled with AIDS-infected
blood, John Dowd, attorney-general of Australia's New South
Wales state, said the state planned to change the law
governing murder charges. "There is a common-law rule that
the death must occur within a year and a day," Mr. Dowd said,
adding that people with AIDS "usually die more than a year
after contracting the disease." Mr. Dowd said he was also
considering strengthening penalties for AIDS carriers who had
sexual intercourse without informing their partner of their
condition.
                                                                                                       

   SPAIN'S TOURISM SLUMP
                                                                                                       

   Tourism revenue in Spain slipped 8.5% in the first six
months of 1990 to 777.8 billion pesetas ($7.81 billion) from
850.1 billion pesetas a year earlier, the Tourism Secretariat
said. More than 20 million tourists visited Spain in the
first half of the year, slightly more than in the first six
months of 1989 when 18.9 million tourists vacationed there.
Most analysts agree that the Spanish peseta's appreciation
against European and U.S. currencies has been key to the
weaker tourism earnings.
                                                                                                       

   CIGARETTE SMUGGLING IN CHINA
                                                                                                       

   Authorities in China's coastal provinces are reportedly
struggling to deal with burgeoning cigarette smuggling. In
the coastal province of Fujian alone, authorities handled
50,000 instances of smuggling of imported cigarettes in the
first half of 1990 -- four times more than in the same period
last year, the Economic Daily said. Each case of imported
cigarettes smuggled into China represents a loss of 1,500
yuan ($316) in taxes for the state, the paper said. Last
year, as many as one million cases of cigarettes were
smuggled into China, the newspaper said.
                                                                                                       

   SOVIET SHORTAGES
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet Union could face extensive food shortages
because farmers are bartering an expected record harvest for
tools and machinery instead of selling their crops to the
state, Pravda reported.
   Farmers wanted to barter crops directly with factories and
cut the state out of their financial dealings, the Communist
Party daily said. Collective farms had sold only 18% of the
total harvest to the state as of July 23, it said.
   The low level of sales to the state has caused alarm
because most grain is produced in only three republics -- the
Russian Federation, Kazakhstan and the Ukraine. "It is
alarming because if the three republics do not sell enough
grain there will be a deficit for the other 12 republics in
the country," Pravda said.
   The 1990 grain harvest is expected to exceed the 1978
record of 237 million tons, according to experts quoted last
week in the government newspaper Izvestia.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   In Italy, Pisa's newly elected Mayor Sergio Cortopassi
said he is appealing to Premier Giulio Andreotti in hopes of
spurring a start to work on the Leaning Tower, closed to the
public in January. Parliament hasn't yet appropriated the
$400 million experts estimate is needed to keep the tower
from toppling. . . . Prague's chief prosecutor, Tomas Sokol,
reportedly said the city was unsafe at night and called for
registration of prostitutes. In an interview with the Mlada
Fronta daily, he said, "We have to realize there are 20,000
prostitutes in Prague." Prague's population is 1.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Pfizer Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PFE
</CO>
<LP>
   PFIZER Inc. (New York) -- This pharmaceutical and health
care company named Barry M. Bloom, 61 years old, to the new
post of Pfizer senior vice president, research and
development, effective Sept. 1. Succeeding Mr. Bloom as
president of the Central Research division is John F.
Niblack, 51. Mr. Bloom also had been a vice president of the
parent; Mr. Niblack, currently executive vice president of
Central Research, will be nominated as a vice president of
Pfizer. His successor as executive vice president at Central
Research hasn't been named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pic `N' Save Suitor
   Expects Problem
   On All-Cash Offer
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Girard Partners L.P., controlled by investor David H.
Batchelder, said it doesn't expect to be able to make an
all-cash offer to acquire Pic `N' Save Corp. at a price
attractive to shareholders.
   Girard said in La Jolla, Calif., that it drew this
conclusion after consulting with potential financing sources
and after examining information on Pic `N' Save. Pic `N'
Save, a Dominguez, Calif., chain of retail stores that
specialize in close-out merchandise, had no immediate
comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Girard Partners and Pic `N' Save have been involved in a
dogfight ever since Girard announced in April that it planned
to make a bid for the company. On Sunday, the companies ended
a standstill agreement under which they agreed not to solicit
proxies or consents for control of the company.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Girard said that it believes that financing may be available
for a recapitalization of Pic `N' Save if a majority of
Girard nominees are elected to the company's board. If the
Girard nominees are elected, and no other acquisition
proposals are received by the company's Aug. 29 annual
meeting, Girard said it will propose and seek to complete a
recapitalization of Pic `N' Save.
   Such a plan would involve the buy-back of a substantial
number of Pic `N' Save common shares, or an extraordinary
dividend, in either event using the proceeds of senior debt
financing, Girard said.
   Girard said it may also consider formulating an
acquisition proposal for Pic `N' Save, either alone or with
others, in which a portion of the consideration would be cash
and the balance would be either equity or equity and
subordinated debt securities.
   If the Girard nominees are elected and the company isn't
sold, Girard said it intends to conduct an evaluation of all
current executive officers of the company to determine what
management changes should be made. The Girard nominees intend
to seek to attract former managers to return to the company,
according to the filing. The Girard nominees would
significantly slow the company's new-store growth and focus
its efforts on existing-store development and profitability,
they said.
   Pic `N' Save shares closed yesterday at $10.625, off 75
cents, in national over-the-counter trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chevron Sells Bahamas Facilities
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHV LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Chevron Corp. said it completed the sale
of its Freeport, Bahamas, storage and marine facilities to
Petroleos de Venezuela S.A., the state-owned oil company of
Venezuela.
   Chevron said it will receive about $120 million in cash,
plus a long-term contractual right to storage services in
Freeport. The company previously hadn't indicated the
payment. The sale includes storage and marine facilities, and
a refinery that has been inoperative since 1985.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Trefoiled Again
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   I was interested to note that you added a new word to the
French language in your June 22 article on Shamrock Holdings.
You say trefoil is French for shamrock. Until now, trefoil
was not French for shamrock or anything else.
   {The French word for shamrock, actually, is "trefle."}
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Howard Brandon
   Madison, Ga.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Republic Gypsum Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS RGC
</CO>
<LP>
   REPUBLIC GYPSUM Co. (Dallas) -- Phil Simpson, chairman and
chief executive officer of this maker of wallboard,
paperboard and corrugated containers, was named to the
additional post of president, succeeding Paul R. Brown, who
resigned to pursue other business interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Connecticut Bancorp Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NKBK
</CO>
<LP>
   CONNECTICUT BANCORP Inc. (Norwalk, Conn.) -- Kevin G.
Woelflein was named chairman of the holding company and its
Norwalk Bank subsidiary. Mr. Woelflein, 57 years old,
succeeds Frank J. Cooke, 69, who is retiring. Mr. Woelflein
remains president of U.S. Capital Investments Co., a
Greenwich, Conn., bank-advisory firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Pillsbury Madison, Lillick Agree to Merge
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle and Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES AME WNEWS KTM
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Pillsbury, Madison &amp; Sutro, a 454-lawyer San Francisco law
firm, agreed to merge with a Los Angeles law firm in what is
believed to be the largest law firm merger ever. The new firm
would be the second-largest in California, behind Gibson,
Dunn &amp; Crutcher.
   Pillsbury Madison and 171-lawyer Lillick &amp; McHose agreed
to combine as of Jan. 1, 1991, in order to extend the
geographical reach of each firm and to fill in gaps in their
practices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pillsbury Madison, San Francisco's second-largest firm,
has been building an office in Los Angeles. "We wanted to get
to a critical mass of about 200," said Pillsbury Madison
partner Mary Cranston. The merger will increase the size of
its Los Angeles office to more than 160 from 42.
   Lillick &amp; McHose lost its San Francisco branch in 1988
when the entire 100-lawyer office split from the firm. The
firm maintained that the split was necessary to eliminate
conflicts of interest between clients of the two offices.
Charles Patterson, Lillick &amp; McHose's managing partner, said
that the firm hoped to strengthen the firm's general
corporate and securities practices.
   Although less than half the size of Pillsbury Madison, the
Los Angeles firm is stronger financially. In 1989, Lillick &amp;
McHose grossed $56 million, or $350,000 in profit per
partner, according to the Recorder, a San Francisco legal
trade publication. In comparison, Pillsbury Madison grossed
about $144 million, or $270,000 in profit per partner. The
numbers were confirmed by someone familiar with the
transaction.
   Last year, Pillsbury Madison revamped its compensation
system and began an austerity campaign. Partners' pay for the
month of March was eliminated, secretaries were fired, and
other services were cut. "Our costs were higher than they
should have been," said Ms. Cranston, citing the $13 million
price tag on a new computer system.
   The firm had also lost a handful of key partners to
competing firms.
   In Los Angeles, Lillick &amp; McHose was "trying to compete
against some very powerful firms," said Bradford Hildebrandt,
a law firm consultant in Somerville, N.J., who consulted with
both firms on the merger. "This gives Lillick a much larger
critical mass to service its clients."
   Mr. Hildebrandt said that the combined client bases of the
two firms would produce few conflicts. Among Pillsbury
Madison's largest clients are Chevron Corp. and Pacific
Telesis Group. Lillick &amp; McHose's clients include Security
Pacific National Bank and a number of Japanese banking
interests.
   The new firm will use the name Pillsbury Madison Sutro
Lillick &amp; McHose in Los Angeles, and Pillsbury, Madison &amp;
Sutro in San Francisco.
   ---
   DISCRIMINATION AGAINST black homeowners alleged in
lawsuit.
   A redlining suit alleges that American Family Mutual
Insurance Co. discriminated against black property owners who
live in Milwaukee zip code areas with large minority
populations.
   The suit, which seeks class action status, was filed last
week in federal court in Milwaukee by the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People and several
black Milwaukee residents. It alleges that the Madison, Wis.,
insurer told its agents not to sell to blacks or to charge
them higher rates than whites. It charges that the company
stereotyped blacks as likely to fail to make payments on
their policies.
   Redlining in the insurance industry "appears to be going
on in nearly every major city," claims John Powell, legal
director of the American Civil Liberties Union, which aided
in the preparation of the suit.
   An American Family spokeswoman said the company hadn't
received a copy of the suit, and therefore couldn't comment
on specific allegations. "But we don't discriminate, nor do
we condone discrimination," she said.
   The suit includes two exhibits from a separate suit filed
in Wisconsin state court two years ago by six white American
Family agents who claimed they were wrongfully terminated by
the company. The agents alleged that discriminatory practices
by the company limited their ability to sell insurance. Their
claims were dismissed, partly because they hadn't objected
initially to the alleged discrimination, said an attorney for
the plaintiffs in the Milwaukee suit.
   One exhibit from the state court case, a purported
transcript of a tape-recording one of the agents made at a
meeting with a manager, quotes the manager as saying: "You
sell too many blacks. You gotta sell good, solid,
premium-paying white people."
   The second exhibit includes a handwritten note purportedly
from an American Family manager to an agent that criticizes
the agent's performance.
   "Quit writing all those blacks]] They are the reason for
your poor persistency]" the note says.
   ---
   BOSTON LAWYERS lobby against a sales tax on legal
services.
   The Massachusetts Bar Association and the Boston Bar
Association may challenge the constitutionality of a 5% levy
on the fees of lawyers and other professional groups. The
levy is part of a tax increase of as much as $1.6 billion
recently passed by the state Legislature.
   The bar associations have retained Edward F. Hines Jr. of
the Boston law firm of Choate Hall &amp; Stewart. The
Massachusetts bar has run advertisements in legal
publications alerting lawyers to the problems with the tax
and urging them to contact their legislative representatives.
   A Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruling upheld the
constitutionality of a business services sales tax but did
not address the constitutional issues surrounding a tax on
legal services, said Charles B. Swartwood III, president of
the Massachusetts Bar Association.
   "I have a lot of problems believing that a person or a
company that is vindicating their rights or is compelled to
get legal services can be taxed" under the constitution, said
Rudolph Pierce, president of the Boston bar.
   But Jim Braude, executive director of the Tax Equity
Alliance for Massachusetts, which supported the bill, said
the tax package is constitutional and fair.
   "The bar is in the state house every day asking for more
money for courts, judges' salaries and prison construction
and acknowledging the need for taxes. But the tag line is let
someone else pay," Mr. Braude says.
   ---
   AMETEK PLEADS GUILTY to defense contract fraud charges.
   Ametek Inc., based in Paoli, Pa., agreed to pay a $110,000
criminal fine for withholding past pricing information
concerning electronic sonar systems it built in the mid-1980s
for the U.S. Navy. In addition, Ametek agreed to pay $5.1
million to settle potential civil claims related to the case
and faces possible suspension from future contracting with
the Department of Defense.
   The agreement, reached with the U.S. attorney's office in
San Diego, is the second in a week in which a major
industrial manufacturer has settled defense fraud charges
with federal prosecutors. Last week, General Electric Co. was
ordered to pay a $10 million criminal fine and agreed to pay
an additional $20 million to settle claims that it concealed
millions of dollars in cost reductions from the U.S. Army
between 1983 and 1985.
   No employees of Ametek were charged. Federal prosecutors
contended that Ametek's former Straza Division, in El Cajon,
Calif., was under contract with the U.S. Navy as its sole
source for the manufacture of ice and mine avoidance sonar
systems used aboard Trident nuclear submarines. As such,
Ametek was required by the federal Truth in Negotiations Act
to disclose all "historical data" concerning cost and pricing
information.
   Federal prosecutors maintained that the company built two
systems for $2.3 million and shipped them in 1986, then
withheld labor and pricing information that would have
lowered subsequent contract costs by about $2 million, said
Assistant U.S. Attorney Phillip L.B. Halpern, who helped
prosecute the case.
   Ametek spun off its Straza division and 13 others in 1988
to create Ketema Inc., which in turn has sold the marine
products operations involved in the investigation, Ametek
said. Ketema will reimburse Ametek for the $5.2 million it
cost to settle the criminal and related civil investigations
and take a charge in its second quarter earnings.
   ---
   SOVIET LINKS: The New York law firm of Hall, Dickler,
Lawler, Kent &amp; Friedman has brought in Burton L. Lilling and
Bruce E. Lilling in a counsel capacity. The father-and-son
team specializes in patent and trademark work and in the
representation of Soviet entities with business in the U.S.
   ---
   Amy Dockser Marcus and Milo Geyelin contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Demilitarization Is a One-Way Street
   ----
   By Gerald Frost
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   President Bush and Secretary of State James Baker have
good reason to feel perplexed. At every turn they have sought
to enhance the political life expectancy of Mikhail
Gorbachev, elevating the Soviet leader's survival to the
status of a major policy goal.
   The Soviet response to this highly considerate treatment
has been schizoid, reflecting a style of political behavior
Western analysts find difficult to interpret. On the one
hand, the Soviet leadership permits a reunified Germany to
remain a member of NATO and urges the West not to think of
the Soviet Union as an adversary; on the other, it goes on
improving the Soviet military machine, lavishly equipping it
for the high-tech battlefield of the future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both at the Houston summit and at the London meeting of
NATO ministers, British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher made
a point of stressing the fact of the continuing Soviet arms
modernization program, something many Western leaders
evidently would prefer to overlook. The British defense
secretary, Tom King, also appears puzzled by the disparity
between the presumed purpose of "perestroika" -- to switch
spending from the military to the domestic sector of the
economy -- and the Soviet military program. On Wednesday, he
announced that British armed forces would be cut by 18%,
owing to the apparently diminished Soviet threat.
   But earlier this year, he reminded the House of Commons:
"It is a staggering thought that even now, in the fifth year
of Mr. Gorbachev's time in office, the figures show that one
new Soviet submarine is being launched every six weeks. Two
aircraft, six tanks and one missile are produced every day.
The Soviet defense minister {Marshall Yazov} has said that
the emphasis is now on quality rather than quantity: that is
certainly borne out by this year's May Day Parade in Red
Square, which revealed one new main battle tank and one
heavily armored infantry vehicle of very high quality. The
Soviet navy recorded a record tonnage of new surface ships
during 1989. These ships are larger and more powerful than
their predecessors, have longer range and more accurate
missiles."
   As for arms reductions, of which Soviet spokesmen have
made so much, these seemed largely confined to obsolete or
aging weapons and vessels, Mr. King said.
   Similar evidence was given to the House Armed Services
Committee in February by Undersecretary of Defense Paul
Wolfowitz. He reported small decreases in the production of
Soviet fighters, fighter bombers and bombers, but increases
in the production of light armored vehicles, artillery
mortars, anti-artillery mortars, short-range ballistic
missiles and tanker aircraft. Moreover, in April the Defense
Intelligence Agency reported to Congress that the conversion
of military plants to civilian purposes remained virtually
nonexistent. Vigorous, broadly based modernization of
strategic offensive and defensive forces continued with very
high rates of production. No major weapons development
program had been stretched or canceled.
   In forming an assessment of the current military balance
it must also be borne in mind that even where there are
meaningful reductions to be found -- as in the case of Soviet
tank production -- present levels exceed those in the West.
The Soviets' relative advantages have either been preserved
or enhanced.
   The evidence would therefore seem to suggest that the
Soviet "peace dividend" -- if it exists at all -- is
considerably smaller in proportionate terms than that which
most NATO countries, with the exception of France, have
already spent. This fact does not discourage Western
governments from looking for still further cuts.
   Most Soviet economic statistics are meaningless or
fraudulent; it may be that the Soviets themselves do not know
the exact cost of their defense program. Several Western
analysts have suggested the Soviet defense budget was reduced
by 4% to 5% during 1989-90, following the completion of the
five-year plan during which spending rose by 25%. But since
there is little certainty about the level of earlier
spending, such calculations may prove to have been worthless.
What is clear is that until very recently Western analysts,
including those at the CIA, vastly underestimated Soviet
military expenditures.
   This is apparent from the inclusion in the Soviet military
inventory of new, highly sophisticated weapons, as well as
from a remarkable speech by Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze to the Party Congress earlier this month: "It is
obvious that if we continue as before, comrades -- I state
this with all responsibility -- to spend a quarter, a
quarter, of our budget on military expenditure -- we have
ruined the country; then we simply won't be needing defense,
just as we won't need an army for a ruined country and an
impoverished people. There is no sense in protecting a system
which has led to economic and social ruin."
   For the first time, Mr. Shevardnadze also gave figures for
"ideological confrontation" with the West -- presumably the
bill for propaganda -- and "active measures," i.e.
disinformation, forgeries, support to the Soviet fronts and
agents of influence. The total is 700 billion rubles over the
past two decades. (At the current exchange rate, that is
about $414 billion.)
   There is just one way out of the morass, Mr. Shevardnadze
concluded: to cut military spending. Taken at face value, his
remarks suggest that reduction of Soviet spending remains
more a goal than a fact. It would seem that the Soviet
leadership either has been unable to severely cut back
programs or, for whatever reason, has chosen not to do so.
One possible explanation might be the fear of rebellion by
Soviet generals unhappy about the loss of the Eastern
European empire and the political turbulence caused by
perestroika.
   Another explanation might be that a deal has been struck
between the generals and Mr. Gorbachev, with the former
promising that there would be no military attempt to topple
the Soviet leader provided the military budget is largely
preserved. A further interpretation of the conflicting
signals from Moscow might be that Mr. Gorbachev himself is
still not ready to jettison the single source of possible
influence in Europe: Soviet military power. Without it, the
Soviet Union would be very much the servant in the
increasingly close relationship with a reunified Germany.
   In any event, continued modernization of nuclear and
conventional forces (and continued non-compliance with the
arms treaties) demonstrates that Soviet talk of "reasonable
sufficiency" and "defensive defense" are not matters that
Western defense ministers should take seriously.
   In a message to the Western leaders at Houston, Mr.
Gorbachev suggested that they had it in their power to mold
Soviet foreign and defense policy. There may be some truth in
this, but the means by which that influence is exercised is
evidently a two-way street. Mr. Gorbachev has done far more
to influence Western defense programs than the West has done
to influence those of the Soviet Union. While Western defense
budgets shrink almost without exception, the available
evidence suggests Soviet military spending stays close to 25%
of national income and its economy remains on what Soviet
dissident Alexander Zinoviev described as being a "permanent
war footing." Such remarkable levels of expenditure
inevitably skew an already skewed economy.
   Major cuts in defense spending along with fundamental
reforms to abolish the apparatus of the command economy
remain the prerequisites of Soviet economic improvement. It
may be that the Soviet leadership is incapable of
countenancing either, in which case the prospect of internal
upheaval -- perhaps of civil war -- may loom large.
   It is difficult to forecast what political structure will
emerge from that chaos. But whatever its political
complexion, the Soviet Union is likely to remain the
pre-eminent military power in Europe when U.S. influence
looks certain to diminish.
   These are the realities. Neither perestroika nor the
West's pleasure at the disintegration of communism should be
permitted to conceal them.
   ---
   Mr. Frost is the director of the Institute for European
Defence and Strategic Studies in London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foremost Corp. of America
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FCOA
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. -- Foremost Corp. of America said it
plans to buy back up to one million of its common shares.
   The insurance company said the new authorization comes in
addition to a prior stock repurchase plan, under which
Foremost purchased about 1.2 million of its shares since
November 1987. No purchases under the newly authorized plan
have been made, Foremost said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it will purchase the shares from time to
time, depending on market conditions and availability.
Foremost currently has 11.7 shares of common stock
outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Corporate Focus:
   New Line Cinema Finds Itself a Survivor
   ---
   Company Builds Success
   With Low-Budget Movies
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   NLN NLPI JTWO CRC MCEGE
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
EARNINGS (ERN)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Robert K. Shaye wants the world to know there
is more to New Line Cinema Corp. than a menacing
Fedora-wearing murderer with razor-sharp nails and four
overgrown turtles who shout "Cowabunga]"
   Thanks to Freddy Kreuger, the wisecracking slasher of the
popular "Nightmare on Elm Street" series and "Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles," New Line Cinema is emerging as a feisty
survivor in the thinning ranks of independent movie
production and distribution companies. The landscape is
littered with the corpses of others who have tried and
failed, such as DeLaurentiis Entertainment Group Inc.,
Weintraub Entertainment Group Inc. and New World
Entertainment Ltd.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, New Line reported that second-quarter earnings
leaped to $4.5 million, or 51 cents a share, from $143,000,
or two cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Per-share
net reflects a 25% stock dividend declared June 12. The 1990
per-share results reflect the sale of 600,000 shares to
Capital Guardian Trust Co., a Los Angeles money manager, on
May 29.
   Total revenue more than tripled to $50.5 million from
$15.2 million, led by revenue from the films "House Party"
and "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles." Revenue also was
buttressed by the videocassette and foreign-market releases
of "Heart Condition" and "Nightmare on Elm Street 5." New
Line distributed the "Ninja Turtles" film and produced and
distributed the other three films.
   "Freddy put us on the map and the Turtles showed we are a
totally viable company," says 51-year-old Mr. Shaye, New
Line's president and chief executive officer. Some Wall
Street analysts agree.
   "They've proved they're not a one product company," says
Alan Kassan, an analyst with Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "New Line
has been able to produce new product at the box office, long
after their original home runs and franchises have aged."
   New Line has to come up with new product: its biggest
franchise, "Nightmare on Elm Street," appears to be losing
steam fast. Although the fourth installment took in nearly
$50 million at the box office in 1988, last year's fifth
installment, "The Dream Master," took in only about half
that.
   New Line is hoping that it has a new franchise with plenty
of mileage in the "Turtles." This week, the company secured
the domestic and Canadian rights to the sequel of "Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles" from its producer, Golden Harvest
Films, a unit of Golden Communications Ltd. The movie is
expected to be released in March and will be budgeted at over
$20 million. That's considerably more than New Line's typical
movie, which has an average budget of $6 million, according
to Mr. Shaye. The original "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" was
an exception, costing about $12.5 million to make. But that
film has already grossed about $129 million, making the
higher cost of the sequel a worthy risk.
   "New Line has the talent of having one hit pay for
everything else," says Dennis McAlpine, an analyst with
Oppenheimer &amp; Co. "And they handle their own distribution.
Not many independents can say that."
   Mr. Shaye hopes his ambitious expansion plans will quell
any remaining doubts about New Line's ability to make it
beyond its novelty movies. It recently entered into an
agreement with National Lampoon to develop, co-finance and
distribute a series of comedy films, with a promise from New
Line to finance upwards of $10 million a picture. New Line
also recently agreed to distribute seven films for Management
Company Entertainment Group Inc., which produced "Look Who's
Talking" for Sony Corp.'s Tri-Star Pictures unit. New Line is
also close to an agreement with Carolco Pictures Inc. for
domestic distribution rights for four of its films.
   How successful these arrangements will be remains to be
seen; National Lampoon was just sold to Los Angeles-based J2
Communications, and in any event, the rights to its most
successful film series, National Lampoon's "Vacation," belong
to Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros unit. Mr. Shaye says there
are no projects yet from National Lampoon, and a spokesman
for New Line says the National Lampoon sale will not affect
the company's deal.
   MCEG meanwhile, is in the process of a major restructuring
and has been unable to meet payments on its sizable debt.
   To New Line's advantage, it is virtually debt-free, and
recently secured a three-year, $75 million credit line with,
among others, Chemical Bank. A New Line spokesman says the
credit line will be used for film production. Another company
official says another purpose is to help New Line get more
involved with foreign distribution.
   Mr. Shaye, who sports flashy ties and shoulder-length salt
and pepper hair, graduated from Columbia University's Law
School, but immediately gravitated to the film industry. He
began distributing movies that were in the public domain,
such as the campy anti-marijuana "Refer Madness" and the
Rolling Stones concert movie "Sympathy for the Devil." He
launched New Line in 1967.
   New Line also distinguishes itself by having its
headquarters in New York, not Hollywood, although 65 of the
company's 125 employees are West Coast-based. "It enhances
our thinking that the executives work and live in New York,"
Mr. Shaye says, "and don't think of themselves as part of the
Hollywood rat race."
   Last week, New Line began running full-page advertisements
in trade publications, such as Variety, geared to getting
across the company's philosophy. The ad read in part, "We
green light faster than any other film company we know, major
or independent. . . . We believe other aspects of our
operation are just as important. We intend to tell you a
little about them, occasionally, in messages like this." The
ad is signed, "New Line Cinema. Solidly Independent."
   And, Mr. Shaye says, New Line plans to stay that way.
"We're not talking about a merger or acquisition with
anyone," he says, carefully selecting his words. "We have had
discussions, very selective discussions, about strategy
alliances." He declined to elaborate.
   ---
                The Bottom Line at New Line
                                                                                                       

   Low-budget shows are paying off for this movie producer
                                                                                                       

                                 PRODUCTION     BOX OFFICE
                                   BUDGET         GROSS
                                 (In millions of dollars)
                                                                                                       

 Nightmare on Elm Street           $ 1.7          $ 26
 Nightmare on Elm Street 2           2.5            30
 Nightmare on Elm Street 3           4.6            45
 Nightmare on Elm Street 4           6.5            50
 Nightmare on Elm Street 5           7.5            22
 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles       12.5           129
 House Party                         2.5            26
                                                                                                       

   Source: New Line Cinema Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks End Mixed After Late Rally;
   Interest-Rate Outlook Brightens
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices closed mixed as the market's
focus shifted from concerns about the economy to a brighter
outlook for interest rates.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which dropped more than
23 points in early trading in a continuation of a sell-off
Friday, bounced back from the decline to finish with a gain
of 18.82 at 2917.33.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Several waves of futures-related program buying, which
traders attributed to a strong showing by the bond market,
helped push stock prices higher in the last hour of trading.
   "Everyone's looking at rates as a reason to be bullish,"
said Christopher Pedersen, head of trading at Twenty-First
Securities, following Friday's report that gross national
product rose at a slower-than-expected annual rate of 1.2% in
the second quarter.
   Utility stocks, among the most sensitive to rate
expectations, were among the issues to set the pace for the
market's turnaround. The Dow Jones Utilities Average equaled
its sharpest rise since mid-May by gaining 3.70 to 207.05.
   Investors also continued to show buying interest in oil
stocks in the wake of OPEC's agreement last week to raise the
target price for crude oil by $3 a barrel, to $21, and adopt
a new production ceiling for the second half.
   But the reversal didn't translate into a pickup in the
pace of trading activity. Volume amounted to 146,470,000
shares on the New York Stock Exchange; on Friday, 149,700,000
changed hands as the industrial average fell 22.28 points.
   Declining issues outnumbered advancers by 792 to 717 on
the Big Board. Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index rose 2.11 to
355.55, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index went up
0.86 to 194.18 and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index added
1.57 to 329.49.
   In late trading, Treasury notes and bonds showed gains of
as much as 7/8 point, or $8.75 per $1,000 face amount. The
increase in prices translates into lower yields on Treasury
issues; for example, the yield on the benchmark 30-year bond
fell to 8.40% from 8.48% late Friday.
   Bond prices closed near session highs, and traders said
that performance fueled buying in stock-index futures. As the
futures contracts rallied to sharp premiums to the cash
indexes, traders started selling the futures and buying
baskets of stocks to lock in profits; at least three waves of
index-arbitrage buying hit the market in the last hour of the
session.
   Solid gains in three oil stocks -- Exxon, Chevron and
Texaco -- accounted for about half of the advance in the
industrial average. Exxon added 1 1/2 to 50 3/4 in Big Board
composite trading of 1.6 million shares, Chevron climbed 1
3/4 to 79 and Texaco rose 1 3/8 to 62 7/8.
   Among other major oil issues, Mobil rose 5/8 to 65 1/8 on
1.6 million shares and Amoco added 1/2 to 54 3/4. In the oil
field-services sector, Halliburton rose 7/8 to 53 1/4, Baker
Hughes added 3/4 to 31 and Schlumberger went up 3/8 to 63
1/8.
   But Ashland Oil, which dropped 1 1/8 to 33 5/8, was left
out of the sector's advance. The decline came amid a block
trade of 500,000 shares, equivalent to 0.9% of the company's
common stock outstanding, which traded at 33.
   Issues that paced the advance in the Dow utility average
included Consolidated Edison of New York, which went up 1 to
24; Peoples Energy, up 1 to 22 3/4; Commonwealth Edison, up 1
to 31 3/4, and Pacific Gas &amp; Electric, up 5/8 to 22 5/8.
   Meanwhile, the Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 9.67
to 1125.00 as airline stocks were hit with selling,
reflecting the impact of higher oil prices on jet-fuel costs
and worries about the economy.
   AMR, the parent company of American Airlines, dropped 7/8
to 55 3/4; Delta Air Lines fell 5/8 to 64 5/8, and USAir
Group slipped 1/4 to 22. UAL tumbled 6 1/8 to 156 7/8;
Chemical Banking withdrew as one of the five lead banks for
the proposed $4.38 billion employee buy-out of the parent of
United Airlines.
   Entergy dropped 1/4 to 19 1/2 on 1.4 million shares in the
wake of a board meeting Friday, at which the utility's
directors voted to boost the size of a stock buy-back
program. Some investors were disappointed that the board
didn't approve a dividend increase, Salomon Brothers analyst
Gregory B. Enholm said; however, he added that he is
recommending the stock at $19 a share or less.
   Shawmut National fell 5/8 to 9 3/8 in trading that
included a block of 1.1 million shares, the equivalent of a
1.5% stake in the bank holding company. The block, which
changed hands at 9, accounted for the bulk of the 1.4 million
shares traded in composite dealings.
   Limited Inc. rose 7/8 to 20 3/4 following news of its
plans to develop a $300 million to $325 million shopping
mall, to be anchored by a number of the company's own stores,
on a site it owns in Columbus, Ohio.
   Genentech added 3/8 to 28 1/8. A Food and Drug
Adminstration advisory committee voted to recommend approval
of the company's gamma interferon drug, used to treat a rare
disorder in which children suffer recurring infections.
   Broad Inc. went down 5/8 to 9 3/8. The company said fiscal
1990 net income may fall short of its target of $1.20 a
share, based on "a modestly higher level" of investment
losses than expected earlier in the year.
   Equitable Real Estate Shopping Centers gained 5/8 to 6
7/8. The partnership, which owns shopping malls in the
suburbs of Detroit and Minneapolis, said it is evaluating the
possible sale of its assets.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 1.84
to 353.65. Volume totaled 10,590,000 shares.
   California Energy added 3/8 to 9 3/4. The company said it
has begun settlement discussions with Mission Power
Engineering in a dispute over a contract for engineering and
construction work on three geothermal power plants.
   New Line Cinema dropped 3/4 to 12 following its
second-quarter earnings report, which showed that revenue was
more than triple the year-earlier level and net income
soared.
   Air Express International rose 3/4 to 18. The company
reported that net for the quarter climbed 36% from a year
ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inter-Regional Financial
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   IFG
</CO>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Inter-Regional Financial Group Inc. said it
reached a settlement of a lawsuit with Touche Ross &amp; Co.
providing for a cash payment of $19.75 million to
Inter-Regional by September of this year.
   The suit resolves a 1986 lawsuit by IFG, a financial
services holding company, relating to certain audit services
by Touche.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The settlement will increase IFG's net income by about $12
million, or a $1.25 a share, for the third quarter ending
Sept. 30. In the quarter ended last Sept. 30, the company
reported net income of $1.4 million, or 15 cents a share, and
revenue of $81.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Circle K Posts
   $747.4 Million
   4th-Period Loss
   ----
   By Jim Herron Zamora
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CKP
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Troubled Circle K Corp., the nation's second-largest
convenience store chain, which is operating under Chapter 11
bankruptcy-law protection, reported a net loss of $747.4
million, or $17.19 a share, for the fiscal fourth quarter
ended April 30.
   The loss included a reorganization and restructuring
charge of $639.3 million, the Phoenix, Ariz.-based company
said. In the year-ago fourth quarter, Circle K had a net loss
of $23.1 million, or 57 cents a share. Revenue declined 2.6%
to $907.9 million from $932.1 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the year, Circle K reported a net loss of $772.9
million, or $17.91 a share, compared with earnings of $15.4
million, or 21 cents a share, for the preceding fiscal year.
Revenue rose 6.9% to $3.74 billion from $3.49 billion.
   Circle K took the fourth-quarter reorganization and
restructuring charge as a result of its financial condition,
reorganization efforts and Chapter 11 filing, the company
said. Stockholders equity as of April 30 was a negative
$451.6 million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Circle K shares closed unchanged at $1.125.
   Circle K got into its present situation by expanding too
fast -- from 1,300 stores in 1983 to about 4,650 at the end
of last year -- and taking on $1.1 billion in
below-investment grade junk debt to buy and open new stores.
The company's new acquisitions weren't producing nearly
enough operating profit to offset the debt burden they
imposed. During this expansion and acquisition phase, Circle
K also drove customers away by raising prices above the
competition and replacing standard inventory with high-profit
margin products customers didn't want.
   The company also found itself unable to compete with
companies such as Los Angeles-based Atlantic Richfield Co.,
which could market its gasoline less expensively than Circle
K, thus attracting customers to its AM-PM minimarkets. Nor
could it expand to beyond its traditional customer base of
blue-collar men between the ages of 18 to 35 years old to
include more white-collar workers and women.
   Circle K filed for reorganization May 15 under Chapter 11
of the federal Bankruptcy Code after failing in a last ditch
effort to win lender approval for a plan to reschedule debt
and reorganize the company. The filing followed the May
resignation of Circle K's widely criticized chairman, Karl
Eller, who oversaw the rapid expansion.
   Circle K and its affiliated subsidiaries in the
bankruptcy-law proceedings plan to file a list of all
liabilities and assets on or about Aug. 28, and the company
said it expects to file a reorganization plan "as soon as
practicable."
   As of April 30, Circle K operated 4,631 convenience stores
in 32 states and had about 1,298 stores under license or
joint venture agreements in 14 foreign countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Daiwa Securities Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS J.DST
</CO>
<LP>
   DAIWA SECURITIES Co. (Tokyo) -- Russell J. Greenberg,
previously a director of mergers at the Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc. of Prudential Insurance Co. of America, was
named executive vice president and head of mergers and
acquisitions at Daiwa Securities America Inc., the U.S.
subsidiary of this securities firm, succeeding Sidney Koch,
who will become a special adviser.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   CONNIE CHUNG: CBS News said "Face to Face with Connie
Chung," its new prime-time series, would be put on hold
because Ms. Chung wants to try to get pregnant. Instead, Ms.
Chung, who will soon be 44 years old, will appear in periodic
specials. The show will be replaced on Mondays at 10 p.m. by
"The Trials of Rosie O'Neill," a drama starring Sharon Gless
as an attorney. The CBS Inc. unit hopes to air about six
"Face to Face" specials between September and December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Is Investigating Stotler Group Inc.
   For Possible Disclosure Rule Violations
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   SG
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating financially troubled Stotler Group Inc. for
possible violations of disclosure rules governing publicly
held companies, according to individuals familiar with the
investigation.
   Futures industry regulators, meantime, have questioned the
propriety of intercompany loans totaling $5.5 million made to
Stotler Group late last year by two pools of customer funds
raised by Stotler Funds Inc., a unit of Stotler Group. The
loans appear to raise serious conflict of interest issues for
Stotler Group and may represent a breach of the company's
fiduciary duty to investors in the pools, futures industry
officials said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The heightened regulatory scrutiny follows the collapse
over the past few weeks of Stotler Group's major subsidiary,
Stotler &amp; Co., which has been forced to withdraw from the
futures business for lack of capital. The unit's collapse has
pushed the publicly held parent company to the brink of
insolvency.
   SEC officials as a matter of policy don't comment on
whether they are investigating companies for such possible
violations, said Mary Weiss, an investigator in the SEC's
Chicago office.
   The first hint of trouble at Stotler surfaced publicly
July 12, when the company asked the American Stock Exchange
not to open trading in its stock because it had "news
pending." Since that time, futures industry officials
privately have criticized Stotler officials for not being
more forthcoming about the company's problems. The company's
only public announcements about its cash crunch have been a
handful of brief statements released to the press, the first
dated July 15.
   The company's three outside directors resigned last week,
saying they hadn't been kept informed of the decisions
Stotler was making to cope with their cash crisis, according
to one of the directors.
   Stotler officials also have consistently refused to return
reporters' calls for comment on events affecting the company.
   Stotler Group's stock last traded on July 24 at $2.50,
down from $7.875 before it was halted.
   Futures regulators have been questioning Stotler Group's
loans from funds for over two months. The National Futures
Association said in a May 7 letter to Stotler Funds President
Thomas Kolter that two intercompany loans, in the form of a
$1 million demand note from Advanced Portfolio Management and
$4.55 million of Stotler Group commercial paper purchased by
Compass Futures Fund Inc., "may be in violation of the pools'
respective disclosure documents." The Compass fund's
disclosure document "specifically disallows such lending,"
the NFA added.
   Mr. Kolter responded in a letter a few days later that
pool investors had been informed of the loans, and that they
were made to boost the funds' yield on their investments.
   Individuals close to Stotler said Mr. Kolter has written
Stotler Group in recent days demanding that the $5.5 million
be returned to the two pools.
   Neither Mr. Kolter nor attorneys acting on behalf of
Stotler Funds Inc. returned calls seeking comment.
   Stotler &amp; Co.'s troubles began earlier this month when
futures industry regulators, disallowing questionable
intercompany funds transfers between Stotler &amp; Co. and the
parent, ruled that the unit didn't meet minimum capital
requirements.
   After failing to secure an emergency $10 million cash
infusion, Stotler Group last week said it defaulted on
$750,000 in commercial paper payments. The company said it
may have to restructure or sell assets to meet $7.6 million
in debt payments due within 30 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MCI Gets Job From Insurer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   MCIC CIC
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- MCI Communications Corp. said it agreed to
serve as the main telecommunications carrier for Continental
Corp., a New York-based property and casualty insurer, in a
three-year deal valued at about $13 million. MCI said it will
provide the full range of voice and data services to
Continental, which has about $13 billion in assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Angelica Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AGL
</CO>
<LP>
   ANGELICA Corp. (St. Louis) -- Michael E. Burnham, formerly
vice president, operations, of the Life Uniform &amp; Shoe Shops
division, was named president of the division at this maker
of uniforms and provider of laundry services, succeeding
Donald C. Wickard, who died last March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   AM International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AM
</CO>
<LP>
   AM INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Chicago) -- Richard J. Bonnie,
formerly president of the Gleason Works unit of Gleason
Corp., was named vice president of this business graphics
equipment concern and president of the AM Graphics unit,
filling vacancies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Emerson Radio Corp.:
   Consumer Electronics Firm
   Reports $4.8 Million Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EME
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Emerson Radio Corp., of North Bergen, N.J., blamed
"extremely disappointing sales" for a fiscal first-quarter
loss of $4.8 million, or 13 cents a share.
   In the year-earlier quarter, net income was $3.5 million,
or 10 cents a share. The maker and marketer of consumer
electronics reported sales for the quarter ended June 30 of
$167.8 million, down 24% from $221.2 million a year earlier.
Stephen L. Lane, president, said in a statement that he
expects the next two quarters to be profitable, "assuming
moderate improvement in the retail environment."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Lane said that because of "softness in the retail
marketplace, retailers have remained cautious in acquiring
inventory." He said Emerson has in turn become conservative,
reducing its own inventories from the prior quarter and
taking cost-paring steps.
   During the past year, Emerson introduced a line of
personal computers and related products for the home office
and consumer markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Prospect Group Inc.
   To Begin Distribution
   Of Assets in August
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   PROSZ FSNR CDCRA MSRR
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Prospect Group Inc. will begin distributing
its assets to shareholders in August under its plan to
liquidate.
   The company, which has diverse interests, also said that
shares of Illinois Central Corp., which now trade in tandem
with Prospect's shares, will be separated and begin trading
on the national over-the-counter market Aug. 21, under the
symbol ICRR.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prospect's board said that the asset distributions are
payable Aug. 21 to shares of record Aug. 2. Prospect's
interests to be distributed include:
   -- Illinois Central. Each 6.7 shares of Prospect will
receive one additional share of the freight-railroad holding
company. In January, Prospect holders received one Illinois
Central share for each two Prospect shares.
   -- Forschner Group Inc. Each 10.3 shares of Prospect will
receive one share of the Shelton, Conn., marketer of
Victorinox Swiss Army Knives and Swiss Army cutlery products.
   -- Sylvan Foods Holdings Inc. Each 8.5 shares of Prospect
will receive one share of the Worthington, Pa., mushroom
producer.
   Prospect also will distribute $11.6 million of cash; each
Prospect share will receive about 50 cents in this payout.
   Yet to be distributed to Prospect holders are interests in
MidSouth Corp., a freight railroad based in Jackson, Miss.,
and Children's Discovery Centers of America Inc., a San
Rafael, Calif., child-care company. Prospect expects to
distribute its holdings of MidSouth by year end and of CDC in
1991; the ratios haven't been determined.
   For now, Prospect will retain its holdings of Recognition
Equipment Inc., a Dallas manufacturer of document-processing
equipment, and Noel Group Inc., a closely held New York firm
with energy and other interests.
   The company also will retain until a later date $25
million of cash plus interests in Ivy Insurance Group Inc., a
Pasadena, Calif., auto insurer; Ada Corp., a Dallas
building-materials concern; and National Spirit Group Inc., a
Dallas operator of cheerleader camps. In April, National
Spirit made a filing under Chapter 11 of the federal
bankruptcy law.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unocal's Net Rose
   38% in 2nd Period
   On One-Time Gain
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   UCL
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Unocal Corp.'s second-quarter profit rose
38% to $165 million after a one-time net gain of $132
million, but operating earnings fell below most analysts'
expectations.
   Profit in the quarter amounted to 70 cents a share. But
excluding the gain from the sale of Unocal's Norwegian oil
and gas subsidiary and other extraordinary items, operating
earnings totaled just 15 cents a share -- five cents below
what many analysts had projected. By comparison, Unocal
earned about 38 cents a share from operations in the quarter
a year earlier, analysts said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The number is disappointing," said Frederick P. Leuffer
Jr. of C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell Inc. in New York, who
is cutting his full-year earnings estimate on Unocal to $1 a
share from $1.05. "Exploration expenses were higher than
anticipated, and they had some refinery turnarounds and
downtime from maintenance . . . {but} I think these are
one-time events that will be corrected."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Unocal shares closed at $30.125 a share, off 25 cents.
   Unocal said the drop in operating results reflected lower
domestic crude-oil production, higher domestic oil and gas
production expenses and lower earnings from chemical
operations. These were offset by the $132 million gain,
higher domestic natural-gas prices and production, and lower
deferred income taxes and net interest expense. Earnings for
the quarter included $12 million of deferred income-tax
benefits.
   Second-quarter earnings the previous year were $120
million, or 51 cents a share, after $27 million in after-tax
gains from property sales and an $11 million gain from the
settlement of certain pension obligations.
   Revenue for the second quarter fell 11% to $2.72 billion
from $3.07 billion. Unocal said the drop reflected the
absence of petroleum product sales attributable to its
Midwest Marketing Division, which is now part of UNO-VEN Co.,
a 50-50 joint venture that Unocal formed with Petroleos de
Venezuela S.A. last December.
   Domestic crude-oil and condensate production fell in the
quarter to 132,200 barrels a day from 154,000 barrels a year
ago. Unocal blamed the drop on a temporary suspension of oil
production in the Cook Inlet area of Alaska because of
eruptions of Mount Redoubt, and on the company's sale of its
14% stake in a Long Beach, Calif., production joint venture.
Unocal's world-wide production in the quarter fell to 225,500
barrels a day from 242,400 barrels a day the previous year.
Natural-gas production rose to an average 1.33 billion cubic
feet a day from 1.27 billion cubic feet the previous year.
   Second-quarter earnings from exploration and production
operations, including the $132 million gain, totaled $205
million, compared with $101 million a year ago. Earnings from
refining, marketing and transportation operations rose to $30
million in the quarter from $28 million a year ago. Earnings
from chemicals operations fell to $16 million from $21
million, and earnings from geothermal operations fell to $8
million from $11 million.
   For the first six months, Unocal's earnings rose 17% to
$242 million, or $1.03 a share, from $207 million, or 88
cents a share, a year ago. Sales fell 6% to $5.36 billion
from $5.7 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fujitsu Seeks Closer Ties With Siemens,
   Agrees to Buy 80% of Britain's ICL
   ----
   This article was prepared By
   Richard L. Hudson in London
   And Jacob M. Schlesinger in Tokyo
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   J.FUT G.SIE EUROP U.STC JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The chairman of Fujitsu Ltd., fresh from a #742.8 million
($1.37 billion) agreement to buy control of Britain's
International Computers Ltd., said he wants to increase the
company's ties with Siemens AG of West Germany.
   Takuma Yamamoto's comments, apparently intended as a trial
balloon, underscore how eagerly Fujitsu and its Japanese
rivals are now pursuing the European market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The chief of Japan's largest computer maker said that as
part of the company's drive to expand in Europe he hopes
eventually to invest in the West German electronics giant, or
to form a joint venture with it. In a brief interview
following a news conference in London, he said: "Sometime in
the future, if there is the possibility to invest in Siemens,
I hope to do that."
   Mr. Yamamoto said he hasn't any "definite plans" -- and a
Siemens spokesman in Munich said he doesn't see a need for
expanded cooperation "at the moment." The two companies
already cooperate in mainframe computers, with Fujitsu acting
as supplier for Siemens's top-of-the-line mainframe models,
sold primarily in West Germany. Siemens is the second-largest
computer vendor in Europe, after International Business
Machines Corp. Even a friendly Japanese investment in a
pillar of European technology like Siemens would stir immense
political controversy in Europe.
   Mr. Yamamoto said Fujitsu's computer sales in Europe
currently total about 100 billion yen ($671 million) a year,
obtained mostly by marketing its products through Siemens,
International Computers in Britain, and a venture with
Spain's Cia. Telefonica Nacional de Espana. He added that
while he hasn't any specific plans yet, he is also interested
in forming joint ventures in Eastern Europe.
   Yesterday's long-expected agreement with International
Computers, or ICL, a unit of Britain's STC PLC, widens
Fujitsu's lead over its Japanese rivals and makes it a
tougher competitor against IBM. The planned purchase of an
80% stake in ICL pushes Fujitsu just past Digital Equipment
Corp. as the world's second-biggest computer maker after IBM.
The purchase would still leave Fujitsu, with computer-related
sales in the year ended March 31 of 1.69 trillion yen, about
a fourth of IBM's size; ICL's sales, in the half-year ended
June 30, totaled #765 million.
   But the British investment is a milestone in Japan's
three-decade quest, often backed by government policies, to
catch up with world-leading IBM. In the British market, ICL
is IBM's closest competitor, and Fujitsu's control of it will
doubtless make life more difficult for IBM in Britain, the
fifth-largest national market for IBM. More important, the
Fujitsu investment may hurt IBM on the European continent by
helping ICL achieve its goal of expanding significantly
beyond Britain.
   "We strongly hope to increase ICL's business in the U.K.
-- and Europe, too," Mr. Yamamoto said at the news
conference. He declined to elaborate, beyond saying that he
doesn't plan any changes in ICL's management or strategies.
Last year, ICL controlled 16% of the British computer
hardware, software and services market, excluding personal
computers, according to market researchers Dataquest Inc. In
contrast, ICL's share of the total West European market was a
feeble 3%.
   The biggest obstacle to Fujitsu's growth in Europe --
whether with ICL or Siemens -- will be politics. As in the
U.S., European politicians are increasingly leery of growing
Japanese investments; and few areas are more politically
sensitive than a high-tech sector like computers. Among the
risks in the ICL investment, for instance, is that ICL under
Japanese ownership could lose its grip on British government
computer contracts. And in the days since Fujitsu first
announced talks with ICL, some European competitors have
questioned ICL's continued rights to participate in European
Community high-tech research projects.
   In a telephone interview yesterday, Francis Lorentz,
chairman and chief executive of French computer-maker Groupe
Bull, argued that ICL shouldn't be allowed to join any new EC
research projects unless the Japanese open their government
programs to European companies. As the largest British-owned
computer company, ICL gets several million dollars a year in
EC research subsidies; denying ICL access to the technology
generated in these projects would hurt ICL and its new owner.
   "If we want to open our markets," Mr. Lorentz said, "ask
them {the Japanese} to open their markets." He added that he
will discuss with Siemens whether or not to disband a
three-way, ICL-Siemens-Bull research center in computer
software. At yesterday's London news conference, however, ICL
Chief Executive Peter Bonfield said he doubts his company
will be excluded from any collaborative projects, as it
remains a European-based and -managed company despite its
Fujitsu ties.
   If Fujitsu's skillful handling of ICL is any guide, the
Japanese company may sidestep many political hurdles to its
European growth. Fujitsu defused a potential furor over its
ICL purchase by spending months in slow, cautious talks with
STC, and paying numerous "courtesy calls" on British and EC
politicians. Also helping the company was its status as a
familiar face in Britain; since 1981, Fujitsu has supplied
ICL with the core technology of the British company's
mainframe computers, the logic chips to ICL's Series 39
models.
   As a result, many British politicians have welcomed -- or
at least refrained from opposing -- the Fujitsu purchase as
the only way to maintain a native British mainframe-computer
industry. ICL was formed in 1968 by the merger of two local
computer firms, and is regarded by politicians as the
flagship of British computing.
   STC, a large telecommunications-equipment maker, bought
ICL in 1984 in an illstarred effort to become a global
"information technology" giant. For the past 18 months, new
STC management has been hankering to dump ICL as incompatible
with plans to expand their strong phone cable and
transmission-gear business.
   Yesterday, STC announced that "we are undertaking a wide
ranging review of our business and its structure." Arthur
Walsh, chairman and chief executive, said STC will use the
proceeds of the ICL sale to expand the communications
business, and to develop alliances with other companies.
   Also yesterday, STC reported disappointing financial
results for the half-year ended July 1. Pretax profit tumbled
32% to #77.7 million from #114.6 million a year earlier. Net
income fell 30% to #50.1 million, or nine pence a share, from
#72 million, or 13 pence a share. Revenue fell 6.7% to #1.19
billion from #1.28 billion.
   ICL, which provides 64% of STC's revenue and 68% of
operating profit, also put in a weak performance in the
half-year. Operating profit slipped to #58.4 million from
#63.1 million a year earlier, because of a slowing in the
U.K. computer market. Nevertheless, of all the European
computer companies Fujitsu could have bought, ICL is regarded
by industry analysts as one of the best. After a painful
reorganization in the early 1980s, ICL has been posting
respectable profits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   More Governors See Raising Taxes as a Sign
   Of Leadership -- And They're Even Saying So
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   MOBILE, Ala. -- There's no mistaking what's on the minds,
if not the lips, of the nation's governors: more new taxes.
   Thirty-one states, plus Puerto Rico and the District of
Columbia, have raised taxes since January, and the governors
who are conducting their annual summer meeting among the
battleships, antebellum mansions and chigger-weed of this
Gulf port believe that more new taxes may be on the way.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These governors, so often contemptuous of the federal
government, believe they have a fresh lesson for Congress and
President Bush. They're convinced there's little to the
Washington wisdom that taxes are political hemlock.
   "As a conservative Republican, I raised taxes," says Gov.
Norman Bangerter of Utah. "I survived."
   Washington appears to be in paralysis over taxes -- a
philosophical deadlock over whether taxes are an instrument
of government tyranny combined with a political deadlock on
how to steer out of the tyranny of a $160 billion deficit.
But increasing numbers of governors are coming to regard tax
packages as symbols of resolve and leadership.
   "The reality is that every governor who did anything in
the 1980s made tough decisions on taxes and the people ended
up supporting them," says Democratic Gov. Richard Celeste of
Ohio. "No governor succeeded in the '80s without raising
taxes."
   The governors also are regarding the tax packages that
have been passed in recent years -- every state raised some
taxes in the past decade -- as symbols of what they consider
Washington's lack of responsibility.
   "We're talking about taxes because we have to pick up so
much from the federal government," says GOP Gov. George
Mickelson of South Dakota. Gov. Ray Maybus of Mississippi, a
Democrat, adds: "It's particularly hard to run a state
government when you have a federal government that is
retreating in a lot of areas, leaving mandates for the states
but no money to pay for these things."
   It was in this political atmosphere that the Bush
administration lobbied its latest revenue plan, a proposal to
limit the deductibility of state and local taxes. The plan is
regarded on Capitol Hill as little more than an opening
bargaining tactic and is not expected to be part of a final
budget agreement.
   But the governors, mindful of the tactic, still regarded
it as consistent with Washington's disregard for the states.
"This was just another way for the federal government to push
on the states to pay for a federal mess," says Democratic
Gov. James Blanchard of Michigan.
   Federal grants to state and local governments dropped by
more than a third in real dollars in the decade of the 1980s,
leaving the governors in the familiar position of having to
do more with less. "We've been asked to pick up burden after
burden after burden," says Democratic Gov. Michael Dukakis of
Massachusetts.
   "I'm trying to run a state with the same real dollars it
was run on in 1981," says Democratic Gov. George Sinner of
North Dakota. "There comes a time when we all have to tell
people we have to raise taxes."
   The irony is that the distaste for taxes at the federal
level has made new taxes at the state level all but
unavoidable. "The federal spigot may have been turned off,
but the mandates to act remain," says Burdette Loomis, a
political scientist at the University of Kansas. "A lot of
governors have been forced to raise taxes more than they
otherwise might have because of the rhetoric from Washington.
A lot of this stuff has to be paid for, whether the president
says, `No new taxes' or not."
   The result: "Washington is telling us to cut something
else or raise taxes," says Democratic Gov. Bob Miller of
Nevada.
   The momentum toward higher taxes is so strong that,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures,
only Hawaii and Indiana reduced taxes this year more than 1%.
In all, 11 states voted to increase revenue by more than 5%.
   "This will almost certainly continue as long as clear
education and infrastructure needs aren't met by the federal
government," says Democratic Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas.
   Steven Gold, director of the Center for the Study of the
States at the Nelson Rockefeller Institute of Government in
Albany, N.Y., believes that 1991 could be the biggest year
for state-tax increases in 20 years. Mr. Gold's estimates are
based on projections that state Medicaid spending will
increase by 14% this year, prison spending will continue to
grow as the drug war continues, and revenue shortfalls will
develop in several states.
   All of this comes against the backdrop of President Bush's
remarks that he believes new revenue must be a part of a
final budget agreement in Washington. "For the last 11 years,
the public has been told that we don't need to pay taxes,"
says William Keach, a University of North Carolina political
scientist. "But now that at least people in Washington can
talk about taxes, governors seem a little more free to do so
as well. The anti-tax culture may be waning."
   None of these governors is arguing, however, that the tax
revolt is over.
   "It's just as difficult to talk about taxes as before,"
says Republican Gov. Stan Stephens of Montana. "People don't
like taxes, but they like services, and governors have to try
to accommodate that."
   The governors who have succeeded in pressing tax plans
have almost always tied new revenue to specific spending.
"People are willing to pay more taxes for education if we can
show them results," says GOP Gov. Carroll Campbell of South
Carolina. This year, in fact, six states raised both sales
and income taxes to devote more resources to education, while
two more raised only sales taxes for education.
   The principle applies in other areas of government
services as well. In Delaware, for example, increased revenue
from higher cigarette taxes was directed to health-care
spending, with boosts in the gasoline tax going to underwrite
highway construction.
   "Taxes aren't political death if there's a demonstrated
need," says GOP Gov. Michael Castle. "The key is to make sure
people don't think there's a lot of waste."
   While many of the governors applauded the president for
moving away from his no-new-taxes vow, there remains deep
skepticism toward Washington. Gov. Clinton of Arkansas
worries that the president's changed position may actually
make it more difficult for all politicians to govern.
   "Now he's saying `unread my lips,' " says Mr. Clinton.
"This has contributed, along with the savings-and-loan
crisis, to eroding confidence in government. The American
people liked President Bush and trusted him, and now that
he's changing his tune he's hurting all politicians."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Too Many Think the Bunny
   Is Duracell's, Not Eveready's
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   RAL RTS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   High atop the list of America's favorite commercials this
year sits the Duracell battery campaign. Viewers can't seem
to get enough of the obnoxious pink bunny that "keeps on
going . . . and going . . . and going."
   But wait. The pink bunny commercial isn't for Duracell at
all. It's for Eveready's Energizer battery, the No. 2 brand.
The fact that survey respondents can't tell the difference
shows how even the most memorable ad may not do much for the
brand it's supposed to be selling. On the contrary, the ad
may inadvertently boost the competition: Duracell's market
share continues to grow while Eveready's has shrunk slightly,
according to A.C. Nielsen figures that Eveready disputes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The mass confusion over the bunny is painfully evident in
the first-quarter results of Video Storyboard Tests Inc.'s
annual survey of 4,700 viewers, which will be released this
week. Energizer ranks second in the latest survey thanks to
its annoying mechanical mascot. But so many people associated
the bunny with Duracell instead that it, too, was pushed into
the top 10, making its debut at an impressive No. 7.
   In fact, a full 40% of the people who named the bunny
commercial as the most outstanding ad were sure it was for
Duracell; only 60% correctly identified it as an Energizer
ad. "It's helping Duracell quite a lot," observes David
Vadehra, president of Video Storyboard. Eveready "should be
spending more time on the Energizer name, and less time on
the bunny."
   The Energizer mix-up isn't uncommon. When No. 2 brands
challenge their bigger rivals by mocking them in ads,
consumers often remember the ad, the product -- and the No. 1
brand name, rather than the name of the challenger. A few
years ago, the Video Storyboard survey found people
attributing a funny Philips light bulb campaign to market
leader General Electric. Respondents also confused an
Anheuser Busch ad that mocked the famous Miller Lite
retired-jocks-in-a-bar campaign.
   But Mr. Vadehra says he hasn't seen this much confusion
since 1979, when people were sure that the cloying James
Garner-Mariette Hartley camera campaign was for Kodak. The
ads were actually for Polaroid. He thinks the mass bunny
trouble stems from the fact that the Energizer ad is actually
mocking an earlier Duracell ad that also used a mechanical
bunny. There's a moral somewhere here: "If the No. 2 brand
tries to hitch onto the advertising associated with the
category leader," he says, "people are going to think this is
an ad for the category leader."
   Duracell, as one would expect, is perfectly happy to be
part of the confusion. After all, its ads never made it into
the top 10 on their own. It's even fielded a few letters from
consumers asking where they can get their very own pink
bunny. It sends back Duracell products instead. "We thank
Eveready for helping give us more impact from our advertising
budget," a spokesman says.
   But Bob Wolf, chairman and chief executive officer of
Chiat/Day/Mojo, which created the bunny campaign, says more
people are catching on that yes, the campaign is for
Eveready. "Inevitably, there's going to be a lag time before
people link {the bunny} to the actual product," he says. He
adds that the agency gets hundreds of letters about the
campaign, and that it hopes to link the Energizer name more
strongly with the bunny by picturing the bunny in store
displays and perhaps on packaging.
   "You're dealing with probably the lowest-interest category
in the world. Nobody cares about batteries except when they
stop working," he says bluntly. He adds, "What we've created
is a very memorable advertising campaign. If you can create
interest, that's when you get sales."
   Eveready, a unit of Ralston Purina, says the campaign is
working just fine. It goes even further than that: It
vigorously disputes Nielsen figures showing that Duracell is
the market leader, and that Eveready's market share has
slipped slightly since last year. Eveready's own internally
calculated figures show it as the undisputed market-share
leader.
   The Nielsen figures for March-April 1990 show Duracell as
the No. 1 brand, with 42.1% of all alkaline battery sales, up
from 40.1% a year earlier. Eveready, according to Nielsen,
had market share of 36.7% in the 1990 period, down slightly
from 37.3% in 1989. The Eveready spokesman says the Nielsen
figures are incomplete, because they don't take into account
sales at retailers such as discount outlets and hardware
stores. Nielsen declines to comment on the matter.
   Regardless of what the true numbers are, ad experts say
the perception is that Duracell is the market leader -- and
that's enough to confuse people when they see the Energizer
bunny. "If there's somebody else who is top of mind, you take
the risk that you're playing to the leader's strengths," says
Richard Winger, a consultant with Boston Consulting Group in
New York. "If you're the No. 2 brand, it's very risky."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Russ Togs, New York, awarded the ad account
for its Diesel brand of blue jeans to Kirshenbaum &amp; Bond, a
small New York agency. Billings are set at $2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T Gets Amtrak Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   T
</CO>
<LP>
   MORRISTOWN, N.J. -- AT&amp;T Computer Systems received a $14
million contract to improve Amtrak's reservation and
ticketing systems.
   The company is a subsidiary of American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph Co., the New York telecommunications giant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AT&amp;T Computer Systems will install and maintain more than
2,100 networked computers, software and peripheral equipment
at more than 300 Amtrak facilities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Stocks Stage
   Late Rally;
   Bonds Rise
   ---
   Oil Prices Aid Energy
   Shares, Hurt Airlines;
   Treasurys Pose Puzzle
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market pulled out of a morning dive
and closed higher, with rising bond prices, strong oil issues
and program buying pulling blue-chip issues out of the
depths.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 18.82 to 2917.33.
Oil stocks led the rebound. Gains in Chevron, Exxon and
Texaco accounted for about half of the average's overall
advance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rising oil prices hurt airline stocks, however. The Dow
Jones Transportation Average fell 9.67 to 1125.00. UAL's 6
1/8-point decline to 156 7/8 accounted for part of that move,
but most other airline shares were lower because investors
think higher fuel costs will erode their profits in the next
several months. AMR, parent of American Airlines, fell 7/8 to
55 3/4.
   But a 17-cent rise in September crude oil futures to
$20.21 a barrel had little effect on the Treasury bond
market, which typically falls when oil prices gush. Bonds
opened higher and kept climbing. The Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond rose nearly 7/8 of a point, or $8.75 for each
$1,000 face amount.
   Traders had trouble identifying the bond bulls. "If there
are people driving the market, it's not the foreign
investor," said George Gianaris, sales manager at Daiwa
Securities America. The yield advantage of a U.S. 10-year
note over a Japanese issue is about three-quarters of a
percentage point, the narrowest in years, "and that's before
you even start thinking about currency risk," Mr. Gianaris
said.
   Falling interest rates heightened the appeal of utility
stocks. The Dow Jones Utility Average gained 3.70 to 207.05,
its strongest rise since early June.
   One investment strategy at work in both the stock and bond
markets was asset allocation. Vince Bailey, vice president at
BEA Associates, said it isn't uncommon for managers of funds
that attempt to duplicate market indexes to put new money to
work at the end of a month. Also, a drop in money-market
rates and last week's stock-market decline is causing some
big money managers to shift from cash and bonds into stocks,
he said.
   So while asset allocators helped push benchmark indexes
up, many stocks not included in these measures lagged.
Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange were ahead of
advancing shares 792-717. And the over-the-counter market
sagged: The Nasdaq composite index fell 3.21, or 0.73%, to
439.38.
   "This wasn't institutional buying" in the stock market,
said Richard Meyer, head of equity trading at Ladenburg,
Thalmann &amp; Co. "This was buy programs and traders; the volume
shows that." New York Stock Exchange trading amounted to
146,470,000 shares, lighter than an average day.
   In major market activity:
                                                                                                       

   Stocks finished higher. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock
index gained 0.60%, compared with the Dow industrials' 0.65%
rise.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were higher. The yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond declined to 8.40% from 8.48%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Redemption Notices
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   TX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following is a listing of securities called for
partial or complete redemption during the week ended July 27,
1990. The notices are taken from advertisements appearing in
editions of The Wall Street Journal, and are not meant to be
definitive. Inquiries regarding specific issues should be
directed to the paying agent or, if none is listed, the
issuer.
                                                                                                       

                       MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   BI-STATE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE MISSOURI-ILLINOIS
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT will call for redemption Sept. 1, 1990,
its St. Louis Metropolitan Area Transit Revenue Bonds, Series
1963. Mercantile Bank of St. Louis National Association,
Missouri, is trustee.
   CALERA, ALA., will call for early redemption Sept. 1,
1990, all of its general obligation refunding warrants,
series 1985 due Sept. 1, 1991-2000. AmSouth Bank, Birmingham,
is paying agent.
   CANADIAN COUNTY, OKLA., HOME FINANCE AUTHORITY will call
$875,000 principal amount of single family mortgage revenue
bonds, 1980 series A, due Sept. 1, 2010, and $390,000 of 1980
series C bonds due Sept. 1, 1991-1998 and 2012. The
redemption date is Sept. 1, 1990. Liberty National Bank &amp;
Trust, Oklahoma City, is trustee.
   COUNTIES OF WARREN &amp; WASHINGTON INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
AGENCY will redeem $125,000 principal amount of its Pollution
Control Revenue Bond, Scott Paper Company Project, 5 7/8%
Series due Sept. 1, 2002, on Sept. 1, 1990. Fidelity Bank,
National Association, Philadelphia, is trustee.
   DALTON, GA., DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY will call on Sept. 1,
1990, $250,000 principal amount of its Series 1973 Industrial
Development Revenue Bonds, Salem Carpet Mills Project, due
Sept. 1, 1990. Wachovia Bank &amp; Trust Co., Winston-Salem,
N.C., is trustee.
   DELAVAN LAKE SANITARY DISTRICT (OF DELAVAN &amp; WALWORTH,
WIS.) will redeem $40,000 principal amount of its Sewerage
Mortgage Revenue Bonds, due Sept. 1, 1999, on Sept. 1, 1990.
The First National Bank of Chicago is paying agent.
   HUNTSVILLE, ALA., INDUSTRIAL REVENUE BOARD will call on
Sept. 1, 1990, $100,000 of revenue bonds, H.D. Lee Co. issue,
due Sept. 1, 1993. AmSouth, Birmingham, is redemption agent.
   LANCASTER REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY will redeem $750,000
principal amount of its Residential Mortgage Revenue Bonds,
1980 Series A, due March 1, 1991-1995, 2000, and 2012, on
Sept. 1, 1990. Security Pacific National Bank, Glendale,
Calif., is trustee.
   MEMPHIS HOUSING FINANCE CORP. will redeem on Sept. 1,
1990, mortgage revenue bonds, Saints Courts and Norris
Gardens issues, due Sept. 1, 1996. AmSouth Bank, Birmingham,
is paying agent.
   MORRISTOWN HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORP. will call its
mortgage revenue bonds, Laurelwood issue, due Sept. 1, 1996,
on Sept. 1, 1990. AmSouth Bank, Birmingham, is redemption
agent.
   OHIO MULTIFAMILY HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORP. will call its
mortgage revenue bonds, series 1982 E, FHA-Insured Mortgage
Loan-Beasley Mill-Section 8 Assisted Project, on Sept. 1,
1990. Ameritrust, Cleveland, is the trustee.
   PIEDMONT, ALA., INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD will redeem
$330,000 of 6.50% revenue bonds, Universal Oil Products Co.
issue, due Sept. 1, 1993, on Sept. 1, 1990. AmSouth Bank,
Birmingham, is paying agent.
   POMONA, CALIF., REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY will call on Sept. 1,
1990, $24,505,000 of its Residential Mortgage Revenue Bonds,
1980 Series B, due Sept. 1, 2013. Security Pacific National
Bank, Glendale, Calif., is trustee.
   ST. MARY'S HOSPITAL, TROY, N.Y., will redeem $5.39 million
of first mortgage bonds, series 1982, due Sept. 1, 2002, on
Sept. 1, 1990. Union National Bank, Albany, N.Y., and
Midlantic National Bank, Edison, N.J., are paying agents.
   SHELBYVILLE, TENN., INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD will call
$100,000 principal amount of industrial development revenue
bonds, Stanley Works Project, Series 1973, due Sept. 1, 1993,
on Sept. 1, 1990. Third National Bank, Nashville, is trustee.
   SOUTH PITTSBURG, TENN., INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD will
redeem on Sept. 1, 1990, $250,000 principal amount of its
Series 1973 revenue bonds, Salem Carpet Mills Project, due
Sept. 1, 1990. Wachovia Bank &amp; Trust Co., Winston-Salem,
N.C., is trustee.
   STEPHENS COUNTY, OKLA., HOME FINANCE AUTHORITY will call
$1,175,000 of single-family mortgage revenue bonds 1980
series A due Sept. 1, 1991-1995 and 2010 on Sept. 1, 1990.
Liberty National Bank &amp; Trust, Oklahoma City, is trustee.
   URBANA, ILL., will redeem $265,000 principal amount of its
Residential Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series 1979, due Sept. 1,
1991-1996 and 2006, on Sept. 1, 1990. Continental Bank,
National Association, Chicago, is trustee.
   WISCONSIN HOUSING AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY will
call for early redemption on Sept. 1, 1990, the following
home ownership revenue bond issues: 1986 series A serial
bonds; 1986 series A 7.60% bonds due March 1, 2013; 1986
series A 8.125% bonds due Sept. 1, 2016; 1986 series B 6.625%
bonds due Sept. 1, 2007; 1987 series A 7.75% bonds due Sept.
1, 2014; 1987 series B 7.375% due Sept. 1, 2015; 1987 issue C
term bond due March 1, 2016; 1987 issue D term bonds due
Sept. 1, 2015 and 1987 issue E term bonds due March 1, 2016.
Bank One Wisconsin Trust, Waukesha, Wis., is trustee.
                                                                                                       

                       CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

   TEXACO CAPITAL INC., will redeem its 12 7/8% guaranteed
notes due 1992, on Sept. 1, 1990. Bank of America, London,
Paris, Frankfurt, Brussels and Zurich; Chase Manhattan Bank,
Luxembourg, and Banque Internationale, Luxembourg, are
redemption agents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Litton Gets McDonnell Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   LIT MD
</CO>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Litton Industries Inc. said it
received a two-year contract from St. Louis-based McDonnell
Douglas Corp. to develop sensor technology for a fiber-optic
flight-control system for advanced aircraft.
   The companies didn't disclose the amount of the contract.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank Declines State Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CBPA
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Community Bancorp, a bank holding company,
said it declined protection, as allowed, under Pennsylvania's
new anti-takeover law, the nation's toughest, which places
voting restrictions on large shareholders and discourages
so-called greenmail, or a company's buying back its stock
from an unwanted suitor at higher-than-market prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Drop for Seventh Day in a Row,
   As Rise in Interest Rates Again Dries Up Buying
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks retreated for the seventh consecutive trading
day, as the continuing rise of interest rates on the bond
market dried up buying interest.
   In London, share prices finished a somber session softer,
as soggy performances on overseas markets inspired little
fresh confidence in equities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues fell 420.53 points to
30442.95, posting a total of a 2612.67-point, or 7.9%, loss
since July 20.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the Nikkei index
rebounded 277.19 points to 30720.14.
   Monday's volume on the first section was sparse --
estimated at 250 million shares, down from 437 million
Friday. Losers widely outnumbered gainers 790 to 168, while
151 issues were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section was down 23.97 points, or 1.07%, to 2225.29.
   The second section index fell 14.10 points, or 0.32%, to
4349. Volume in the section was estimated at 12.2 million
shares, down from 25 million shares Friday.
   In response to higher interest rates on the bond market,
stock prices retreated soon after the opening.
   In addition to rounds of selling by arbitragers, selling
by investors who were too discouraged to hold on to their
shares pressured down the Nikkei Index as low as 30296 points
midafternoon, as the benchmark 10-year government bond prices
hit a seven-year low.
   The No. 119, 10-year bond fell 0.26 yen to 85.00 yen, with
the yield rising 0.060 percentage point to 7.630%.
   The Bank of Japan's fund-adding money market operation
late morning prompted a slight rebound on the bond market.
But the move didn't help cool off growing speculation that
the central bank may again raise the official discount rate,
observers said.
   Buying linked to new sets of investment trust funds helped
push up stocks from midday lows. Traders said, however,
investment trust funds were also active sellers, mirroring an
increasing number of investors who unwound their trust fund
accounts because of the recent sluggishness of the stock
market.
   The short-term money market, which is offering higher than
7.5% fixed interest, is absorbing much short-term money, said
a trader at James Capel Pacific.
   As reflected by the extremely low volume, most investors
remained on the sidelines, he said, noting that most
investors with a midterm or long-term stance aren't willing
to sell stocks at current low levels.
   "But they also don't want to run a risk of buying when
interest rates may go up higher," the trader said.
   The market is losing support by individual investors,
whose active buying of small-capital stocks have been leaving
breathing space for the market while most shares were falling
over the past week.
   Individuals' funds are stuck with stocks they bought when
prices were rising, said Tetsuji Hamasaki, general manager of
investment information at W.I. Carr Sons &amp; Co.
   For example, he said, stocks such as Ajinomoto, which
jumped on reports of new products, stopped their surges. So
did speculative shares such as Jujo Paper &amp; Pulp, following
the arrest of a speculator group's leader this month, he
said.
   Also, trading on the second section and the
over-the-counter market calmed perceptions that their prices
have become too expensive, Mr. Hamasaki said.
   Individuals are unable to buy as they can't take profits
from any shares, he said. As a result, turnover slows, he
said.
   Mr. Hamasaki predicted that selling pressure will
increase, reflecting approaching margin calls for a large
volume of stocks.
   The balance of margin buying rose 1.5 trillion yen ($10.07
billion) from late February to mid-March following eased
restrictions on margin buying from Feb. 27, he said.
   Selling linked to margin calls will pressure stock prices,
he said, because the market likely won't be able to absorb
such selling with overall volume expected to remain thin
reflecting the high interest rates.
   Financial sectors were sold off, discouraged by
continually rising interest rates, traders said.
   Mitsubishi Bank fell 60 yen to 2010 yen, while Mitsui &amp;
Taiyo Kobe Bank dropped 90 yen to 1930 yen.
   Construction and mining shares also declined, with
Ohbayashi down 20 yen to 1520 yen, and Nippon Mining easing
28 yen to 875 yen.
   Electronics shares also fell, with Sharp retreating 30 yen
to 1710 yen, while Sony dropped 120 yen to 8610 yen.
   Meanwhile, with persistent weakness in Tokyo overnight and
following on the heels of a depressed showing late last week
on Wall Street, dealers said London shares had little choice
but to head lower.
   However, many market watchers said they hadn't noticed any
heavy selling pressure but rather a drift down amid little
turnover.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index fell
13.6 points to 2316.5, while the Financial Times 30 Share
Index was down 4 points at 1838.1. Volume was 341.7 million
shares compared with 344.7 million issues Friday.
   STC said first-half pretax profit fell 32% to #77.7
million ($142.9 million), adding that full-year profit is
likely to be below 1989's result. The electronics maker also
said it will sell 80% of its ICL computer subsidiary to
Fujitsu Ltd. for #700 million, a tag that dealers put at the
bottom of market expectations. STC skidded 21 pence to 267
pence on turnover of 11 million shares.
   Elsewhere, Pearson shed 22 pence to 720 pence. The
publishing group was hit by bearish weekend press reports
that new orders for British Satellite Broadcasting, in which
Pearson has a significant stake, will be well below expected
levels.
   Maxwell Communications Corp. fell 9.5 pence to 174.5
pence. Robert Maxwell said that he may back a possible bid
for PowerGen, which is soon to be privatized, by the Union of
Democratic Mineworkers.
   Elsewhere, stocks ended lower in Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich,
Brussels, Amsterdam, Stockholm, Madrid and Milan. South
African gold stocks closed lower.
   Shares also closed lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Seoul,
Singapore and Wellington, and higher in Taipei and Manila.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                              Jul 27   Jul 26      Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .....................  327.3    329.6    +  0.7
   Britain ..................  692.8    696.5    -  3.9
   Canada ...................  390.4    390.3    -  9.7
   Japan .................... 1239.2   1257.8    - 25.1
   France ...................  548.0    553.4    -  3.3
   Germany ..................  309.9    311.3    +  8.6
   Hong Kong ................ 2591.4   2593.1    + 23.6
   Switzerland ..............  219.3    221.4    -  0.7
   Australia ................  324.8    327.4    -  1.9
   World index ..............  516.2    519.8    -  9.0
   ---
                  Weekly Percentage Leaders
                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks   among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's   stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

 ISSUE (COUNTRY)                             CLOSE     %CHG
                                                                                                       

                        WINNING ISSUES

 Lone Star Industries (U.S.) .............    12.0    + 24.7
 Allgemeine Bauges Stamm (Austria) .......  3460.0    + 19.3
 Bond Corp International (Hong Kong) .....     2.6    + 15.6
 United Plantations (Singapore) ..........     2.727  + 13.2
 Chinese Estates (Hong Kong) .............     2.4    + 11.6
 Treibacher (Austria) ....................   870.0    + 11.5
 Mitsubishi Paper Mills (Japan) ..........   978.0    + 11.0
 Ball Resources (Australia) ..............     0.21   + 10.5
 Storehouse (Britain) ....................     1.38   + 10.4
 Allgemeine Bauges Vorzug (Austria) ......  2925.0    +  9.6
                                                                                                       

                        LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Datapoint Corp. (U.S.) ..................     1.5    - 33.3
 Northern Star Holdings (Australia) ......     0.08   - 27.3
 Kern (Australia) ........................     0.49   - 24.6
 Northrop (U.S.) .........................    14.125  - 21.0
 Data General (U.S.) .....................     7.75   - 17.3
 Wagons-Lits (Belgium) ................... 10350.0    - 17.2
 Reuters Holdings (Britain) ..............    10.516  - 17.0
 Morgan Stanley (U.S.) ...................    61.75   - 16.8
 Central Norseman Gold (Australia) .......     0.3    - 16.7
 Nordstrom (U.S.) ........................    30.0    - 16.7
                                                                                                       

 Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West Germany's Cost of Living
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- The cost of living in West Germany was
unchanged in July from the previous month and was 2.4% higher
than a year earlier, preliminary data from the Federal
Statistics Office showed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Baltimore Gas Ratings
   Lowered by Moody's
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   BGE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered
the credit ratings of Baltimore Gas &amp; Electric Co. because of
continued outages at the company's Calvert Cliffs nuclear
units, accelerating replacement energy costs and uncertain
prospects for rate increases. The credit rating change
affects about $2.5 billion of the company's securities.
   Ratings lowered include those on first refunding mortgage
and secured pollution control revenue bonds, to single-A-1
from double-A-3; shelf registration of first refunding
mortgage bonds, to (P)single-A-1 from (P)double-A-3;
unsecured pollution control revenue bonds and other unsecured
debt, to single-A-2 from single-A-1; unsecured pollution
control revenue bonds, to single-A-2/VMIG1 from
single-A-1/VMIG1; preferred stock, to single-A-1 from
double-A-3; preference stock, to single-A-2 from single-A-1;
and shelf registration of preference stock, to (P)single-A-2
from (P)single-A-1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Responding to the downgrading, the utility said in a
statement that it believes it "should be able to recover
these expenditures" related to replacement power and
maintenance and has filed for base and fuel rate increases
with the Maryland Public Service Commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Selwyn Feinstein
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   EXECUTIVE BONUSES shrink on profit slide. But total pay
still climbs.
   Top managers at 125 industrial corporations saw bonuses
paid at the beginning of this year for 1989 performances
decline 2.4% from the year before, to an average $165,200,
consultant Hay Group says. The executives, even so, still are
going to end up this year with $518,300 in total cash
compensation, a 4.4% rise from 1989, because their base
salaries this year are up 7.8%, to an average $353,100.
That's an increase that sounds caution signals for Ira Kay,
Hay's director of compensation consulting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shareholder interests might be better served by putting
some of the money used to fund base-pay increases into
"long-term-incentive opportunities," such as stock options,
he says. This year's 4.4% increase in total compensation,
though, is the slimmest for the top executives since 1985,
when their cash packages edged up less than 3%. Last year,
with whopping bonuses, total compensation climbed 9.7% from
1988.
   Midlevel executives see even smaller raises than their
bosses: 5% in base pay and 4.3% in total compensation.
                                                                                                       

   EMPLOYEE-BENEFIT COSTS rose 5.9% in past year, paced by
health insurance.
   Private employers paid for each worker an average of $4.13
an hour in March for employee benefits, atop the $10.84 an
hour paid in wages, the Bureau of Labor Statistics says. The
benefits -- including vacations, supplemental pay, all
insurance, retirement plans and Social Security -- came to
27.6% of total compensation, up from 27.3% in March 1989 and
26.8% in March 1987.
   Insurance, which mostly means health coverage, accounted
for much of the rise. Companies paid on average 92 cents an
hour to cover workers, up 8.2% from the year before and up
nearly 28% from 1987. Social Security posted the second
sharpest rise, costing employers 89 cents for each hour
worked, up 19% from 1987.
                                                                                                       

   COMPANIES TARGET catastrophic illnesses in bid to curb
soaring health cost.
   With evidence mounting that only a few cases account for a
huge slice of employer medical-benefits bills, companies seek
to control costs by looking for ways to head off catastrophes
before they come to pass. The incentives are clear enough. A
University of Michigan study at Steelcase Inc. finds that
only 10% of its employees account for 66% of its health-care
bill. Another Midwest manufacturer says 1% of its workers are
responsible for 20% of its cost.
   At International Paper Corp., where seven claims in a
9,000-member union group topped $200,000 each last year, the
company moves to limit exposure caused by life-style
excesses, with extra charges or increased deductibles for
workers who smoke, are overweight, don't wear seatbelts or
drive while intoxicated. Philip Morris Cos. steers workers to
staff doctors. Quaker Oats Co. runs wellness and prenatal
classes.
   General Mills figures each program dollar returns $3 in
reduced absenteeism and lower health-care bills.
                                                                                                       

   SEN. DAVID PRYOR's proposed Employee Benefits
Simplification Act draws some shrugs. The bill redefines
compensation and rewrites rules covering distributions into
IRAs. But the measure "doesn't go far enough," says Philip
Bosco of CPAs Arthur Andersen &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   WORKERS WORRY MORE about dependents. One in four calls to
Managed Health Network deals with emotional problems of
subscriber spouses and children, up from only one in 20 two
years ago.
                                                                                                       

   THEY'RE ALL TIED. Workers who smoke and don't wear
seatbelts are willing to be paid less than others for job
risks, Joni Hersch of the University of Wisconsin and W. Kip
Viscusi of Duke conclude.
                                                                                                       

   WRONG TARGET? Half the manufacturers that say they have
productivity problems trace the difficulty to "people," CPAs
Grant Thornton says. But 38% list plant investments as their
primary response. Only 24% cite investments in people.
                                                                                                       

   FORGET SPECIALIZING. Getting ahead now requires
"generalist" training.
   Students believe it; a survey by consultant Right
Associates finds that college students say more than 2 to 1
that the route to the top requires skills in many areas
rather than in-depth training in one specialized field. And,
for once, their elders agree. "Pick something you can put
110% into," even if it has nothing to do with your career
plan, advises Karen Horn, chief executive of Bank One. "The
ability to put 110% into something is very valued in the
business world," she explains.
   At Chevron USA, says Willis Price, president, "we're
moving from technical expertise and scholastic excellence to
a broader profile." Albert Ondis, Astro-Med Inc.'s CEO, says
today's students must develop skills that can be "recycled"
as careers change. Team Bank Chairman Ronald Steinhart, with
degrees in accounting and finance, urges liberal-arts courses
on his three sons. Leonard Jaskol, CEO of Lydall Inc.,
suggests training in logic.
   But Gene Bell of Pacific Telesis argues "you've got to
understand technology, no matter what job you have."
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Sometimes it takes an earthquake. Only one
in five companies nationally has a formal policy for helping
workers cope with natural disasters. But half the West Coast
firms have or are considering such a plan, Adia Personnel
Services says. . . . We know, we know. National Seminars'
list of difficult people includes "the know-it-all," "the
fake know-it-all," "the bull," "the whiner" and "the fox."
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   JONI HERSCH is on the faculty of the University of
Wyoming. The affiliation was misstated in yesterday's
edition.
   (WSJ Aug. 1, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Crossed Lines:
   US Sprint's Troubles
   Come Amid Ferment
   In Long Distance Field
   ---
   Biggest Players Gain Clout,
   Suggesting That Prices
   Could Be Headed Higher
   ---
   Lofty Costs and Weak Billing
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   UT T MCIC
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   US Sprint's long-distance telephone service, the company
advertises, uses a fiber-optic network so pure "you can hear
a pin drop."
   That phrase also might describe the stunned silence,
within the telecommunications industry and on Wall Street,
after the latest news from Sprint: It lost $42 million in the
second quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The July 17 jolt, which included a $72 million
restructuring charge, knocked a third off the stock-market
value of Sprint's parent, United Telecommunications Inc.,
whose own profit fell 55%. The loss also drew angry charges
of mismanagement and deceit from analysts and shareholders,
several of whom are suing.
   But the wider impact could be on the country's $50 billion
annual long-distance phone bill, and on industry regulation.
US Sprint Communications Co. is one of the few challengers to
take a significant share of a market dominated by giant
American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. With Sprint reeling, "the
fundamental question is whether there is competition out
there," says David Wagenhauser, head of the
Telecommunications Research and Action Center, a consumer
watchdog group.
   For AT&amp;T, which is pleading with the Federal
Communications Commission to ease regulation and end the
company's official designation as the nation's "dominant"
carrier, the Sprint troubles are most inopportune. They come
as the long-distance market is rapidly consolidating into an
oligopoly headed by AT&amp;T and second-ranked MCI, which has
agreed to buy the fourth largest carrier, Telecom USA. There
are many tiny players, but they have been vanishing; the
number of carriers and "resellers" of long-distance service
has plunged from 500 in 1986 to about 275 today, according to
the Competitive Telecommunications Association (Comptel).
   As a result, consumer watchdogs say, customers can expect
higher rates. AT&amp;T, after having seen industry pricing fall
steadily by almost 45% since its 1984 breakup, recently
announced its first price increase to individuals and
businesses since the breakup. Rivals are expected to follow
suit. And with the decline of competition, the watchdogs say,
comes less incentive to introduce innovative services. "We
fear a repeat of what happened in the airline industry," says
Catherine Sloan, Comptel's legislative director. "Two or
three top carriers dominated by a price leader can
automatically drive prices up."
   AT&amp;T's almost 70% of the market towers over MCI
Communications Corp.'s 14% and Sprint's 10%, enabling AT&amp;T to
set industry price and service standards. Yet the FCC closed
off a window on AT&amp;T's cost structure, which was an aid to
competitors, by moving last year to regulate AT&amp;T with simple
price caps instead of a cost-based formula. Moreover, the FCC
is considering dropping AT&amp;T's "dominant" designation, saying
industry competition is sufficient to warrant the change.
That would mean AT&amp;T would face far less scrutiny by
regulators than it does now.
   As for AT&amp;T, "Our contention is that this is an
extraordinarily competitive market," says Victor A. Pelson,
group executive of communications services.
   The Sprint debacle provides a rallying point for the
opposition to a freer hand for AT&amp;T. The FCC's "price caps
{have} failed to protect consumers adequately," says the
Consumer Federation of America. Comptel's Ms. Sloan, whose
group represents small industry players, asks, "If Sprint's
having trouble, how can smaller companies think about
succeeding?"
   Sprint's chairman, William T. Esrey, says such concerns
are simply part of a "gross overreaction" to a down quarter.
"This is not some fundamental problem that's across the
board. It's a setback, and we took corrective action."
   Still, in a memo to employees after the earnings report,
Mr. Esrey said that while United Telecommunications' local
phone services remained strong, "US Sprint is struggling.
Revenues are under expectations {and} expenses continue to be
too high. We must do two things: increase revenues and bring
costs in line -- and we must do them immediately." Last week
the company began eliminating many jobs.
   Financial analysts fear that Sprint is ill-positioned for
a long-distance marketing battle that is increasingly
expensive. "This is a marketing business," says Frank
Governali, an analyst at First Boston Corp. "You have to
spend more to get more." Sprint's problem is that it must
simultaneously cut its soaring costs and increase its sales
efforts.
   Jack B. Grubman, telecommunications analyst at PaineWebber
Inc., adds: "MCI is buying market share, and AT&amp;T is going to
make things very tough for its competitors." He predicts that
"a year from now the headlines are going to read, `AT&amp;T is
gaining market share.'"
   AT&amp;T has already sewn up numerous national accounts with
multiyear discount pricing and services plans, called Tariff
12 contracts, for big corporations. And the telephone giant
is forestalling defections in the consumer and small-business
market with a new ad campaign that tells customers to "get it
in writing." Further helping it compete, AT&amp;T has transferred
thousands of employees out of staff jobs and into sales work.
   MCI, meanwhile, is aggressively courting the low end of
the market with increased advertising and blitz
telemarketing. It has hired Pioneer Teletechnologies Inc. of
Sergeant Bluff, Iowa, where hundreds of employees drum up
business for MCI at all hours.
   MCI is also fighting to weaken Sprint's hold on 40% of the
multibillion-dollar federal long-distance phone contract,
called FTS-2000 (AT&amp;T has the other 60%). If MCI should win
the right to sell advanced voice and data services to federal
agencies, Sprint and AT&amp;T could find themselves with a far
less lucrative contract; most of what they've been able to
sell so far is plain old phone service.
   Yet Sprint's problems transcend competition and reflect
major management problems, say some analysts, customers and
former Sprint executives.
   They say senior executives missed a shift in the
long-distance market from a price war to a marketing battle
that stresses service. Not only are Sprint's costs out of
control because of overstaffing, but its billing problems --
the source of much woe in years past -- have returned with a
vengeance. These problems have annoyed customers and strained
relations with Sprint's own sales people, some of whom aren't
being paid on time.
   "The last-minute surprise of the quarter's financial
results means they don't have control over their business,"
contends Robert B. Morris III, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co.
   Not so, insists Mr. Esrey. "There's a great sense of
urgency and seriousness here, but in no way a lack of
optimism," he says. "There are a couple of areas where we
haven't done what we should and we are taking corrective
action."
   Mr. Esrey says US Sprint, a company with $4 billion in
annual revenue, will bounce back by cutting about 1,000 staff
jobs, using fewer outside contractors and adding sales
people. The company also has a "lot of development effort
going on to bring out some new products," he says.
   Others say Sprint faces some tall obstacles. One is a
credibility problem with investors. At least six shareholder
suits have been filed in Kansas City federal courts alleging
that Mr. Esrey and the parent company misled investors about
Sprint's prospects.
   Mr. Esrey says Sprint is "doing sensationally" in signing
up large corporate customers. But industry watchers say the
company hasn't won a big bid for some time. When pressed to
give numbers on his national account business, Mr. Esrey
declines.
   Analysts and former executives also say Sprint is falling
behind on the amount of revenue it had planned to receive
from the FTS-2000 federal contract by this time. They
estimate Sprint had expected $50 million to $75 million in
revenue per quarter by this time but got only $30 million in
the second quarter.
   "Whoever told you that doesn't know what they're talking
about," says Mr. Esrey, declining to give numbers. "FTS is 18
months ahead of schedule. Sales are going very well." The
problem, he says, has been simply a matter of resources. "We
have been outmanned -- outpersoned -- and outgunned, by AT&amp;T
in particular," says the executive, who is lobbying hard
against any FCC move to unshackle the industry leader.
   Some current and former executives say a broad management
shift last fall preoccupied and distracted US Sprint. Mr.
Esrey chose people from parent United Telecommunications for
nearly all his senior management positions, including that of
Sprint president (Ronald LeMay). Critics suggest that the
United executives, used to running their highly successful
monopoly local phone business, were ill-prepared to compete
with the likes of MCI in long distance. Although MCI and AT&amp;T
telegraphed their competitive punches, holding the line on
pricing while aggressively shifting their sales pitches to
emphasize service, Sprint continued running its aging
hear-a-pin-drop ads. It still does.
   "I sit up nights and think about those" ads, says Mr.
Esrey. Noting that Sprint's brash move into fiber-optics
pushed its rivals to rush out their own fiber systems, he
adds, "We were there first but didn't do an effective job of
getting this message across."
   People knowledgeable about Sprint's operations say the
company's managers also failed to attend to some details,
particularly the billing situation. A phone company's most
crucial operation beyond its switching centers is its
computerized billing system. This must take data on millions
of calls a day from the network's switching centers, price
each call, and turn all this into bills at the end of each
month.
   "Billing is just ungodly" at Sprint, says Tom Colvin,
telecommunications manager at Marshall Industries, an El
Monte, Calif., electronics parts distributor. Mr. Colvin, who
estimates his monthly Sprint bill at $170,000, says he only
recently received his long-distance phone bill for March,
April and May. "If things don't improve we're going to drop
them," he says.
   Says Mr. Esrey: "Occasionally we had hiccups, and
sometimes we were days late."
   Several top executives have left Sprint in the past few
weeks, including the man who supervised the billing system
and much of his staff, but also the manager who led Sprint's
successful effort to win part of the federal phone project.
United Telecommunications says their exits were unrelated to
current problems.
   More changes are in store, and they won't be limited to
"the worker bee level," says Mr. Esrey. "Nothing is sacred as
far as how we can be structured better."
   ---

                                                                                                       

 1990 projected U.S. long distance market share, as a percent
of $48.9 billion sales*
                                                                                                       

       AT&amp;T                          70.4%
       MCI                           15.4%
       Sprint                        10.6%
       Telecom USA                    1.9%
       Other                          1.2%
                                                                                                       

 *Excludes approximately $27.5 billion in payments to local
phone companies for access to their networks.
                                                                                                       

 Source: Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Approves Food-Labeling Bill
   That Regulates Use of Health Claims
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House approved a food-labeling measure
that regulates the use of health claims and requires the food
industry to put a uniform nutrition label on almost all
packaged foods.
   The bill was adopted by voice vote after seven major
food-processor groups agreed to a compromise on the volatile
issue of federal pre-emption of state labeling requirements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The purpose of this legislation is to make sense of the
confusing array of nutrition labels that confront all
consumers everytime they enter the supermarket," Rep. Henry
Waxman (D., Calif.) told his House colleagues.
   The bill would require food manufacturers to relabel
thousands of supermarket products within two years of its
enactment. Under the proposed requirements, the new labels
would list the amount of calories, fat, salt and other
nutrients. The measure would also empower the Food and Drug
Administration to regulate health messages and
disease-prevention claims, dispelling lingering doubts about
the agency's statutory authority in this labeling area.
   Some consumer advocates had mixed feelings about the
compromise. "Congress has voted to protect the consumer's
health, but in the process, has made it easier for food
companies to pick the consumer's pocketbook," asserted Bruce
Silverglade, attorney for the Center for Science in the
Public Interest, a Washington-based consumer group. Under the
bill, federal labeling regulations would pre-empt generally
stronger state consumer-protection laws in the realm of
weights and measures, food-quality standards and
ingredient-labeling, Mr. Silverglade complained.
   The industry has insisted on uniformity in labeling,
arguing that a proliferation of state labeling laws will only
create consumer confusion and cause costly disruptions in the
food-distribution system. But industry leaders dropped -- at
least for now -- their demand that the legislation pre-empt
state laws similar to California's Proposition 65. Passed in
1986, Proposition 65 requires manufacturers to put health
warnings on any food containing an ingredient believed to
pose a risk of cancer or birth defects.
   The compromise legislation, co-sponsored by Rep. Edward
Madigan (R., Ill.). "strikes a better balance" between
consumers and manufacturers, said Manly Molpus, president of
the Grocery Manufacturers of America.
   The Senate may take up a similar food-labeling measure
later this week. John Cady, president of the National Food
Processors Association, urged the senators to embrace the
"basic tenets" of the House bill.
   The bill, among other things, would require that nutrition
claims such as "low" and "light" be consistent with
food-content definitions to be set by the FDA. "On some
products, `light' means low in fat; on others, such as some
brands of olive oil, it refers to the color of the product,"
Mr. Waxman said on the House floor. "The bill would correct
this deceptive and misleading state of affairs."
   As for disease-prevention claims, he said, none could be
made until the FDA has reviewed the scientific evidence and
ruled on the validity of the claim.
   The bill would require disclosure of serving size, the
number of servings per container, the number of calories per
serving and the number of calories derived from the total fat
and saturated fat in a serving. It would also require
manufacturers to list on the label the total amount of fat,
saturated fat, unsaturated fat, cholesterol, sodium, sugar,
fiber, protein and carbohydrates.
   Restaurant and delicatessen food would be exempt from the
labeling requirements, as would meat and poultry, which are
regulated by the Agriculture Department. Supermarkets would
be expected -- but not required -- to post nutritional
information or pass out brochures regarding fruits,
vegetables and seafood.
   The House action is likely to give impetus to the FDA's
efforts to develop a comprehensive nutrition-labeling
package. "From our perspective, the bill and the FDA's
{labeling} proposal are fairly much in agreement," said Frank
Scarbrough, a senior FDA official. "What we've proposed may
give us a leg-up in implementing whatever legislation is
passed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Ends Lower on Profit-Taking;
   Nasdaq 100 Index Falls 3.43 to 447.84
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks continued their slide as
profit-taking in blue chip and technology issues joined
forces with ennui to push the OTC market to its lowest level
in three months.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 3.21 to 439.38, or 0.7%,
after trading as low as 473.05 before it began to recover as
exchange-listed shares rose. Declining stocks swamped
advancers, 1,216 to 732, and volume eased to 120.4 million
shares from 121.8 million Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There's a total lackadaisical attitude toward the
secondary stocks," said William Sulya, director of OTC
trading at A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons, St. Louis. "There just isn't
any support for them at this point."
   Mr. Sulya was among those who attributed sharp losses in
several Nasdaq indexes earlier in the day to continued
profittaking among institutions, unwillingness among dealers
to commit capital to smaller stocks and aggressive selling by
some so-called "hedge funds" and other short-term investors.
   Selling continued to hammer the market's larger issues and
some of this year's best performers. Amgen, a biotechnology
concern which opened the year at 49 and rose to an all-time
high last week of 92, fell 1/2 to 87 5/8. The stock traded as
low as 84 1/2 earlier in the day. Among other OTC market
leaders, Intel eased 1/8 to 43 3/8, Liz Claiborne sagged 1
1/8 to 28 7/8; Microsoft fell 1 to 68; Sun Microsystems
dropped 5/8 to 32 1/8; Conner Peripherals declined 1 to 26
1/2, and Nordstrom fell 5/8 to 29 3/8.
   Analysts said profit-taking in those larger stocks
continues to pull down the broader market. The market value
of the Nasdaq 100 Index, which tracks the performance of the
100 largest OTC stocks, comprises 42% of the total market
value of the Nasdaq Composite Index, which consists of 4,056
stocks. The Nasdaq 100 fell 3.43 to 447.84 and has lost 3.55%
this month.
   Morgan Stanley analyst L. Keith Mullins said he finds the
sell-off in the market's technology and larger issues a
"healthy correction" as portfolio managers continue to take
their gains from the first half of the year. "It's natural,"
he said in an interview. "I'm glad to see it shake out some
of the speculators."
   Among other large issues, MCI Communications closed
unchanged at 37 5/8 on 1.8 million shares. The Washington,
D.C., long-distance carrier said it signed contracts with the
American Hospital Association and Continental Corp.
   Traders and analysts said they don't expect smooth sailing
soon among over-the-counter stocks, particularly with
investors wary of earnings disappointments. Mr. Mullins said
he expects to see more selling, particularly of technology
shares that have performed well.
   "Volatility now is higher than normal," said Dick Holden,
senior OTC trader at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, Baltimore. Mr.
Holden explained that dealers are hesitant to put up capital
for stocks during periods with earnings surprises. "They
don't want to have any commitment one way or the other," he
said.
   The thin trading in smaller stocks adds to their
volatility, explained Stephen Lieber, manager of the
Evergreen Fund of Purchase, N.Y. For example, he pointed to
New England Critical Care, which fell 2 1/4 to 28 1/4 after
the Marlborough, Mass., provider of home-infusion therapy
reported net income for the second quarter ended June 30 rose
to 21 cents a share from 15 cents a year earlier.
   Despite that profit increase, the earnings were a couple
of cents shy of analysts' estimates, Mr. Lieber said. "It's
been promptly destroyed," he added, suggesting that investors
who were concerned they couldn't easily sell the stock, which
has 12.2 million shares outstanding, quickly took their
profits.
   "A substantial number of holders are not investors," Mr.
Lieber said, attributing some of the volatility in smaller
stocks to institutions, traders and so-called hedge funds,
which invest for short-term profits.
   Cetus, the day's most-active stock, traded in a wide range
from 17 1/4 to 13 7/8 amid speculation about whether a Food
and Drug Administration advisory panel will recommend
approval of use of the Emeryville, Calif., biotechnology
company's drug, Interleukin-2, for use in the treatment of
kidney cancer.
   Dow Jones Professional Investor Report said after the
market closed that the panel delayed recommending approval of
the drug until it reviews further details of recently
available data about the drug. Cetus fell 1 3/4 to 14 1/8 on
more than three million shares.
   Among other biotechnology shares, Immunex fell 2 1/4 to
31. DJPIR said analysts were concerned that an FDA advisory
panel, scheduled to meet today, might not recommend that the
Seattle biotechnology concern receive full approval to market
a white blood cell stimulant known as GMCSF, to treat graft
failure in bone marrow transplants.
   A question given the panel raised the possibility Immunex
may be given approval pending ongoing testing of the drug,
which would mean the company couldn't immediately earn a
profit from the sale of the drug, analysts told DJPIR.
However, analysts disagreed on whether the panel's concerns
are negative or neutral for the company.
   Shorewood Packaging skidded 1 1/4 to 21 1/4 after Shearson
Lehman Hutton analyst Susan Hirsch lowered her near-term
rating on the Farmingdale, N.Y., maker of paperboard packing
to "neutral" from "attractive" and reduced her earnings
estimate for the company's first quarter ending July 31 to 23
cents a share from 21 cents, DJPIR reported.
   ---
   NEW RULE ADOPTED: The Securities and Exchange Commission
gave the National Association of Securities Dealers the
go-ahead to adopt a "one-share, one-vote" rule for 90 days
while the regulators review it. NASD rushed to adopt the
provision after a federal appeals court ruled last month that
the SEC overstepped its authority in adopting a similar
measure. The rule prohibits any company listed on Nasdaq from
issuing stock that "nullifies, restricts or disparately
reduces" the voting rights of stockholders. The New York
Stock Exchange has a similar rule, but the American Stock
Exchange doesn't.
   ---
   Jean Erickson contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Unit Wins Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Electronic Data Systems Corp., a unit of General Motors
Corp., said it won a $700 million, eight-year contract to
provide the Army, Navy and Defense Logistics Agency with
general purpose computers.
   The contract calls for EDS to provide up to 20,000
computers and systems for general office uses by the agencies
by 1995. EDS also will be responsible for engineering,
installation, training and maintenance of the systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Total spending authorization for the project is $1.3
billion, but government officials said they estimate total
spending for the project will be around $700 million.
   The contract comes as new business to EDS, GM's
Dallas-based computer systems services unit. SMS Data Systems
Corp. of McClean, Va., had provided those agencies with
similar services under a former contract.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Family Rift:
   An FBI Informant
   Gives Rare Inside Look
   At Life With the Mob
   ---
   Ron Fino Tells of Growing Up
   As the Son of a Mafia Boss,
   And 15 Years Undercover
   ---
   Star Witness Against a Union
   ----
   By Stanley Penn
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The heat was on, and Ronald M. Fino's precarious double
life was about to unravel.
   The devoted son of a high-ranking Buffalo mobster, Mr.
Fino had for 15 years headed that city's Local 210 of the
Laborers International Union of North America. During all
those years he had also been an informant for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, feeding the government evidence of
the union's ties to organized crime.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, by late 1988, the mob had finally turned wary. A
Mafia official summoned Mr. Fino to a sit-down in the coffee
shop of Buffalo's Veterans Administration hospital. "I'm
going to have to frisk you," he told Mr. Fino.
   "I had known this man a long time," Mr. Fino recalls
today. "I said, `Shame on you.' He said, `Out of respect for
your father, I won't do it.'"
   The wire Mr. Fino was wearing that day -- in a pack of
cigarettes in his pocket -- went undetected. Nonetheless, the
mobster delivered a warning: "He told me," Mr. Fino says,
"that I couldn't be trusted any longer."
   Mr. Fino took heed. Soon afterward, he fled Buffalo,
assumed a new name and went into hiding, where he remains
today. So far, Mr. Fino's information has helped indict three
Local 210 officers, and has linked the Mafia to Laborers
union locals in other cities, says G. Robert Langford, the
FBI's Buffalo chief.
   As a prosecution witness, Mr. Fino will figure prominently
in the government's attempts to smash the Mafia leadership in
Buffalo and clamp a court trusteeship on Local 210 under
civil provisions of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations, or RICO, law.
   "He was a very big help," says the FBI's Mr. Langford. "He
steered us in the right direction in a number of
investigations."
   In telling his story to The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Fino
provides a rare account of a life and career shaped by his
Mafia birthright -- a legacy that he freely chose to betray.
It is a portrait of the informer's dangerous tightrope act:
of the duplicity, agility and nerve such a performance
demands, and of its aftermath of bitterness and fear.
   The government has in recent years come to rely heavily on
undercover informants to combat organized crime. The
imprisonment of numerous mob bosses under RICO has served to
weaken the Mafia's code of silence, long bred of fear and the
perception of invincibility. Stiff RICO penalties have
further eroded Mafia loyalties, giving mobsters and their
associates powerful incentive to cooperate in return for
lighter sentences.
   As an informant, Mr. Fino is something of an anomaly. He
never joined the Mafia; he declined an invitation to become a
member, though it came from the same reputed "capo" who
earlier had recruited his father. Nor was he coerced to
become an informant; he wasn't facing criminal charges when
he volunteered his services to the FBI. (Years later, while
working undercover, he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor in a
fraud case and received two years' probation.)
   Mr. Fino wasn't paid by the FBI during his years
undercover. He began receiving payments -- now $6,000 a month
-- from the bureau in March 1989 after agreeing to become a
prosecution witness in future trials. FBI agents accompany
him on plane trips and during court appearances. "We have
heard there is a price on his head, and we consider it a
valid threat," says the FBI's Mr. Langford.
   Mr. Fino, now 44, never relaxes his guard. When jogging,
he says, "if I see somebody who looks like a stranger,
somebody looks like he's checking me out, I report it to the
FBI."
   In Buffalo, Mr. Fino is denounced by Paul Cambria Jr., the
attorney for a Local 210 officer whom Mr. Fino has implicated
in a crime. For many years, Mr. Cambria contends, the FBI has
tried without success to brand Local 210 as mob-controlled.
"It looks as if this time they're going to attempt to prove
it by using Ron Fino," who, he says, "resigned from Local 210
probably because he was not able to take it over and run it
the way he would like to."
   Mr. Fino's personal life is in shambles. His wife, Donna,
to whom he never disclosed his FBI spying, divorced him last
November. His two brothers no longer speak to him. One of
them, Patrick Fino, says: "Shame on him because he left his
wife and kids." Fear for his own safety kept Ron Fino from
attending his mother's funeral in Buffalo last December.
   "I try to live a halfway normal life," he says. "But it's
difficult. I can't go and come like a normal person. The
toughest thing is my children -- I don't see them." His son,
19, and daughter, 17, live with their mother.
   Life in solitary exile is a far cry from his heady years
as a labor leader, when his salary and benefits totaled
$85,000 a year. There were union-supplied Cadillacs, trips to
Miami and Hawaii, bottles of Montrachet, friends in high
places.
   "Fino had a generally good reputation," says Dennis
Gorski, county executive of Erie County, where Buffalo is
situated. "He participated in a wide variety of civic and
humanitarian projects."
   A frequent fund-raiser for worthy causes, Mr. Fino was
honored by the Buffalo chapter of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People. And under his
leadership, Local 210 was part of a group that lent money for
downtown redevelopment projects, including construction of
Buffalo's Hyatt Regency hotel. "When Ron Fino gave his word,
to my knowledge he kept it," says Paul Snyder Sr., managing
director of the partnership that owns the Hyatt Regency.
   Some people in Buffalo are still puzzled why Mr. Fino
would forsake everything for the dubious privilege of
exposing Mafia crimes. One explanation is that he never
intended to pay so dearly. Another, perhaps, can be traced to
deep conflicts about his Mafia upbringing.
   "I could never get rid of the feeling that I was one of
them," Mr. Fino says. "You have this original sin that never
washes away.
   "It affected everything. In high school, I'd date a new
girl. Next time I called up for a date, her parents wouldn't
let her go out with me. They'd read about my father in the
paper."
   Milwaukee-born Joseph (Ebe) Fino worked as a bookie,
taking bets on horses and baseball. A 1963 U.S. Senate report
on organized crime traces his rise in the Buffalo Mafia from
"hoodlum status to upper-echelon rank." He was boss of the
Buffalo crime family from 1968 to 1972.
   For a time, according to the Senate report, Joe Fino
served as a Mafia enforcer. Once, his son says, the elder Mr.
Fino killed a man -- the lover of a mobster's unfaithful
wife. "The mob directed that the guy be killed, and my father
drew the assignment," Ron Fino says. The murder went
unsolved. Ron Fino says he never revealed his father's
involvement to outsiders until after Joe Fino died in 1984.
   Secrets and subterfuge were part of growing up in a Mafia
household. When Ron Fino was five, his mother took him to New
York's Attica state prison, where his father was serving time
for grand larceny. "She told me Attica was an Army fort, and
that we were going to visit my father in the Army," Mr. Fino
recalls.
   When he was 11, he watched his father pay off two
detectives at a restaurant. "I thought they were going to
arrest my father," Mr. Fino says. "But all they wanted was
their cut."
   Only gradually did it dawn on the boy that Joe Fino was a
member of the Mafia. Once, young Ron came home from school in
a novelty T-shirt inscribed: "World Order of Mafia. Paid-Up
Member." His father angrily demanded that he remove it. "I
couldn't understand what he was mad about," Mr. Fino says.
   By the time he was in high school, however, Ron Fino was
working weekends in a Mafia gambling parlor, tending dice
tables.
   To the family, "my father was a very caring man," Ron Fino
says. "He gave me money if I needed it. He never hit me -- I
never saw him hit anyone."
   Through his father's connections, Ron Fino joined Local
210 at age 18, working summers in construction while
attending college. He moved up quickly, and was elected Local
210's operating head and business manager in 1973, at age 27.
   Just as Ron Fino's star was rising, Joe Fino's began to
sink. He was perceived by the mob as ineffective, and in 1972
was removed as Buffalo chief by the Commission, the Mafia's
New York-based ruling council. As Mafia leaders looked the
other way, he began to lose customers to other bookies.
   Two years later, he wound up on the losing side of a
factional dispute that had split the Buffalo Mafia. Rumor had
it that he was to be killed. Ron Fino went to his father's
home and urged him to leave. "He wouldn't budge," Mr. Fino
says. "He said to relax. He didn't leave the house for three
days. Then it all blew over. Later I was told by Sam Pieri
that he saved my father's life."
   The late Mr. Pieri, a reputed Mafia "capo" and member of
the dominant faction, was an old friend who had recruited Joe
Fino into the Mafia. He invited Ron Fino to join as well --
three years after Mr. Fino had turned informant. "We were
driving back from Cleveland," Mr. Fino says, "when Sam Pieri
said it would be easy to introduce me as a `friend of ours,'
which meant, `Would you like to join?'" Mr. Fino says that
neither he nor his father, who didn't want him entangled with
the mob, favored the idea. "My father said, `Let me take care
of it.' And I never heard any more about it."
   By 1976, Joe Fino was reduced to taking handouts from his
son. When his father's four-bedroom suburban house burned
down, Ron Fino made the monthly payments on a new house. "All
the time he'd been in the mob, my father never had life
insurance, or medical insurance, and never provided for the
future," Ron Fino says. "Toward the end of his life, I
brought him into Local 210. I got him work as a laborer. I
said, `As a union member, you're entitled to a pension.' I
explained to him the strength of legitimacy."
   Ron Fino rode to election as business manager on a promise
of greater responsiveness to the local's 2,000 members. But
it soon became clear that his hands were tied. "After two
weeks on the job, I was told by the {Mafia} bosses who to put
on the union payroll and who would be involved in the benefit
funds," he says.
   "When deserving people came to me for jobs," Mr. Fino
adds, "I couldn't do anything for them." Instead of an
equitable hiring hall, he says, "there's a Who's Who list of
guys to be taken care of. If you're not on it, you're out of
luck." Mr. Fino insists that it was only after he was elected
union leader that he realized the full extent of mob
influence.
   The Washington-based Laborers International Union is aware
of FBI allegations that the Buffalo local is mob-controlled,
says Robert Connerton, general counsel of the international.
"If something is proven, the international is prepared to do
something about it," he says. Mr. Connerton adds that as
Local 210 leader, Ron Fino "probably did a good job. My
feeling was he was very bright, very flaky, some sort of
shadowy character, always by himself."
   Mr. Fino says that frustration over being a union
figurehead in thrall to mob bosses led him, shortly after his
election in 1973, to begin assisting the FBI. He was
recruited by an acquaintance, an FBI agent to whom he had
earlier voiced his contempt for the mob. The FBI urged him to
join the Mafia to better penetrate it. He refused, he says,
fearing that the mob might order him to kill someone.
   Even so, the FBI had a highly useful operative in Mr.
Fino. In 1976, he met with Anthony D. Liberatore, then
business agent for Cleveland Laborers Local 860. Mr.
Liberatore, according to a 1988 U.S. Senate report, is a
"capo" in the Cleveland Mafia.
   "Liberatore thought I was a member of the Buffalo family,
so he spoke freely," Mr. Fino says. "He told me the mob had a
leak into the FBI office in Cleveland -- someone in the FBI
feeding stuff to them. I was concerned. It meant the mob
would have access to the FBI computer, which had a list of
informants, including me."
   Mr. Fino reported the leak to the FBI. In 1978, an FBI
file clerk and her husband pleaded guilty in Cleveland to
receiving $15,000 from Mr. Liberatore in exchange for
confidential FBI files, including a list of informants. (Mr.
Fino's name apparently wasn't on the list.) The couple
received five-year prison sentences. Mr. Liberatore,
convicted in 1982 of racketeering and for his role in bribing
the FBI clerk, was recently released from prison.
   Mr. Fino and his FBI contact met secretly, often at night,
behind the Buffalo Bills' football stadium. "I told my wife
it was business," Mr. Fino says. "She accepted it."
   Once, a Mafioso spotted him sitting in an FBI agent's car
in broad daylight in downtown Buffalo. Mr. Fino was hauled
before Sam Frangiamore, who at the time was Buffalo's Mafia
chief, according to the FBI. "I told Frangiamore I was coming
out of the union hall when an FBI agent told me to get into
his car," Mr. Fino says. "I said I thought I was under
arrest, and that I told the FBI to go talk to my attorney.
Frangiamore accepted my explanation."
   Another time, the Mafia obtained FBI documents outlining
the bureau's surveillance of mob figures in Buffalo. The
documents, snatched from an FBI agent's unlocked car, were
brought to Local 210. Tipped by Mr. Fino, federal lawmen
barged into Local 210 and retrieved the papers.
   To deflect suspicion from himself, Mr. Fino told Mafia
leaders that the FBI knew of the documents' whereabouts
because they had bugged the union office. Knowing that the
mob would sweep his office, Mr. Fino bought a Radio Shack
transmitter and installed it in his office ceiling. The fake
bug was duly uncovered.
   The close calls took their toll, and by February 1988 Ron
Fino was burned out. He wanted to resume a normal life. He
told the FBI he would no longer serve as an informant and
resigned his job at Local 210. "The crime family urged me to
stay in my job," Mr. Fino says. "I had this good public
image. They were afraid they'd have problems without me."
   The Mafia might never have discovered he was an informant
were it not for the 1988 indictment of Joseph Rosato, a Local
210 shop steward. Mr. Rosato, who denies wrongdoing, is set
to stand trial in September on charges that he accepted
payments from a construction employer for work not performed,
a so-called no-show job scam.
   "The mob asked me to testify as a defense witness that
Rosato didn't violate any law," Mr. Fino says. This put him
in a bind, because he had implicated Mr. Rosato. "So I kept
ducking them," Mr. Fino says. "I was evasive. Then the mob
decided something was wrong."
   After his ominous encounter at the VA Hospital coffee
shop, he asked to meet with Joseph Todaro Jr., the reputed
boss of the Buffalo organized crime family and a former Local
210 business agent. "He refused to see me," Mr. Fino says.
"Then I got word from a relative of someone in the `family'
that I had a `problem,' and I should get out of town."
   Mr. Fino fled Buffalo in a rented black Thunderbird on the
morning of Jan. 13, 1989, accompanied by a woman with whom he
was then romantically involved. A few weeks later, the
Buffalo News reported that he had been an FBI informant.
   He left behind a dying waste-removal company, which he had
founded after leaving Local 210. James A. Ryding, a former
president of the company now being liquidated by a federal
bankruptcy judge, blames its demise on Mr. Fino, who was its
chief executive officer. "He was a bad administrator," Mr.
Ryding says. "He just ignored things. And he couldn't say no
to people." Mr. Fino blames the mob, which he says forced him
to pad his payroll with unnecessary employees and controlled
which contracts he could bid on. The FBI is investigating his
charges.
   Mr. Fino's public exposure has been a boon for federal
prosecutors: Now he is available to testify in open court
about Mafia influence in the 500,000 member Laborers union.
   This September, Mr. Fino will make his first appearance in
his home town as a prosecution witness, to testify against
Mr. Rosato, the former Local 210 shop steward. Other Local
210 officers implicated by Mr. Fino are John Catanzaro, a
former shop steward, and Leonard Falzone, the local's pension
fund administrator.
   Last November, after pleading guilty in a no-show job
scam, Mr. Catanzaro received a 27-month prison sentence. Mr.
Falzone was indicted last August in federal court in Buffalo
on loan-sharking charges. His attorney denies the charges and
the allegations in an FBI affidavit that his client is a
member of the Todaro crime family. No date has been set for
his trial.
   So far, Mr. Fino's courtroom record is good. His initial
appearance as a prosecution witness was last March in
Binghamton, N.Y. He testified that Anthony F. (Guv)
Guarnieri, a reputed "capo" in Pennsylvania's Bufalino crime
family, exerted improper influence over Binghamton Laborers
Local 7. Mr. Guarnieri was convicted on RICO conspiracy and
racketeering charges.
   Mr. Fino also testified in the recent racketeering trial
of John M. Riggi, the reputed Mafia boss of New Jersey. Mr.
Riggi, a former business agent for Laborers Local 394 in
Elizabeth, N.J., was charged in Newark's federal court with
shaking down contractors.
   Mr. Fino stated that Buffalo Mafia leaders -- including
his own father -- had told him that Mr. Riggi is a Mafioso.
He also told the court that a third of his annual $72,000 FBI
fee goes to his ex-wife, and that his current income doesn't
match his previous union compensation. "I lost my family," he
testified. "I lost my home, my way of life."
   Mr. Riggi was convicted on seven counts of extortion and
labor bribery on July 20.
   Mr. Fino's work as a prosecution witness has just begun.
"Before this is all over," he says, "I expect to testify in
50 criminal cases."
   He eventually hopes to resettle in Europe, but worries
that he may be murdered before he gets there. "The fear never
goes away," he says. He considered plastic surgery, but says,
"Doctors tell me that they can't change my features enough to
make me unrecognizable."
   Meanwhile, he tries to maintain the semblance of
normality. He takes a college course, works out in a gym and
avoids fatty foods. But close relationships are out of the
question. When a date asks him what he does for a living, "I
say I'm a consultant to the Labor Department."
   His life in hiding leaves him time for reflection. "Would
I do it again? No. The price is too expensive," he says.
"Look at the pain it's cost my children. They have to defend
me to their friends."
   As always in his world, firm moral bearings are elusive.
One night, he says, as he listened to his daughter weep
recriminations into the phone, "I began to feel I was the
evil one."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trefoil, in Rescue Move, to Buy CNC's
   82% Stake In Child World, Bid for Rest
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   CWLD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURBANK, Calif. -- A so-called white squire fund
controlled by Roy E. Disney has launched its first public
investment, agreeing in principle with a debt-laden holding
company to acquire an 82% stake in Child World Inc., the
nation's second-largest toy retailer.
   The proposed purchase by Trefoil Capital Investors Limited
Partnership will include a subsequent $14-a-share, or $28
million, cash offer for the 18% of Child World now in public
hands. But details of the private part of the deal remain
clouded and the value of the entire transaction is uncertain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed sale appears amid growing interest in
resuscitating leveraged buyouts flattened by heavy debt.
Trefoil, formed by the executives of Shamrock Holdings Inc.,
a holding company controlled by Mr. Disney, a California
investor and nephew of the late Walt Disney, is a $450
million investment fund designed to take advantage of just
such situations. The term white squire has been used to
define a friendly entity that aids another company without
taking it over.
   The partnership said it preliminarily agreed with
Cleveland-based CNC Holding Corp. to buy CNC's stake in Child
World through what the two companies described as a "non-cash
transaction." A person familiar with details of the proposal
said it is intended for Trefoil to issue CNC new securities,
which CNC in turn would offer to holders of its debt and
preferred stock. But such securities would apparently cover
only part of CNC's debt.
   If successful, the transaction may make available to
cash-tight Child World the funds to build up its depleted
store inventories. For CNC, the sale is a chance to move
substantial debt off the holding company's balance sheet.
   Trefoil said the transaction is subject to completion of a
definitive agreement and receipt of fairness opinions from
investment bankers. It said it expects to finish the
documentation by next Sunday and to complete the acquisition
of CNC's stake within 60 days thereafter.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Child
World shares closed at $13.75, down 25 cents.
   Child World, a distant second to Toys `R' Us Inc., the
dominant giant of the business, had net income in its latest
fiscal year ended Feb. 3 of $5.8 million, or $2 a share, on
revenue of $830.3 million. For the usually-slow first quarter
ended May 5, Child World had a loss of $7.4 million, or 65
cents a share, on revenue of $130.1 million-off slightly from
a year earlier. The company, based in Avon, Mass., operates
174 stores in 31 states east of the Rocky Mountains.
   It appears that the retailer, which last year slashed
overall inventories by 8.1%, or by 14% on a per-store basis,
to save cash, may have cut too close to the bone. Child
World, based in Avon, Mass., said the latest quarter results
reflected a shortage of many sales items after the Christmas
season, although it said inventories were refreshed in April.
   Child World's parent, CNC Holding, the product of a 1984
leveraged buy-out, has been under increasing pressure to meet
financial obligations. At Feb. 3, the company had a negative
net worth -- assets minus liabilities -- of $207.3 million.
Starting in September, CNC's more than $170 million of senior
subordinated notes, which have been accumulating interest and
principle, will require cash interest payments. Other parts
of the company's approximately $500 million in long-term debt
and preferred stock also begin in future years to require
cash payments.
   CNC said this past March that it was exploring
alternatives, including the possible sale or refinancing of
its stake in Child World. CNC also operates chains of optical
departments and stores, specialty shops, and key-making
installations.
   Stanley P. Gold, president of Trefoil and president and
chief executive officer of its general partner, Shamrock said
in an interview that Trefoil's capital will greatly help
Child World. "This company has struggled in the last few
years because it has been capital-starved," Mr. Gold said. He
said Shamrock's experience with its 71-store Music Plus and
140-store Sound Warehouse music and video outlets gives
Trefoil's partners considerable retail expertise.
   Trefoil plans to retain Child World's current management,
Mr. Gold said. However, as with past practice at Shamrock,
Trefoil is likely to monitor developments at Child World
closely.
   If the transaction proceeds, it appears that Trefoil will
acquire Child World for only $28 million in immediate cash
payments -- the amount needed to buy the 18% of the stock in
public hands. Thereafter, the profitability of the purchase
will depend on the terms Trefoil and CNC have set for the
securities Trefoil will exchange with CNC for the Child World
stock.
   If the terms of these securities are too rich, it will cut
into Trefoil's returns. If they are too lean, observers said,
then persuading holders of CNC's current high-yield "junk"
financing to make an exchange may be difficult.
   ---
   William M. Bulkeley in Boston contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Smith Corona: Street's Horror...Yet Some See Upside
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SCO HAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Future textbook references to Murphy's law --
anything that can go wrong, will -- may cite the example of
Smith Corona.
   The stock has plunged 77%, wounding some of Wall Street's
biggest names in the process, in the year since Hanson, the
company's British owner, sold 50% of Smith Corona's stock to
the public at $21 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since then, the New Canaan, Conn., maker of typewriters
and word processors has presided over slumping profits and
sales, announced three rounds of layoffs and recommended that
its dividend be slashed 67%. Yesterday, in composite trading
on the New York Stock Exchange, the shares closed at 4 3/4.
   To Merrill Lynch and Shearson Lehman Brothers, which
managed the public offering, Smith Corona is an embarrassment
and the source of shareholder lawsuits. Hanson views it as "a
black mark" against its own record. And big institutions that
invested in Smith Corona, such as Fidelity Investments,
decline even to talk about it. This is strange because Smith
Corona may be one of Wall Street's best buys.
   "Nobody likes the stock now," says Jeffrey Putterman, an
analyst at County NatWest Securities. But Mr. Putterman likes
it. "Either its earnings are going to zero," he says, "or the
stock is cheap."
   What Smith Corona suggests is that Wall Street can become
just as irrational about out-of-favor stocks as it does with
stocks that receive its approval.
   In fiscal 1990, ended June 30, Smith Corona earned $1.09 a
share. And that was in a year when it suffered intense price
cutting by Asian competitors and a general slump in
big-ticket consumer spending -- trends that the company says
became visible soon after its initial public offering.
   This fiscal year, analysts expect Smith Corona will earn
75 cents to $1 a share. How many other companies have
well-established brand names, a dominant (50%) market share
and a stock that is trading for only six times earnings?
   Few analysts and investors even bother to ask the
question. What matters most right now is that Smith Corona is
a stock that has burned them -- and badly.
   "It has performed so poorly that it evokes extreme
emotional responses," County NatWest's Mr. Putterman says,
adding: "Emotionally we hate this stock. Rationally we rate
it a buy."
   Rarely have analysts' predictions turned out so badly.
Weeks after the initial public offering, when Smith Corona
announced the first of its layoffs and saw its stock slide to
18, F. Barry Nelson, an analyst at Louis Nicoud &amp; Associates,
recommended the stock and breezily forecast fiscal 1990
earnings of $2.20 a share.
   Merrill Lynch, as recently as March, told clients that it
regarded the dividend as "secure." And in May, Mr. Putterman
issued an update on Smith Corona under the headline: "No
Dividend Cut]"
   Mr. Putterman, notable for his candor, says: "I wish every
day I had never recommended the stock." But having liked
Smith Corona at 18, he finds it much more attractive now. The
more usual instinct of the herd -- having scooped up a stock
at a high price -- is to toss it out at a low one.
   Fidelity, Weiss Peck &amp; Greer and Equitable Life Assurance
each sold large blocks of Smith Corona stock in the first
quarter of 1990, according to CDA Investment Technologies.
Tom Davis at Weiss Peck &amp; Greer calls it "an incredibly bad
piece of luck, for them and for us," but he declines to
discuss his motivation for selling.
   And Mr. Nelson, the Louis Nicoud analyst who touted Smith
Corona at 18, informed his clients last month, when it had
plunged to 6, that the stock had been "dropped from {the}
recommended list." The company's total market value now was
too small, he said, to merit a recommendation; its prospects
"too unclear."
   Stocks that are popular benefit from a "story" -- that is,
from a vision of the future which, while based on guesswork,
is highly favorable to the stock in question.
   Out-of-favor stocks also bear a story line -- but in their
case, analysts are paragons of prudence. It is as if the
"plus" signs on their calculators suddenly jam; subtraction
becomes the only game.
   Wall Street's story line for Smith Corona is that the
company is slowly going out of business. Typewriters and word
processors, it is said, are being replaced by the personal
computer. "The story is that it's a buggy-whip business.
People say it's obsolete," says Dan O'Neil, an analyst with
Dominick &amp; Dominick who lately has been recommending the
stock.
   Smith Corona, however, says vast portions of middle
America -- high school students, volunteer committee members,
people who work at home, and the like -- constitute a
continuing and loyal market. It is also expanding, and
quickly, in Europe.
   "PCs start at $1,000, usually without a printer," says
William Henderson, a former Hanson executive who recently
took over as Smith Corona's president. "A lot of people can't
afford that." (Smith Corona's typewriters and word processors
run from about $100 to about $599.)
   More important, perhaps, is that Smith Corona's machines
bear almost no resemblance to the hunt-and-peck machines that
journalists bent over in 1950s movies. Today's models,
especially its word processors, which were introduced in
1986, have memory, spell checkers, editing and other
features. Its higher-end models do just about the same
word-processing functions as do PCs.
   And as PCs have grown less expensive, Smith Corona has had
to add newer features, such as financial spreadsheets, to its
top-line models while it has upgraded even its cheaper
typewriters. Thus, it says its products form a continuum on
the technological scale and should be viewed as part of the
PC business itself.
   "It's not the buggy whip of yesterday," Joan Toffolon,
head of investor relations, says of Smith Corona's product.
"It's a task-specific computer."
   Smith Corona's distributors -- which, for the most part,
also distribute PCs -- say that if typewriters and word
processors are on their way out, it's news to them.
   Cheryl Johnson, a senior buyer for Best Buy, says that
despite continuing pressure from PCs, "there will always be a
market for someone who is scared of the technology or of the
expense."
   The proof, though, is in the pudding. Ms. Johnson says
"we're dedicating more shelf space to word processors -- and
computers are very strong here." Similarly, Sears, Roebuck
says word processors "are evolving and improving, making them
competitive with PCs."
   Smith Corona's strength is said to be in responding to
consumer demands. Various innovations, such as a product that
would involve facsimile service, are said to be under study.
   There's no getting around the slump in Smith Corona's
business. Sales fell 4.4% to $471 million last year;
operating profit fell about 5%. But sales of PCs have also
been sluggish, and no one argues that they are extinct.
   And although price-cutting by Asian concerns has forced
Smith Corona to reduce its own prices just as a slowdown in
consumer spending has hit Smith Corona hard, these factors
look different in the context of Smith Corona's recent
record. From 1986 to 1989, annual sales fairly exploded, to
$493 million from $300 million.
   It's fair to ask, then, why the bad news didn't start
until right after the initial public offering. Hanson says it
was bad luck. Numerous shareholders have sued Hanson and
Smith Corona and their underwriters alleging that, in effect,
they withheld the bad news until the company went public. The
defendants deny the charges.
   Mr. Putterman says he doubts that Hanson intentionally
misled investors. More likely, he says, "Hanson knew Smith
Corona had had a good run and they knew that trees don't grow
to the sky. They wanted to take money off the table."
   Karen Levy, an investor relations executive for Hanson,
which retains a 47% interest in Smith Corona, notes that the
offering was a tough sell all along, because "people have an
impression of Hanson as an astute buyer and seller."
   As it turned out, the move was a bit too astute. "It has
hurt Hanson; people don't fully trust them," Mr. Putterman
says. Hanson's Ms. Levy concedes that the offering has hurt
the company's ability to shed pieces of other assets. She
adds: "We feel very badly that this happened."
   ---
   Smith Corona
   (NYSE; Symbol: SCO)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Typewriters and word processors
                                                                                                       

   Year ended June 30, 1990*:
   Sales: $471.4 million
   Net income: $32.9 million; or $1.09 a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, June 30, 1990:
   Per-share net loss: 5 cents vs. 10 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 94,378 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 30.3 million
                                                                                                       

   *On a pro-forma basis
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Some Massachusetts Debt
   Stays on S&amp;P CreditWatch
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. kept Massachusetts'
triple-B rated general obligation bonds on its CreditWatch
list with negative implications.
   The ratings agency said the watch reflects the state's
continued failure to pass a new budget and the continuing
uncertainty over whether a sales tax on services that was
passed will be reconsidered by the legislature.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It also said there are concerns about a tax-cutting
initiative that voters will consider in November.
   Standard &amp; Poor's said that "legislative inaction over the
last two years" has left $1.8 billion in operating deficits
over the last two years and promise "a legacy of debt for
perhaps the next two administrations." It said "while the
economy is in a recession, long-term prospects remain
positive."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- LTV Corp.:
   Concern Reports Earnings
   Rose Sharply in 2nd Period
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   LTV
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
EARNINGS (ERN)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   LTV Corp., Dallas, said second-quarter net income more
than doubled because of a special gain this year and a
special charge a year earlier.
   Net rose to $76.6 million, or 59 cents a share, from $30.3
million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier. The 1990
quarter reflected a gain of $44.3 million on the sale of a
stainless steel unit. The 1989 quarter was reduced by $80
million in write-downs and charges on aircraft production
assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Operating profit fell 64% to $36.6 million from $102.6
million before charges a year earlier. Revenue fell 4.5% to
$1.59 billion from $1.66 billion.
   Steel operations contributed almost all of the decline in
operating profit. LTV, which is operating under protection of
bankruptcy law, attributed the decline to lower prices, lower
sales and higher labor costs.
   In the first half, profit rose to $120.8 million, or 91
cents a share, from $106.9 million, or 82 cents a share, a
year earlier. Revenue fell 6% to $3.08 billion from $3.28
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Asahi Breweries Ltd.:
   Unconsolidated Pretax Profit
   For First Half Rose 3.2%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.ASB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Asahi Breweries Ltd. of Japan reported that its first-half
unconsolidated pretax earnings rose 3.2% to 11.76 billion yen
($78.9 million) from 11.39 billion yen a year earlier.
   Net income climbed 14% to 3.74 billion yen from 3.29
billion yen. Per-share net fell to 9.35 yen from 10.66 yen,
because of an increase in shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales increased 13% to 324.32 billion yen from 287.11
billion yen, because of the popularity in the domestic market
of Asahi's dry beer, a sharp-tasting beer with a slightly
higher alcohol content than standard beers have. Asahi has
about an 86% share of the domestic market for dry beer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arkla Agrees
   To Buy Natural
   Gas Distributor
   ----
   By Patricia Ann McKanic
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   ALG DEI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Arkla Inc. said it agreed to acquire Diversified Energies
Inc. in a $630 million common stock transaction that would
substantially enlarge Arkla's natural gas distribution and
production businesses.
   Arkla said it would exchange between 1.575 and 1.752 of
its common shares for each share of Minneapolis-based
Diversified Energies. Arkla, a Shreveport, La.-based concern,
said it would issue between 25 million and 26 million common
shares in the transaction, with the exact number to be
determined immediately before closing the deal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arkla currently has about 86 million shares outstanding;
Diversified about 16 million.
   Arkla, which had 1989 revenue of about $2.2 billion,
operates natural gas distribution pipelines and produces
natural gas. Diversified, with 1989 revenue of about $840
million, has gas distribution pipelines and gas production
operations as well as some manufacturing operations.
   Directors of the companies have approved the proposed
acquisition, Arkla said, but shareholders of both still must
vote on it. Arkla shares rose 25 cents yesterday in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange, closing at $23.75.
Diversified shares, also traded on the Big Board, rose 87.5
cents to close at $29.625.
   The acquisition would expand not only Arkla's gas
distribution network but also its gas production activities.
Diversified's Dyco Petroleum unit has exploration and
production operations in the gas-rich Anadarko Basin in
Oklahoma that would complement Arkla's existing base in the
Arkoma Basin along the Arkansas-Oklahoma border.
   In an interview, Thomas (Mack) McLarty, Arkla chairman and
chief executive officer, estimated that the acquisition would
increase Arkla's total natural gas reserves to about 920
billion cubic feet from roughly 800 billion cubic feet. The
move would boost the number of states in which Arkla operates
to 11 from eight.
   The acquisition also "gives us leverage to increase gas
prices because we {would} have increased production," Mr.
McLarty said.
   Arkla said the acquisition would give it a total of 2.6
million customers, up from about two million now, making it
the nation's third largest natural gas distribution company
in terms of customers. Two California utilities, Pacific Gas
&amp; Electric Co. and a unit of Pacific Lighting Corp., are
larger using that measure.
   Mr. McLarty predicted that the proposed transaction would
boost Arkla's 1991 revenue to about $5 billion from an
expected $3 billion in 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Banco Espanol de Credito:
   Spanish Bank's Pretax Profit
   For First Half Surged 17%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   E.BCE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Banco Espanol de Credito of Spain reported that first-half
pretax profit surged 17% to 35.29 billion pesetas ($357.2
million).
   The bank, known as Banesto, said financial revenue grew
33% to 212.29 billion pesetas, boosted by a 41% jump in loans
and financial instruments. It didn't provide comparative
data.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Banesto's efforts to lure depositors, by offering
high-yield "super accounts" with interest rates of about 13%,
helped increase consumer deposits and bolster financial
revenue, but the accounts also sharply raised financial
costs, which soared 50% to 142.87 billion pesetas, the bank
said.
   Analysts said the results were better than expected, and
noted that Spain's big banks have been able to offset the
burden of high-yield accounts by increasing loan rates and
service charges.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- New Plan Realty Trust:
   Focus Will Be on Property
   That Is Foreclosed by Banks
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NPR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   New Plan Realty Trust, the nation's largest equity real
estate investment trust, announced yesterday that it intends
to step up its acquisition of shopping centers and apartment
complexes by focusing on foreclosed bank property.
   "We feel that this marketplace is a good one," said
William Newman, chairman, adding that New Plan has
accumulated $140 million with which to buy properties over
the next 12 to 18 months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New Plan, based in New York, invests primarily in strip
centers in the East, not large enclosed malls. Mr. Newman
said that the trust aims to pick up the distressed properties
at 25% to 50% of replacement value. In fiscal 1990, the trust
purchased 14 shopping centers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bayerische Vereinsbank AG:
   Partial Operating Earnings
   For First Half Grew 3.7%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BVM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bayerische Vereinsbank AG of West Germany, citing higher
mortgage lending and a general rise in overall loan business,
said its partial group operating profit for the first half
increased 3.7%.
   The big mortgage and commercial banking concern said
partial operating profit, which excludes income from the
bank's trading in its own account, rose to 421 million marks
($261.2 million) from 406 million marks a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First-half full operating profit exceeded that of a year
earlier, the bank said, but didn't give details.
   At the parent bank, partial operating profit rose 11% to
284 million marks from 256 million marks. The bank's full
operating profit rose sharply, the bank said, citing higher
profit from trading in its own account in stocks, bonds and
foreign exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Dresdner Bank AG:
   Partial Operating Profit
   Rose 8.9% in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DRSDY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dresdner Bank AG said its group partial operating profit
rose 8.9% in the first half to 956.1 million marks ($593.1
million) from 878.1 million marks a year earlier.
   West Germany's second-largest banking group said its
parent bank alone posted a 24% rise in partial operating
profit in the first half to 603.8 million marks from 487.7
million marks a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dresdner, like most West German companies, reports its
financial results on a world-wide, or group, basis as well as
on a domestic, or parent company, level that excludes foreign
and some domestic subsidiaries.
   Partial operating data are before taxes and exclude gains
or losses from the company's trading operations for its own
account.
   Frankfurt-based Dresdner didn't report group full
operating profit, which includes the trading results, for the
first half. But the company characterized the full operating
profit for the group in the first half as "developing clearly
more favorably" than the partial figures.
   For the parent bank, full operating profit attained
"double-digit" growth, Dresdner said, without providing data.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bonds Rally as Closer Study of Latest GNP Data
   Indicates Even More Weakness in the Economy
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN GM WX SB NOB FRE FNM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bonds rallied yesterday as investors rehashed
old economic news and found new reasons to buy bonds.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose nearly 7/8
point yesterday, or $8.75 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction of its price, eased to 8.40%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rally, which began during overnight trading in foreign
markets and spilled over into the U.S. trading session,
reflected follow-through enthusiasm to Friday's report on
gross national product.
   The GNP report revealed that the economy grew at an
inflation-adjusted annual rate of just 1.2% in the second
quarter. Economists who dissected the report, however, said
the economy was even weaker than the anemic growth rate would
suggest as nearly every major indicator of private economic
activity declined. Only a buildup in business inventories and
a rise in government spending kept the economy afloat.
   "As investors digested Friday's economic data, they became
increasingly convinced that interest rates will fall,"
without reviving inflation, said John Costas, comanager of
government trading at First Boston Corp.
   That's a big change in sentiment from early last week when
many investors believed that long-term interest rates could
not decline due to rising inflation expectations.
   Many investors reacted negatively when the Fed reduced the
short-term interest rates several weeks ago and they sharply
criticized Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, who they believed was
abandoning the fight against inflation in favor of helping to
stave off recession. (Although bond investors like to see
interest rates fall, because it boosts the value of their
fixed-income portfolios, they worry that inadvertent easing
can stimulate inflation, which they loathe because it reduces
the value of their holdings.)
   But after taking a close look at the GNP report, "the
concerns about Mr. Greenspan and his credibility have been
pushed aside," said James Capra, a senior vice president at
Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc. "Last week,
investors were worried about inflation," because "it appeared
that the Fed was easing into a sluggish, but not a
recessionary economy. This week, the perception is that the
Fed was easing into an economy that is on the verge of
recession and that is not a inflationary move."
   Yesterday's rally came against a backdrop of several
negative factors, analysts said.
   For starters, Japanese interest rates spurted higher
overnight with the Japanese government's bellwether 10-year
bond hitting a new seven-year high of 7.645% before
retreating to 7.63%. Higher Japanese bond yields have often
pulled U.S. yields higher.
   Another would-be negative for the U.S. bond market was the
weaker dollar. But it, too, was ignored.
   Looking ahead, the next big date on the economic calendar
is Friday, when the July employment report will be released.
   There is some speculation that a sharp slowdown in new
jobs growth could convince the Fed to ease policy again.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of
103 20/32 to yield 8.40% compared with 102 26/32 to yield
8.48% on Friday. Two-year notes ended at a price of 100 3/32,
up from 100 (or par value) on Friday. The issue's yield eased
to 7.93% from 7.98%.
   The Treasury sold $18.5 billion of Treasury bills
yesterday at its regular weekly auction. The average discount
rate on the three-month bills was 7.50% and the average
discount rate on the six-month bills was 7.37%.
   The rate on the three-month bill was up from last week's
auction when it was 7.49% and the rate on the six-month bill
was down from last week's auction when it was 7.40%.
   The average discount rate for the three-month bills was
the highest since the average of 7.62% at the July 16
auction. The rate on six-month bills was the lowest since
7.30% at Dec. 4 auction.
   Here are details of yesterday's auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                              13-Week           26-Week
                                                                                                       

 Applications ..........  $30,007,315,000   $30,167,265,000
 Accepted bids .........   $9,254,770,000    $9,243,270,000
 Accepted at low price .              82%               17%

 Average price (Rate) ..   98.104 (7.50%)    96.274 (7.37%)
 High price (Rate) .....   98.109 (7.48%)    96.279 (7.36%)
 Low price (Rate) ......   98.104 (7.50%)    96.269 (7.38%)
 Coupon equivalent .....            7.75%             7.76%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated Aug. 2. The 13-week bills mature
Nov. 1, 1990, and the 26-week bills mature Jan. 31, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Falling interest rates continued to pump life into an
otherwise lethargic corporate-debt market.
   About $750 million in new debt securities, ranging in
maturity from four to five years, was priced Monday. Among
the highlights: $300 million offering of five-year notes by
General Motors Acceptance Corp., a unit of General Motors
Corp. The noncallable securities were priced to yield 8.84%
through underwriters led by First Boston Corp.
   Also in the market Monday was Avco Financial Services
Inc., a unit of Textron Inc., which offered $100 million of 4
1/2-year notes priced to yield 8.95%.
   Ron Bukow, chief financial officer at Avco, said that the
finance company was drawn to the market because of the
general improvement in rates that has taken place over the
last few weeks.
   He said the company, which has between $200 million to
$300 million of financing left to do this year, will use
proceeds from yesterday's offering to refinance
commercial-paper borrowings.
   "There's about a (1 percentage point) differential between
commercial paper and intermediate term rates now," said Mr.
Bukow. "It's a little higher than it's been in the past but
it's still a relatively small premium to pay for longer-term
financing."
   Three other corporate borrowers, Westinghouse Credit
Corp., a unit of Westinghouse Electric Corp.; Salomon Inc.
and Norwest Financial Inc., a unit of Norwest Corp., tapped
the corporate debt market yesterday.
   In the investment-grade corporate debt market, high-grade
corporate bonds lagged U.S. Treasury securities, posting
gains of about 3/8 point.
   Meanwhile, in the junk-bond market, high-yield bonds, or
securities that carry low credit ratings or no credit ratings
at all, ended the day unchanged in thin trading.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Securities
                                                                                                       

   Tax-exempt issues ended unchanged to as much as 3/4 point
higher, with the market showing a firm tone amid light
trading.
   Among actively traded secondary issues, the New Jersey
Turnpike Authority's 7.20% securities of 2018 were 1/8 higher
at par and the Florida Board of Education's 7.25% issue of
2023 were 3/4 point higher at 101 1/4 to yield 7.14%.
   The market's firm tone and bullish price movement is
expected to carry over into today's session, traders said.
   No large new municipal issues were priced during the
session.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage- Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities ended sharply higher.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9.5% securities
for August delivery were up 15/32 at 100 1/2 to yield 9.56%.
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9.5% securities were up
14/32 at 99 26/32, and Federal National Mortgage Association
9.5% securities were up 14/32 at 100 14/32.
   The primary market was dormant.
   Longer-term securities outperformed short-term issues.
However, should the market resume its steepening yield curve
-- with short-term rates falling faster than bond yields --
traders anticipate a pick-up in issuance of real estate
mortgage investment conduits. A large chunk of a Remic
offering is concentrated in the short maturities,
consequently a steepening yield curve tends to stimulate
Remic origination.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The sell-off in Japan's government bond market extended
into its third trading day with some bond yields climbing to
new seven-year highs.
   Even though the value of the yen rose against the U.S.
dollar and the Bank of Japan, the central bank, added funds
to the money market -- actions that usually strengthen the
credit markets -- bond prices continued to fall. Traders said
the absence of buyers exacerbated yesterday's decline.
   At the 3 p.m. JST close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
price of Japan's benchmark No. 119 10-year bond was 85.03,
down 0.32 point, to yield 7.63%. (When calculated using the
semiannual compound method, the closing yield on the No. 119
was 7.10% yesterday, according to Salomon Brothers Inc.)
   In the past 10 days, the yield on the benchmark bond has
climbed 0.435 percentage point from 7.195%. Japanese bond
yields have been rising for months due to inflation
expectations and in response to moves by the Bank of Japan to
push up short-term rates.
   In West Germany, the story yesterday was supply. First,
the East German finance ministry took in 3.64 billion marks
($2.26 billion) through the sale of zero-coupon bills. In
addition, Staatsbank Berlin, the legal successor to East
Germany's now-defunct central bank, sold 5 billion marks of
floating rate notes.
   Today and tomorrow West Germany is expected to sell
between 6 billion and 8 billion marks of 10-year bonds. The
rate on the new issue is expected to be 8.5%.
   In trading, West German bonds were modestly higher.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Baldwin Technology Co.:
   Printing Equipment Concern
   Acquires Misomex Units
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BLD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Baldwin Technology Co. of Rowayton, Conn., completed the
acquisition of Misomex AB of Sweden and Misomex of North
America Inc. from Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corp. for $44 million.
   The acquisition, which includes Misomex subsidiaries in
England, Sweden, Germany and the U.S., expands Baldwin's
current product lines in printing-control equipment and moves
the company into prepress equipment, which is used to
transfer images to printing plates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gerald A. Nathe, president of Baldwin Americas Corp., a
unit of Baldwin Technology, will serve as chairman of Misomex
International, which will oversee the Misomex subsidiaries.
Howard LeVine remains president of Misomex of North America,
and Gustav Talts and Gordon Kirsopp will continue as managing
directors of Misomex AB and Misomex UK, respectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Filing by Blinder
   Robinson Seeks
   Creditor Shield
   ----
   By Todd Mason
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Blinder, Robinson &amp; Co., the controversial penny-stock
brokerage firm, said it filed for protection under Chapter 11
of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
   The subject of repeated securities investigations since
1979, Blinder Robinson said it will move its accounts to
another brokerage firm, which it didn't identify. It said it
had stopped selling securities before seeking bankruptcy-law
protection.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profits have been sliding for some time as investors
abandoned the penny stock market and Blinder Robinson, which
is considered the largest broker-dealer of the risky
low-priced stocks. Underwriting dried up. "Everyone is
against the penny stock market," founder Meyer Blinder
complained last year.
   The Securities and Exchange Commission was chief among
Blinder's foes. Earlier this month, the agency sued the
Englewood, Colo., firm in a Philadelphia federal court
seeking to recover $20 million in profits allegedly gained by
"charging excessive and undisclosed markups" on securities
sales.
   In April, an SEC hearing officer suspended Blinder
Robinson from soliciting sales of securities for 45 days and
barred it from underwriting for two years. The officer barred
Mr. Blinder as well, citing "a high probability that Mr.
Blinder cannot ever operate in the securities industry in
compliance with the law." The company has appealed.
   In February, a federal grand jury in Las Vegas, Nev.,
indicted Blinder Robinson and four associates on 11 counts of
securities and wire fraud, racketeering and money laundering.
   All of its legal problems notwithstanding, Blinder
Robinson was brought down by its faltering operations. In
recent years, Denver-based Stuart-James Co., founded by two
former Blinder Robinson executives and itself the subject of
securities investigations, is believed to have eclipsed
Blinder Robinson as the largest dealer in penny stocks. Last
year, investors changed the name of Blinder Robinson's
parent, Blinder International Enterprises Inc., to
Intercontinental Enterprises Inc.
   "The decline of business at Blinder Robinson is the major
reason for this filing," said Frank Birgfeld, Denver district
director of the National Association of Securities Dealers.
   Mr. Birgfeld doubted the Securities Investor Protection
Corp., which insures brokerage accounts to $100,000, will
allow Blinder Robinson to assign its accounts. Under the law,
Securities Investor Protection Corp. can take control of
Blinder Robinson and handle the disposition itself.
   Blinder Robinson officials couldn't be reached for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Crude Prices for Delivery in 4th Quarter Post
   Big Gains, Indicating OPEC May Abide by Pact
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Futures prices of crude oil for delivery in the fourth
quarter have made strong gains in recent days, an indication
that traders think the oil producers' cartel might abide by
its new production accord.
   Yesterday, crude for September delivery rose a modest 17
cents a barrel to $20.21 in light volume as market
participants tried to assess the near-term impact of last
week's meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Traders are concerned that huge global inventories
will cut down buying interest until winter demand starts to
pick up during the fourth quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even reports that the Houston Ship Channel will be closed
for several days as a result of an oil spill failed to
produce any reaction in a market saturated with oil. The
channel is a major U.S. route for moving crude and refined
oil products to and from refineries.
   However, crude for December delivery has made sharp gains
during the past 10 days. While the price for September crude
has gone up only from $20.06 a barrel to yesterday's $20.21,
the December contract has jumped to $21.84 from $20.72.
"That's an indication that traders anticipate the surplus to
be soaked up later this year," said Andrew Lebow, analyst for
E.D.&amp; F. Man International Futures Inc.
   OPEC oil ministers have said that excess world inventories
will be whittled down if all producers abide by the new
accord, which limits OPEC's production to 22.5 million
barrels a day. And more than at any other time in recent
years, market participants seem to believe that OPEC will
honor the agreement this time.
   Iraq, which has become known in trading circles as "the
enforcer," is expected to keep Kuwait's and the United Arab
Emirates' production in line. Both have been chronic
violators of their OPEC quotas in the past, but Iraq's threat
of military force has thus far caused them to acquiesce.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:

   COPPER: Futures prices declined. The September contract,
after four consecutive days of gains resulting in a
cumulative advance of 6.80 cents by Friday, fell 2.35 cents a
pound to $1.2355. One analyst said the market was overbought
and had undergone a correction. One factor that apparently
contributed to the sell-off, he said, was a prediction of a
further increase of about 7,000 tons in the London Metal
Exchange warehouse stocks of copper, which will be announced
today. Prices firmed in London -- where most trading is done
before the New York market opens -- because of aggressive
Japanese buying of copper. But the strength didn't carry over
into New York even though a higher New York opening was
expected. Except for a slight advance after the beginning of
trading, the market was on the defensive throughout the day,
the analyst said. Richard Hirsch, a metals trader at Sharps
Pixley Inc., a New York metals trading company, commented
that "the market was a technician's delight and a
fundamentalist's nightmare." Most of the recent gains have
come as a result of buying by technically oriented traders,
Mr. Hirsch said. "People such as dealers and copper users,
who are concerned about the economy, can't understand how
prices could have advanced so much when slower economic
conditions are working against industrial copper use, which,
at best, is flat," he said.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prices of soybean and soybean oil
futures contracts rose on strong demand for vegetable oil
products -- especially from fast-food restaurants switching
from fat-based frying oils to please health-conscious
customers. Analysts said lack of rain in southern growing
regions, such as Arkansas and Tennessee, also contributed to
the increase in futures prices, as some traders speculated
that dry conditions would damage the developing soybean crop
in those areas. But longrange weather forecasts called for
more moisture and generally more favorable growing
conditions. That could exert downward pressure on soybean
futures prices in trading today, analysts said. Wheat futures
prices declined on rumors that export taxes may decline in
Argentina, making prices of that country's wheat crop more
competitive in world markets.
   Futures prices fell after being unable to sustain early
gains caused by concern over possible cold-weather damage to
coffee trees in Brazilian growing areas. The September
contract ended with a loss of 1.25 cents a pound at 90.50
cents. Initially, September rose as high as 92.85 cents.
According to Peter Leavitt, executive vice president of
Weather Services Corp., of Bedford, Mass., the southernmost
Brazilian coffee-growing sections, such as Parana and south
central Sao Paulo, early Sunday experienced temperatures of
34 degrees to 37 degrees Fahrenheit. "The temperatures
weren't low enough to cause damage except for some leaf burn
in a few spots," Mr. Leavitt said. The last coffee-damaging
frost in Brazil was in 1981, Mr. Leavitt noted. "Brazil has
had fairly mild temperatures since then in the most southerly
areas, and the lack of cold has allowed the development of
some growth that now could have been slightly affected," Mr.
Leavitt said. Yesterday morning the colder temperatures
reached up into the more northerly areas, "but the readings
were still above those in the south on Sunday," according to
the meteorologist. Temperatures should moderate during the
rest of the week, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Eastern Air Foreman
   Pleads Guilty in Fraud Case
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK (AP) -- A former Eastern Airlines foreman pleaded
guilty to charges that he ignored vital maintenance and
safety repairs and then falsified records to make it appear
the work had been done.
   Elia Dragone, who worked at Kennedy International Airport,
was the first employee of the troubled airline to plead
guilty in a broad scheme that allegedly allowed unsafe
airliners to fly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eastern and nine of its managers were charged last week in
a 60-count criminal indictment that alleges conspiracy to
defraud the government, wire fraud, falsification of
documents and obstruction of justice.
   Mr. Dragone, named in 20 counts of the indictment, pleaded
guilty to conspiracy and obstructing a Federal Aviation
Administration investigation into the airline. He faces five
years in prison and a $250,000 fine on each count at
sentencing Oct. 17.
   According to a plea agreement, Mr. Dragone will testify
against Eastern and its employees. He also will cooperate in
investigations of the airline by the FAA and other government
agencies.
   The indictment named Eastern and nine high-level
management employees, who will be arraigned Aug. 6.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Santa Fe Pacific Plans
   To Refinance Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SFX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Santa Fe Pacific Corp. announced plans to
refinance its $780 million of high-yielding senior
subordinated debentures through a debt-for-equity swap and
redemptions.
   The 16% pay-in-kind debentures, due in 2003, were issued
as part of a 1988 restructuring undertaken in the face of an
unsuccessful acquisition overture. The railroad, real estate
and natural-resources concern has said that refinancing the
so-called PIK debentures, which became callable in March, was
a prerequisite to its plans to spin off its real estate and
energy operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the plan announced yesterday, debenture holders will
be offered a chance to swap $1,000 face value of the
debentures for Santa Fe Pacific common stock valued at
$1,060. The exchange offer is limited to $200 million face
value of the debentures.
   If the offer is oversubscribed, the company said, the
offer will be on a pro-rated basis. The value of the Santa Fe
common to be exchanged will be based on the average of the
stock's closing price on the 10 trading days prior to the
Aug. 27 closing of the offer.
   In addition, the company said, a subsidiary has filed a
registration statement covering the planned offering of $210
million of variable rate exchange debentures due 2010. Under
"certain circumstances," the company said, those debentures
would be exchangeable for common units outstanding of Santa
Fe Pacific Pipeline Partners, a limited partnership in which
Santa Fe Pacific Corp. holds a 44% interest. Santa Fe said it
intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the
variable-rate debentures to pay down an additional portion of
the PIK issue.
   The remaining about $400 million in outstanding PIK
debentures will be redeemed at $1,030 in cash for each $1,000
face value, on Oct. 31. The company will issue long-term debt
to finance the redemption, adding that it expects the
interest rate on the long-term obligations to be
"significantly below" the rate it is paying on the PIK issue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Consolidated
   Freightways Accepts
   Chief's Resignation
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CNF WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TRUCKING (TRK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MENLO PARK, Calif. -- Consolidated Freightways Inc., a
transportation concern whose earnings have been going
downhill fast since an acquisition last year, said its board
"accepted the resignation" of Lary R. Scott, president and
chief executive officer.
   Consolidated said Chairman Raymond F. O'Brien, 68 years
old, would assume the additional post of chief executive and
J. Frank Leach would succeed Mr. Scott as president. Mr.
Leach, 69, has been a Consolidated director for 16 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consolidated has been hurt as a result of its April 1989
acquisition of Emery Air Freight Corp. for $230 million and
the assumption of $240 million in debt. Emery previously had
losses for three consecutive years because of stiffening
international air-freight competition. Mr. Scott considered
the purchase as central for Consolidated to compete in the
global freight-hauling business.
   But since the acquisition, Consolidated has posted a
string of quarterly net losses, and last month, it suspended
its quarterly dividend. Consolidated officials and Mr. Scott
couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cyclops Industries Inc.:
   Steelmaker Posts Net Loss
   Of $11.3 Million for Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CYC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cyclops Industries Inc., citing lower prices on
flat-rolled steel products and charges related to a
previously announced restructuring, reported a second-quarter
net loss of $11.3 million, or $1.62 a share.
   In the same period a year earlier, the Pittsburgh-based
steelmaker had a profit of $13 million, or $1.81 a share.
Sales fell 12% to $306.2 million from $348.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier, the company said it expected to report losses for
the quarter and the year as a result of restructuring its
specialty steel division and realigning certain carbon strip
operations.
   The restructuring involved separating its Cytemp Specialty
Steel division into two business units and phasing out
certain products. That action will result in the closing of a
Pittsburgh plant in the second half of this year, the company
said. Even without the restructuring charge, Cyclops said the
Cytemp division had a $5.3 million pretax loss for the first
six months of the year compared with a pretax operating
income of $5.3 million in the first six months of 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Swiss Ban on Laundering
   Money to Go Into Effect
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   ZURICH, Switzerland -- Legislation outlawing money
laundering will go into effect in Switzerland tomorrow, and
offenders can face penalties of as much as five years in
prison and one million Swiss francs ($734,200).
   Switzerland, one of the world's major financial centers,
has been vulnerable to misuse by organized crime attracted by
the country's bank secrecy laws. But after a billion-dollar
money-laundering scandal involving drug money in 1988 -- the
so-called Lebanon Connection -- the government pushed for the
legislation aimed at stemming the flow of such money into the
nation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new law covers all professionals, from bankers and
portfolio managers to accountants and lawyers, who handle
money for others.
   An addition to the penal code also takes effect tomorrow,
obliging those who accept, look after, invest or transfer
funds for others to know the identity of the funds' owner.
Offenders can be punished by prison terms as long as one
year. Until now, the need to identify customers fully has
been part of a gentleman's agreement among banks to assure
that funds they accepted weren't derived from criminal
activities. But this had no firm basis in law.
   The Swiss Banking Commission said the legislation casts
doubt on the practices of lawyers representing clients whose
names aren't disclosed to banks. Until now, lawyers had only
to sign a statement declaring that they were acting in their
professional capacity and not as investment fronts, and that
the funds weren't obtained illegally.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Canadian Pacific Ltd:
   Pulp-Wood Producer Plans
   To Close Mill for a Month
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CP T.CP T.PFP
</CO>
<LP>
   Canadian Pacific Forest Products Ltd., citing soft demand,
said it plans to shut its pulp mill in Gold River, British
Columbia, for a month beginning Aug. 4.
   The 80%-owned subsidiary of Canadian Pacific Ltd. said the
mill has annual capacity of 240,000 metric tons of bleached
kraft softwood pulp. Wood pulp is used to make paper and
other products. A metric ton equals about 2,204.6 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Canadian pulp industry has been plagued this year by
weak demand. The Canadian Pulp and Paper Association said
Canadian pulp mills operated at about 80% of capacity in
June, down from 96% a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   GM WX SB NOB TXT EUROP NAB F.CLC G.BWU
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                      CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Motors Acceptance Corp. -- $300 million of 8 3/4%
notes due Aug. 1, 1995, priced at 99.64 to yield 8.84%. The
non-callable notes were priced at a spread of 66 basis points
above the Treasury's five-year note. Rated double-A-3 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and double-A-minus by Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters
led by First Boston Corp.
   Westinghouse Credit Corp. -- $150 million of 8 7/8% notes
due Aug. 1, 1995, priced at 99.974 to yield 8.88%. The
noncallable notes were priced at 70 basis points above the
Treasury's five-year note. Rated single-A-2 by Moody's and
single-A by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through underwriters
led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Salomon Inc. -- $100 million of 9% notes due Sept. 15,
1994, priced at par. The price was set at 91 basis points
above the Treasury's four-year note. Rated single-A-2 by
Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold
through Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Norwest Financial Inc. -- $100 million of 8 5/8% senior
notes due Aug. 1, 1993, priced at 99.858 to yield 8.679%. The
noncallable notes were priced at 63.5 basis points above the
Treasury's three-year note. Rated double-A-3 by Moody's and
double-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   Avco Financial Services Inc. -- $100 million of 8 7/8%
notes due Jan. 15, 1995, priced at 99.75 to yield 8.95%. The
non-callable notes were priced at 85 basis points above the
Treasury's four-year note. Rated single-A-2 by Moody's and
single-A by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through underwriters
led by Salomon Brothers Inc. Avco Financial is a unit of
Textron Inc.
                                                                                                       

                       EUROBONDS

   CMS No. 5 (special-purpose vehicle) -- #250 million of
Eurobonds with final maturity of Aug. 24, 2027, at par issue
price and fixed reoffering price of 99.85 via S.G. Warburg.
Initial coupon of 0.25 point above three-month London
interbank offered rate. After year 10, coupon steps up to a
margin of 0.50 point. Expected to have an average life of 4.5
years. Fees 0.25.
   National Australia Bank (Australia) -- #150 million of
variable-rate notes due Sept. 6, 2000, via Salomon Brothers
International Ltd. Initial coupon will float 35 basis points
above three-month Libor for sterling. Alternative margin 65
basis points above Libor for first five years and 75 basis
points above Libor thereafter. Fees undisclosed.
   Credit Lyonnais (France) -- one billion French francs of
10% fungible Eurobonds due June 6, 1995, priced at 101.60 via
Credit Lyonnais. Fungible from payment date with existing one
billion franc issue launched May 9. Fees 1 7/8.
   Staatsbank Berlin (East Germany) -- five billion West
German marks of floating-rate notes at the six-month
Frankfurt interbank offered rate plus 0.05 point, priced at
100.09 and due Aug. 3, 1993, via Deutsche
GirozentraleDeutsche Kommunalbank. First rate fixing next
Tuesday. Fees 0.10.
   Baden-Wuerttemberg (West Germany) -- 300 million marks of
bonds priced at par and due Sept. 4, 1996, via Trinkaus &amp;
Burkhardt. Coupon for first two years 9 1/2%. Coupon for
final four years is 15 3/4% less the six-month Frankfurt
interbank offered rate. Fees 0.30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Equitable Real Estate Shopping:
   Two Malls That Are Bulk
   Of Assets Could Be Sold
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EQM SLH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Equitable Real Estate Shopping Centers L.P., New York,
said it may sell the two shopping malls that make up the bulk
of its assets.
   Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., general partner for the
publicly traded partnership, said that a decision hadn't been
reached to sell the properties and that no transactions are
imminent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The partnership acquired the shopping centers, Brookdale
Mall near Minneapolis and Northland Mall near Detroit, for a
total of $130.5 million from Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the U.S. in 1987.
   Shares in the partnership closed at $6.875, up 62.5 cents,
in the New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Confidence of Consumers
   Remained Steady in July
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Consumer confidence held fairly steady in July
after a significant loss in June, the Conference Board said.
   The board's index, which measures consumer attitudes about
the economy, based on a survey of 5,000 households, was down
about half a point in July to 101.8, from a revised 102.4 in
June. The index was 120.4 a year ago. The survey uses 1985 as
a base of 100.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The monthly survey, conducted for the Conference Board by
National Family Opinion Inc. of Toledo, Ohio, found consumers
a bit more positive about current conditions but less
positive in their expectations. Slightly more respondents
than last month say jobs are "plentiful," 25.6%, up from
23.4%. But more people expect "fewer" jobs will be available
in the next six months, nearly 18%, up from 16.5%.
   Fabian Linden, executive director of the Conference
Board's Consumer Research Center, said consumer confidence
declines since the beginning of the year are "markedly
different in various regions of the country." In the past
three months, compared with a year earlier, New England's
index is lowest, followed by the Middle Atlantic states. The
Pacific states, while falling below the year-ago index,
remain at a level above the rest of the nation.
   Car buying plans in July, slightly below June's, are
stronger than last year by one percentage point. Home buying
plans perked up compared with June and with a year ago. Major
appliance buying plans softened moderately.
   The Conference Board is a nonprofit, business-research
organization.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Oshkosh Truck Corp.:
   Loss of $2.5 Million Posted
   For Fiscal Third Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   OTRKB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Oshkosh Truck Corp. said it had a loss of $2.5 million, or
28 cents a share, in its third quarter ended June 30, after
writing off $27 million, or 33%, of its total inventory.
Sales rose 1.5% to $128.2 million.
   In the year-earlier quarter, Oshkosh earned $4.5 million,
or 50 cents a share, on sales of $126.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Oshkosh, Wis., truck maker said much of the inventory,
which was either sold or written off at a cost of $4 million,
was either excess or obsolete and included both finished and
non-finished goods.
   Oshkosh said the write-off was necessary to "reduce
inventory carrying costs, gain manufacturing space, and
improve efficiency." The move also lowered the company's
short-term debt to $4.1 million on June 30 from $23.5 million
on March 31.
   The company said its outlook is "significantly brightened"
by the fact that the Department of Defense has selected
Oshkosh as the producer of the U.S. Army's new generation of
heavy-duty trucks.
   Oshkosh Class B stock rose 12.5 cents yesterday to close
at $10.625 a share in national over-the-counter trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campeau Ends Bid to Get
   Holder Vote on Asset Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC T.CMP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Campeau Corp. withdrew a shareholder resolution
to authorize the sale of substantially all of its Canadian
real-estate assets, but said it still plans to sell roughly
two-thirds of the assets.
   The resolution was part of a package to restructure
Campeau Corp.'s ailing finances. Robert Campeau, chairman and
chief executive officer of Campeau Corp., said the resolution
was "premature" without first obtaining standstill agreements
from the company's two principal creditors, Olympia &amp; York
Developments Ltd. and Edward J. DeBartolo Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a result, Mr. Campeau said he opposed the resolution at
this time, leaving the company's management short of the
two-thirds majority necessary to pass the measure.
   The withdrawal of the resolution doesn't appear to
substantially change Campeau Corp.'s plans. Mr. Campeau said
shareholder approval would be sought at a later date if
management decides to sell more of the real-estate assets,
which carry a total book value of about $1 billion.
   Since Jan. 1, Campeau Corp. has raised $94 million from
the sale of Canadian real estate.
   The company had a net loss of $1.74 billion in the year
ended Jan. 31, mainly because of heavy financing costs and
write-downs related to its U.S. retailing operations, which
have sought protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Groupe Bull's Loss
   Widened Sharply
   During First Half
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F.GRB EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Groupe Bull S.A., France's largest computer
maker, slid deeper into the red in the first half in a
further sign of the troubles besetting European computer
makers.
   The French state-controlled company reported a net loss of
1.88 billion francs ($350 million) in the first six months,
more than three times greater than the year-earlier loss of
537 million francs. Partly because of Bull's recent
acquisition of the computer business of U.S.-based Zenith
Electronics Corp., revenue grew 14% to 15.9 billion francs
from 14 billion francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a telephone interview, Bull Chairman and Chief
Executive Francis Lorentz blamed the wider loss on Bull's
problems adjusting to a rapidly changing European computer
market. Because of rising competition and major changes in
computer buyers' tastes, profit margins in Europe for many
European and U.S. computer makers have dropped recently. And
many of the historically weak European-based manufacturers,
especially Bull, have suffered most.
   "Maybe we are more vulnerable than others are at the time
of these industry trends," Mr. Lorentz acknowledged. "We are
faced with a very drastic, dramatic change in the overall
market situation." He said he has already begun several
measures to restore profits at Bull, including cutting about
3,000 of the 43,500 people on the company's payroll. But he
said the recovery won't be "a short term, three-to-four month
process."
   Industry analysts concur. "No matter what happens, Bull is
going to have two to three tough years," said Paris-based
analyst Philippe de Marcillac of market researchers Dataquest
Inc.
   In recent months, market trends have hurt several computer
vendors in Europe.
   International Business Machines Corp. says its sales
growth has slowed slightly from last year's 7.3%,
dollar-denominated pace. Profits at Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; Co. of
Italy and International Computers Ltd. of Britain have
dropped. And the computer business of N.V. Philips of the
Netherlands is in the red.
   One problem is that Europe's once-insatiable appetite for
computers is slowly getting sated, after years of booming
purchases. Measured in European currencies, many analysts
expect 10% growth in the computer market this year, compared
with as much as 27% in the early 1980s. Competition for
remaining sales is rising and corporate computer-buyers are
now demanding tailored software and computer systems built
around standardized hardware.
   Bull, which relies heavily on its proprietary hardware and
software, has been particularly caught off balance by the
changing market. Because of years of state ownership, the
company has more difficulty trimming its work force as
technology advances, a standard profit-boosting measure used
by competitors.
   And, Mr. Lorentz said, Bull has had to work to digest
several recent acquisitions and to reorganize its broad
product line. "We have more than doubled our size in the last
18 months," he noted.
   Besides the Zenith purchase, Bull bought control of the
computer business of a longtime partner, U.S.-based Honeywell
Inc. in January 1989. Bull currently holds 72% of a joint
venture controlling that business; Japan's NEC Corp. holds
15% and Honeywell owns the remainder.
   One positive sign for Bull is that its computer orders
rose in June after five months of declining sales. The
company called that "an indication that the reorganization is
showing its effect."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Hitachi Ltd.:
   Company Has Developed
   New Disk Memory System
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   HIT
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hitachi Ltd. said it has come up with a magnetic disk
storage subsystem, for use in large-scale, general-purpose
processors, which allows for what it claims is the world's
largest computer memory storage.
   The Japanese computer and electronics company said the new
product, H-6587 series, can store up to 35 gigabytes of data
-- the equivalent of more than 70 years of a typical Japanese
language newspaper -- or 2.3 times more than Hitachi's
preceding model.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hitachi enhanced head-disk assembly technology, in an
attempt to ensure large storage in drastically less space. As
a result, on a per-gigabyte basis, a configuration using the
new systems requires only one-third the space of existing
systems, officials said.
   Hitachi officials call the latest development the
completion of Hitachi's computer devices aimed to cope with
market demand for highly sophisticated information systems.
   The company will start marketing the new product Aug. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   House Votes to Tighten
   1983 Orphan Drug Law
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House approved a measure that would
tighten the requirements under which the government grants
seven-year monopolies for drugs used to treat rare diseases.
   The bill, passed by voice vote, was considerably less
severe than what was proposed last spring by Rep. Henry
Waxman. The California Democrat was an author of the 1983
"orphan drug" law that gave the Food and Drug Administration
authority to grant seven-year exclusivity for otherwise
unprofitable drugs. But after receiving complaints that some
firms were earning unexpectedly high profits, Rep. Waxman
sought to prevent unexpected windfalls.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill originally would have allowed competition for
certain unexpectedly profitable orphan drugs already on the
market. Among these were Genentech Inc.'s Human Growth
Hormone, used to treat dwarfism, and Amgen Inc.'s EPO, used
to treat anemia in kidney dialysis patients. But after
intense lobbying, existing orphan drugs were exempted from
the bill.
   The measure passed yesterday would withdraw orphan-drug
status for drugs whose patient population grows beyond
200,000. The bill also would allow more than one company to
market different versions of a drug granted orphan status in
instances where the companies developed the drug
simultaneously.
   A similar proposal has been introduced in the Senate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Alpine Group Inc.:
   General Plasma Unit Sold
   To Ontario Corp. of Indiana
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AGI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Alpine Group Inc. said it reached a definitive agreement
to sell its General Plasma Inc. unit for $19 million to
Ontario Corp., Muncie, Ind. General Plasma operates thermal
spray coating systems.
   Alpine, based in Hackensack, N.J., said it expects to
complete the transaction by Aug. 31, subject to completion of
financing by Ontario. It said it would continue its
operations in the electronic information display business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Alpine reported earnings of $3.8 million, or
74 cents a share, for the fiscal year ended April 30,
compared with a loss of $11.7 million a year earlier. The
profit was attributable to a $20 million extraordinary gain
from "extinguishment of debt," the company said. The company
posted losses of $4.3 million on continuing operations and
$11.8 million on discontinued operations. In fiscal 1989,
those losses were $5.4 million and $6.3 million respectively.
Sales from continuing operations were $7.9 million, compared
with $6.3 million the previous year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Giant Group Ltd.:
   Board Authorizes Purchase
   Of Rally's Common Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GPO RLLY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Giant Group Ltd., Beverly Hills, Calif., said its board
authorized the purchase of common stock in Rally's Inc., a
hamburger chain in which Giant is the leader of a group that
holds about a 44% stake.
   Giant Group didn't say how much stock it might acquire in
public or private transactions, and cautioned that its
prospective purchases depended on the price of Rally's stock,
interest rates, market conditions and other factors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rally's stock appeared little-affected by Giant's cautious
announcement, closing unchanged at $16 a share in national
over-the-counter trading.
   Giant, a cement, waste processing and fast-food concern
controlled by Beverly Hills financier Burt Sugarman, said in
a Securities and Exchange Commission filing last October that
it had sought approval under federal antitrust laws to
acquire more than a 50% stake in Rally's, based in
Louisville, Ky.
   In Louisville, Richard Sherman, chairman and chief
executive officer of Rally's, welcomed Giant's prospective
purchases. "They've been an excellent shareholder," he said.
   Rally's currently has about 6.8 million shares
outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Thrift Bailout to Require $100 Billion
   In Next 12 Months, Bush Officials Say
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration's savings-and-loan
cleanup, which is running as low on political support as it
is on cash, will require about $100 billion in the next 12
months, officials said.
   Even Republicans balked over the short-term costs
disclosed by administration officials before the House
Banking Committee. The new spending plan, which includes $60
billion in "temporary" outlays that the administration hopes
to recoup through sales of S&amp;L assets, won't increase overall
cost projections, but it requires more cash sooner than the
lawmakers had been told to expect.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The taxpayers of my state are paying too much money for
this cleanup already," said Rep. Chalmers Wylie of Ohio, the
committee's ranking Republican. Added Rep. Thomas Ridge (R.,
Pa.,), "Is this the last moving target we are going to try to
hit?"
   Administration officials, who have been looking at ways to
change the S&amp;L bailout law to lower costs, held out other
alarming barometers of the S&amp;L cleanup. The real estate slump
has spread across the nation, adding to losses, they said.
Junk-bond losses from S&amp;Ls seized by the government will
total more than $1 billion. "That would certainly be a
minimum," said William Seidman, chairman of the Resolution
Trust Corp., the bailout agency.
   The administration has so far depended on its budget
summit with Congress to consider the S&amp;L funding along with
other fiscal issues. That hardly sat well with Banking
Committee members. "We just don't want to get blind-sided,"
said Chairman Henry Gonzalez (D., Texas).
   But if the budget summit doesn't produce an agreement, the
costs of the S&amp;L bailout will be pushed higher, said Robert
Glauber, undersecretary of the Treasury. He predicted that
interest rates will rise if the budget summit fails. "These
institutions are extremely vulnerable to interest rates," he
added.
   Most recently, the Bush administration has estimated that
it will cost about $130 billion to protect depositors at sick
S&amp;Ls; it has spent about one-third of that so far.
   But that doesn't include two complicating factors that
regularly anger Congress -- interest on the spending and the
temporary cash required to hold S&amp;L investments until they
are sold. Those items, barely discussed when the law was
passed last year, will probably quadruple the costs to exceed
$500 billion in 10 years.
   "Now we are looking at reality," said Rep. Bruce Vento,
(D. Minn.), "and see an S&amp;L bailout of Grand Canyon-sized
proportions."
   The cleanup could squeak through to the end of January
1991 if Congress committed as little as $5 billion now and
the administration took advantage of a "literal reading" of
an error in the bailout law's language, which would free up
$18 billion more, Mr. Glauber said. Thus, Congress could
avoid committing a more explosive chunk of cash before the
fall election. While Mr. Glauber raised the idea, he didn't
endorse it.
   Without new funding, the S&amp;L cleanup will grind to a halt,
probably in the October-December quarter. But the Treasury
already has reached some cleanup limits. It eliminated plans
to replace high-cost brokered deposits at the sick S&amp;Ls with
low-cost Treasury funds. That pushes up interest rates that
all banks and thrifts pay. "We believe that this is a very
high and unwise cost to pay," warned Mr. Seidman.
   The White House, meanwhile, is steeling itself for more
election-year criticism for the thrift cleanup, and refused a
request by the National Governors Association to create a
bipartisan commission to investigate the causes of the S&amp;L
mess. "We feel that it's not time to point fingers now, but
it's time to get the money that's owed to the depositors back
in their hands," a White House spokesman said.
   But both the administration and Congress are taking a hard
look at how to overhaul -- for the second time in two years
-- thrift and bank regulation. Among the proposals currently
in Congress are those that would expose personal income tax
records of directors of failed S&amp;Ls, freeze lucrative
compensation packages for directors at failed thrifts, and
allow banks and thrifts to extend their branch networks
nationwide.
   The administration is examining ways to reduce costs for
the cleanup, too. "We have asked people to start all over
again and see if there are changes in direction that could
change costs," said Mr. Seidman.
   That includes a pilot program to sell nine sick thrifts,
not yet seized by the government, to private investors in
coming weeks. Officials believe the thrifts would attract
higher bids, because their value wouldn't have been tarnished
by government seizure.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE S&amp;L BAILOUT will require $100 billion over the next 12
months, Bush officials disclosed. The new plan leaves the
bailout's overall cost projections unchanged, but requires
more cash sooner than previously forecast. Even Republicans
balked at the figure, which includes $60 billion in
"temporary" spending intended to be recouped through thrift
asset sales. The administration said junk-bond losses and the
real-estate slump are adding to the bailout's toll.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consumer spending rose a strong 1% in June, the biggest
increase since January. But personal income continued to grow
only modestly, edging up 0.4% after gains of 0.3% each in
April and May, suggesting that spending is unlikely to gain
much vigor.
   ---
   The dollar slumped to its lowest level against the mark in
nearly 31 months. The U.S. unit, hurt by rising interest
rates overseas and signs of a slowing economy at home, also
fell against the yen and the pound.
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices gained, boosted by rising bond prices, strong
oil issues and program buying. The Dow Jones industrials rose
18.82 points to 2917.33.
   ---
   Fujitsu formally agreed to acquire control of Britain's
International Computers for $1.37 billion, and the Japanese
firm's chairman said he favors investing in Siemens of West
Germany. His remarks underscore the pursuit of the European
market by Japanese computer concerns.
   ---
   Wang Labs took $417.4 million in write-downs and
restructuring charges, leading to a widened loss of $496.7
million for the June 30 quarter. But the computer maker said
its operations are "near break-even."
   ---
   Ball Corp. agreed to buy Continental Can's European unit
for $1.03 billion in cash and stock, as part of the Indiana
packaging firm's plan to widen its international operations.
   ---
   Blinder Robinson sought protection from creditors under
Chapter 11. The penny-stock firm said it will move its
accounts to another broker firm.
   ---
   GM will find it "very difficult" to maintain its European
sales and market share because of factory shutdowns required
for retooling, the firm's European operations chief said.
   ---
   Circle K reported a $747.4 million loss for the April 30
quarter. The convenience store chain, operating under Chapter
11, said revenue fell 2.6%.
   ---
   Arkla of Houston agreed to buy Diversified Energies of
Minneapolis for $630 million in stock. The firms produce and
distribute natural gas.
   ---
   The SEC is investigating troubled Stotler Group for
possible violations of disclosure rules, according to people
familiar with the probe. And futures regulators have
questioned the propriety of $5.5 million in intercompany
loans made to Stotler.
   ---
   The budget negotiators are still maneuvering over
schedules rather than substance. Bush and top legislators are
to meet today to try to agree on a timetable for the talks.
   ---
   World trade talks appear headed for failure, a group of
Southeast Asian nations warned. Many Asian countries fear
Western interference with their efforts to expand trade.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 146,470,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2917.33, up 18.82; transportation 1125.00, off 9.67;
utilities 207.05, up 3.70.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3487.45, up
26.22.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 131.97, off 0.44;
spot index 131.79, off 0.45.
   Dollar: 147.83 yen, off 1.32; 1.6041 marks, off 0.0079.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Consolidated Enfield Corp.:
   Toronto Company Increases
   Its Stake in Packaging Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CGC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Consolidated Enfield Corp. said it exercised rights
granted by Consumers Packaging Inc. to acquire an additional
4,529,781 common shares of the Toronto-based packaging
concern.
   The 39.6-million Canadian-dollar (US$34.2 million)
purchase brings Enfield's stake in Consumers Packaging to
57.6% from about 50%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consumers Packaging said it intends to use the C$45.4
million proceeds of the rights issue to reduce corporate
debt.
   Enfield, a Toronto-based holding company indirectly
controlled by financiers Peter and Edward Bronfman, said the
acquisition was for investment purposes.
   Earlier this month, Enfield paid C$17.5 million to acquire
a block of 1,224,489 Consumers Packaging shares from a former
Enfield subsidiary, Federal Pioneer Ltd.
   In trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday,
Consumers Packaging closed at C$9, up 25 Canadian cents.
Shares of Consolidated Enfield closed at C$10, down C$1.50.
Before the rights offering, the company had about 20.8
million common shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chambers Development Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CDVA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Security Bureau Inc., a subsidiary of
Chambers Development Co., an environmental company, said it
acquired Dynamic Protection Services Inc., a security
services concern in Orange, Calif. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The acquisition is expected to generate annual revenue of
$4.1 million, Chambers said. Security Bureau, the
14th-largest security services company in the U.S., provides
uniformed guard services, crisis management, security
surveys, loss prevention and investigative services. Chambers
offers services in collection, hauling, disposal, recycling
and landfill development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OEA Settles Colorado Dispute
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   OEA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- OEA Inc. said it reached an out-of-court
settlement with the Colorado Department of Health that
allowed the maker of explosive and propellant devices to
resume production last Sunday.
   OEA had suspended operations last week, after the state
agency sued the company, alleging violations of the Colorado
Hazardous Waste Act. The settlement requires OEA to change
its handling of waste water, but the company said the changes
won't have a material effect on its finances.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NEC-China Venture Pact Near
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   NIPNY FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- NEC Corp., one of Japan's top computer
makers, and Capital Iron &amp; Steel Complex, China's leading
steel producer, are expected next month to sign an agreement
to set up a $150 million venture to produce integrated
circuits, the English-language China Daily reported.
   The planned Beijing factory is to be capable of producing
50 million integrated circuits a year, the paper said, but
didn't provide further details.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When NEC outlined the project last January, it said Japan
would first have to lift economic sanctions it imposed on
China following the Tiananmen Square massacre in June 1989.
Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, at the economic summit
meeting in Houston this month, obtained the understanding of
other major industrial countries to resume economic relations
with China, and this apparently cleared the way for the NEC
project to proceed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Parker Drilling Completes Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   PKD WGP+
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TULSA, Okla. -- Parker Drilling Co., an energy-industry
drilling contractor, said it completed the sale of the
pipeline assets of its Parker Gas Cos. unit to Western Gas
Processors Ltd., Denver. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The assets included 450 miles of pipeline primarily in
Giddings, Texas, Parker said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Henley Stake Bought
   By Lebanese Investor;
   15% Interest Planned
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   HENG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- A Lebanese investor paid $45.9 million in the
past several months to take a 7.67% stake in Henley Group
Inc. and said he plans to file with antitrust regulators to
raise his stake in the industrial holding company to more
than 15%.
   Toufic Aboukhater said in a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission that he acquired 1.6 million Henley
shares between mid-March and last week through Libra Invest &amp;
Trade, a Swiss firm he controls, at $27.25 to $38 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Aboukhater has held stakes in Henley Group affiliates
in the past. Two years ago, he was part of a group that sold
1.9 million shares of Henley Manufacturing Corp., a Henley
affiliate, to Henley Group Chairman Michael Dingman. Henley
Manufacturing was spun off by Henley in 1987 and later taken
private by Mr. Dingman and another Henley executive, Paul M.
Montrone.
   "Over the years, Toufic Aboukhater has from time to time
been a major investor in our affiliated companies," Mr.
Dingman said. "He has always been constructive in his
communications with management and we are confident he will
remain so this time around."
   Mr. Dingman said Henley Group would "welcome" Mr.
Aboukhater as they have any other investors who own 5% or
more of Henley's stock. Among those with holdings of 5% or
more of Henley common are Wheelabrator Technologies Inc.,
9.7%; Oppenheimer Group Inc., 8.2%; Metropolitan Life
Insurance Co., 6.5%; FMR Corp., 5.5%; and the State of
Wisconsin Investment Board, 5.3%.
   Henley Group's major assets include 7% of Wheelabrator
Technologies; a Chilean methanol plant; Pneumo Abex Corp., an
aerospace, industrial and defense supplier; and Fisher
International Inc., a maker of scientific and diagnostic
instruments.
   Henley also holds a 38.5% stake in Itel Corp., but has
said it plans to dispose of possibly all of its Itel shares.
Henley also plans to distribute to shareholders 35% of Pneumo
Abex shares and all of its Fisher International shares.
   In his SEC filing, Mr. Aboukhater said he doesn't
currently have plans to seek control of Henley or to
influence its management, but reserves the right to change
his plans in the future.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, July 30, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8% high, 7 15/16% low, 8% near closing bid,
8 1/16% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.825% 30 to 44 days; 7.75% 45 to 59 days;
7.70% 60 to 89 days; 7.65% 90 to 119 days; 7.60% 120 to 149
days; 7.55% 150 to 179 days; 7.45% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 7.90%
30 days; 7.88% 60 days; 7.84% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.67% one month; 7.69% two
months; 7.71% three months; 7.88% six months; 8.08% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 7.98% one month; 7.98% three months;
8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.82% 30 days; 7.73% 60 days; 7.68%
90 days; 7.61% 120 days; 7.56% 150 days; 7.52% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% one month; 8%
- 7 7/8% two months; 8% - 7 7/8% three months; 8% - 7 7/8%
four months; 8% - 7 7/8% five months; 8% - 7 7/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8 1/16% three months; 8 1/16% six months; 8 1/8% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 30, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.50%, 13 weeks; 7.37%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.80%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.75%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.40%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.74%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rustenburg Posts Lower Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   O.RUS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -- Rustenburg Platinum Holdings
Ltd. said its earnings fell 7.5% in the year ended June 30.
   Net profit amounted to 551.3 million rand ($211.3 million)
from the previous financial year's figure of 595.7 million
rand. Earnings amounted to 440.0 cents ($1.68) a share
compared with 475.4 cents the previous year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An unchanged final dividend of 185 cents a share has been
declared, bringing total dividend distribution for the year
to 310 cents, up 3.3% from 300 cents in the previous year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Displays Let Shoppers
   Get a Handle on Products
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   MANUFACTURERS offer consumers more chances to "test drive"
tools, toys and other products before they buy.
Do-it-yourself displays increase sales and don't require
staff to guide customers.
   "When shoppers get involved in the product, sales go up
15% to 20%," says John Kawula, president of the Point of
Purchase Advertising Institute in Englewood, N.J. Others put
the gain higher.
   Frank Mayer &amp; Associates, Grafton, Wis., designed a
demonstrator for Nintendo's "Game Boy" video game. The
display is authentic except that it limits play to between
three and seven minutes and uses stereo speakers instead of
earphones. John Sakaley, Nintendo's director of
merchandising, says interactive displays double sales
compared with passive counter diagrams.
   WorkTools of Chatsworth, Calif., has designed its own
display, which lets consumers try its "SqueezeDriver"
screwdriver on a permanently attached screw.
   Tomy America, Southport, Conn., expects to sell 200,000 of
its "Big Loader" cargo-handling toys this year instead of the
50,000 anticipated before it got Thomas A. Schutz Co. of
Morton Grove, Ill., to design a demonstrator that works under
a plastic dome.
   Some interactive displays are meant to provide less
customer interaction rather than more. Aris Isotoner found
that shoppers didn't buy the company's claim that one size of
Isotoner glove fits all; they insisted on ripping open the
boxes and trying on the gloves, spoiling the packages.
   So Thomson-Leeds, a New York design firm, put a single
glove on a pulley. Shoppers can pull the glove down and try
it on. Fred Richman, Isotoner's manager of visual
merchandising, didn't give figures, but said, "I assume we
saved money."
                                                                                                       

   Preparing Offices
   To Shake, Rattle and Roll
                                                                                                       

   FURNITURE PEOPLE have learned some lessons from last
year's San Francisco earthquake. Lesson One: Good office
planning is pretty much the same in a quake zone or out.
   Tall file cabinets should be anchored to the floor,
ceiling, wall or each other to keep them from falling over,
as many did when drawers sprang open in the quake. Furniture
makers and interior designers add that file cabinets are
tippy by nature and should always be anchored, whether in
California or Kansas.
   Another lesson from San Francisco is that computer
monitors should be fastened down to prevent them from
marching off the desk and onto the floor. Robert Hayes,
corporate architect for Apple Computer's U.S. division, says
some people in the Bay Area have started using velcro strips
to secure their monitors. But many computer users throughout
the country have long used locks to prevent thievery; these
also serve to prevent earthquake damage.
   A third lesson: Don't ask how to design furniture for the
next quake. "We don't know," says Richard Driscoll, senior
test lab engineer at Steelcase, a furniture maker. How
furniture does in a quake depends on the kind of quake and
type of building. "Every quake is different," Mr. Driscoll
says, "and every building responds differently."
                                                                                                       

   A Feast for the Ears,
   If Not the Eyes
                                                                                                       

   SO LONG AS you're willing to look like Mickey Mouse or
Dumbo, you can hear better -- at home, at a concert or in the
woods.
   Two Californians have designed non-electronic hearing
devices to mimic the effect of cupping a hand behind one's
ear.
   "Ear Lenzes" are made of black plastic and resemble
headphones, except that the earpieces are parabolic
half-shells. Inventor Michael Riley, president of National
Market Makers of Venice, Calif., says his device delivers up
to eight decibels more sound to the ears. That isn't enough
to help most hard-of-hearing people, Mr. Riley says, but does
let home stereo listeners get the same sound with half the
power.
   Ear Lenzes also block out sound from side and rear.
"Useful in a concert hall," says George Petersen, products
editor of Mix Magazine, a sound industry journal. And useful
in the woods, says Mr. Riley, where Ear Lenzes can help
hunters hear their prey and ornithologists pick up bird
calls.
   "Serious Listeners" is a similar product, but with larger
earpieces made of soft calfskin. Leather treats sound more
naturally than plastic, says co-inventor Terry Merritt of
Burlingame, Calif. Sam Tellig, senior editor at Stereophile
magazine, says his Serious Listeners made singer Jessye
Norman seem "much closer and more immediate" in a recent
concert at Carnegie Hall.
   Neither device wins a beauty contest. Jeffrey Goggin,
editor of Sounds Like . . . magazine, which reviews audio
products, says he could "never wear" Ear Lenzes in public,
because they make him look like "a charter member of the
Mickey Mouse Club."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   No Easy Exit
   From Travelers'
   Property Fund
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ALD LABOR TIC TX
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It's not always the small investor who takes a
bath.
   Back in the heyday of the 1980s real estate boom, more
than 150 pension funds plowed hundreds of millions of dollars
into the Travelers Corp. real estate fund known as "Separate
Account R." The money was pooled to buy office buildings,
hotels and other commercial properties around the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Then the real estate market tanked, pulling down the value
of Separate Account R and other real estate pools. But
Travelers' problems with Separate Account R are something
special.
   Some of the 146 institutional investors left in Separate
Account R, which has now dwindled to $225 million, are so
irate over Travelers' handling of their money they want the
big insurance company to name an outside manager to take over
the real estate. "It appears that Travelers is incapable of
properly managing Separate Account R," Claude Perrier,
executive director of the $1.8 billion Maine Retirement
System, groused to Travelers in a letter in April.
   Among the complaints, some big investors think they have
been charged excessive fees by Travelers, which the insurer
denies. The Dallas Police and Fire Pension Fund has taken the
unusual step of suing Travelers in state court in Dallas,
alleging mismanagement of the account. Travelers, which
requested the suit be moved to federal court, said the
insurer has "strong defenses to the allegations, and we will
certainly assert them."
   Meanwhile, almost all the investors in the account --
which include pension plans of Texaco Inc. and Allied-Signal
Inc., the pension account of a Manhattan physician and his
secretary, and even $59 million from Travelers own employee
retirement fund -- have demanded their money back from the
insurer.
   In short, Separate Account R has been a monkey on
Travelers' back it is trying hard to shake. "It is our
intention, come hell or high water, to terminate this
account," John Prom, a Travelers second vice president
working on Separate Account R, said at a meeting with
investors this past week. "We want to get back some of the
good will we have lost in this process."
   Rarely has the dissatisfaction of institutional investors
with one of their investment managers become as high as that
involving Separate Account R. But despite their size and
supposed clout, the experience of big investors in trying to
get their money out of real estate pools is no better than
that of small investors who bought into real estate limited
partnerships and are now stuck with losing investments.
   Although real estate pools are not as liquid as stocks and
bonds, big investors had always assumed they could get their
money with relative ease. That was true as long as real
estate prices were rising, but as the market began to soften
several years ago, there was a rush to join withdrawal lists,
such as those for Separate Account R. Travelers says that
about 90% of the investors in Separate Account R now want
out.
   For real estate pools like Separate Account R, withdrawal
demands rise when falling real estate sales prices produce
the least cash to pay off investors. That means investors may
have to wait years for their money and may get back much less
than what they had hoped for as real estate values plummet.
The process has been made even more difficult as the federal
government sells real estate from the portfolios of troubled
savings and loan associations.
   "It has not been a fun period for us, and it has not been
a fun period for you, but the real estate market in this
country has been a disaster," Thomas Keating, Travelers
senior vice president, said at the meeting with investors
last week.
   At the meeting, Travelers tried to quell the investor
unrest by agreeing to cut the fee it charges on Separate
Account R. The fee, which has been 1% of the assets under
management, will drop by a quarter of a percentage point in
each of the three years that Travelers says it will take to
sell off properties owned by the account.
   Travelers also agreed to demands from pension funds that
they be allowed to form a committee to oversee the insurer's
handling of the account. "We have a concern about the ability
of the Travelers to do what they say they are going to do,"
said Maine's Mr. Perrier in proposing the oversight
committee.
   Word of Travelers' fee cut and acceptance of the oversight
committee came at the unusual meeting last week with
officials of 20 pension funds. Travelers executives
overseeing Separate Account R admitted mistakes in
communicating with investors, but defended their overall
performance.
   "We feel bad about this," Travelers' Mr. Prom said at the
meeting with investors. "We have one goal in this -- that is
to get you your money at maximum value."
   High on the list of complaints by pension-fund officials
at the meeting was a decision by Travelers to pay out
withdrawals from the account on a pro-rata basis, instead of
a first-come, first-served basis, as had been done until
Travelers halted withdrawal payments to investors in January.
The switch to pro-rata payments was necessary in a
liquidation process under federal pension regulations,
Travelers officials said.
   But pension funds near the front of the line on a
first-come, first-served basis, such as Rohm &amp; Haas Co.'s
pension fund, questioned the switch, because they would
receive less on a pro-rata basis. One allegation in the
Dallas lawsuit is that the Travelers' own employee pension
fund would benefit from the switch, since that fund was lower
down on the withdrawal list.
   Travelers said it would fight the lawsuit brought by the
Dallas pension fund, and said that clients weren't consulted
about the switch because there was no choice. "It was not on
the basis of arrogance" that Travelers didn't contact
clients, Mr. Prom said.
   At the meeting, Travelers officials said they had
tentative or firm agreements to sell eight Separate Account R
properties for a total of about $40 million -- almost the
same amount at which the properties are currently appraised.
   However, under questioning, Travelers officials indicated
that almost all the sale prices were below the original
purchase prices.
   "I'm glad they (Travelers officials) finally responded to
some of the pressure and criticism, but I wish they had
started it earlier," Michael McGuire, trustee for the Grand
Rapids, Mich., public employee pension fund, which is a
Separate Account R investor, said yesterday.
   "We believe it could be the first step in a process that
will lead to solutions which would be acceptable to all
participants," a Travelers spokesman said of the meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Southeast Asians
   Worry About Fate
   If Trade Talks Fail
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   SINGAPORE -- A group of Southeast Asian nations warned
that world-wide trade talks appear headed for failure, which
would increase international tensions and could leave them
"out in the cold."
   The Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, in a
statement critical of the lack of progress in the 105-nation
trade talks known as the Uruguay Round, said "the possibility
that the round will end in failure does not now seem
unthinkable." The talks conclude in early December and if an
agreement isn't reached, the statement added, "We are
concerned that deals will be struck" by the industrial
countries at the expense of developing nations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Asean countries, Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, are meeting here as part
of a larger group, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation,
which includes the U.S., Canada, Japan, Australia, New
Zealand and South Korea. In a separate statement on the trade
talks, Apec, which was formed last year to discuss common
problems in the Pacific region, "expressed grave concern that
progress has not been made."
   The flagging trade negotiations have heightened the
concern of many Asian nations that events in the West will
interfere with their efforts to expand trade. The Asians
worry that the move toward a single European market in 1992
could result in a restrictive trade bloc and that the West's
new preoccupation with Eastern Europe will divert investment
capital that might have found its way to Asia.
   Singapore Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, in his opening
address at the Apec meeting, reflected this growing feeling
of isolation. Noting that British Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher in a recent speech divided trading nations into
three groups based on the mark, the dollar and the yen, Mr.
Lee said such talk makes Asians feel "quarantined into the
Japanese yen bloc so that they can be excluded from the
markets of prosperous Europeans and Americans, that the
whites have changed the rules just as Asians have learned to
compete and win under those rules."
   A four-day negotiating session of the Uruguay Round in
Geneva ended last week without any signs of progress. The
talks are bogged down in disputes over agricultural trade and
subsidies, which hurt many Apec members.
   On Monday, the European Community's agriculture
commissioner proposed a 30% cut in Europe's farm subsidy over
five years. The U.S. said it wouldn't respond to the proposal
because it was made outside the Uruguay Round.
   The negotiators have only about four months to wrap up a
new set of trade rules covering agriculture, services,
textiles, agreements on mechanisms that would resolve trade
disputes, and other issues.
   Secretary of State James Baker, in a statement, told other
Apec members that "the highest international economic policy
priority of the U.S. is a successful outcome to the Uruguay
Round." Mr. Baker's remarks were read by Commerce Secretary
Robert Mosbacher because the secretary of state was bedridden
with a fever, according to Margaret Tutwiler, the State
Department spokeswoman. But he is expected to leave Singapore
today, as planned, to continue an Asian trip.
   During the 1980s, U.S. trade with Pacific nations greatly
outstripped America's trade with Europe. In 1989, U.S.
trans-Pacific trade totaled $297 billion, compared with total
trade of $207 billion with Europe, according to a State
Department official.
   At yesterday's session, the Apec members also discussed
expanding their ranks to include China, Taiwan and Hong Kong,
but they aren't expected to make a decision during today's
final session, according to a senior U.S. official.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education:
   Many Educators View Involved Parents
   As Key to Children's Success in School
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<GV>
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- After a decade of efforts to improve schools
with more money, better teachers and stiffer requirements,
educators are focusing on a more basic key to success: the
involvement of parents in their children's education.
   "You can't bring about major reform unless parents are
going to be a part of it," says Christopher Cross, the
Education Department's assistant secretary for research. "You
have got to have parents understand that they do make a
difference, and you've got to get the teachers and the
principals to understand the importance of parental
involvement."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A nationwide federal survey of 24,600 eighth graders in
1,000 public and private schools shows that this message
isn't getting through. Nearly half the students said they
rarely discuss school with their parents. A survey of the
eighth graders' parents reveals that only about half of them
have any contact with their children's schools.
   The survey, called the National Educational Longitudinal
Survey of 1988, was conducted for the Education Department
two years ago, but the results are just beginning to
circulate. "One of the things that's clearly shown is the
disengagement of parents from the schools and from their
children's performance," Mr. Cross says.
   Parental interest in school is one of the building blocks
of success, educators say. When parents fail to stress the
importance of education, "then the kids tend to do pretty
much as they want, which is to say, not much at all," says
Tommy Tomlinson, a senior researcher at the Education
Department.
   Students who aspire to the most competitive colleges must
work hard, but most colleges aren't selective. "Any kid who
gets out of high school can get into college" somewhere, Mr.
Tomlinson says. And few employers hire students on the basis
of their high school records or even look at grade
transcripts.
   "On average, U.S. students, by most measures and at every
level of class and ability, appear to be less serious about
school and less willing to commit their time and energy to
learning than the nation's aspirations require," Mr.
Tomlinson says.
   The survey of eighth graders bears this out. The students
reported that they spend an average of 21.4 hours a week
watching television but only 5.6 hours doing homework and 1.8
hours on outside reading. Nearly 63% of the students report
that their parents rarely or never limit the amount of TV
they watch.
   "The reform movement has looked at everything but how to
make students work harder," says Nelson Smith, the director
of the Education Department's programs for the improvement of
practice.
   Parental involvement in education has been a victim of
changes in American family life, says Samuel Sava, executive
director of the National Association of Elementary School
Principals. Since 1965, the divorce rate, the ratio of
children living in single-parent families and the proportion
of married mothers of young children working outside the home
have all doubled. As a result, he says, parents have less
time and energy to devote to their children's education.
   "This family revolution is the greatest single cause of
the decline in student achievement during the last 20 years,"
Mr. Sava says. "It's not better teachers, texts or curricula
that our children need most; it's better childhoods, and we
will never see lasting school reform until we first see
parent reform."
   Many schools do encourage parental involvement at the
primary level, but beyond the early grades schools tend to do
less to induce parental partnership in education. Joyce
Epstein, of the Center for Research on Elementary and Middle
Schools at Johns Hopkins University, says that "middle grade
parents receive less information or guidance at the very time
they need more information and more guidance in how to be
involved in larger and more complex schools and in new and
more complex class schedules and subjects."
   And James Coleman, a professor of sociology at the
University of Chicago, maintains that many schools have
actually made "strong attempts to keep parents from
interfering with what's going on in school."
   But that's beginning to change. As part of a sweeping
school system reorganization, the state of Kentucky plans to
install telephones in every classroom to make it easier for
teachers and parents to reach each other during the day. In
Bloomfield, Conn., the schools ask parents to read to young
children and send home suggested texts. Dade County, Fla.,
and St. Paul, Minn., are building elementary schools close to
factories and office buildings, making it easier for parents
to meet with teachers and attend school events.
   In some places, school systems have been reorganized to
encourage more parental involvement. In Chicago, local school
boards have been placed under parental control, and New York
City is beginning to seek greater parental involvement in
running some schools. Eight states, led by Minnesota, have
adopted plans that allow parents to register their children
in any school in the state. The spread of such "choice" plans
will lead to wider parent involvement in monitoring their
children's performances, Mr. Coleman says.
   The survey of eighth graders illustrates the problems that
can arise when parents don't pay enough attention to their
children's schooling. Two-thirds of the students said they
hoped to graduate from college, yet less than 30% planned to
take a college preparatory program in high school. One reason
for this mismatch may be that only about half of the students
talked to their parents more than three times about planning
their high school program, and less than half of the students
talked to their teachers about high school courses.
   ---
                     Parental Involvement
                                                                                                       

   In the spring of 1988, 24,600 eighth grade students were
asked how often that school year they had talked with one or
both of their parents or guardians about:
                                                                                                       

   Selecting courses or programs at school
                                                                                                       

   Once or twice                    46.5%
   Three or more times              38.9%
   Not at all                       14.6%
                                                                                                       

   Things studied in class
                                                                                                       

   Three or more times              52.0%
   Once or twice                    36.4%
   Not at all                       11.6%
                                                                                                       

   Sources: National Center for Educational Statistics, U.S.
Department of Education
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Votes Military-Construction Bill
   Of $8.3 Billion, Paring Overseas Funds
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House approved an $8.3 billion
military-construction bill that would slash the Pentagon's
budget for overseas facilities by more than 60% and bar any
expenditures for a new NATO air base in southern Italy in
fiscal 1991.
   Total U.S. contributions for the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization's infrastructure would be cut by 41% from
current levels. The debate was testimony to the realignment
in Europe and political pressure in the U.S. to protect
parochial interests in the face of defense-spending
reductions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Europe has taken us to the cleaners for a long time,"
said Rep. David Obey (D., Wis.). And North Carolina Rep. Bill
Hefner, chairman of the military construction subcommittee,
derisively compared the past American posture as "Uncle
Sugar." A committee compromise, delaying any decision on the
new Crotone air base in Italy, dissolved in the face of floor
opposition, and by a simple voice vote, members chose to
freeze all U.S. contributions for the base at least through
the next fiscal year.
   NATO commander Gen. John Galvin personally lobbied on
behalf of the facility as a new home for an F-16 fighter wing
that is losing its base in Spain. But critics argued that it
would be better to bring the unit home than to invest further
U.S. dollars in Europe. Sensing defeat, Bush administration
allies abandoned any attempt to force a roll call, and the
underlying bill passed easily by a 312-82 margin.
   The defeat for the administration came as senior members
of the Senate Appropriations Committee signaled their
opposition to the Justice Department's ambitious plans for a
new National Drug Intelligence Center.
   Drug czar William Bennett is seeking an initial $46
million for the center through a special fund within the
White House budget. But critics argue that once begun, the
project will be a financial burden on the Justice Department
and disruptive of drug intelligence operations.
   The issue will first be tested in a Treasury and Postal
Service bill slated to be drafted this week. And, in an
unusual step, the chairman and ranking Republican on the
Justice appropriations subcommittee have written their
colleagues asking that Mr. Bennett's request be denied. "Is
this the best option for improving drug intelligence
activities?" asked Sens. Ernest Hollings (D., S.C.) and
Warren Rudman (R., N.H.).
   They added: "It is an option which we feel well may prompt
an interruption in ongoing drug-intelligence operations,
duplicate existing intelligence activities, and ultimately
produce marginal returns given the costs incurred."
   The military-construction measure yesterday is the 10th of
the 13 annual appropriations bills to be sent to pass the
House. The vote came as the full House Appropriations
Committee cleared a $1.75 billion legislative measure funding
the operations of the Capitol as well as such related
agencies as the Library of Congress and General Accounting
Office.
   One of the smallest of the annual bills, the legislative
measure also is one of the most nettlesome. Going into
November, lawmakers once again are torn over how to revise
the costly system of free mail afforded to incumbents.
   The measure includes an estimated $33.2 million to meet a
shortfall in funds for 1990, where expenditures have been
swollen by election-year mailing. And almost $59 million more
is provided for the new fiscal year.
   Republicans, sensing the political advantages for the
Democratic majority, are demanding new restrictions. But
within their own ranks, there are divisions as to how to
proceed.
   Rep. Vic Fazio (D., Calif.), chairman of the legislative
subcommittee, has met criticism, too, in his own party for
moving toward limits, but he is expected to propose a formula
setting an average ceiling of approximately $160,000 per
member and requiring regular disclosure of expenditures, much
as members now report their office accounts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   FDA Advisers Delay Recommendation
   On Cetus Drug Against Kidney Cancer
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CTUS
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   ROCKVILLE, Md. -- An advisory panel to the Food and Drug
Administration postponed making any recommendation about the
use of Cetus Corp.'s interleukin-2 for advanced kidney
cancer.
   The panel sent Cetus back to its labs and computers to do
more analysis of its study data to pinpoint which patients
should receive the drug, also known as IL-2, and to come up
with more compelling evidence that the drug extends survival.
Kidney cancer that has metastasized, or spread from its
original site, is aggressive and generally fatal, and has no
approved therapy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite evidence that 15% of patients experienced tumor
shrinkage, and 4% enjoyed complete remission on IL-2, there
were lingering questions that troubled the panel about which
fraction of patients represented the likeliest candidates for
the arduous treatment. IL-2 can cause an array of side
effects including heavy fluid retention, with heart and lung
problems.
   The panel's action promises a delay of several months for
Cetus, which bases much of its hope for future profitability
on the product. In addition, a kidney cancer patients' lobby
has said it will campaign for IL-2's approval.
   Panel Chairman Jerome Groopman said the group was
wrestling with a question of "biblical complexity" -- how to
help the subset of patients who may gain a meaningful
reprieve on IL-2 without placing at risk those who cannot.
   "IL-2 is active, but it's not by any means a finished
product," added panel member Frederick Appelbaum, of the Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Center in Seattle.
   Although the advisory panel's decision was announced after
markets closed, Cetus stock fell yesterday in apparent
anticipation of the outcome, declining by $1.75 to close at
$14.125 a share in national over-the-counter trading.
   Peter Wiernik, a researcher from Albert Einstein Cancer
Center in New York City, had urged the panel recommend
approval based on "significant . . . extremely durable"
responses.
   "I would very much like to see this treatment become
available to patients on a wider basis," Dr. Wiernik said. He
argued that survival among IL-2 treated patients was
"significantly better" than survival among a group of
patients who had received another biological agent, beta
interferon.
   However, Jay Siegel of the FDA said the agency viewed that
comparison as invalid, because the patients on IL-2 were
younger, healthier and more likely to have received surgery
-- thus giving them a better prognosis even before they
received IL-2.
   Cetus said it was disappointed by the panel's inaction,
arguing that "this product can play a significant role in
altering the dismal prognosis of kidney cancer patients. It
is a tragedy that Americans don't have access to a drug
developed in the United States that is already approved and
being used in nine European countries."
   However, the panel's postponement came as no real
surprise, given the complexity of the problem and indications
that regulators were prepared to hold Cetus to the FDA's
tradition of requiring clear proof that patients gain a
longer and better life. So far, the panel noted, two patients
have remained in complete remission for more than two years,
but most such responses are temporary.
   "It's clear the majority of patients don't benefit" from
IL-2, declared panel member Robert Figlin of the University
of California at Los Angeles.
   Still, insisted another member, John Reinhart of Ohio
State University, "It's clear to me that this {IL-2} is the
most active agent against renal cell carcinoma."
   Dr.Groopman, the panel chairman, asked Cetus to identify
for the FDA which subgroup of kidney cancer patients
represent the drug's target population.
   Robert Kupor, an analyst with Kidder, Peabody in New York,
said the tenor of yesterday's debate presages both a delay
and a possibly narrower market for IL-2, even if it is
recommended for approval when the panel reconvenes. No date
has been set for that next meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan Reports June Drop
   In Foreign Trade Pacts
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Import and export contracts signed by Japan's
major trading houses in June edged lower from year-earlier
levels, an industry group said.
   Import contracts dropped 4.1% to 1.517 trillion yen
($10.18 billion) in June, after plunging 32.4% in May. The
May decline was the first year-on-year fall in import
contracts since October 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Export contracts for the month were almost unchanged from
year-earlier levels, edging down 0.4% to 1.079 trillion yen.
   An official of the Japan Foreign Trade Council said the
declines represent a reaction from high year-earlier levels.
He called the factors behind the declines temporary, saying
they don't suggest a reversal of the overall upward trend.
For the January-June half-year period, export contracts
climbed 18.8% from year-earlier levels, while import
contracts rose 12.8%.
   The June results reported by the council are based on
contract statistics provided by 18 major Japanese trading
companies and are widely considered to be short-term
indicators of overall trade trends. The trading companies
furnishing contract statistics account for roughly half of
Japan's general exports and about two-thirds of imports.
   The council said June was the first time in 26 months that
import contracts have fallen below year-earlier levels for
two consecutive months.
   Despite a 66.5% rise in fuel import contracts to 688.5
billion yen, almost all other product categories declined
from year-earlier levels, led by the machinery sector.
   The council said the 72.8% plunge in machinery-import
contracts to 72.5 billion yen was a reaction to the large
number of airline-import contracts signed the year before.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   LIBERIAN TROOPS MASSACRED hundreds of civilian refugees,
witnesses said.
   Survivors of the morning attack on St. Peter's Lutheran
Church said at least 600 people were killed when soldiers
loyal to President Doe fired machine guns at refugees who had
taken shelter in the church since rebels reached Monrovia
three weeks ago. State Department officials in Washington
said their information indicated a total of 200 deaths.
According to witnesses, most victims were children and women
from the Gio and Mano tribes, who support the insurgents in
their attempt to oust Doe. A spokesman for the president
denied the allegations and said rebels wearing government
uniforms were responsible for the killings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The White House condemned the massacre as a "senseless act
of terror" but said it hadn't any plans to send troops into
the West African nation.
   ---
   A BOMB KILLED a British lawmaker who had condemned
terrorist acts.
   Ian Gow, a Conservative Party politician, died in a bomb
attack that Scotland Yard said appeared to be the work of the
Irish Republican Army. No one immediately claimed
responsibility. Gow, 53, had been a close associate of Prime
Minister Thatcher and was the chairman of a House of Commons
Conservative Committee on Northern Ireland. Yesterday's
attack would be the 12th the IRA has carried out in mainland
Britain this year, police said. Formerly Thatcher's
parliamentary private secretary, Gow was outspoken in
deploring the use of violence in pursuit of political goals.
   Thatcher said Gow's death was a "grievous loss" for
Britain, and she vowed that the government wouldn't yield to
any terrorist pressure.
   ---
   George Steinbrenner was ordered to give up day-to-day
control of the New York Yankees by Aug. 20 and asked to
reduce his majority holding in the team, which he has run
since 1973, to a minority interest. Baseball Commissioner
Vincent's action followed a four-month probe into the Yankees
owner's involvement with gambler Howard Spira.
   ---
   An agreement was reached to end a fourday hostage siege in
Trinidad, according to Prime Minister Robinson and a
negotiator for Moslem rebels. Robinson is one of 41 hostages
reportedly held by the insurgents. The accord was said to
call for Robinson's resignation, a vote within 90 days and
amnesty for those who attempted the coup.
   ---
   A House panel is expected to propose rules today aimed at
delaying production of some weapons, including the next
generation of Air Force fighters and Army helicopters, which
have a combined price of nearly $85 billion. The House Armed
Services Committee's proposals depart from traditional
arms-buying plans.
                                                                                                       

   The House approved an $8.3 billion military-construction
bill that would slash the Pentagon's budget for overseas
facilities by more than 60% and bar any expenditures for a
new NATO air base in southern Italy in fiscal 1991. Total
U.S. contributions for NATO's infrastructure would be cut by
41% from current levels.
   ---
   The House approved a food-labeling measure that regulates
the use of health claims and requires the food industry to
put a uniform nutrition label on almost all packaged foods.
The bill was adopted after food-processor groups agreed to a
compromise on the issue of federal pre-emption of state
labeling rules.
   ---
   The Soviet Union and Albania agreed to restore diplomatic
ties severed in 1961 over Moscow's ideological quarrel with
China. Albania stepped up efforts to end its postwar
isolation after this month's refugee crisis, when thousands
of asylum-seekers stormed foreign embassies in Tirana until
they were allowed to emigrate.
   ---
   The Coast Guard upgraded its assessment of a weekend oil
spill in Galveston Bay in Texas to major. Authorities said
that 500,000 gallons of oil leaked from two barges after they
collided Saturday, 10 times the original estimate. An oil
patch was seen heading from the bay into the Gulf of Mexico,
threatening to make cleanup more difficult.
   ---
   The Lebanese government clamped an economic and diplomatic
blockade on rebel Gen. Aoun in a bid to oust him from the
Christian enclave north of Beirut. Syria expressed support
for the move. Aoun, who controls about 20% of the enclave,
contends that a military cabinet he has headed since 1988 is
Lebanon's legitimate government.
   ---
   The Ukraine demanded that Moscow send home all Ukrainian
soldiers stationed in other Soviet republics by Dec. 1, and
asked that soldiers serving in Kirghizia, Azerbaijan and
Armenia be returned two months earlier. The Parliament's
resolution would be difficult to enforce and is regarded as a
largely symbolic act of defiance.
   ---
   The European Community proposed a 30% cut in farm
subsidies over a 10-year period to try to end a dispute that
threatens global trade talks. The EC's agricultural
commissioner submitted the surprise proposal at the start of
a two-day meeting in Ireland with his counterparts from the
U.S., Japan, Canada and Australia.
   ---
   East Germany's premier proposed calling a meeting to
decide how much in reparations his nation should pay Israel
for Nazi crimes, according to a letter released by the World
Jewish Congress. De Maiziere's letter signals a reversal for
the East Germans, who earlier agreed to pay reparations to
Jewish groups but not to Israel.
   ---
   A federal jury in Los Angeles found a second man, Juan
Jose Bernabe Ramirez, guilty of kidnapping and racketeering
in the 1985 murder of U.S. drug agent Enrique Camarena. The
jury acquitted Bernabe of murder. Jurors resumed
deliberations on charges against two others.
   ---
   Bush met in Washington with Latvia's Prime Minister
Godmanis and his foreign minister, who said they received
encouragement in their nation's transition toward
independence from Moscow. A White House spokesman said that
he wasn't aware of any commitments made by the president.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900731-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900731-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   AET WMB ACHV PGL WDC UDC SMP RYL MAS IFMX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Aetna Life &amp; Cas      $1.82  $1.36  (3) $1.34 (12)   33.82
  Williams Cos            .12    ...        .06  (7)  100.00
  Archive                 .07    ...        .04  (4)   75.00
  Peoples Energy          .26    ...        .24  (4)    8.33
  Western Digital         .32    ...        .30  (3)    6.67
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  UDC Universal Dev     $ .16    ...      $ .74  (4)   78.38
  Standard Motor          .10    ...        .31  (4)   67.74
  Ryland Group            .40    ...        .78  (5)   48.72
  Masco Corp              .40    ...        .46  (8)   13.04
  Informix                .18    ...        .20  (7)   10.00
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
