<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Houseguest Season Out West
   ----
   By Sharon Barrett
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Missoula, Mont. -- Montana, as anyone who lives here will
tell you, has four seasons: winter, winter, winter and
houseguests. Having survived temperatures of 80 degrees below
zero, snow as high as the ears on a mule, and months of
daylight as dim as the rays from a 25-watt bulb, we once
again are about to bloom with aunts, uncles and cousins as
well as the usual assortment of acquaintances whose names we
remember about as well as we can recall who shod Gen.
Custer's horse.
   A poll taken by one of Montana's newspapers to determine
the best place to take out-of-state visitors turned up this
answer from one reader: "The best place to take out-of-state
visitors is out of state."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I'm sure that's not an isolated opinion. We live in a
state whose population is just a few cowhands over 800,000.
In 1988, the annual influx of what the Montana tourism office
calls "nonresident visitors" hit 5.2 million, with most of
them coming and going in July and August, the peak of
houseguest season. More arrived last year and even more are
expected this year. We don't need to be mathematicians to
imagine how many Winnebagos, Holiday Ramblers and other gypsy
vehicles will be on the state's highways and byways this
summer. Or how many times a week we're going to have to
change the linen.
   To make sure I wasn't out on the range all alone with my
impression that most of those millions of visitors are some
sort of kith and kin to those of us already here, I checked
with Sandra Guedes, travel director of Travel Montana, the
state tourism office.
   "In terms of what attracts people to Montana," Ms. Guedes
told me, "scenery is tops, especially the mountains."
   "But," she continued, "friends and relatives are the
single most important reason for attracting people in the
first place."
   Friends and relatives with a spare room.
   In case it sounds as though I'm complaining about all
these visitors, I want to make clear that I am not. I do not
agree that the place to take out-of-state visitors is out of
state. I want them to stay right here where I can keep an eye
on them. For those of us weary of the same old fruited plains
and purple mountains majesties, tourists are the best
attraction around.
   Hardly anything, for example, could be more entertaining
than following a four-door sedan with Iowa license plates
over the precipitous Going to the Sun Highway in Glacier
National Park.
   For vicarious thrills, this form of tourist-watching beats
anything Hitchcock ever concocted. You can almost smell the
terror inside the car ahead as the driver rides the brakes
and the passengers pray that it's possible to survive a fiery
plunge off the face of a mountain.
   (I don't mean to sound too cocky about this sport. I'm a
Hoosier by birth, and when I moved to Montana 20 years ago, I
was terrified of mountain roads. The only difference between
me and a visiting Iowan is that I've gotten used to being
afraid.)
   These vicarious thrills are likely to increase. About half
of Montana's visitors come from Pacific Coast and mountain
states where people are used to the fast lane in high
country. But more and more flatlanders are venturing into
Montana. The director of a program promoting tourism in
Western Montana (the mountainous half of the state) reports
that inquiries from places like Kansas and Nebraska are on
the rise. And Ms. Guedes, of Travel Montana, says she's
seeing "more and more interest on the part of people from the
East Coast and larger cities" -- places where hills are
mistaken for mountains and about the only opportunity to
experience altitude sickness is at the top of the Sears Tower
or the World Trade Center.
   Tourists don't need to be in their cars to be amusing,
however; they're also entertaining face to face. For one
thing, they talk funny. Many of them think the state capital,
Helena, rhymes with marina. They don't know that the accent
falls on the first syllable; I've always figured it falls
that way because Hel is short for Hell, a fact any of the
early miners who named the town's main street Last Chance
Gulch would have testified to if they'd struck it rich enough
to live to tell.
   In a curious sort of way, tourists also are somewhat
musical. Unless they're from Oregon, Alaska, New Hampshire or
Delaware, the only states besides Montana that don't have a
sales tax, they jingle a lot of pennies around with them. The
pennies, something we don't see a lot of here, represent
change from all the oddly priced purchases ($3.97, $15.13,
$208.09) they've made in other states.
   Tourists are interesting in other ways, too. They look at
Old Faithful in Yellowstone Park only through the lens of a
camera, never with the naked eye. They frequently think that
bears, bison and moose are as tame as the stuffed animals in
an F.A.O. Schwarz showroom, and they have been known, all too
often, to try to place a small child on the shoulders of a
live beast for the sake, once again, of viewing an event
through the lens of a camera.
   A few of them also have fascinatingly inflexible tastes in
food and drink.
   For a treat almost equal that of following flatlanders
over Going to the Sun Highway, a friend of mine likes to
offer out-of-staters, especially those from places with
subway systems, burgundy from a bottle that's been in her
refrigerator a few days. Then she waits for the look on their
faces. Or better yet, if one of the visitors is a writer
disguised as a tourist, which sometimes happens, she waits
for an article, sure to show up somewhere, that discusses not
only the quaint temperature at which Montanans serve red
wine, but also the ubiquity of bolo ties and belt buckles
carved from elk antlers.
   Only one thing worries me about the fun of
tourist-watching in Montana. It's bound to wear off.
According to Ms. Guedes of the state tourism office, "80% of
the people who visit Montana come back." That means that even
if Ms. Guedes's office manages to double or triple the number
of tourists in Montana (which is something some folks in the
state think is a good idea), eventually I'm going to be
seeing the same old faces year after year. And that means I
might as well go back to enjoying the deer and the antelope,
which, come to think of it, won't be so bad after all.
   I've never known one yet to expect fresh towels every day.
   ---
   Ms. Barrett teaches journalism at the University of
Montana.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Money Does Not Grow on Farms
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   James Bovard's May 22 editorial-page article, "Welfare for
Millionaire Farmers," perverts statistics in order to attack
the world's most efficient and savvy entrepreneurs --
American farmers.
   Mr. Bovard correctly attacks the Agriculture Department's
definition of a farmer -- anyone who sells more than $1,000
in agricultural commodities. He then goes on to say that "it
is hobby farming, not commercial farming, that is shrinking."
He errs in not realizing that many of these hobbyists farm in
hopes of one day accumulating enough operating capital to
farm full time. The knowledge necessary to farm successfully
is gained from many years of experience, and the ranks of
future full-time farmers will be filled by many of those able
to make the conversion from hobby farming.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bovard also absurdly states that a farmer can raise a
$40,000 crop of corn in only seven weeks. As a practicing
agronomist with years of experience in helping farmers to
produce corn more efficiently, I believe Mr. Bovard lacks
real knowledge of agricultural production. If he truly knows
how to raise a $40,000 crop of corn in seven weeks, please
have him call me as soon as possible. This information would
revolutionize corn production.
   In a cheap shot, Mr. Bovard suggests applying the same
means tests to farmers that are applied to other recipients
of federal handouts. Did Mr. Bovard ever consider the
contribution farmers make to society as opposed to the
average welfare recipient? In many states, agriculture is the
leading industry and "millionaire" farmers are responsible
for supporting those employed in transporting, processing and
delivering food products to the American consumer.
   Finally, Mr. Bovard says farm programs cost the consumer
an additional $10 billion in higher food prices -- equivalent
to more than $80,000 for each full-time farmer. In reality,
the vast majority of this money went to food processors who
took advantage of weather scares to raise prices, while the
prices paid to farmers for their commodities in 1988 were in
many cases lower than in many previous years.
   It is true that farm programs could use revision in
appropriate areas. However, the responsibility for any past
abuse of farm or subsidy programs rests squarely on the
shoulders of politicians who benefit from a cheap food supply
for consumers. This cheap food supply induces the political
stability that allows incumbent bureaucrats to stay in office
year after year. As long as bureaucrats make American farm
policy, it is naive to believe that agriculture will ever be
a free-market system.
   Edward J. Lazowski
   Maytown, Pa.
   ---
   Mr. Bovard's article is misleading and unjustified.
   As an attorney for 43 years in northeast Nebraska, I have
never once encountered in my county a farmer who had an
estate valued at $1 million or more. Also, our office
prepares income-tax returns, including returns for farmers,
and we have not encountered the high income-tax figures
stated by Mr. Bovard. We consider northeast Nebraska to be
one of the better farming areas in the Middle West, but these
income figures are ridiculous and untrue.
   Kenneth M. Olds
   Wayne, Neb.
   ---
   Mr. Bovard's is a view that is being printed all too
frequently.
   I am a third-generation wheat farmer in Oregon, who after
40 years has a balance sheet that indicates that
million-dollar figure in the article. But what does that
really mean? It means that the factory or business or place
of work, whatever you want to call it, costs that much to
provide an economic unit.
   Am I getting rich on government farm programs?
Farm-program payments result because the market price is
below the cost of production, and rural America gets in
financial trouble, which also affects the national economy.
An ever-increasing national debt can trace a considerable
part of its origins to a failure to monetize farm commodities
properly.
   Don Peterson
   Ione, Ore.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   GB-Inno-BM Store in Portugal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.GBI EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- GB-Inno-BM S.A. said it opened its first
do-it-yourself store in Portugal.
   Bricogal, based on the outskirts of Lisbon, was created by
the Belgian retailer last year in conjunction with a
Portuguese partner, Grupo Fnac, which has a 45% stake in the
venture.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Financial details weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Benton Oil &amp; Gas Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   BNTN
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   BENTON OIL &amp; GAS Co., a Ventura, Calif., energy concern,
said its board approved a 2-for-1 common stock split, payable
July 25 to stock of record July 2. Benton said the company
currently has about two million shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Perspective:
   Justice Byron White's Enigmatic Record
   Puzzles Both Liberals and Conservatives
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8B
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- For most of his 28 years on the Supreme
Court, Justice Byron White has been an enigmatic figure, and
the court's current term, expected to end this week, is no
exception to that rule.
   He has long been considered part of the court's
conservative majority, a characterization that remained apt
this term. Liberal pundits have mused for decades that his
appointment in 1962 was one of President Kennedy's biggest
blunders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet, he provided the court's liberal wing -- Justices
William Brennan, Thurgood Marshall, Harry Blackmun and John
Stevens -- with their fifth vote in each of the handful of
5-4 decisions they have won thus far this term, except for
the ruling striking down the federal flag-burning law.
   At first glance, some of his votes this term appear
surprising. He wrote the 5-4 decision in April that upheld
federal judges' broad authority to correct illegal school
segregation; he ruled that a judge may order the Kansas City
School District to raise taxes to pay for desegregation.
   Although he is generally loath to expand constitutional
protections for accused criminals, he joined Justice
Brennan's 5-4 opinion in January barring the use of illegally
obtained evidence to shake the credibility of a defendant's
witnesses. And last month, he joined another Brennan 5-4
opinion barring the manslaughter prosecution of an individual
who has already pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor of drunken
driving for an accident that caused a death.
   Last Thursday, he joined still another 54 Brennan ruling.
This one said that the First Amendment prohibits the hiring,
promotion and transfer of state and local government workers
based on their political party affiliations.
   Justice White's vote in that case came despite a
dissenting admonition by Justice Antonin Scalia that most
federal judges and Supreme Court justices owe their
appointments to the patronage system. Justice Scalia might
well have been addressing the 73-year-old Justice White, who
was a friend and campaign supporter of President Kennedy and
was serving as an aide to Attorney General Robert Kennedy
when they picked him for the court.
   These decisions by Justice White seem out of place in a
voting record that is largely conservative; he has been a
leading critic of the constitutional right to abortion,
affirmative action that discriminates against whites, the
court's effort to erect a wall between church and state, and
the court's rulings affording the news media protection
against libel lawsuits.
   But court experts who have followed his tenure closely
don't find his half-dozen votes with the liberals this term
surprising. "A review of his opinions reveals a significant
consistency in perspective, method and conviction," says Kate
Stith, a Yale Law School professor and former White law
clerk.
   His consistency becomes apparent when one considers the
court's gradual swing to the right, according to Ms. Stith.
In an article she recently completed, she says Justice White
was in the majority in fewer than half of the 5-4 decisions
in the 1960s, a period in which the court vastly expanded
constitutional rights. In the 1970s, as the expansion of
rights slowed in some areas and halted in others, he was in
the majority in about two-thirds of the 5-4 cases.
   In the 1980s, as the court took an ever narrower view of
its role and of the Constitution, Justice White was on the
winning side of three-fourths of 5-4 rulings. And his
percentage is still increasing.
   But his occasional liberal votes also are consistent, she
says, with principles and precedents of the court that he has
accepted. She says the Kansas City schools case demonstrates
how Justice White has long taken a broad view of the
authority of federal courts to eliminate past discrimination
in the public schools.
   That consistency may be put to one of its toughest tests
in the court's next term, when the justices grapple with the
issue of when a city may be released from a court-ordered
obligation to desegregate its schools.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Hitachi Unit Lays Off 1,000
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR FREST HIT
</CO>
<LP>
   KUALA LUMPUR -- Hitachi Corp.'s Malaysian unit, Hitachi
Consumer Products (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., dismissed about 1,000
striking workers at its electronic parts plant.
   The workers at Hitachi's factory in Bangi, 40 miles south
of Kuala Lumpur, had been on strike last week in an action
the Malaysian government has termed illegal. The labor
protest followed the rejection of efforts by the workers --
who are mostly women -- to seek representation under a
national trade union, the Electrical Industry Workers Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under Malaysian labor law, workers in factories that make
electronic parts are entitled only to form in-house unions,
separate from national organizations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Davis-Bacon:
   Racist Then,
   Racist Now
   ----
   By Scott Alan Hodge
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Two years before the 1964 Civil Rights Act was passed,
local construction unions in Washington, D.C., prevented
black electricians from working on one of the capital's
premiere building projects: the Rayburn House Office
Building. This week in that very same building the House
Subcommittee on Labor Standards will be working on
legislation that will perpetuate discrimination in the
construction industry. Instead, that legislation should be
repealed, once and for all.
   At issue is the 1931 Davis-Bacon Act. Davis-Bacon requires
contractors to pay all workers on federally funded
construction projects valued at more than $2,000 the
"prevailing wage" for that type of work, as determined by the
U.S. Department of Labor. In practice, the Labor Department
uses local union wage scales as a proxy for the "prevailing
wage." Thus, any laborer who does not have the skills to
command union scale is frozen out of these jobs. Typically,
those frozen out are black or Hispanic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The original supporters of the law could not have hoped
for more -- because, as the historical record shows,
Davis-Bacon was written to prevent black workers, mostly from
the South, from competing with the Northern construction
trades.
   So far, debate on Davis-Bacon has focused primarily on its
costs, the estimated $1.5 billion it costs U.S. taxpayers to
pay union scale when qualified workers are available at lower
rates. But that complaint avoids the real evil of
Davis-Bacon: discrimination against black Americans.
   The original Davis-Bacon Act was drafted in 1927 by New
York Rep. Robert Bacon after an Alabama contractor won the
bid to build a federal hospital in Bacon's district. As Bacon
reported at the first hearing on his bill, "The bid . . . was
let to a firm from Alabama who brought some thousand
non-union laborers from Alabama into Long Island, N.Y., into
my congressional district." What he meant, of course is that
many of the workers were black -- and willing to work for
less than local building tradesmen.
   Bacon's complaints brought a knowing smile from Georgia
Rep. William Upshaw, who commented: "You will not think that
a Southern man is more than human if he smiles over the fact
of your reaction to that real problem you are confronted with
in any community with a superabundance or large aggregation
of Negro labor."
   Four years later during the floor debate on the bill,
Alabama Rep. Miles Allgood echoed Upshaw's sentiments: "That
contractor has cheap colored labor . . . and it is labor of
that sort that is in competition with white labor. . . . This
bill has merit . . . it is very important that we enact this
measure."
   There was little difference between the language of Reps.
Upshaw and Allgood and the language of an 1857 petition from
white tradesmen to the Atlanta city council. "We, the
undersigned, would respectfully represent . . . that there
exists in the city of Atlanta a number of men who . . . are
of no benefit to the city. We refer to Negro mechanics {who}
. . . can afford to underbid the regular resident mechanics .
. . to their great injury. . . . We most respectfully request
{the council} afford such protection to the resident
mechanics."
   Blacks dominated the skilled trades in the South after
emancipation: In some trades there were five times as many
black workers as whites, according to one estimate. In
response, white workers used every political tool available
to restrain black competition. In some cases, officially
sanctioned licensing boards were established to "ensure the
quality of local tradesmen." In other cases, whites sought to
outlaw blacks from practicing specific trades, and even
passed laws to prevent the recruitment of black laborers by
Northern employers.
   But, until the passage of Davis-Bacon, the federal
government's policy of accepting the lowest bid on
construction projects allowed black laborers to compete
freely for federal work. Many blacks traveled great distances
and endured harsh conditions for the chance to work, as Rep.
Bacon discovered. The Davis-Bacon Act put a sudden end to
this. Following enactment of Davis-Bacon, black tradesmen
were shut out of many federal construction projects. Of the
4,100 workers on the Boulder Dam project in 1932, only 30
were black.
   Blacks were also shut out of the massive public housing
projects sponsored by President Roosevelt's Public Works
Administration. Roosevelt sent representatives to Chicago to
institute a quota system which required that a minimum
percentage of a project's payroll be directed toward black
tradesmen. The result: The blacks got all the low-pay,
unskilled positions.
   Despite all the civil rights laws on the books today,
little has changed. According to Ralph C. Thomas III,
executive director of the National Association of Minority
Contractors, "The law in its current form is poison to
minority contractors {and to} minority employment in general
. . . . The law stifles the minority contractors' efforts to
not only hire as many minority workers as possible, but it
also hinders minority contractor efforts to introduce new
workers to the construction field."
   Mary Nelson, director of Bethel New Life Inc., a
church-affiliated social service organization in Chicago, has
found that Davis-Bacon adds as much as 25% to her total
budget and often prevents her from using the local unskilled
poor to help refurbish the projects they themselves live in.
Robert Woodson, president of the National Center for
Neighborhood Enterprise, reports that public housing
residents who want to help refurbish their own apartments
often are forced to "volunteer" half a day's work in order to
avoid Davis-Bacon requirements.
   Davis-Bacon was intended to discriminate against blacks,
and that is precisely what it has done. It's time for
Washington to bid good-bye to Jim Crow.
   ---
   Mr. Hodge is an analyst at the Heritage Foundation in
Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Manager Revamp
   Continues at Bank
   Of New England
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp. moved Leo R. Breitman
to a new vice chairman's post and hired D. Bruce Wheeler to
succeed him as president of its main bank unit.
   The changes were the latest in a nearly continuous
management reshuffling this year, since the bank began
dealing with losses and a mountain of bad loans in the
slumping Northeast economy. Mr. Wheeler's hiring as president
of Bank of New England N.A. comes only five months after Mr.
Breitman was moved into the post and bears the imprint of
Lawrence K. Fish, the parent company's chairman and chief
executive officer since March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Wheeler, currently executive vice president of First
Nationwide Bank, of California, said he plans to pursue
opportunities in mortgage lending and in retail banking in an
effort to "get on the offense a little bit" in solving the
bank's problems. Mr. Fish reversed a plan to sell home-equity
loans after taking the reins and also said he wants to
exploit the bank's extensive retail operations in his
recovery plan.
   In his new post, Mr. Breitman will also become senior
credit policy officer. Mr. Wheeler, who managed Massachusetts
banking operations for Bank of Boston from 1982 until 1989,
will be responsible for corporate and retail banking,
commercial real estate and trust and private banking.
   Mr. Wheeler said in an interview that recent thrift
failures and cutbacks in mortgage lending in New England
presented an opportunity for new lending to the bank. He said
a large portion of any new loans generated would be sold into
the secondary market so they wouldn't put pressure on
regulatory capital ratios.
   Bank of New England reported a $1.11 billion loss in last
year's fourth quarter, and a $46 million loss in its first
quarter. It lost about $7 billion in deposits during a run
that followed disclosure of its problems, and is cutting
about a third of its staff, while total assets are down to
$25 billion from a peak of about $30 billion. Further asset
sales are planned.
   Mr. Wheeler said only 2% of the bank's customers have been
lost, suggesting a possibility of rebuilding its commercial
loan portfolio. "There's still a lot of creditworthy
customers in New England," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Gleason Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GLE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GLEASON CORP. (Rochester, N.Y.) -- James S. Gleason,
chairman and president of this maker of gear production
equipment, was also named president of the Gleason Works
Division. He succeeds Richard J. Bonnie, who resigned. Also,
William J. Flaherty, president of the company's Component's
Group, was named vice president, operations, of the division.
Gleason is selling its Components Group. Gleason said the
moves, including moving the corporate headquarters to the
Gleason Works in Rochester, are aimed at refocusing on its
core business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chancellor Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5C
</SO>
<CO>
   CHCR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CHANCELLOR Corp. (Boston) -- W. Barry Tanner resigned as
president and a director of this equipment-leasing firm.
Stephen C. Morison, vice chairman and chief executive
officer, will assume the duties of president. William C.
Sprong, senior vice president and treasurer, was named to
succeed Mr. Tanner as a director.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Revolt Forces
   In California Ready
   Fresh Initiatives
   ---
   Two Groups Claim to Have
   Enough Signatures to Put
   New Plan Before Voters
   ----
   By Ken Wells
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   Reports of the death of the California tax revolt movement
may have been premature.
   Two tax revolt groups in California say they've gathered
enough signatures to put before voters in November a measure
that would require electoral approval of general local tax
increases, while boosting the voter majority needed to raise
taxes under the state's ballot initiative process.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the initiative, dubbed by its sponsors the
"Taxpayers Right to Vote Act," an increase in general local
taxes, currently the prerogative of elected officials, would
require a majority vote of local citizens. The measure would
also raise to two-thirds the percentage of voters required to
pass a statewide tax increase by ballot referendum. Such
increases now require only ratification by a majority of
voters.
   Sponsors, including the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association and the Paul Gann's Citizens Committee, say their
measure is partly spurred by recent adoption by voters of two
statewide tax measures. One doubled the state's gas tax to
pay for freeway construction while another authorized $1
billion in bond funding to upgrade the state's mass transit
system.
   Passage of the measures, which required only simple
majorities, has been widely hailed as the symbolic end to a
voter antipathy over taxes that began in 1978 by the landmark
passage of Proposition 13 sponsored by the late Mr. Jarvis.
But a spokesman for the Paul Gann's Citizens Committee said
the "Taxpayers Right to Vote Act" would allow voters to
determine for themselves whether the tax revolt is dead. Mr.
Gann, who helped Mr. Jarvis write Proposition 13 and helped
push through other limits on state spending, died last year.
   The act has already garnered the opposition of California
Attorney General John Van de Kamp, Lt. Governor Leo McCarthy
and a number of state legislators. Opponents say such a law
could paralyze state and local governments ability to raise
revenues while interfering with the constitutional authority
of elected officials to decide certain tax matters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Americana Hotels &amp; Realty
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AHR
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Americana Hotels &amp; Realty Corp. said it plans to
distribute about $3.50 a share to holders under its
previously announced plan of liquidation.
   The real estate investment trust said the distribution
would be made upon its collection of a $15.5 million note
receivable on a hotel or upon the sale of another "major"
asset. Americana made a previous liquidating distribution of
$8 a share last August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   AIDS Activists in San Francisco Shout Down
   Health and Human Services Secretary's Speech
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- A deafening chorus of activists howling
"shame, shame," all but completely drowned out a speech by
Louis Sullivan, secretary of Health and Human Services, to
close the Sixth International Conference on AIDS.
   Showered by paper missiles, Dr. Sullivan plowed stolidly
through a speech that was intended to defend the
administration's research efforts to fight the disease. But
this week those efforts have been completely overshadowed
here by the administration's curbs on the travel and
immigration of people who carry the AIDS virus. The policy
was condemned by speakers including Hiroshi Nakajima,
director general of the World Health Organization, minutes
before Dr. Sullivan's introduction unleashed the
20-minute-long protest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His speech went almost completely unheard. Amid the
shrieking of whistles and air horns, most people missed the
secretary's criticism of an unpopular amendment to the
Americans with Disabilities Act, which permits employers to
reassign AIDS-infected food handlers. The impromptu addition
to his text was timed to coincide with a key vote scheduled
on that amendment today. Scientists agree the virus isn't
passed by casual contact, or through food.
   But the hundreds of activists in the audience taking part
in the protest were unmoved by any note of conciliation. They
were joined in some cases by scientists who stood holding
leaflets aloft in silent solidarity against the U.S. travel
curbs.
   But many were also dismayed by the display. "I feel like
crying. He should be allowed to speak," said Pierre
Ludington, a San Francisco AIDS activist. A grim-faced
spokesman for the San Francisco AIDS Foundation said he
feared the hostile show would exhaust any remaining sympathy
for activists within the administration. "It doesn't leave us
a lot of maneuvering room," Rene Durazzo, the foundation
spokesman, said.
   As the flag bearer for President Bush, who declined to
attend, Dr. Sullivan was dispatched to San Francisco to
represent the administration without anything new to offer
the assembled thousands of delegates. But aides said
yesterday that he knew what he was getting into.
   "It was his idea" to try to speak through the clamor, said
Robert Schmermund, deputy assistant secretary for public
affairs. "He wanted to come here and present what the
administration is doing."
   Dr. Sullivan's speech brought to noisy closure a meeting
best described in the words of one activist as "not an
academic workshop, but a fight for people's lives."
   As AIDS enters its second decade in the 1990s, many
unresolved questions remain to be answered in AIDS clinics
and laboratories around the world.
   Even as drugs and behavior change slow its spread in parts
of the United States, new waves of AIDS are growing around
the world. "The AIDS pandemic remains volatile and dynamic.
Its major impact has yet to be felt," said Jonathan Mann,
former AIDS chief at the World Health Organization. Rapid
spread continues in Africa, Latin America, Asia and the
Caribbean, he said. "Heterosexual transmission in India is
fueling a rapidly expanding epidemic," he said. Up to 20% of
prostitutes sampled in the city of Bombay test positive, one
report noted.
   In Africa and the Third World, a huge resource gap yawns
between rich and poor countries. And giving has been
strikingly low. "The industrialized world's total
contribution to AIDS {in the developing world} is about $200
million-or one-fifth the AIDS budget of New York State," Dr.
Mann said.
   In Malawi, a country of 8 million people, Chief of Health
Services H.M. Ntaba said his annual AIDS budget totals $2
million, or 25 cents per person. It is vastly more than he
has to fight malaria, but still "a drop in the bucket," he
says. AIDS also is expected to leave Africa with a legacy of
between 250,000 and one million orphans, experts said during
the meeting.
   In the Soviet Union, where the country's admitted 490
cases were spread by unsterile medical practices, journalist
Elena Pankova says: "We are afraid to go to the dentist. We
are afraid to take our children to the hospital." Speaking in
an effort to drum up charitable contributions for her
country, she said, "We have no disposable needles or
syringes, and no condoms. Just imagine]" She said the true
size of the epidemic is many times larger than official
figures.
   On the domestic research agenda, a major unresolved
dilemma touches the need to balance early treatment of HIV
infection against the risk of encouraging the rise of viruses
that are resistant to drugs like Wellcome PLC's AZT. Margaret
Fischl, a researcher at the University of Miami, said that
earlier treatment is clearly linked with longer-term survival
benefits for people with HIV disease.
   Still, the virus can begin mutating to evade the drug
within months of starting treatment. Douglas Richman, a
researcher at the University of California at San Diego,
previewed a new study showing that viral resistance appears
as early as six months in late-stage patients, and 12 months
in early-stage patients. As the time between infection and
the appearance of AIDS stretches out to 10 years and beyond,
scientists worry about mass initiation of long-term AZT
therapy. "Will widespread use of AZT come to resemble the use
of penicillin for now-resistant staph infection?" asked
Hiroshi Mohri, a researcher at the University of California,
Los Angeles. "With passage of time, will AZT become less
useful?"
   For this reason, more and more studies now are aimed at
testing a vast array of combination treatments, alternating
AZT with other drugs such as DDC by Hoffman La Roche Inc. or
DDI by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., or with immune-boosting
agents, which try to reconstitute a failing immune system.
   Immune-boosting agents will be a major focus for the
1990s, as will treatment for opportunistic infections, caused
by an array of microbes that attack weakened patients. So
far, immune-boosting treatments have been "marginal at best,
and transient," said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
   Refining the treatment of opportunistic infections
deserves attention as much as the virus itself, he said. "We
already know more about HIV than those other microbes we've
been studying for decades," Dr. Fauci added yesterday.
   Outreach to minority populations at risk, especially
intravenous drug users, is a major point of contention
between the scientific community and certain black social
activists. Deborah Fraser-Howe, executive director of the
Black Leadership Coalition on AIDS, spoke as a woman in
Harlem, "raising another generation as the shadow of death
falls across our community." Her speech was picketed by
activists who want free needle exchange and bleach programs
to halt spread of AIDS -- an approach rejected by many
middle-class blacks as encouraging addiction.
   Yet white American and European academics like Don Des
Jarlais of New York and Raymond Brettle of Edinburgh,
Scotland, argue it is imperative to make needle use less
perilous for those who can't quit drugs. Moreover, needle
exchange doesn't create new addicts, Dr. Brettle says. "We
have to persuade people that {reducing the harm of I-V drug
use} and primary reduction of drug use are compatible."
   Adolescents -- especially runaway teens who are sexually
active and using drugs -- are potential tinder for the AIDS
epidemic. Researchers here said up to 40% of selected samples
of urban runaway youth may carry the HIV virus.
   In the arena of vaccine research, where researchers have
shown they can shield test animals from infection and alter
the human immune response, many issues remain. Dr. Fauci said
that the convention of waiting for clear evidence of safety
and effectiveness in animals before human trials, may be
tempered by the increased willingness of affected populations
to take risks.
   Major unresolved questions between the activist and
scientific communities still revolve around the validity of
various drugs in community trials, and the adequacy of
expanded distribution programs channeling experimental drugs
to patients.
   A trial of the drug Compound Q or tricosanthin, an extract
of Chinese cucumber, by Martin Delaney and Project Inform
purported to show a trend toward rising counts of
infection-fighting T-cells among an uncontrolled group of 46
patients. However, data on all patients were mixed together,
averaged, and extrapolated in a way scientists immediately
attacked.
   Arnold Relman, editor of the New England Journal of
Medicine, publicly chastised the activist. "Mr. Delaney, you
are irresponsible. Publish your data and let the chips fall
where they may. Your claims are undocumented, untested and
uncontrolled."
   Mr. Delaney, still insisting the drug is promising, said
he plans to publish his data in a medical journal soon. So
far, six of 51 early patients suffered dementia while on the
drug, two progressing to coma, with one coma patient dying of
pneumonia after regaining consciousness.
   Meanwhile, the jury is still out on academic center trials
of the pure synthetic form of the drug by Genelabs Inc. of
Redwood City, Calif. In a study at San Francisco General
Hospital, 18 patients with AIDS and AIDS-related complex
(ARC) tolerated the drug well except for one patient who
suffered "a severe neurologic catastrophe" and died of
uncertain causes 118 days after treatment. Overall, the
patients' immune status was unchanged after the treatment,
researchers reported.
   "Parallel track" programs to distribute experimental drugs
even while tests proceed to check effectiveness, promise to
be the subject of continuing wrangling between scientists,
companies and activists. The activist group ACT UP has
attacked Roche's plan to give away the drug DDC as too
narrow, an attack a company spokesman described as "an
affront" to all who worked to bring it about.
   But there were moments of unexpected rapprochement too.
Ellen Cooper, a scientist and the Food and Drug
Administration's main liaison with activists on drug
development, has often been reviled by ACT UP as a villain.
But when ACT UP member Jay Lipner on Saturday commended her
role in broadening access to drugs, activists applauded. "I
knew then that hell had frozen over," said an astonished
federal scientist.
   The AIDS conference has become the scene of a major trade
show over the years, with major drug companies mounting slick
presentations, next to unconventional products such as a
female condom, and whimsical items such as a Bart Simpson
T-shirt depicting the TV urchin sporting an earring and
purple cape, and saying "AIDS is a global crisis, dude."
   Unusual research alliances also were spawned this year,
such as a study of venereal disease in prostitutes, sponsored
by UCLA at the Chicken Ranch Brothel of Pahrump, Nev.
   A raucous demonstration last week highlighted the need to
bring more women into experimental drug trials. "Women with
AIDS can't wait till later, we are not your incubator,"
protesters chanted. Dr. Daniel Hoth, of the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, replied that he
was promoting plans to bring more women into studies as "a
matter of access, not science" since he said there's little
evidence that women -- except during pregnancy -- react
differently to drugs from men.
   While conceding that activists have important
contributions to make to the research dialogue, Dr. Fauci
gently warned them not to overdo it.
   "It is particularly devastating when scientists of good
faith and enormous talent have been singled out and denounced
as scoundrels," he said.
   Giovanni Rossi, chairman of the 1991 AIDS conference
planned for Florence, Italy, unveiled as his conference logo
an image of Michelangelo's David, and won applause for an
optimistic prediction.
   "David was fighting a giant that was threatening his
culture," he said. "He won his battle against Goliath. So
will we."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New PaineWebber Team Is Putting Stocks Center Stage
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   PWJ
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- As PaineWebber Group Inc. embarks upon a
strategy of focusing squarely on stocks rather than bonds, it
is betting that two heads are better than one.
   The firm recently launched a 1,200-employee Capital
Markets division run by a man-and-woman team, including a
former research director who now holds one of the highest
positions any woman has attained on Wall Street.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What PaineWebber has done is to combine its institutional
sales, trading and research operations for both stocks and
bonds under a new umbrella known as Capital Markets. Jointly
heading the world-wide division are two 43-year-old
executives who formerly ran the firm's U.S. stock operations,
Charles Milligan and Margo Alexander.
   "The '80s were certainly the decade of leverage and debt,"
Ms. Alexander says. "In the '90s, we will have the
`re-equitization' of industry." PaineWebber never has been a
big bond house, and in fact has trimmed its bond sales,
research and trading operations in the past two years.
PaineWebber Chairman Donald Marron denies the firm wants to
shrink further in bonds, and says the new division simply
reflects "a desire on the part of clients to see a closer
link between equities, debt and futures."
   It is rare to find a woman at Ms. Alexander's level on
Wall Street. Ms. Alexander is a Harvard Business School
graduate, with nearly 20 years of Wall Street experience. She
and Mr. Milligan don't shy away from talking about how
unusual it is to find a man-and-woman team running a good
chunk of a major securities firm. And they aren't put out by
the nickname attached to them by irreverent traders at the
firm's midtown Manhattan offices: "The Charlie and Margo
Show."
   Mr. Milligan cheerfully shows a visitor a drawing his wife
gave him, after learning that Mr. Milligan would be
co-heading the new department with a woman. The drawing shows
four footprints from left to right, starting with the
footprint of an ape, then a bare human foot, then a man's
shoe, then a woman's heel. Headline: "The Evolution of
Authority."
   Mr. Milligan, a former Marine who favors loud outfits such
as red suspenders with a green tie, is the firm's former head
of stock trading. Ms. Alexander says general management
skills are her strong suit. After a decade as a securities
analyst, she was named head of PaineWebber's research
department in 1982. She and Mr. Milligan took over the
institutional stock operations in 1988.
   PaineWebber says the firm is committed to a three-pronged
strategy: "gathering" individual investors' assets; expanding
-- while saving money in -- institutional stock sales and
research; and providing investment banking services for
midsized companies.
   The two executives say there are practical benefits to the
new team in dealing with outside clients and with PaineWebber
employees. As Mr. Milligan puts it, "I see men who are more
open with Margo, whereas with me, men would see it as a
weakness."
   Wall Street never has been known for its management
skills. But Mr. Marron, the chairman, says the new setup will
address that. "They are both good managers," he said; "the
trading and risk management role, which is Charlie, and the
administration, marketing and research, which is Margo."
   PaineWebber's customer assets under its control rose 27%
last year to $66 billion. It preserved its strong position in
institutional stock sales and trading, partly through the
acquisition of its first New York Stock Exchange specialist
firm. And it has increased its ranking as an investment bank.
Though it is far from an underwriting powerhouse, for this
year through June 4, PaineWebber ranked fourth among all
investment banks in underwriting fees, reaping $77 million,
or an 8.5% market share, compared with $77.9 million, or a
5.6% market share, in last year's first half, according to
Securities Data Co.
   Lawrence Eckenfelder, a brokerage industry analyst at
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. who has a "hold"
recommendation on PaineWebber stock, says: "The banking
strategy at PaineWebber is probably the right one, focusing
more on the middle market, developing niches where they have
expertise. I think they're making money in institutional
equity, but where the real money will come is on the
underwriting side; they're well-positioned on midsized
companies, and they do have a strong research effort."
   Mr. Milligan and Ms. Alexander say they want to expand the
firm's stock trading and research presence, particularly
outside the U.S. A big part of PaineWebber's strategy has
been the dicey business of revamping how it charges
institutions for stock research that Wall Street for decades
has provided for free.
   Along with Morgan Stanley Group Inc., PaineWebber led
efforts to scale back the free services provided by its
institutional stock department. Both firms don't any longer
provide free research services automatically to all
institutions. With trading commissions so low these days,
"It's important for us to pay clients who pay us," Ms.
Alexander says.
   Mr. Milligan and Ms. Alexander say they have also saved
money by not hiring too many analysts. The research
department's size -- 45 analysts -- is about the same as it
was in 1984.
   "I don't think it'll be evident overnight," Ms. Alexander
says, but clients "will be better served by seeing a more
coordinated approach over product lines."
   Despite the talk of a new focus, PaineWebber in the past
has been criticized for trying to do too many things. For
example, when Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. collapsed,
PaineWebber chose to snap up the firm's financial-futures
operation in Paris.
   Mr. Marron responds: "We didn't expand in the late '80s
when other people were expanding. We didn't buy a British
brokerage firm and do all those things. There isn't some big
expansion going on (here). . . . We're not dealing with
French stocks, for example." But he says that when an
opportunity pops up, such as Drexel's Paris futures
operation, PaineWebber will buy in.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Century Realignment
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   ACT
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- American Century Corp. said a
federal bankruptcy court has entered an order confirming its
reorganization plan, effective Friday.
   Under the plan, substantially all of the company's assets
will be acquired by Tescorp Inc., a Houston-based maker of
oilfield products, and American Century's debenture holders
will receive Tescorp common stock, convertible preferred
stock and warrants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Proler to Repurchase Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   PS
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Proler International Corp. said it will
repurchase up to 200,000 common shares, from time to time, on
the open market. The environmental recovery and recycling
concern said the shares may be used in connection with its
employee benefits plan or for other general corporate
purposes. Proler has about 4.7 million shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   More Car Ads Challenge Rivals Head-On
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   C HMC F GM NSANY TOYOY G.BMW G.DAI S.SAA VOLVY CBS GE CCB
F.EUC A.BON SAA
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Turn on your windshield wipers. The cars out there are
flinging mud.
   With 602 car models and a slew of minivans, trucks and
off-road vehicles all vying for a slice of a shrinking U.S.
market, some auto makers are worried that soft advertising
images of winding country roads, sleek women and rustling
pussy willows aren't setting their products apart from the
crowd. So manufacturers increasingly are turning to the
rolling equivalent of a Pepsi challenge: critical
side-by-side comparisons of rivals, boasting that they stack
up better than the next vehicle.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's trench warfare," says Roy Steinwolf, advertising
manager at Saab-Scania of North America, the U.S. sales arm
of Saab-Scania AB, which has been throwing punches at
Mercedes-Benz and Volvo in its latest ad campaign. "We've got
to do what we have to do. If that means coming at the
competitor hard, we will do it."
   "The economic condition of the auto industry" is such that
manufacturers "are becoming more vocal," says Ronald
Smithies, director of the national advertising division of
the Council of Better Business Bureaus in New York.
   And more biting. Subaru of America Inc. pits itself
against Volvo AB, which in turn, claims its 760-series sedan
outclasses Mercedes. Oldsmobile brags its Cutlass Supreme
tops Ford Motor Co.'s Taurus. But perhaps the hottest
head-to-head comparison right now is Chrysler Corp.'s "Meet
the Americans that beat the Hondas" campaign. The ads say
Chrysler's Dodge Spirit and Plymouth Acclaim ranked higher
than the Honda Accord in a recent survey of 100 car owners in
California. Chrysler says its Plymouth Sundance and Dodge
Shadow subcompacts outscored the Honda Civic in a similar
survey.
   Despite the millions being spent on hardball advertising,
it's not clear what such tactics accomplish. So far, the
evidence suggests that blasting the competition may produce a
short-term boost in sales, but not necessarily long-term
gains in market share.
   Chrysler's ad campaign hit the airwaves May 20, and during
the last 10 days of May, sales of the touted models rose by
as much as 5% to 27% from a year earlier. But Chrysler
officials say it's too early to tell what impact the strategy
will have on Chrysler's or Honda's market share. John B.
Damoose, Chrysler's vice president of marketing, says it will
be at least two months before Chrysler can even begin to
gauge the effectiveness of the campaign.
   Honda declines to comment on any specific ads. But Kurt
Antonius, a Honda spokesman, says, "Many times we're
flattered" by comparison ads.
   Other companies aren't as sanguine. General Motors Corp.'s
Chevrolet division has been embroiled in a negative
advertising duel with Ford Motor Co. for about 2 1/2 years.
First, Chevrolet ran an ad comparing its pickup trucks to
Ford's by standing them up side-by-side on their front ends.
Ford struck back with a similar ad showing a Chevy sinking
into the ground. Thus began one of the industry's
longest-running -- and nastiest -- advertising battles, as
Ford and Chevy battered each other's full-size and compact
pickup trucks.
   And the results? For the first four months of this year,
Chevy's S-10 share of the pie has dropped to 16.2% from 19% a
year ago. Ford's Ranger has gained during that four month
period to 26.7% of the compact pickup truck segment, up from
22.9% a year ago.
   The biggest casualty of the Chevy-Ford crossfire is
Chrysler's Dodge division, which isn't even mentioned in most
Ford or Chevy ads. Its share of the compact pickup market
dropped to 11.9% at the end of 1989 from 14.1% in 1988.
   Chevy says it may want to continue the fight. "Just stay
tuned," says Richard D. O'Connor, chairman and chief
executive officer of Lintas: Campbell-Ewald Co., Chevrolet's
ad agency. "We'll become even more aggressive with truck
advertising. Whether it will include comparisons, it's hard
to say."
   Ford officials say they want to back away from truck
bashing. "When you name somebody else, you do them more good
than you do yourself," says Ford's president, Philip E.
Benton Jr. "When you look at who's doing this stuff, it's the
people at the weak end of the market. It's usually a
desperation measure."
   Ford apparently isn't ready to take the pledge just yet. A
new ad campaign for Ford's Aerostar minivan takes potshots at
Chevrolet's rival Lumina APV minivan. "This is responding to
a whole batch of Chevy ads," explains John B. Vanderzee,
advertising manager at Ford's Ford division. "If Chevy is
intent on continuing {negative ads}, we will as well."
   Still, many auto marketers agree with Mr. Benton that
comparison advertisements carry the danger of promoting the
competition. And most companies are taking that risk only
when they must position a little-known model against
higher-profile competitors.
   That's what Nissan Motor Co. sought to do for its 1990
Stanza with a recent ad campaign challenging Honda Motor
Co.'s Accord and Toyota's Camry. During a three-month
campaign, Nissan offered to pay $100 to each car buyer who
test drove a redesigned 1990 Stanza but purchased a Honda
Accord or Toyota Camry.
   Nissan says the "bold approach" had a powerful effect:
Stanza sales almost doubled to 29,476 in the first five
months of the year from 15,350 in the year-earlier period.
The substantial rise occurred March through May, when the
television commercials aired. As a result, the campaign,
which had been slated to end June 3, is being extended
through Aug. 2.
   Before the marketing blitz, "the world at large wasn't
sure where the Stanza fit in the marketplace," says John
Rinek, Nissan's national advertising creative manager. Nissan
hadn't aggressively promoted predecessors of the 1990
Stanzas, Mr. Rinek says, and the latest campaign makes the
new Stanza "a much stronger player in the market."
   All well and good, but sales of Accords and Camrys didn't
suffer from Nissan's assault. For the first five months of
the year, Accord sales have risen 15.3% from a year ago;
sales of Toyota Motor Co.'s Camry jumped 27.4% during the
same period. The Camry and Accord both still outsell the
Stanza by substantial margins.
   Strong sales make it easier for the targets of attack ads
to stay above the fray. "If anything, {a comparison ad} tends
to enhance the image of our cars as benchmark automobiles,"
Mr. Antonius, the Honda spokesman.
   That's the same posture West German auto makers Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and Mercedes-Benz AG try to take when their
prestigious names are dragged through the mud in competitor's
ads. Mercedes says it refrains from comparative advertising.
BMW usually does, too, although in response to being named in
a number of competitors ads, it came out with the slogan "Why
buy something like a BMW when you can buy a BMW?"
   Still, the competition keeps hammering away. One of the
latest is a Saab campaign, started in May. The struggling
Swedish auto maker boasts that its 9000 model is so much
roomier than a BMW 535i that a sofa could fit in the back
seat. Saab claims the 9000 series also is safer than
Mercedes-Benz or Volvo -- two brands that have built solid
safety reputations in the U.S.
   Saab says it can't yet measure the success of the
campaign, but Mr. Steinwolf, the Saab ad manager, says the
luxury performance market Saab competes in has become so
crowded, particularly with the introduction of Toyota's Lexus
and Nissan's Infiniti, that the Swedish auto maker feels
sometimes it must mention competitors as a way to makes its
product stand out.
   BMW just scoffs at Saab's flailing. "They have a wagon; we
don't," says Carl Flesher, BMW's vice president of marketing.
"But I ask you: When does someone who buys a $40,000 car have
to carry around the sofa?"
   ---
   `Upfront' Market Is Up
                                                                                                       

   The "upfront" market, during which advertisers buy network
TV time for next fall, is moving faster than industry
executives had expected, executives said Friday.
   As of late last week, movie studios and auto companies had
mostly finished buying prime-time ad time, while packaged
goods and other companies were in the midst of their buying
spree. Auto makers spent about the same or slightly less than
the $700 million they spent last year, but the movie studio
spending helped boost total sales, the executives said.
   Jerry Dominus, head of sales for CBS, said that after the
unusually powerful upfront market last year, totaling $4.2
billion for the three networks plus Fox, "we expected flat.
But it isn't; it's up."
   Larry Hoffner, head of sales for NBC, characterized the
market as "pretty much as expected. It's moving in a normal,
orderly fashion." ABC executives declined comment, but ad
executives said it had signed up more business than its
competitors so far.
   The networks' decision to abandon standard audience-size
guarantees for a new formula, a decision that riled
advertisers, apparently isn't affecting upfront sales,
network and ad executives both said. "If there are 16 things
that you negotiate, the new policy brings it to 17," Mr.
Dominus said. "But it hasn't been an issue in closing
business."
   ---
   Della Femina, Heileman
                                                                                                       

   G. Heileman Brewing, following a review of its ad
agencies, Friday consolidated its beer advertising at Della
Femina, McNamee.
   Eurocom S.A.'s Della Femina had previously been Heileman's
agency only for its small Iron City brand. The shop now picks
up responsibility for Old Style and Special Export,
previously handled at Young & Rubicam; Rainier, which had
been handled at Chiat/Day/Mojo; Colt 45, which had been
handled at W.B. Doner; and other brands.
   Heileman, a La Crosse, Wis., unit of Bond Corp. Holdings,
said the accounts together bill more than $30 million.
According to Leading National Advertisers, however, Heileman
spent only about $15 million advertising its brands last
year.
   "We're obviously delighted," said Louise McNamee,
president of the agency, adding that Heileman's regional
brands will be serviced out of the shop's New York, Los
Angeles and Pittsburgh offices. "We think the brands have
enormous potential and we're ready to go to work."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   TOYOTA DEALERS: Southeast Toyota Distributors, Deerfield
Beach, Fla., named Saatchi &amp; Saatchi DFS/Pacific agency of
record for its more than $20 million account. The Saatchi &amp;
Saatchi Co. unit, based in Torrance, Calif., will be
responsible for creating ads and placing media for Toyota
dealers in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and
South Carolina.

   NEW ACCOUNT: Goya Foods Inc., Secaucus, N.J., awarded its
estimated $3 million to $5 million ad account to Avrett, Free
&amp; Ginsberg, New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Britain's Wages and Salaries
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Wages and salaries per unit of output in the
whole economy in the fourth quarter rose a seasonally
adjusted 10.1% from a year earlier, a revision from the
previously reported 9.3%, Britain's Central Statistical
Office said.
   The figures were revised as the result of fresh data
compiled for the first-quarter gross domestic product data.
As a result of the revision, the index of wages and salaries
for the whole economy in the fourth quarter was 133.3, up
from 130.3 in the third quarter and 121.0 in the 1988 fourth
quarter. The previously reported 1988 fourth-quarter index
was 132.1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Mannesmann Unit Buys Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.MMW G.THY G.IWK B.ARB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Mannesmannroehren-Werke AG of
Duesseldorf, a producer of steel pipes that is 75%-owned by
Mannesmann AG and 25%-owned by Thyssen AG, said it acquired
IWKA Stahlflaschen G.m.b.H., a West German maker of steel
cylinders. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Mannesmannroehren said 90% of IWKA was acquired from
Saarstahl AG, a minority-owned affiliate of Luxembourg's big
steel combine Arbed S.A., and the remaining 10% from
Industrie-Werke Karlsruhe Augsberg AG. Mannesmann is a steel,
chemical and engineering concern. Thyssen is a steelmaker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mannesmannroehren will merge its steel cylinder and
high-pressure gas container businesses with those of IWKA,
and change the unit's name to Mannesmann Stahlflaschen
G.m.b.H.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dayton Hudson Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   DH BTI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Dayton Hudson Corp. said it has completed
the $1.05 billion purchase of Marshall Field &amp; Co. from B.A.T
Industries PLC.
   The acquisition of the Chicago-based department-store
chain was delayed because of a request for more information
from the Federal Trade Commission, which examines proposed
transactions to see if they violate antitrust laws. The
retailer said the FTC notified the company that the waiting
period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Premerger Notification Act
has terminated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Deloitte Elects New Partners
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WILTON, Conn. -- Deloitte &amp; Touche said it elected its
first new group of partners and principals since the merger
of Deloitte Haskins &amp; Sells and Touche Ross &amp; Co. last
December.
   The company, the third largest U.S. accounting firm, said
the size of the class, 100 members, is about the same as the
combined number admitted to the predecessor firms in recent
years. The firm has about 1,700 members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   At Spanish Palace Set for 1992 Gala,
   Ghosts Are in the Media Spotlight Now
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MADRID -- For the 1992 commemoration of Columbus's
discovery of America, Madrid plans to transform the Linares
Palace into the House of America, but for now it has a house
of horrors on its hands.
   The uninhabited 19th-century mansion has always had a
bizarre reputation among Madrid residents, beginning with an
allegedly tragic marriage, a murder and suicide. Rumors of
hauntings have floated around for years, but they were never
taken seriously until the appearance of parapsychologist
Carmen Sanchez de Castro.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A few weeks ago, Ms. Sanchez de Castro's recordings and
photographs purporting to give evidence of ghosts unleashed a
Spanish media circus. Her photographs showed weird lights;
the recordings are said to have captured the words
"murderers, murderers."
   The circus intensified with Ms. Sanchez de Castro's arrest
in connection with a bad check written nine years ago.
However, she was released the following day, apparently
protected by a statute of limitations.
   Now everyone's wondering what the next twist will be in a
project which, if not cursed, has acquired some bizarre
attributes. Some even speculate that the alleged hauntings
reflect sinister undercurrents in Madrid's real estate
market.
   "This building has been a black spot on the Madrid
property market for years," says a Madrid-based writer and
specialist in paranormal phenomena, who asks not to be
identified. "A series of things have been happening which may
be coincidence, or may not."
   Built in 1873 for Jose Murga, first marquis of Linares,
the lavishly decorated three-story mansion occupies a prime
site in the central Plaza de Cibeles, diagonally across from
the Bank of Spain.
   Popular lore alleges that the marquis's wife, Raimunda,
was discovered to be the illegitimate daughter of the
marquis's father and a beautiful cigarette-factory worker.
Some say the couple lived in celibacy after the discovery.
Others hold that a child was born, only to be murdered at
once and its corpse hidden inside the building. The marquis
is alleged to have later committed suicide.
   Whether or not such blood-curdling stories are true, and
they were roundly denied last week by a member of the Spanish
Academy, the palace's subsequent history has been
problematic.
   Upon the marquis's death, the mansion went to his
goddaughter Raimundita. If one believes in the curse, it was
perhaps fated that at the start of the Spanish Civil War,
Raimundita's daughter would be visiting her aunt and uncle in
a village outside Madrid when a group of militiamen came to
call. As the men began to arrest the aunt and uncle,
Raimundita's daughter tried to intervene. The three were shot
together.
   For a while, the house was rented to a shipping company.
In the 1960s, it was sold to the Confederation of Spanish
Savings Banks, but its plans to convert the mansion into a
new headquarters languished, and for years the palace was
left empty.
   The building was recognized as a national monument in 1976
and was used as a movie set a few years later.
   Ill fortune apparently didn't visit again until 1988, when
a property company sold the palace to Emiliano Revilla, a
former sausage maker who was launching a new career as a
property developer. A band of terrorists, however, had other
plans for Mr. Revilla. Soon after purchasing the palace, he
was kidnapped by the Basque separatist group ETA. His
eight-month kidnapping is the longest by the ETA to date.
   In a theory held by the Madrid writer, Mr. Revilla had
been warned to stay away from the palace. Rather than being
of a ghostly nature, though, the writer says these warnings
were part of a real estate "war."
   In February, Mr. Revilla reached an agreement with the
Madrid city council to exchange the building for another
piece of real estate in a transaction valued at 3.1 billion
pesetas ($30 million). And so came about the seemingly
ordinary plan to design the House of America in connection
with the 1992 World's Fair in Seville.
   But then the vague rumors about hauntings began to
surface, culminating two weeks ago with a furor of public
comment after the release of Ms. Sanchez de Castro's
findings.
   Reporters and private citizens broke into the mansion,
forcing security guards to call the police to get them out. A
few days later, a radio crew with permission to spend the
night there claimed to have recorded voices in a well saying,
"Raimunda," "No, no, no," and "Never again."
   Pictures and tapes aside, security guards say they've
never noticed anything abnormal at the palace. And a
representative of an association that investigates the
paranormal is accusing Ms. Sanchez de Castro of fabricating
evidence to publicize a book she apparently has hoped to
publish.
   City officials, meanwhile, don't discount the possibility
of spectral voices in the palace, but they say the hauntings,
true or not, won't affect their plans. Restoration of the
future House of America is scheduled to start this autumn,
says a spokesman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ladd Sells Kittinger Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LADF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGH POINT, N.C. -- Ladd Furniture Inc. said it sold
Kittinger Co. to U.S.C. Industries for an undisclosed amount.
   The furniture maker acquired the Buffalo, N.Y., company in
July 1989 as part of its purchase of the former Maytag
Furniture Group. U.S.C. is a company formed by businessman
Michael Carlow of Pittsburgh to acquire Kittinger, Ladd said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heldor Industries Inc.
   Has $1.7 Million Loss
   For Fiscal 2nd Period
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HDR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MORRISTOWN, N.J. -- Heldor Industries Inc. reported a net
loss of $1.7 million, or 47 cents a share, for the second
quarter ended April 30, as sales declined 30%.
   For the year-earlier period, the maker and distributor of
swimming-pool equipment, spas, jetted tubs and related
chemicals and supplies earned $420,000, or 12 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales fell to $20.2 million from $29 million.
   President George S. Zabrycki said sales declined as the
water-recreation industry remained "in the second year of a
down cycle." In addition, he said, Heldor has curtailed sales
of certain low-margin products.
   On the positive side, cost-cutting efforts during the
fiscal first half should trim expenses at a rate of $3.8
million a year, Mr. Zabrycki said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FRE FNM MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, June 22, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.15% 30 to 44 days; 8.125% 45 to 59 days;
8.075% 60 to 89 days; 8.025% 90 to 119 days; 7.975% 120 to
149 days; 7.925% 150 to 179 days; 7.875% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.25%
30 days; 8.20% 60 days; 8.15% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.70% one month; 7.74% two
months; 7.76% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.14% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.25% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.30% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.13% 30 days; 8.08% 60 days; 8.04%
90 days; 8% 120 days; 7.97% 150 days; 7.92% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% four months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% five months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 7/16% six months; 8 9/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 11.13; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, June 18, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.74% 13 weeks; 7.64% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.11%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.05%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.73%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.82%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Nelson Mandela, quoted in Friday's early edition of the
New York Times, on the Puerto Rican nationalists, seated in
the VIP row of a Mandela rally in Harlem, who spent 25 years
in prison for shooting five congressmen from the House
gallery in 1954:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   We support the cause of anyone who is fighting for
self-determination, and our attitude is the same, no matter
who it is. I would be honored to sit on the platform with the
four comrades whom you refer to.
   ---
   James E. McClure and T. Norman Van Cott, of the Ball State
University economics department, in the summer issue of the
Indiana Policy Review:
                                                                                                       

   Advocates of educational choice in primary-secondary
schooling . . . direct attention to fragmentary evidence
offered by primary-secondary school districts that have
implemented choice -- East Harlem in New York City being
cited most frequently. While the latter evidence is
important, it surely strikes many Americans as case-specific,
anecdotal, and insufficient to warrant a general
restructuring of primary-secondary education.
   Bringing the evidence from U.S. higher education to bear
on the educational choice issue overcomes these concerns.
Indeed, educational choice is revealed to be alive and well
in all 50 states. It is not the "pig in the poke" many
suggest. . . .
   With higher education, students satisfying admissions
requirements can attend any publicly supported school in
their state. Colleges and universities, therefore, must
compete for student enrollment by offering attractive
educational packages.
   Each year, parents of high school seniors become aware of
this competition. Deprived of captive students, colleges and
universities employ a variety of marketing techniques to
entice students to their campus. . . .
   No doubt many professors, considering themselves above the
marketplace, label these competitive activities "raw
commercialism." Nevertheless, the competition keeps these
"professionals" attuned to their customers. From society's
point of view, of course, the salutary consequences of
colleges' self-interested pursuit of students is a system of
higher education without equal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   S&amp;L Bailout Plan Victim of Hysteria
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Every day brings another major story or opinion on the
savings-and-loan bailout problem. Two of your stories are
particularly instructive: the May 21 news item on Southwest
Savings Association and Sen. William V. Roth Jr.'s May 22
editorial-page article, "Use Treasury Securities to Cap S&amp;L
Debt."
   The Southwest Savings collapse was due to the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corp.'s refusal to subsidize the
troubled assets held by Southwest Savings during its
recapitalization just two years ago. We simply did not
foresee then that ensuing government actions would so destroy
property values and otherwise dramatically change the game's
rules.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sen. Roth's article stresses the need to support asset
values (rather necessary when you are asking acquirers to
assume offsetting deposit liabilities). In fact, the
Southwest Plan deals after the Southwest Savings collapse
made such support a cornerstone of those later
recapitalizations. But because of "negative reaction" to the
December 1988 deals, Sen. Roth fosters a plan that is far
more awkward and lengthy (20 years) than was the FSLIC model.
Aside from some obvious technical incongruities in his
proposal, his urging a 20-year marketable subsidy while
ignoring any prepayment feature is in sharp contrast to the
FSLIC nominal 10-year subsidy, which is in fact an overnight
obligation because it's prepayable at the government's
option. Needless to say, those "negative reactors" never
faced or acknowledged the existence of this option, or its
economic value.
   And so, based on hysterical critics, the government
trashed the only program that was able to attract capital,
place assets in private hands, avoid dumping with consequent
asset write-downs and credit contraction in viable banks,
allow for cyclical factors to take hold (also relied upon by
Sen. Roth), systematically reduce overbanking, maintain and
enhance franchise values, and to do all this -- without a
Rube Goldberg bureaucracy -- on "de minimus" cash flows (when
compared with the extravagant petitions now facing Congress)
while retaining a valuable option.
   But then, we only attracted $3.5 billion in new capital
and only managed (under the then existing rules) some 244
thrifts in 14 months accounting for more than $120 billion in
assets, and had a lavish circa $10 billion cash flow with
which to work in solving some of the system's most
intractable problems, including a sharp reduction in the cost
of funds for the benefit of all financial institutions.
   Stuart D. Root
   Pelham, N.Y.
                                                                                                       

   (Mr. Root was executive director of the FSLIC in 1988).
   ---
   Sen. Roth's complicated scheme to give Treasury securities
to purchasers of failed S&amp;L loan assets may be
well-intentioned, but it is more likely to increase the cost
of the thrift bailout than to reduce it.
   He recommends setting an imaginary number on the value of
every thrift asset within the control of the Resolution Trust
Corp. The imaginary number would, believe it or not, be
wholly unrelated to an asset's actual market value. Instead,
the figure would represent the amount the government would
have to receive to hold the immediate taxpayer losses from
the bailout to $50 billion. As nobody will pay Sen. Roth's
fairyland price for these assets, he would make up the
difference between his price and the market price by giving
purchasers U.S. government Treasury obligations whose market
value is sufficient to close the gap.
   According to his plan, the government will pay interest on
these obligations for 20 years. If at the end of that period
the owner of the asset can sell it for the fairyland price,
then the government is absolved of the obligation to pay the
principal due. This savings of principal is the key to Sen.
Roth's plan. But he fails to see that those receiving these
securities will demand government securities with a
sufficiently high market value to compensate them for the
full difference between today's market value for the property
they are buying and the inflated price the government is
demanding. His plan uses mirrors to provide taxpayers with
imaginary savings.
   Fixed-price deposit insurance got us into this mess by
putting S&amp;Ls in a "heads I win, tails the government loses"
situation. S&amp;L managers put federally insured money in
high-risk, high-return projects. If the projects work out
well, shareholders reap a bonanza. If they fail, the
government is left holding the bag. Sen. Roth's plan creates
the same perverse incentives. Those who purchase thrift
assets will put them to high-risk uses, because they know
that if their gamble doesn't pay off they are protected by
the government from all loss. If their gamble pays off and
the property increases in value, the government does not get
to share in the upside.
   Purchasers of real estate from the RTC have lots of
options regarding what they might do with their property.
Sen. Roth's plan would guarantee that the purchasers would
put the assets to the riskiest possible uses, and that's how
we got into the S&amp;L mess in the first place.
   Jonathan R. Macey
   Professor of Law
   Cornell Law School
   Ithaca, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Smoking Curbs
   Get a New Lift
   From EPA Plan
   ----
   By Barbara Rosewicz and Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR MO
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   Growing concern about the health dangers of tobacco smoke
may mean that smoking in the office isn't just going out of
style. It may be going, going, gone.
   The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to propose
today that secondhand smoke be declared a known human
carcinogen, on a par with nine other pollutants such as
asbestos and benzene. And the Labor Department's Occupational
Safety and Health Administration for the first time is
considering looking into "passive smoke" as a work hazard.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such federal interest is likely to increase public
pressure for wider bans on workplace smoking. While most
early efforts concentrated on segregating smokers at work or
banishing them to the lobby, moves for a "totally smoke-free"
environment now are coming into vogue.
   "Five years ago, companies needed to be motivated even to
look at a smoking policy," says Robert Rosner, whose
nonprofit Smoking Policy Institute in Seattle consults with
businesses on smoking policies. Now many companies want to
"prohibit smoking even on the grounds {and} refuse to hire
workers who smoke."
   At Turner Broadcasting System Inc., new hires must sign an
agreement attesting that they don't smoke or that they will
quit upon employment. The company is even considering going
further and banning smoking by all employees. But bans are
trickier than they sound. Anti-smoking policies run into
opposition from unions, as well as tobacco makers, and raise
legal questions such as how to enforce a ban.
   Although the EPA report due out today doesn't break new
scientific ground, because the agency and Surgeon General
already have branded passive smoking as causing lung cancer,
both anti-smoking and pro-smoking forces say it will supply
new momentum for the ban-smoking movement. The EPA report
estimates that 3,800 additional cases of lung cancer a year
are caused by breathing other people's smoke. The agency also
is likely to release a draft of a guidebook for employers on
curbing workplace smoking.
   The EPA report is "going to be significant in our efforts"
to win restrictions or prohibitions on workplace smoking,
says Angela Mickel, a lobbyist for Tobacco-Free America, a
group created by the American Cancer Society, American Heart
Association and American Lung Association.
   "The tobacco prohibitionists are certainly on a march,"
says Thomas Lauria, a spokesman for the industry's Tobacco
Institute. Thanks to the EPA report, "we're going to see the
momentum for more restrictions on the workplace," he says.
   The EPA itself can't regulate smoking. But Action on
Smoking and Health (ASH), a Washington, D.C., group that has
fought many anti-smoking battles, says the agency's report
will bolster its current court case against OSHA, which has
twice rejected petitions seeking "emergency" curbs on
workplace smoking. "It puts an added burden on OSHA to
justify why they're not protecting employees from this
hazard," says Kathleen Scheg, an ASH lawyer. The Tobacco
Institute's Mr. Lauria agrees: "An official EPA edict would
make OSHA look at it even harder."
   Indeed, Gerard Scannell, OSHA's activist-minded new chief,
says he wants to raise the issue and indicates he'll rely on
the EPA report as a springboard. He says, "I think we have to
deal with the issue, but I need more information."
Eventually, OSHA will probably put out a "request for
information," that could lead to rules on workplace smoking,
he says, but "it's down the road before we do anything."
   But the anti-smoking movement isn't waiting for the
federal government. All but 13 states have laws restricting
smoking in public or private workplaces. According to
Americans for Nonsmokers' Rights, a Berkeley, Calif., group
that works for anti-smoking legislation, at least 297 cities
and counties restrict workplace smoking.
   While the number of companies adopting anti-smoking
policies seems to be hitting a plateau, there's a surge in
interest in total bans. A 1989 survey of private and
government employers by the Administrative Management Society
found that 60% of employers surveyed restrict smoking and 25%
of those ban it, up from a year earlier when 57% said they
restricted smoking and 14% barred it.
   The EPA study is already having an effect. After news of
it leaked into the press last month, Ted Turner, chief
executive officer of Turner Broadcasting, asked his managers
to begin looking into a total ban on smoking for the
company's 3,700 employees. The Atlanta-based company's policy
of tobacco-free employees hired since November 1986 already
is one of the toughest around, and it's enforced. This year,
a newly hired lawyer who somehow wasn't made aware of the
policy lit up a cigarette in the office. She was given a
choice of leaving her job or enrolling in a quit-smoking
program. She ultimately left rather than quit smoking, says
William Shaw, vice president of corporate personnel
   In Akron, Ohio, Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Co. also is
beginning to explore the idea of toughening its restrictions
on smoking by adopting a total ban at corporate headquarters.
Goodyear's chief industrial hygienist, Joseph Holtshouser,
says companies are being enticed to consider smoking bans
because it's good not only for the employees' health but
potentially for the corporate bottom line. Statistics show
that smokers have higher rates of absenteeism, lower
productivity and higher medical claims for themselves and
their families.
   While insurance companies generally have only begun to
offer discounts for nonsmokers on individual policies, King
County Medical Blue Shield in Seattle, Wash., broke new
ground this March by offering as much as a 15% discount on
group health policies to employers that ban smoking and can
certify that 90% of their work force are nonsmokers.
   Some other companies that now ban workplace smoking
entirely or except for certain lounges or cafeteria areas,
the Tobacco Institute says, include Ford Motor Co., in its
offices; Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota; Manville
Corp., in Denver and Manville, N.J.; Kansas Gas &amp; Electric
Co.; U S West, in eight Northwest and Midwest states; Boeing
Co., in Seattle and Wichita, Kan.; Adolph Coors Co.; and
Deluxe Corp., in 66 locations.
   Tobacco companies are striving mightily to hold back the
smoking-ban movement, with partial success. The Tobacco
Institute has been able to help kill a number of state bills,
for instance. Philip Morris Cos., meanwhile, isn't leaving it
all to the institute. It's launched a campaign to challenge
the EPA report, including a news conference here Friday, to
tout several studies that play down the significance of
secondhand smoke.
   Some of the industry's success has come in getting some
states -- Colorado, Florida, Kentucky, South Carolina and
Tennessee so far this year -- to pass laws variously
protecting workers from being fired or from hiring
discrimination for smoking. The Tennessee law prohibits job
discrimination against those who use "a legal agricultural
product" off the job.
   Tobacco interests have found some potent allies in labor
unions, who oppose government-ordered curbs and unilateral
employer actions alike. Unions helped defeat a recently
proposed Boston ordinance aimed at forcing employers to ban
smoking when compromise solutions can't be found, and a
Massachusetts bill with a similar goal. Unions complain that
such smoking limits undercut the collective-bargaining
process, where accommodations should be worked out. They also
aren't eager, some union officials say, to support edicts
that will anger many of their members.
   Another pocket of resistance sometimes is in offices of
top corporate executives, even at companies with no-smoking
policies. Chrysler Corp. bans smoking except in designated
areas, large work spaces such as garages and in private
offices. The last exemption allows Chairman Lee A. Iacocca, a
two-cigar-a-day smoker, and top executive Robert Lutz, who
also smokes cigars, to keep lighting up.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pension Fund
   Says Travelers
   Breached Pact
   ----
   By Hal Lancaster
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7C
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TIC
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- A pension fund representing Dallas policemen and
firemen filed suit in state court here, accusing Travelers
Corp. of breaching a contract for managing real estate
investments by giving preferential treatment to some
investors, including its own employee retirement funds.
   The suit is another aspect of the real estate woes being
faced by large insurers, who are among the U.S.'s biggest
real estate lenders and investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The events leading up to the suit, which seeks $7.9
million in actual damages and $25 million in punitive
damages, were triggered by poor returns on real estate
investments made by the Travelers fund.
   The Dallas retirement plan joined the real estate pool in
1981 but sought to withdraw in 1986 because of its poor
performance. So, apparently, did several other plan
participants, who were informed that under the contract with
Travelers, participants would be paid off on a first-come,
first-served basis. But the Dallas fund still hadn't been
paid by early 1990, when Travelers unilaterally -- and
improperly, the suit contends -- changed the method of
payment to provide for a pro rata distribution.
   Subsequently, says David Everett, an attorney for the
pension fund, it was discovered that Travelers' own employee
retirement funds were also seeking to withdraw from the real
estate pool but were farther back in the waiting list.
   Meanwhile, the suit contends, Travelers was selling off
real estate at far less than the appraised value, leading to
concern that the company wouldn't be able to pay off all plan
participants. "They {Travelers employee retirement plans}
should be the ones out in the cold rather than sharing that
frostbite with us," Mr. Everett contends.
   Travelers, the suit charges, refused requests for a
meeting to discuss the payment change, withheld material
information and charged inflated administrative fees based on
faulty appraisals. Since 1981, the Dallas fund has
contributed $4.6 million to the pooled account; by the end of
1989, the fund's equity share of the account was $6 million.
In that time, the Dallas fund paid $513,000 in fees to
Travelers, the suit says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Malaysia May Privatize Port
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- The Malaysian cabinet decided to
privatize Port Klang, the country's largest port, which is
18.6 miles west of here, by placing all of its operations,
with 22 wharves and about 5,000 government employees, under a
single commercial entity, local newspaper reports said.
   The Klang Port Authority, which has operational duties,
would be reduced to a regulatory body overseeing the port.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Transport Minister Ling Liong Sik said details of the
privatization program will be decided later. Mr. Ling said he
couldn't provide details on the equity and privatization
schedule, because the matter was beyond the ministry's
jurisdiction. He said that port workers would have wages
similar to those in the private sector, including bonuses,
and that their pay would be determined by the performance of
the new company to be set up. Equity of 5% in the company
would be allocated to the workers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   Torture in a Kentucky Jail?
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   In October of 1986, three women were transferred to a
high-security compound of the Lexington (Ky.) federal prison.
Locked away in underground cell blocks, they were subjected
to daily strip searches, 24-hour surveillance and almost
total isolation. The Department of Prisons says it was a
necessary precaution to keep high-risk cases from escaping.
The women say it was an experiment in sensory deprivation --
a form of psychological torture.
   "Through the Wire" (PBS, Tuesday, June 26, 10 p.m. EDT;
check local listings), the first of this season's "P.O.V."
series, is a film that's sure to upset almost everyone.
Filmmaker Nina Rosenblum's persuasive allegations come as a
shock: Not just in Iraq or in Mexico, she insists, but here
in America political prisoners do exist, and they're singled
out for especially harsh treatment in federal jails. The
90-minute documentary, narrated by Susan Sarandon, traces the
story of three women incarcerated in a prison within a
prison, a "living tomb": Susan Rosenberg, Sylvia Baraldini
and Alejandrina Torres.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All three came out of the 1960s and '70s protest
movements. All three were home-grown terrorists. Rosenberg,
who grew up in a liberal, middle-class home, got involved in
anti-war and black-power groups and eventually joined the May
19 Communist Organization. In 1985, she was linked to the
Brinks robbery, and convicted of possession of weapons and
explosives (dynamite). She was sentenced to 58 years in
prison.
   Baraldini, daughter of an Italian embassy employee, grew
up in the U.S. and also was involved in anti-Vietnam and
pro-black groups, and a member of the May 19 Communist
Organization. She was convicted of conspiracy to help black
militant Asata Shakur escape from jail, and sentenced to 43
years.
   Torres, a member of the radical Puerto Rican independence
movement FALN, was convicted of "seditious conspiracy" to
bomb a U.S. Marine base near Chicago, and received a sentence
of 35 years. She considers herself a prisoner of war.
   Though these women all advocated armed struggle, it is
important to point out that none of them was convicted of
actually committing any violent act -- not assault, not
bombing, not kidnapping, and certainly not murder. Yet
Rosenberg, for example, was given a 58-year sentence, twice
as long as the average murderer receives. In comparison, a
man recently convicted of actually bombing an abortion clinic
was given a seven-year sentence, and Ku Klux Klan Grand
Wizard Don Black, caught with an arsenal not unlike
Rosenberg's, was released in 23 months.
   While there is no denying their criminal involvement, it
is interesting that these three fiercely political women --
and not killers -- were the ones chosen to be buried in
subterranean pens in Kentucky, isolated from the general
prison population. "They don't want us in the general
population," says Rosenberg. "We have a different moral code.
We conduct ourselves with dignity. . . ."
   The women's lawyers make the case that this treatment was
in fact similar to the "sensory deprivation" jails of West
Germany, used to crack the Baader-Meinhof prisoners: no
contact with the outside world, no sun, no grass, no books,
frequent nocturnal wakings. Doctors and outside prison
experts attest to the women's rapidly deteriorating condition
over their two-year incarceration. Particularly brutal and
degrading strip-searches are described. "The most miserable
and dangerous of violent criminals gets a better shake than
these women," says criminologist Richard Korn, who wrote the
textbook on the isolation technique.
   Full of passionate intensity, "Through the Wire" is a
classic point-of-view documentary, both in its strengths and
its weaknesses. This film obviously cares deeply about its
subject. It's also long, rambling and incredibly sloppy.
   Marred by second-rate journalism, "Through the Wire"
leaves too many unanswered questions: Are there any such
units for men? Were women first? Why? The interviews with
prison officials are particularly skimpy. Even if they're
only being set up as straw men, let's hear their full
official explanation for such facilities. And especially as a
partisan interviewer, why not push the warden a little on
camera: How come these women can't be let outside once in a
while to see the sun? Why can't they be allowed to read
books?
   There are all sorts of ways to do muckraking journalism,
from "60 Minutes" to "Titicut Follies," the classic expose of
mental institutions. All of them are heavy on facts, not just
allegations. In this film, the one central allegation -- that
this treatment is part of an Orwellian experiment to "break"
political prisoners -- is never substantiated, only "proved"
by repeated assertions.
   Ms. Rosenblum's basic problem is that she couldn't get her
camera inside the unit; she couldn't get any footage of the
women's day-to-day existence. In some cases, she's forced to
use simulations. She's simply short of pictures.
   On the other hand, she has tons of interview footage with
her three radicals making accusations, and she feels
compelled to use it all. It's an especially bad choice to
have the women prisoners tell their own stories (instead of
having the narrator do it), because they come off as so
unreliable. Their sentences are littered with phrases like
"the struggle," "the movement" and the U.S. government's plan
for "chemical genocide against blacks and the poor."
   In fact, there is some solid evidence that supports some
of their contentions of cruel and unusual punishment --
corroborating reports from Amnesty International, doctors and
psychologists. There's also a particularly important decision
by a federal court judge.
   But those facts are lost in the middle of this rambling
film. "Through the Wire" lurches off in three or four
different directions at once. Is this a history of the 1960s?
A portrait of three radicals in a non-radical age (complete
with home movies and parental interviews)? An expose of
prisons? An indictment of the government? Instead of a
streamlined, powerful 45-minute film, this 90-minute affair
seems at once bloated and underreported. "Through the Wire"
needed an editor in the worst way.
   It's great to see the "P.O.V." series stirring up trouble.
And "Through the Wire" isn't a bad choice. It tells a sad
story -- a story there's no reason to think won't be repeated
in the future. But I kept thinking what a good job "60
Minutes" would have done with this material.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   L'Oreal in Talks With Vittel
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   F.ORE
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- L'Oreal S.A. said it is negotiating a licensing
agreement that will give it world-wide rights to manufacture
and distribute a range of cosmetic products developed by
Societe Generale des Eaux Minerales de Vittel, a French
company whose main activity is bottling and marketing mineral
water.
   Under the proposed accord, the products, which are
currently sold in high-volume retail outlets, would be
distributed through L'Oreal's sales network.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Financial details weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   NBC May Overhaul Daytime Lineup,
   Considers Adding Hour to `Today' Show
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The NBC network, lagging far behind its rivals in the
lucrative daytime television market, is considering an
overhaul of its programming that could include adding a third
hour to the "Today" show.
   National Broadcasting Co., a unit of General Electric Co.,
may also eliminate one of its soap operas and several game
shows in favor of news, talk shows and informational
programming, network officials say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While NBC finished the 1989-90 season as the top-rated
network in prime time for the fifth consecutive year, it
hasn't translated that success into daytime programming.
Daytime -- defined as the weekday hours between 10 a.m. and 4
p.m. -- has long been a profit machine for all three major
networks; the shows are less expensive than prime-time series
and the three networks combined pull in about $1 billion in
ad revenue annually from daytime.
   Still, the overall network share of the daytime audience
is shrinking as the traditional audience -- stay-at-home
mothers -- turns to alternatives such as cable network
Lifetime, a joint venture of Capital Cities/ABC Inc., Hearst
Corp. and Viacom Inc.
   NBC's slide has been the most precipitous, with its
daytime audience down 12% from a year ago. CBS Inc.'s daytime
audience fell 3%, while ABC's audience decreased 6%. At
present, NBC has about 3.7% of the total audience, compared
with 5.6% for top-rated CBS, which boasts the popular game
show "The Price Is Right" and the No. 1 soap opera, "The
Young and the Restless."
   NBC's 200-plus affiliates, who rely on daytime to promote
prime-time shows and local newscasts, vented their
frustration over the downturn at their annual convention in
Washington recently. "The whole daytime schedule needs to be
rethought," says John Spinola, general manager of WBZ, the
NBC affiliate in Boston.
   John Kueneke, general manager of NBC affiliate KCRA in
Sacramento, Calif., adds: "NBC very much needs to come up
with a long-range plan for daytime. The affiliates would
encourage them to come up with something news and
informational in the morning."
   Virtually none of the programming NBC has thrown on the
screen recently has met with success. "Generations," a new
soap opera with an ensemble black cast, hasn't made a dent in
the ratings despite heavy promotion; network officials say
the show has until the end of the year to prove itself or
face cancellation. "The Marsha Warfield Show," a talk show
starring a cast member from the prime-time hit "Night Court,"
also hovers near the bottom of the Nielsen ratings but,
because it's brand new, the network is more likely to give it
a chance for its audience to grow. The three-year-old
"Classic Concentration" is a dud -- and therefore could be
one of the first shows to go -- as are reruns of the
prime-time series "227."
   And NBC is finding it is harder to woo audiences away from
long-running rival game shows and soap operas. Although NBC
introduced "Santa Barbara" six years ago and fine-tuned it,
the one-hour show remains third in its time period.
   Jacqueline Smith, who was recruited from rival ABC last
year to head NBC's daytime programming, says she was
"disappointed" by the network's performance during her first
year. Although she declined to be specific, Ms. Smith says
NBC is "developing all kinds of programming," including news.
NBC also plans to bring out two new game shows in July and
September -- reprises of the old "Let's Make a Deal" and "To
Tell The Truth."
   Additional late morning news programming is under
consideration because 11 NBC-owned stations and affiliates in
the top 20 markets program their own local newscasts at noon.
Ms. Smith also says that a three-hour "Today" show isn't
"inconceivable," although that is "for some future time.'
   In a recent seven-page memo to NBC News President Michael
Gartner, NBC News Vice President Lloyd Siegel said "a third
hour of `Today' . . . will cost less to produce and will
generate more revenue than existing daytime programs." He
outlined potential programming for a third hour: "Real Life,"
described as continuing coverage of everyday situations of
interest; "Conference Call," women at various NBC affiliates
or foreign NBC News bureaus, reacting to taped stories; and
such features as "Expert Help."
   The memo suggested that a third "Today" hour "be
constructed so that it can run not only at 9 a.m. but at
other hours during the day," to give affiliates flexibility.
   Mr. Siegel couldn't be reached for comment. An NBC News
spokeswoman said any comment on the memo's contents "would be
premature. Lloyd is working on a couple of things. Some might
come to pass, others might not."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Hong Kong Auctions Off Land
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- The government's first land auction in the
fiscal year that began April 1 raised a total of 357 million
Hong Kong dollars (US$45.8 million), far more than the
combined minimum of HK$257 million, and in line with most
market expectations, though weak bidding interest was viewed
by analysts as a sign of continuing caution.
   The auction covered a site for warehouse construction, one
for residential use and a third site for nonindustrial
purposes. "There were only a few bidders, which suggests that
a number of people are quite conservative," said K.M. Wu,
valuation manager for Richard Ellis Ltd., a property
consulting group. "The outlook is still not too certain."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Roger Nissim, the government's land agent who conducted
the auction, sounded a more optimistic note than most
analysts. He said the prices were in line with government
expectations. "There was quite spirited bidding for each
lot," he said. "The three lots are for different types of
users, so that shows quite a healthy sign that various
sectors of the property market are still quite active."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korean Aid to Paraguay
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea has agreed to consider
Paraguay's request for long-term loans for its economic
development, the Foreign Ministry said.
   Officials said South Korean Foreign Minister Choi Ho-joong
made the promise Thursday when Paraguayan Foreign Minister
Luis Maria Aragana asked for financial and other support.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ministry officials said that Choi asked Paraguay to
present detailed plans for its development projects to
facilitate Korean inter-ministerial considerations. It was
not known how much Paraguay was seeking in loans.
   Mr. Aragana was here with Paraguayan President Andres
Rodriguez who came Wednesday for three days of talks with
South Korean President Roh Tae-woo to discuss ways to
strengthen economic and other relations.
   Mr. Choi told Mr. Aragana that South Korea was studying
the possibility of providing communications equipment and
other supplies requested by the South American country, the
officials said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kline Elko's Stake in Raritan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7C
</SO>
<CO>
   RARB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kline, Elko &amp; Co. III L.P. said it lifted its stake in
Raritan Bancorp Inc. to 10% of the common shares outstanding.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Kline Elko said it holds 115,000 Raritan Bancorp shares,
including 27,500 shares purchased between April 23 and June
20 for $12.25 to $13.125 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Raritan Bancorp is in Raritan, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   NatWest Appoints Unit Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NW
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- National Westminster Bank PLC, Britain's
second-largest commercial bank, named Rafael Martinez Cortina
chairman of its Spanish subsidiary Banco NatWest SA.
   Mr. Martinez Cortina, 53 years old, was vice chairman and
managing director of government-controlled Banco Exterior de
Espana SA and vice chairman of Arab Banking Corp.'s Banco
Atlantico S.A. unit. He succeeds Alfredo Lafita, who resigned
after NatWest acquired the remaining 10% stake held in Banco
NatWest by Spanish financial conglomerate March Group, a
NatWest spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Toy Centre
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Hong Kong Toy Centre International Ltd., a
toy maker, said it will raise 92 million Hong Kong dollars
(US$11.8 million) by selling 25% of its shares to the public.
   The 75 million shares in Toy Centre are to be priced at
HK$1.23 each, representing a price-earnings ratio of six,
based on projected annual profit of HK$50 million. The
prospective dividend yield is 8.1%. Analysts said the P-E
ratio is below the average of about seven for local
industrial stocks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After the offering is completed, Chairman Victor Lo and
his family will hold 52.5% of the company, and Prudential
Asset Management Asia Ltd. will own 22.5%.
   Of the cash to be raised, HK$33 million is earmarked for
debt repayment, HK$30 million for the purchase of plant and
equipment, HK$6 million HK for toy development, and the rest
for working capital.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Trial of a German Resistance Leader
   ----
   By Peter Keresztes
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Standing before his judge in January 1945, Helmuth James
von Moltke, a leading member of the German resistance, saw
himself "not as a Protestant, not as a big landowner, not as
a nobleman, not as a Prussian, not as a German -- but as a
Christian and nothing else." The judge, a former communist
named Roland Freiser, understood. "One thing Christianity and
we National Socialists have in common," he intoned, "and only
one: We demand the whole man."
   The essence of the trial is recounted in the remarkable
"Letters to Freya, 1939-1945" (Knopf, 441 pages, $24.95),
edited and translated by Beate Ruhm von Oppen. During those
years, the great-nephew of Bismarck's field marshall worked
in Berlin at the foreign division of the Abwehr (the German
intelligence service) as a legal adviser to the High Command
of the Armed Services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His wife, Freya, meanwhile was raising their two small
sons and looking after the family estate at Kreisau in
Silesia. They exchanged letters almost daily, and she plied
him with poppyseed cake and farm-fresh fruit, vegetables and
fowl.
   During the 1930s Moltke raised a Cassandra's voice to
prevent war, haranguing politicians, journalists and clerics
in Britain and elsewhere on the futility of appeasement.
Then, in the early war years, having just breezed through his
English bar exams, he applied his professional capacities at
home, trying to prevent German violations of international
law and to protect neutrals. Persistence and pragmatism,
Moltke found, won out over ethical reasoning. "What is
international law is good for the conduct of war," he would
argue. In one instance, he argued against Field Marshall
Keitel's order to shackle prisoners of war, until Hitler
relented.
   Early on he knew instinctively that Germany had
next-to-nil prospects of winning the war and thus viewed it
as perversely barbaric. "Germans seem to have a pronounced
gift for tactics, and seem to be hopeless at strategy," he
wrote in April 1940. Hitler's generals refused to acknowledge
Anglo-Saxon naval supremacy and Soviet "invincibility,"
according to Moltke, and "what the Russians lacked in will
our measures have instilled in them."
   Moltke foresaw a "blood-guilt that cannot be atoned for in
our lifetime," yet even he had difficulty believing the
unimaginable as it unfolded: the startup of S.S. furnaces in
which "6,000 people a day are `processed.' " When he saw a
report blaming the Russians for using dumdum bullets that
astonishingly was "supported by evidence of the medical
officer, one Panning, who used the ammunition in a
large-scale experimental execution of Jews," he wanted only
"to see Herr Panning before a court of law."
   Moltke became a central figure in the secret working group
that came to be known as the Kreisau Circle. It hoped, as Ms.
von Oppen states in the introduction, to restore after the
war "the sense of humanity to people who had experienced its
destruction." The group, which included Social Democrats,
trade unionists and churchmen, dealt with political
structure, education, church-state relations, the punishment
of war criminals and the Europeanization of a federal
Germany.
   Moltke opposed schemes for a "coup d'etat", Ms. von Oppen
writes, for fear of "a new legend of stab-in-the-back, like
the one that had done so much political harm in Germany after
1918." The revenge that followed the assassination attempt
against Hitler on July 1, 1944, cost the lives of many within
and outside the Kreisau Circle.
   Insights on the war aside, what makes the collection
particularly enriching is the portrait that emerges of a
special man during special circumstances: an aristocrat of
extraordinary depth of intellect and sentiment who served his
family, nation and God as an incorruptible humanist.
   The letters are a constant reflection of their author's
frame of mind. Seeking comfort in Kant, Spinoza and Mozart
while yearning to be home in Kreisau, he resisted any impulse
to lapse into callousness. "I'm always catching myself at
it," he wrote. Having to return the obligatory raised-hand
salutes repulsed him as much as the coarse behavior of some
of his countrymen he encountered in his travels.
   As the war soured, Moltke sensed danger. Codes began to
displace names in the letters. "What a year lies before us,"
the first letter in 1944 opened. "If we survive it all other
years will pale beside it." Before the month was out he was
arrested. His letters later that year from Tegel prison --
written in handcuffs and smuggled out by a chaplain, Harald
Poelchau -- revealed a man preparing for death. "Now I
definitely don't want to die, there's no doubt about that,"
he wrote. Yet he accepted his fate in the knowledge "of being
killed for something which (a) we really have done and which
(b) is worthwhile. . . . we are to be hanged because we
thought together."
   On Jan. 11, 1945, 12 days before his execution, Moltke
took his leave from Freya: "Only together do we constitute a
human being," he wrote. "Therefore, my love, I am certain
that you will not lose me on this earth, not for a moment."
   ---
   Mr. Keresztes is deputy editorial page editor of The Wall
Street Journal Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grumman Sets
   Retirement Plan
   For 21% of Force
   ---
   Offer of Incentives Is Aimed
   At 6,000; Half Expected
   To Accept the Proposal
   ----
   By Charles W. Stevens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6B
</SO>
<CO>
   GQ
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Grumman Corp. is offering early retirement incentives to
6,000 employees, or 21% of its work force, in an effort to
bring its employment level in line with dwindling government
contracts.
   If half the eligible employees accept the offer, as
expected, the defense contractor could save $100 million a
year in expenses, say securities analysts who follow the
company. But that wouldn't lead to any lifting of earnings
estimates for Grumman because "they almost have to {cut
employment} to stay whole," said Michael S. Rosen, an analyst
at Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co., New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Grumman, based in Bethpage, N.Y., said that the retirement
offer is the result of a companywide cost-cutting study and
that acceptance "is completely voluntary." A spokeswoman said
the company is "hoping" the response will obviate future
layoffs. Dismissals may still be necessary, however, because
Grumman's "employment target is still moving" as the
cost-reduction study continues, the spokeswoman said.
   The company, which primarily makes Navy warplanes and
other aerospace systems, said the retirement inducements are
being offered to "pension eligible" employees. The plan
provides for a supplement to accrued pension benefits, the
Grumman spokeswoman said.
   Grumman's need to cut employment follows decisions in
recent Defense Department budgets that slashed spending and
set expiration dates for the company's biggest production
programs. These include the carrier-based A-6E bomber and the
EA-6B radar-jamming aircraft, which are scheduled to go out
of production next year. Production funds for Grumman's F14D
Navy fighter will run out in 1993.
   Through layoffs and attrition, Grumman pared its
employment about 10% last year to its current level of about
28,000 employees.
   Mr. Rosen, the Wall Street analyst, said Grumman officials
told him that they expect about half the 6,000 eligible
employees to accept the early retirement offer, an estimate
on which Grumman declined to comment. Nevertheless, Mr. Rosen
said he is sticking to his estimate for Grumman to earn about
$60 million, or $1.75 a share, this year, on $3.6 billion in
revenue. In 1989 Grumman earned $67.3 million, or $1.91 a
share, on revenue of $3.6 billion.
   "When you do the math on these things, it never seems to
get to the bottom line," Mr. Rosen said of the expected
savings. "These are necessary savings that Grumman and other
defense companies have to do to keep their heads above
water," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   French Insurer's Capital Boost
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.AGF F.UAP
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Groupement des Assurances Nationales, called GAN,
unveiled details of a planned 3.6 billion franc ($639.4
million) capital boost through the issuance of new shares
with warrants attached.
   The capital increase makes GAN the third major French
state-owned insurer to take advantage of a law passed in
December that relaxes the limits on shareholdings in state
insurers by concerns other than the government. Insurers now
may issue 25% of their share capital to private investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Assurances Generales de France plans to tap the market
later this year, and Union des Assurances de Paris has
already launched a 10.5 billion-franc capital boost through a
share increase.
   GAN Chairman Francois Heilbronner said the new funds will
help finance the company's acquisitions and investments
abroad. "Up until now, GAN has been able to raise the
necessary funds for its expansion through internal sources,"
he said. "But financial deregulation and the opening of
European borders has created a new situation, which requires
a rapid acceleration of our activities abroad."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coda Energy, Snyder in Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CODA SNY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Coda Energy Inc. said it signed a definitive
agreement with Snyder Oil Corp. of Fort Worth to acquire a
25% interest in Snyder's Pawnee Project.
   The Pawnee Project encompasses about 145,000 acres in
Colorado and Wyoming and is about eight miles south of a
successful horizontal well in the Niobrara formation. Doug
Miller, Coda chairman, said the Pawnee Project will drill at
least two horizontal test wells into the same formation, at a
cost to Coda of between $2 million and $2.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Rise in May Leading Indicators Index,
   Weak New-Home Sales Data Expected
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A surging stock market probably helped push a
prominent index into the positive zone in May, but economists
caution against overoptimism.
   The index of leading economic indicators, the government's
chief economic forecasting gauge, is believed to have risen
as much as 0.7% in May, after a decline of 0.2% in April. But
the outlook for the week's only other major statistic, May
new home sales, calls for continued weakness.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The (leading) index is largely being driven by a record
month for the stock market," said Stephen S. Roach, senior
economist at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., New York. A jump in the
price of sensitive materials, as well as an increase in the
length of the workweek, are also believed to have contributed
positively to the index. Negative input to the 11-component
index is expected from unfilled orders, building permits and
money supply, among others.
   Mr. Roach looked optimistically to the lengthened workweek
and the recent, unexpectedly large jump in May durable goods
orders as indications that "the manufacturing sector is
slowly starting to turn back up." On the other hand, he noted
that home building, which accounts for about 4.5% of real
gross national product, "is an area of lingering weakness."
The consensus view calls for new home sales to remain
unchanged, following a 1.6% drop in April-the fifth
consecutive month of declines.
   "Housing is certainly a drag on the economy," said Cynthia
Latta, senior financial economist at DRI/McGraw-Hill, Boston.
She said several factors are depressing the housing sector.
In addition to the obvious chill of high mortgage rates, Ms.
Latta noted the "rediscovery of risk on the part of banks,"
and an aging population that demands less housing. Most of
the baby boomers are already housed and the current state of
the economy doesn't bode well for trading up anytime soon,
economists said.
   Many analysts find it difficult to be cheerful about the
economy, in light of the housing slump and the on-again,
off-again auto industry. Autos and housing together account
for about 7% of GNP. "Really, we're looking to exports to
hold things together for the economy and keep our heads above
water," Ms. Latta said.
   Last Friday's tepid consumer spending report for May did
little to encourage optimism. What's more, the government
revised downward its earlier reports on spending in March and
April. Consumption, which accounts for the single biggest
chunk of GNP, is the main engine of the eight-year economic
expansion. "We'll be lucky if consumer spending doesn't hurt
us in the second quarter," Ms. Latta said.
   The most hopeful analysts read recent economic tea leaves
to mean the manufacturing sector may be bottoming out prior
to an upswing. But both optimists and pessimists are keeping
a keen eye on employment levels in manufacturing. The next
jobs report isn't due until Aug. 6, but an early survey of
economists found the median expectation calls for a drop in
factory payrolls of 10,000 jobs. The range of expectations
splits neatly from those expecting a drop of 50,000 to those
expecting an increase of 50,000 jobs.
   ---
                Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

       Statistics Released in the Week Ended June 22
                                                                                                       

                                           CHANGE
                                           (from prior
                                PERIOD      period)
                                                                                                       

 Money Supply
                                                                                                       

    M1 Week ended
    June 11 (in billions)       $807.6        -$0.6
                                                                                                       

    M2 Week ended
    June 11 (in billions)       $3,266.6      +$5.8
                                                                                                       

    M3 Week ended
    June 11 (in billions)       $4,060.1      +$7.0
                                                                                                       

    Housing starts
                                                                                                       

    May, annual rate
    (in thousands)              1,207         -1.4%
                                                                                                       

    Durable goods orders
    May (in billions)           $128.19       +3.9%
                                                                                                       

    New jobless claims
    Week ended June 9           355,000       +1.1%
                                                                                                       

    Building permits
    May, annual rate
    (in thousands)              1,057         -4.6%
                                                                                                       

    Real GNP

    annual rate (in trillions)  $4.193        +1.9%
                                                                                                       

    Personal income
    May, annual rate
    (in trillions)              $4.701        +0.3%
                                                                                                       

    Personal consumption
    May, annual rate
    (in trillions)              $3.660        Unch.
                                                                                                       

    Savings rate
    May, change in
    percentage points           6.2%          +0.2
                                                                                                       

            Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Car sales (Mon.)
   Mid-June
                                                                                                       

   Leading indicators
   index (Wed.)
   May
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   New Jobless claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Agricultural prices (Fri.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   New home sales (Fri.)
   May.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Court Allows Molson
   To Trademark Name
   Used by Rival Labatt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MOL.A T.LBT CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- A ruling by Canada's Federal Court has allowed
Molson Cos.' brewing unit, Molson Breweries, to register the
trademark Molson's Blue, despite the fact that the brand name
"Blue" is being used by rival brewer John Labatt Ltd.
   A spokesman for Labatt said the company doesn't plan to
change the name of the beer, the top-selling Canadian beer
and doesn't view the court's decision as a threat.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "For more than 25 years, Blue has been distinctive to
Labatt's," said Joe Clark, vice president of John Labatt's
brewing unit, Labatt Breweries of Canada. "It's nonsense for
our competitor to think they can prevent us from marketing
Blue, or sue us for trademark infringement."
   Mr. Clark said the company hasn't decided whether it will
appeal the court decision. If Labatt doesn't appeal within 30
days, Molson will be able to register the trademark.
   "We're obviously going to pursue this," said John Carroll,
president and chief executive of Molson Breweries. "We have a
long-standing right to the name, and we could probably force
Labatt to cease use of the Blue name."
   Mr. Carroll didn't rule out suing Labatt, noting that each
percentage point of market share is worth about 10 million
Canadian dollars (US$8.5 million) to either brewer. Labatt's
Blue has a market share in excess of 20%.
   "This is an extremely competitive business where the only
gains by one brewer are achieved at the other's expense," Mr.
Carroll said.
   Canada's beer market consists of only two major players,
Molson and Labatt. In early 1988, Molson merged its brewering
assets with the Canadian assets of Elders IXL to form the
jointly owned Molson Breweries.
   Molson filed an application to register the trademark in
1978 for use in marketing one of its brands of beer, Old
Stock Ale, which still says on the label "the original blue."
Labatt doesn't own a trademark for its Labatt's Blue name but
has applied for one.
   The court rejected an appeal by John Labatt to overturn a
previous decision by the Canadian Trade Marks Registrar
allowing Molson to register the name.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Mandela Pledge
   Wins Over U.S.
   Business Leaders
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nelson Mandela won over U.S. business leaders with a
pledge that free enterprise would play an important role in a
post-apartheid South Africa.
   Mr. Mandela, who has been drawing a flood of support and
good will on a tour of U.S. cities, has stressed the need to
keep applying pressure on South Africa's white-minority
government. It is a message he pushed at a meeting of more
than 200 business leaders in New York Friday and is expected
to repeat to President Bush today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While the New York business leaders were divided over the
continued use of economic sanctions, they were uniformly
impressed with the African National Congress's deputy
president, who was freed in February after nearly 28 years in
prison. "The business community was very positive, and Mr.
Mandela came off very, very well," said Preston Robert Tisch,
president of Lowe's Corp. and the incoming chairman of the
New York Partnership.
   That view was shared by Peter Farber, a tax lawyer and
trustee of the New York Chamber of Commerce, who says that
sanctions hurt black South Africans more than anyone. "He
seems very well-informed about business and the economy," Mr.
Farber said. "He took pains to dispel the notion that there
would be wholesale nationalization of industries. Free
enterprise would play a major role, including foreign
investment."
   "I come to put forth the message that sanctions must be
intensified," Mr. Mandela told reporters yesterday when he
touched down at Washington National Airport.
   In a speech Saturday at the Kennedy Library at the
University of Massachusetts in Boston Mr. Mandela called for
a "large inflow of foreign capital, including U.S. capital,"
once democracy comes to South Africa. Limited nationalization
of industry, he said, was an option to be considered.
   Mr. Mandela expressed immediate interest in a proposal by
Peter Goldmark, president of the Rockefeller Foundation, to
establish a South African development bank -- "a place to
channel investment the minute a just government is elected,"
Mr. Goldmark said. "There are businesses and foundations that
would be interested in building the machinery for such a
bank, whether our government was ready or not," he said. Mr.
Mandela indicated he would like to follow up on the bank idea
before leaving the U.S.
   Mr. Mandela has already demonstrated enormous fund-raising
prowess. Some aides estimate the amount raised so far during
his trip at well over $1 million, with the biggest
fund-raising events yet to occur. Contributions to the ANC
have come from excited, emotional crowds at big gatherings,
such as the huge outdoor rally Saturday, as well as at
smaller functions with the rich and famous.
   During his meeting with Mr. Bush, aides said, Mr. Mandela
will insist that there is no reason to reward South African
President F.W. de Klerk for the country's recent steps toward
ending apartheid. "Mandela will tell Bush that the
initiatives for all going on in South Africa today were by
the ANC and not de Klerk," said Lindiwe Mabuza, the ANC's
Washington representative.
   Mr. Mandela is hoping that Mr. Bush will issue a statement
supporting sanctions and a quickening of the reform process.
"We believe Bush has the capability to put pressure on de
Klerk to insure that the entire reform process is on track
and should be speeded up," Zwelakhe Sisulu, a top aide to Mr.
Mandela, said in an interview yesterday.
   Mr. Mandela will also ask Mr. Bush to encourage Mr. de
Klerk to work to stem violence in Natal province, where
factional warfare has been under way for years.
   In addition to speaking with the president, Mr. Mandela
also will address a joint session of Congress while in
Washington. His reception on Capitol Hill tomorrow may be
somewhat muted by senators and representatives whose
constituents strongly objected to Mr. Mandela's words of
support for Fidel Castro, Moammar Gadhafi and Yasser Arafat
-- the leaders of Cuba, Libya and the Palestine Liberation
Organization, respectively.
   On a PBS special Friday, Mr. Mandela said he was
"astonished" at the critical reaction his remarks have
generated, explaining that the three men have long been
supporters of the ANC struggle.
   ---
   Meg Cox contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USX Chief Discloses `Exploratory' Talks
   On Disposing of Some Steel Operations
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   X BST
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- USX Corp.'s chairman and chief executive
officer, Charles Corry, said the company has had
"exploratory" discussions about the disposal of some of its
steel operations, but he played down the likelihood of any
impending sale.
   Mr. Corry, in his first interview since defeating the New
York investor Carl Icahn in a heated proxy battle regarding
the strategic course of the steel and energy concern, said:
"I personally believe it's easier to make money in energy.
Energy is our future."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As for the steel business, which Mr. Icahn urged the
company to spin off as part of his May 7 shareholder
resolution that failed, Mr. Corry said foreign investors have
expressed interest in those operations. "We have had
discussions with respect to foreign parties who are
interested in various steel assets," he said.
   Among these parties, Mr. Corry said, is British Steel PLC,
which is shopping for a North American steelmaker. He said no
"specific" bids have been made. British Steel and USX tried
unsuccessfully to form a joint venture in 1983 at the
company's Fairless Hills, Pa., plant, near Philadelphia.
   Separately, Mr. Corry said second-quarter profit will top
that for the first quarter, when USX earned $176 million, or
66 cents a share. The improvement reflects higher operating
income in USX's steel and Marathon Oil segments.
   Though Mr. Corry declined to forecast net income for the
current period, he said operating income for Marathon Oil
will be higher than the year-earlier $257 million. But he
said he doesn't expect steel to better the $171 million in
operating income in the 1989 second quarter, when USX had net
income of $250 million, or 91 cents a share, which included
gains of $140 million from asset sales.
   In surveying USX's strategic direction, Mr. Corry conceded
that the company this year won't be able to buy back as much
stock or retire as much debt as had been hoped. USX said last
fall that it planned to sell the oil and gas reserves of its
disappointing Texas Oil &amp; Gas unit. At the time, the company
said the sale could generate at least $1 billion.
   Now, the company has taken about half of the reserves off
the market because of disappointing offers, and will sell
only three parcels of reserves, in California, the Gulf of
Mexico and the Arkansas-Oklahoma area. Sales of these
properties are expected to be completed in the third quarter,
yielding about $400 million.
   Mr. Corry said he doesn't feel any pressure to come up
with additional asset sales to offset the shortfall. He said
that, prior to this year, he expected the company would sell
about $1 billion of assets, but now anticipates this will
total about $500 million, including the Texas Oil &amp; Gas
reserves.
   This indicates little, if any, steel-related asset sales.
Mr. Corry approached discussion of the future of USX's steel
business gingerly. While noting that the company has
consistently reduced its exposure to steel every year, he
said, such actions don't mean USX will soon abandon its
position as the nation's No. 1 steelmaker.
   "We may well be operating that business in the year 2000,"
he said. As for reducing steel exposure this year, he said,
it depends "on what opportunities present themselves."
   One wild card this year is contract negotiations with the
United Steelworkers. The union negotiated contracts with four
leading steelmakers last year, patterned after one another in
wages and benefits. Mr. Corry called these contracts "rather
rich" and said he doesn't believe rival steelmakers have set
a pattern that USX must follow.
   Mr. Corry also said USX management isn't satisfied that
the company's stock price doesn't fully reflect record
earnings in 1989 and a significant about-face in the fortunes
of USX, once a symbol for industrial decay. In New York Stock
Exchange composite trading Friday, USX shares closed at
$32.125, unchanged. "There is some frustration with the price
of stock -- and it's not limited to shareholders," he said.
"Our stock performance suffers from the memories of the
1980s."
   Mr. Corry, though, was vague on what actions management
might take to bolster the share price. But he did note that
the board at its next meeting will give "serious
consideration" to a shareholder resolution, requesting a vote
on a provision that would discourage non-negotiated hostile
tender offers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   If the Russians Aren't Coming, Who Is?
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP FREST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   KNOKKE-HEIST, Belgium -- At a NATO-Japan mutual security
discussion in this seaside town a few days ago, an editor of
the Hokkaido Shinbun Press, sitting beside me at dinner,
wondered if I could explain why we were there. He wanted to
know why, if the Soviet Union is falling apart, anyone thinks
there still is a security threat to either Japan or the 16
NATO countries.
   It is a good question. A lot of people, including some at
this unprecedented NATO-Japan conference, already have
assumed the answer: There is no threat. A few of those
engaged in the discussion (we journalists were only
observers) were even predicating their analysis on "peace
dividend" developments that have not yet occurred, such as a
successful conclusion of the Vienna CFE negotiations that are
meant to bring about sharp reductions in conventional forces
in Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If some of these supposedly hardheaded national-security
specialists are delirious over the "end of history" and other
such speculative formulations, it should be no surprise that
politicians are even further down that road. Throughout
Europe and the U.S. there are strong pressures for sharp cuts
in defense budgets. By contrast, Japan's defense spending
will continue to grow at about 3% annually over the next five
years, according to an unofficial estimate, but even in Japan
there is rising debate over whether those increments are
necessary. Until now, the defense budget, which is only about
1% of Japan's GNP, has not stirred much public emotion.
   Objective reality -- an expression favored by Marxists
until their own objective reality became so stark -- does
indeed suggest an absence of threat. The Red Army is
withdrawing, albeit slowly, from Central Europe. The Warsaw
Pact has crumbled with the emergence of popular governments
in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and East Germany. The rise
of nationalism within the Soviet republics themselves has
cast doubt on the reliability of the non-Russian troops who
are a major component of the Soviet armed forces. And there
are, of course, expectations that the CFE talks ultimately
will bring about a major withdrawal of Soviet troops from
Central Europe.
   But therein lies the paradox of the Knokke meeting. Just
possibly, the diminution of the threat is itself the threat.
The discussants were not having an easy time trying to cope
with the uncertainties of a radical change in the correlation
of forces. There were references to Margaret Thatcher's
remark, vis-a-vis the Soviet breakup, that ice is most
dangerous when it is melting, but not much analysis of why
that might be true.
   In fact, with all due respect to the perceptiveness of
Mrs. Thatcher, it may not be quite on the mark in the Soviet
case. A fragmented Soviet Union, preoccupied with the
disturbed relationships of the Soviet republics, may well be
less dangerous to the outside world than was the Soviet Union
when it could be called with some justification a monolith.
When it had both a central political command and a functional
command economy, it could employ significant resources in
furtherance of its imperial ambitions, whether they might be
the construction of a Pacific fleet or the support of regimes
in Angola and Nicaragua.
   But what Mrs. Thatcher really was warning against was not
only what is happening in the Soviet Union but what could
happen in the Western alliance. In the absence of a clear and
present danger, the impulse for disarmament in democratic
nations becomes powerful. There always are far more claims on
national budgets than can be satisfied. Arguments that
weapons no longer are needed are mother to weapons defunding.
The number of people who think of weapons as waste greatly
expands when the world seems less dangerous. The U.S. already
has scheduled a 10% reduction of its defense forces in the
Pacific. Its troop presence in Europe will drop sharply if a
CFE agreement is reached. Cutbacks in defense procurement
began in the Reagan administration.
   In the Soviet Union, by contrast, the defense production
mills grind on, making ships, tanks and missiles. There are
reports that the Soviets are anticipating a CFE agreement,
which would call for scrappage of weapons, by shifting
significant amounts of equipment out of Europe to Asian
deployments or naval air wings that the agreement will not
cover.
   So a question arises: Exactly how will the world look five
years from now if the Western allies have significantly
disarmed and the Soviet Union has not? More to the point,
what if there is a huge Russian Federation still under some
form of Communist Party control, with a restored command
economy and still sufficiently well armed to intimidate its
neighbors, including those members of the Soviet Union who
might by then have achieved some measure of independence?
Empires decline, but they also sometimes rise again in a new
guise and with the energy of the imperial power renewed.
   But that is only one possibility. Russia is not the only
threat to world peace. What about the possibility of war over
Kashmir between India and Pakistan, both presumed to have
nuclear weapons? Or what about the danger of the
still-ambitious Saddam Hussein of Iraq deciding to use his
still-impressive military power to grab more Middle East oil?
Or the possibility that he or some other Arab militant will
decide to employ chemical or biological weapons against
Israel or each other? Or the danger of new adventures by
Vietnam or North Korea?
   Some of those possibilities are fairly remote. But Paul
Wolfowitz, U.S. undersecretary of defense for policy,
reminded the Knokke group of the book "Great Illusion" by
Norman Angell, which argued that war was no longer possible.
A short while later came the outbreak of World War I. Then,
it was the Austro-Hungarian empire that was disintegrating.
   So the Knokke meeting was born out of some useful
perceptions. From the U.S. comes a desire to fashion its
separate alliances with Europe and Japan into what Mr.
Wolfowitz called a "new international security framework."
From Japan comes a tentative exploration of the possibility
that it can play a global political role more in keeping with
its economic importance. Japan also has a continuing concern
about Soviet ambitions in the Pacific. And from both Europe
and Japan comes a wish not to be abandoned by a United States
that is beginning to display once more those old-fashioned
isolationism symptoms.
   In short, the Knokke gathering was an attempt to prevent a
breakup of the Western alliance that would match or surpass
the disintegration of the Soviet empire. Is that a worthwhile
purpose? In this world of brightening prospects for peace but
vast uncertainties about the future, yes would seem to be the
prudent answer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST DOW ICI RP.C G.MMW HMC TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   JAPAN: WORLD'S NO. 1 DONOR
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan for the first time replaced the U.S. as the world's
largest donor of official foreign aid in 1989, the Finance
Ministry said. "It's an epoch-making development," said a
ministry official.
   Japan's official development-assistance payments totaled
$8.95 billion in 1989. The U.S. was next at $7.66 billion and
France third with $7.46 billion, the ministry said.
   Japan's 1989 total, at 1.235 trillion yen, was the
country's largest ever in yen terms, up 5.6% from a year
earlier, the official said. But it dropped 1.9% in dollar
terms, ministry figures show, because of yen depreciation
against the dollar.
   Growth in Japanese foreign-aid spending was less
significant in Japan becoming the world's No. 1 donor than a
slowdown in U.S. aid spending, the ministry official said. He
said U.S. development-aid spending declined to $7.66 billion
in 1989 from $10.14 billion in 1988.
                                                                                                       

   HONG KONG PRISON CHANGE
                                                                                                       

   Hong Kong is to end the use of corporal punishment in its
prisons, the government said. It said a Correctional Services
Department study had shown there were better ways to
rehabilitate prisoners than beating them with a cane.
Canings, mainly used against young offenders, have become
less frequent in the British colony in recent years.
                                                                                                       

   MORE VIETNAMESE EXPORTS
                                                                                                       

   Vietnam substantially increased exports in the first half
of this year but failed to increase the growth rate in
agriculture and industry, said the chairman of the State
Planning Commission, Pham Van Khai, according to the Vietnam
News Agency. Mr. Khai said first-half exports -- including
crude oil, rice, pork, rubber, coffee and tea -- were up 40%
from the same period last year. He said imports for the
period were up 6.8%. Inflation averaged 2.7% a month in the
the first five months of 1990, Mr. Khai said.
                                                                                                       

   ROMANIAN PETROCHEMICALS
                                                                                                       

   Romania hopes to upgrade its petrochemicals industry
through joint ventures with Western companies, the state news
agency Rompress said. Rompress said the Ministry of Chemistry
has contacted more than 20 foreign companies, including Dow
Chemical Co. of the U.S., Imperial Chemicals Industries PLC
of the United Kingdom, Rhone-Poulenc S.A. of France and
Mannesmann AG of West Germany to discuss possible cooperation
in chemical products. Romania now exports various
petrochemical products including polyvinyl chloride and
solvents.
                                                                                                       

   NEW HONDA PROGRAM
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Honda Motor Co. announced that it has begun a
world-wide program to equip its dealers with
chlorofluorocarbon-gas retrieval devices designed to prevent
the release of CFCs into the atmosphere during servicing of
vehicle air-conditioner systems. In Japan, 2,000 of Honda's
2,600-outlet network will be equipped by autumn with the
gear, a spokesman said. The devices cost 260,000 yen ($1,680)
each, with dealers contributing some of the expense but with
no cost to the customer, he said. Toyota Motor Corp. recently
said its overseas service units are installing similar gear,
while about 30% of its Japanese units have already been
equipped.
                                                                                                       

   WAR CRIMINALS IN BRITAIN
                                                                                                       

   The British government has decided to defy the unelected
House of Lords and reintroduce a bill to allow the
prosecution of elderly suspected Nazi war criminals living in
Britain. Sir Geoffrey Howe, Conservative leader of the House
of Commons, said the government intends during the next
session of Parliament to resubmit the War Crimes Bill
defeated by the Lords June 5. The Lords' powers are limited
to delaying legislation for one year. The elected House of
Commons had passed the bill in December 270-60. Peers who
opposed the bill said fair trials were impossible and
dragging aging emigres before courts would only stir old
hatreds.
                                                                                                       

   BRITISH SHIPYARD BAN
                                                                                                       

   The European Community Commission confirmed it will
continue to block the reopening of shipyards in northeast
England even though world-wide demand for new ships is likely
to double by the end of the decade.
   The commission said that when North East Shipbuilders Ltd.
closed last year, with the loss of 4,000 jobs in the
Sunderland area, it allowed the British government to give
state aid to the area on the condition that the shipyards
remain shut.
   The decision has angered politicians and union leaders
lobbying for the yards to be reopened. They claim that the
Sunderland yards are among the most modern in Europe and that
several foreign companies have approached the government
offering to take them over.
   A commission spokesman said the commission wanted to
eliminate overcapacity in the European shipbuilding industry
and that marginal yards like Sunderland's would have to
remain shut. He concluded: "There's no way 'round that
decision."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Marc Bohan, the former designer for Christian Dior, is
expected to take over as artistic director of the British
fashion house of Norman Hartnell. He would thus become the
first major French designer to head an English fashion house.
. . . Buyers of Danish Inter-rail tickets each get two free
condoms and a leaflet telling them how to take precautions
against AIDS as they travel around Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Prime Reseources
   Chairman Refuses
   To Complete Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ICRA PDG T.SKZ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Stock promoter Murray Pezim
refused to complete a transaction that would have raised
Corona Corp.'s stake in Prime Resources Group Inc. to 45%
from 20%. Prime Resources owns 50% of Canada's hottest gold
prospect.
   Mr. Pezim, Prime's chairman as well as honorary chairman
of Corona, earlier vowed to derail the transaction unless
Corona altered the terms. Terms call for Mr. Pezim and two
other large Prime holders to swap their 10.2 million Prime
shares for an equal number of Corona Class A shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The parties agreed to exend the closing date to July 5,
though Mr. Pezim said he won't close unless Corona revises
the pact. Corona's spokesman said it expects Mr. Pezim to
stand by the initial agreement.
   In Toronto Stock Exchange trading Friday, Corona's Class A
shares, which have sagged in recent weeks, closed unchanged
at seven Canadian dollars (US$5.95) each. Prime, which is
listed on the Vancouver Stock Exchange, closed at C$9.62 a
share, up 12.5 Canadian cents.
   The private transaction is part of a complex plan under
which Corona hopes to secure control of British Columbia's
big Eskay Creek gold deposit, now widely acknowledged as the
largest gold discovery in Canada since Ontario's Hemlo find
in the early 1980s. Corona had hoped the purchase would help
cement its control of Prime.
   Meanwhile, Corona and rival Placer Dome Inc., Vancouver,
are battling for control of Prime's Eskay Creek partner,
Stikine Resources Ltd. Placer Dome has so far acquired about
45% of Stikine under a tender offer that was extended to July
4. For its part, Corona agreed to a lock-up pact with a group
that owns 42% of Stikine and has offered to acquire the rest
through a stock swap.
   Mr. Pezim once controlled Corona's predecessor and played
a big role in financing its early exploration at Hemlo. A
Toronto group, led by Ned Goodman, Corona's chairman,
acquired control of Corona in the mid-1980s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Zinc, Lead Prices
   Expected to Jump
   If Labor Talks Fail
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier and Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR CLT T.BMS T.NOR
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Analysts say zinc and lead
prices are poised to rise sharply if new contracts aren't
reached this week at Canada's two largest producers, Cominco
Ltd. and Brunswick Mining &amp; Smelting Corp.
   Contracts covering more than 4,600 members of the United
Steelworkers of America, including 3,500 at Cominco, and
1,140 at Brunswick, a unit of Toronto's Noranda Inc., expire
Saturday, and union bargainers said current contract
proposals from the two mining concerns are far from adequate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Negotiators appear especially far apart at Cominco, which
has had a stormy relationship with its unionized workers and
was hit with a costly four-month strike at its big Trail,
British Columbia, lead-zinc smelter complex in 1987 during
the previous round of contract talks.
   At its capacity, the Trail smelter accounts for about 5.8%
of the Western world's refined zinc output and 2.6% of its
lead production. Cominco's contract talks cover workers at
Trail and at British Columbia's Sullivan lead-zinc mine,
where output was suspended this year due to losses.
   "Metals markets have been holding their breath waiting for
the outcome of {Cominco's} talks," said Victor Lazarovici, an
analyst at Toronto's BBN James Capel Inc. With lead and zinc
supplies already hurt by disruptions, and inventories at low
levels, Mr. Lazarovici sees prices for both metals "going up
substantially" if settlements aren't reached.
   "We would very quickly go into a period of rising prices,"
concurred analyst Julian Baldry of Toronto's Nesbitt Thomson
Deacon Inc.
   Mr. Lazarovici said zinc prices could reach or surpass the
early March peak of 85 cents (U.S.) a pound and lead would
quickly jump past 40 cents. Lead peaked at 60 cents a pound
in March. In London Metal Exchange spot market dealings
Friday, zinc closed at about 77 cents a pound and lead at
38.5 cents.
   Contract talks broke off late last week between Cominco
and union negotiators after the Vancouver company proposed a
two-year pact with annual wage increases of 5% but no
cost-of-living allowance, as the current contract provides.
   "Our members will reject this {proposal} by, I predict,
over 90%," said Ron Schmidt, chief bargainer for the
Steelworkers. "If you take the COLA away, with a 5% wage
increase, they'll be paying us the same damn thing" as under
the current pact, he said. "It's absolutely outrageous."
   Talks are expected to resume Thursday after union members
formally vote on the proposal and conduct a strike vote.
Under provincial law, the union must provide three days'
notice before going on strike.
   Meanwhile, union bargainers are also recommending a strike
at Brunswick, whose lead-zinc mine near Bathurst, New
Brunswick, is expected this year to produce metal concentrate
containing about 250,000 metric tons of zinc concentrate and
about 68,000 metric tons of lead, according to John White,
president and chief executive officer. That would account for
roughly 5% and 1.5% of Western world production of zinc and
lead, respectively.
   Workers are scheduled to vote this week on a proposed
three-year pact that Brunswick calls its final offer. It
includes a 20% wage boost over three years and increased
monthly pension payments, including a big immediate boost.
   But union negotiator Blair Doucet said the proposal is
inadequate and that the union wants to make up ground after
settling "cheap" in the last round of talks, which followed
several years of losses. "Now that they {Brunswick} are
making money, we want our share," he said.
   Last year, Brunswick earned 29.7 million Canadian dollars
(US$25.2 million), or 80 Canadian cents a share. It sees net
income rising to about 84 cents a share this year.
   If workers at Cominco and Brunswick come to terms without
resorting to strikes, analysts said lead and zinc prices
would probably fall from current levels, which partly reflect
anticipated supply disruptions. But they said underlying
demand for lead, which is mainly used to make batteries, is
strong, and there is little new production coming onstream,
largely because of environmental constraints.
   Strikes or not, "we're very optimistic on the outlook for
lead prices because the supply is so constrained," said BBN's
Mr. Lazarovici. As for zinc, he sees an immediate drop to
"the high 60s" (cents) range, if the contracts are settled.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MMI Medical's Profit
   Fell 70% in 4th Period
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7D
</SO>
<CO>
   MMIM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   POMONA, Calif. -- MMI Medical Inc. reported a 70% drop in
fiscal fourth-quarter net income and said it expects to
report "only nominal" profits for the fiscal 1991 first
quarter.
   MMI Medical, which provides diagnostic imaging services,
said net for the quarter ended April 27 fell to $237,000, or
nine cents a share, from $778,000, or 28 cents a share, a
year earlier. Revenue was flat at $9.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Results for the latest quarter include an after-tax charge
of $87,000, or three cents a share, for adjustments to
first-quarter results, which apparently were overstated. MMI
Medical reported net of $576,000, or 21 cents a share, on
revenue of $9.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 1990.
   Dudley A. Rauch, chairman and chief executive officer,
declined to disclose details of the restatement.
   Mr. Rauch said MMI Medical has suffered from industrywide
pressures in the diagnostic imaging market, where rates for
equipment rentals drop swiftly with the age of equipment. In
addition, the tax rate for the latest quarter jumped to 35%
from 22% a year earlier, as availability of investment tax
credits declined. On the plus side, the company's maintenance
business, which represents more than 70% of revenue, has
shown "continued growth and profitability," he said.
   For the fiscal year, net fell 50% to $1.4 million, or 51
cents a share, from $2.8 million, or $1.02 a share, a year
earlier. Revenue was $38.1 million, up from $38 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Northrop, McDonnell Douglas Unveil
   Fighter Jet; Project Faces Uncertainty
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman and Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MD NOC LK BA GD GQ ROK UTX GE
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Northrop Corp. and McDonnell Douglas Corp. unveiled their
version of the Air Force's next-generation fighter jet on
Friday at Edwards Air Force Base in California, rolling out
the slate-gray aircraft under a stifling desert sun and into
an even hazier future.
   The plane, known as the Advanced Tactical Fighter, is
being billed by the nation's leading aerospace firms as the
last significant military aircraft program to come along for
many years. But the ATF, slated to cost more than $50 million
per plane, or twice as much as the Air Force's current
front-line fighters, is emerging at a time when lawmakers
increasingly question just how much the nation needs such a
warplane.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For fiscal 1991, Congress is likely to approve less than
$800 million of the more than $1 billion requested by the
Pentagon to begin full-scale development of the ATF. More
importantly, chairmen of the House and Senate Armed Services
committees have warned that the Air Force must substantially
delay long-range production plans for the estimated $63
billion program. Even Defense Secretary Dick Cheney has
carefully avoided saying how many of the proposed 750 planes
he wants to buy.
   Apart from its hefty price tag, many lawmakers and other
critics challenge the role of the new fighter. Originally
conceived to assure air superiority in the event of a
U.S.-Soviet land war in Europe, the ATF is now being touted
by the Pentagon, which already has spent $2.8 billion on the
plane, as an insurance policy against Iraq, North Korea,
Syria and other Third World countries that acquire
sophisticated Russian fighters.
   Many deficit-conscious lawmakers, however, challenge that
purpose. Rep. John Rowland (R., Conn.), a Pentagon critic who
sits on the Armed Services panel, blasted the Air Force in an
interview Friday for failing to adjust budget requests to the
changing world. "Rather than first spelling out the threat,
they say here are the weapons we currently have under
development," Rep. Rowland complained. "Then, they try to
figure out what missions the programs can carry out."
   Northrop and McDonnell Douglas hope their jet, the YF-23,
will be selected over another edition of the ATF being built
by a squadron of competitors, Lockheed Corp., Boeing Co. and
General Dynamics Corp. Each side, including key
subcontractors, has sunk about $700 million into the project.
And the losers will never have a shot at getting back any of
their money.
   But even the winning team, scheduled to be selected in
April 1991, has a struggle ahead. Consider that if the ATF
were built at the pace called for in April by Mr. Cheney --
and that is certain to be vastly scaled back on Capitol Hill
-- the victorious contractors wouldn't start to recoup their
investment until the late 1990s. Moreover, plans for the Navy
to produce its own variation of the ATF have been delayed
until at least the end of the decade. Navy admirals, many of
whom expressed misgivings about the ATF in the past, must
renegotiate the service's role in the overall program by the
end of this year.
   In fact, the joke around the industry is that the only two
companies to bid on the ATF program in 1986 and not be
selected to compete for it, Grumman Corp. and Rockwell
International Corp., have turned out to be the real winners
of the competition. "I'm sure not too unhappy about that
now," John Pierro, president of Rockwell's North American
Aircraft unit, said recently from the company's plant in
Palmdale, Calif.
   The YF-23, which is slightly larger but much swifter and
more maneuverable than the McDonnell Douglas F-15 Eagle it's
designed to replace, was displayed amid much ballyhoo. Scores
of workers from the two companies stood around the perimeter
of the area where the plane was rolled out, hooting as it was
towed from its hangar.
   Thirteen dignitaries, including corporate executives and
Air Force generals, sat on a dais. Some made speeches,
proclaiming all the wonderful things the aircraft is supposed
to do. That includes flying at supersonic speeds without
using after-burners, a characteristic that improves
stealthiness as well as range. Many details about the YF-23,
such as its maximum payload, remain classified.
   Gen. Robert Russ, chief of the Tactical Air Command, noted
that the F-15 will be 20 years old by the time the ATF is
ready for service. "I dare say, not many of us are driving
around in 1969 or 1970 cars today," he said. Gen. Ronald
Yates, in charge of the Air Force Systems Command, called the
ATF "a modern miracle" and "a fighter pilot's dream." Kent
Kresa, chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based Northrop,
portrayed the aircraft as a proud symbol of American
ingenuity.
   Yet, at the same time, the ATF is a symbol of all that is
troubling the aerospace industry: The plane was conceived at
a time when the Pentagon, embarrassed by one scandal after
another, became determined to have companies pay more out of
their pockets as they pursued big weapons projects. Finally,
those burdensome contracting terms have eased somewhat. But
now that the ATF is ready to be born, peace is breaking out,
threatening the contractors' wherewithal and jeopardizing the
thousands of jobs that a program like the ATF normally would
be expected to generate.
   "The business base to support our investment on ATF has
disappeared," acknowledged Bill Ross, who is president of
McDonnell Douglas's fighter factory in St. Louis, where
several lines besides the F-15, including the F/A-18 and
AV-8B, are slated for massive cuts. Mr. Kresa said the upbeat
mood of the YF-23 ceremony and recent announcements of
thousands of layoffs by Northrop and McDonnell Douglas "are
not reconcilable."
   The YF-23 is set to make its first flight sometime within
the next month, equipped with engines made by United
Technologies Corp.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney division. A second
prototype with General Electric Co. engines will fly after
that. "As soon as the Air Force says it's OK to go, we're
going to go," said Tom Mooney, Northrop's ATF program
manager.
   Meanwhile, the Lockheed team's entrant, the YF-22, is set
to make its maiden flight sometime in August with GE engines.
Sherman Mullin, Lockheed's ATF project chief, reiterated in
an interview yesterday the company's long-held position that
there is no disadvantage to coming out of the gate second.
"What counts," he said, "is how well you fly. Period."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jacor Ends Accord
   With Dalton Over Sale
   Of Station, Files Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6B
</SO>
<CO>
   JCOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Jacor Communications Inc. said it terminated
its agreement to sell FM radio station WMYU in Knoxville,
Tenn., for $11.6 million to Dalton Group Inc. because Dalton
breached terms of the agreement.
   The radio-station operator also filed suit in Hamilton
County common pleas court against Dalton seeking a
determination of rights to Dalton's $500,000 deposit. Jacor
claims Dalton officials failed to show up for the closing of
the agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   William Dalton, president of Dalton, based in Potomac,
Md., said, "I don't have any comment, except that we're still
in negotiations" to purchase the station. His company
currently owns one radio station in Cincinnati.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Latest in Lobbying:
   Business Group Uses
   Professors, Not Cash,
   To Influence Congress
   ---
   Coretech Links Universities,
   Companies in Seeking Law
   On the R&amp;D Tax Credit
   ---
   If the Eyes Glaze, Back Off
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd
Bentsen is surrounded by special-interest pleaders pushing to
extend a major corporate tax break. He is loving every minute
of it. "You really know how to get to a guy," he says with a
smile for the photographer they brought along. At the close
of the April meeting in his high-ceilinged office, he utters
the words that are music to every lobbyist's ears: "I'll do
everything I can."
   But what makes these lobbyists so successful is that most
of them aren't really lobbyists at all. Most are soft-spoken
professors from the University of Houston in Sen. Bentsen's
home state of Texas. They are here to support the
controversial research-and-development tax credit, a
billion-dollar-a-year break that especially benefits a few
dozen big-name corporations -- corporations that, not
coincidentally, are allied with the professors in an
organization called the Council on Research and Technology,
or Coretech.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unholy alliances between business and nonbusiness
interests are the latest thing in Washington lobbying. "The
difficulty of passing legislation has increased
exponentially," says Coretech's top professional lobbyist,
Stuart Eizenstat, who was President Carter's domestic-policy
adviser. "To make common cause with people who would not be
your traditional allies is important."
   Money still talks in politics, but it may be about to talk
a little more softly. Congress is moving, perhaps as early as
this year, to reduce the import of campaign cash by
overhauling the entire campaign-finance system. With such
traditional avenues of influence as the political-action
committee falling into increasing disrepute, lobbying stands
at a crossroads. Corporate pleaders will have to rely less on
political contributions to make their case, and more on
subtler -- some might say more insidious -- means. The result
is likely to be more lobbying, not less, and of an
increasingly sophisticated kind.
   Coretech represents the cutting edge of this new soft
sell. It doesn't even have a PAC, and doesn't contribute to
campaigns. Instead, it uses the services of a wide array of
modern lobbying specialists, including a publicist, two
scholars, a tax lawyer, video-production experts and, of
course, dozens of researchers from both corporate and
academic realms. "Lobbying is no longer somebody coming with
a bag full of money and laying it on a member's desk or
relying on personal contacts to have that member do you a
favor," Mr. Eizenstat says.
   Coretech includes 72 universities and 46 companies. For
the universities, it lobbies to fatten the budget of the
National Science Foundation to $3 billion by fiscal 1993, a
$1 billion rise, and also to authorize an increase of
millions of dollars in U.S. spending on research facilities.
   But its biggest issues are clearly corporate, and the bulk
of its $700,000 annual budget is bankrolled by businesses.
Universities become members for $2,000 each; corporate dues
run from $5,000 to $30,000, depending on the extent of
research expenditures.
   For the companies, those dues seem a worthwhile
investment: Tax savings from the R&amp;D credit for some of
Coretech's biggest corporate members, such as HewlettPackard
Co., Digital Equipment Corp., Merck &amp; Co. and International
Business Machines Corp., have run into the tens of millions
of dollars a year. The average Coretech member saves at least
a few million dollars from it, officials say.
   But critics say the tax credit -- given to companies that
raise their R&amp;D spending by certain amounts -- is basically a
waste, a reward to big businesses for doing what they would
have to do anyway. "It's used frankly more for tax avoidance
than to spur research and development," says Rep. Brian
Donnelly, Democrat of Massachusetts. "In a market-driven
economy, these people are forced to invest by their desires
to make profits."
   Rep. Fortney Stark, a California Democrat who is on the
tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, doesn't believe the tax
credit spurs research at all. He thinks it's notable that at
big pharmaceutical companies, for instance, budgets for
research and for advertising have been growing at about the
same rate, even though R&amp;D carries a tax credit and
advertising doesn't.
   Even advocates of the credit concede that it hasn't been
as effective as it could be. But that, they say, is because
it has been allowed to lapse periodically since it was
established in 1981. "I can't think of one discussion I've
had internally or externally that said, `What about the R&amp;D
credit?' because we don't know if it's going to be there,"
says Robert Gilbertson, chief executive of Data Switch Corp.
"It's better than nothing, but you might as well forget it
because it's not doing any good. It's just throwing money
down a rat hole."
   What Coretech really wants is a permanent extension of the
credit. Its method was on full display during its recent
Lobby Day. At Coretech's request, 108 scientists from 39
states had descended on Washington to meet with lawmakers and
their aides to put the best face on the tax credit.
   Those present include corporate representatives, too, but
they tend to stay in the background. The lobby group's agenda
is carefully structured to include an effort to increase
federal funding for college research as well as extending the
corporate tax break.
   At an 8 a.m. breakfast briefing, Kenneth Kay, Coretech's
executive director, gives his troops their marching orders.
The college members are specifically instructed to speak on
behalf of corporations, and vice versa. He also tells them to
emphasize that they are scientists, not lobbyists.
   "But let me warn you, please, not to spend 15 minutes
doing that," he says. "One of the tests is to look at the
other person's eyes, and as soon as they start to glaze over,
back off."
   Another test is to avoid overkill -- which isn't met in
the meeting with Democratic Rep. Thomas Downey: The
delegation is so heavy with Cornell University professors
from his home state of New York that the congressman is
miffed. "It's not by coincidence that you decided to tap my
natural inclination toward my alma mater," he says
sarcastically. "I appreciate being appreciated."
   But by the end of the day, the results are in, and they
are good for Coretech. Its lobbyists have met with no fewer
than 150 lawmakers and 100 congressional staffers. And for
the most part, they report, they have gotten a sympathetic
hearing.
   In seeking to keep the credit going, Coretech faces one
big problem. "There is no constituency for research," Mr.
Eizenstat says. "Our job is to create one."
   One way Coretech does this is by forming a network of
home-state contacts in both the corporate and college
communities. Last year, Coretech spent a day training a few
dozen researchers in how to curry favor with lawmakers back
home, and how to give them credit in the local press for
their support. It was called an "adopt-a-member program."
Now, at the drop of a fax or in response to a phone call,
these people and others who care about research immediately
know best how to ask their legislator for help.
   In 1987, the group hired two Brookings Institution
scholars to demonstrate that the R&amp;D tax credit increases the
amount of research corporations do.
   Anticipating criticism of the credit from Congress's
watchdog agency, the General Accounting Office, Coretech in
1989 retained a former staffer of the respected Congressional
Joint Taxation Committee to negotiate changes in the credit.
Thus, Coretech's alterations already were moving through
Congress by the time the GAO published its report.
   Coretech also works behind the scenes to develop what Mr.
Kay calls "atmospherics" designed to improve the image of the
group and its issue. To appeal to academics, it has published
a pamphlet predicting a shortage of engineers and scientists.
To bring its message to a wider audience, it has produced a
videotape extolling increased federal subsidies for R&amp;D,
featuring the lawmakers who sponsor its bills. And to
ingratiate itself with lawmakers, it sends the photographs it
takes during Lobby Day to newspapers back home.
   Coretech's assiduous work paid off handsomely last
December when it learned that President Bush's budget
proposal would drop a related $800 million-a-year R&amp;D tax
break having to do with how multinationals divide their
research expenses between U.S. and foreign operations.
   Mr. Kay immediately initiated "a fire drill." Using
Coretech's network, he quickly drummed up letters and
telephone calls to a variety of Bush administration officials
to urge them to include the provision. Mr. Eizenstat and some
congressional allies also made calls, and the tax break was
eventually fully restored.
   To try to prevent the episode from recurring, Coretech
recently hired a Republican lobbyist, Craig Fuller, who as
Mr. Bush's former vice presidential chief of staff has close
ties to officials in the administration. The trouble with the
allocation rules "clearly was a wake-up call," says Mr. Kay,
a former aide to Sen. Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana.
   Still, Coretech's lobbyists find that in an era of
budgetary constraints, keeping the tax credit is a continuing
struggle. Even its friends offer words of caution. "It's this
overall deficit," Democratic Rep. Michael Andrews of Texas
tells a delegation on Lobby Day. "All too often these issues
are driven by revenue; the merits of the issue are
secondary."
   Last year, the House and the Senate Finance Committee both
voted to make the R&amp;D credit permanent. But only a week after
the finance committee vote, the Senate stripped every
revenue-losing provision from its tax bill, including R&amp;D.
Under pressure to reduce the budget deficit, Congress
ultimately decided to extend the credit for only the
equivalent of nine months. Mr. Eizenstat refers to the
episode as creating "the shortest permanent tax credit in
history."
   This year Coretech is trying again for a permanent
extension. President Bush, Sen. Bentsen and the House's top
tax-writer, Ways and Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski of
Illinois, have all come out in favor of it. But while it has
a decent chance, it is far from a done deal. For one thing,
Mr. Rostenkowski's support is still shaky; he has had doubts
about the credit's usefulness in the past, and this year is
focusing his efforts on deficit-reduction, demanding that any
tax cuts be fully paid for.
   Coretech goes out of its way to soften up the chairman.
Lobby Day participants stay in town an extra night to meet
with the Chicagoan. At the session, Melvin L. Loeb, vice
president for research and development of Chicago-based
Wesley Jessen Corp., a unit of Schering-Plough Corp., thanks
him profusely for his support, calls him a "champion" of the
cause and hands him an award for his efforts to date.
   Rep. Rostenkowski refuses to give a firm commitment. But,
he allows, "I think I'm being boxed in."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Group Gripe
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Over geese in a gaggle, I will not haggle,
   Or lions in prides and soldiers in squads;
   Even litters of puppies and schools of guppies --
   But, come on, Webster, whales in pods?
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Crock Pot
                                                                                                       

   A respected scientific group
   Says we came from primordial soup.
   It follows then -- no ifs, ands or buts --
   We surely have gone from soup to nuts.
   -- Pat D'Amico.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Photronics Sells Out
   Public Offer, but Price
   Of Shares Later Drops
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   PLAB
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BROOKFIELD, Conn. -- Photronics Inc. sold out a public
offering of 1,250,000 common shares at $10 apiece, but in
over-the-counter trading Friday, the shares fell below the
offer price.
   In national over-the-counter trading, shares of the
manufacturer of photomasks fell 37.5 cents to $9.875.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of the total, Photronics sold 1,050,000 shares and
shareholders 200,000. Photronics will use its proceeds from
the offering to cut debt and general purposes, said Senior
Vice President Michael J. Yomazzo. Photronics now has nearly
4.4 million shares outstanding. Prudential-Bache Capital
Funding, a group within Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., led
the underwriters.
   Photomasks are high-precision glass or quartz plates used
to transfer circuit designs onto computer chips.
   The selling shareholders were three Photronics executives:
Constantine S. Macricostas, chairman, president and chief
executive officer, who sold 90,000 shares, leaving him with
44.1%; Mr. Yomazzo, 50,000 shares, leaving 5.9%; and Vincent
Santoro, 10,000 shares, leaving less than 1%.
   Also selling 25,000 shares apiece were two trusts for Mr.
Macricostas's children, leaving each trust with 3.7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Zurn Wins Contracts
   For 2 Water Projects
   In Southern California
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ZRN
</CO>
<LP>
   ERIE, Pa. -- Zurn Industries Inc. said it was awarded two
contracts totaling $65 million from the Metropolitan Water
District of Southern California.
   Next month, Zurn said, its Advanco Construction unit will
begin constructing the Etiwanda Pipeline Feeder, one of the
two projects.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It involves installing more than six miles of
12-foot-diameter pipe in Rancho Cucamonga and Fontana, Calif.
Included in the project are five tunnels under roadways. The
project is expected to be completed by March 1992, Zurn said.
   Advanco also will build the Etiwanda Control Facility. The
450-foot water reservoir and control facility will intercept
and regulate water flow from the Etiwanda feeder and
distribute it to various water treatment and supply
locations.
   Zurn said Advanco will construct its powerhouse building,
pressure control structure and outlet structure. That project
is expected to be completed in April 1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   FABK NQM OMCM U.RTZ HTL IDT SECF AMAT FW OCER CHG
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange announced four new
stock listings, including an initial public offering, the
American Stock Exchange announced two and the National Market
System of the over-the-counter market announced one new
listing.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   First of America Bank Corp., a Kalamazoo, Mich., bank
holding company, will begin trading Friday on the Big Board
under the symbol FOA. It previously traded over the counter.
                                                                                                       

   Nuveen Investment Quality Municipal Fund Inc., a Chicago
management investment company, began trading Friday as an
initial public offering under NQM.
                                                                                                       

   Omnicom Group Inc., the New York-based parent of DDB
Needham Worldwide Inc. and BBDO Worldwide Inc., full-service
advertising agencies, opens Wednesday under the symbol OMC.
It also has traded over the counter.
                                                                                                       

   RTZ PLC, a London-based natural resources company, will
begin trading American Depositary Receipts, representing four
ordinary shares, under the symbol RTZ on Thursday. The
company continues to trade on the London stock exchange.
                                                                                                       

   Joining the Amex, Heartland Partners L.P., a Chicago
limited partnership, began trading last week on a when-issued
basis under HTL.WI. Heartland was formed to receive the real
estate assets and business of Chicago Milwaukee Corp. in a
spin-off to shareholders. The exchange will be completed
Sunday when each share of
   Chicago Milwaukee will receive a unit of Heartland.
                                                                                                       

   Information Display Technology Inc. began trading last
week on a when-issued basis under IDT.WI. The
Pittsburgh-based visual information display systems company,
will change its name from RT Acquisition Associates on July
9.
                                                                                                       

   Joining the OTC market, Security Financial Holding Co., a
Durham, N.C., bank holding company for Security Federal
Savings Bank, began trading last week under SECF.
                                                                                                       

   The Pacific Stock Exchange began trading options on
Applied Materials Inc., a Santa Clara, Calif., maker of
semiconductor wafer processing eqipment, under ANQ; First
Wachovia Corp., a Winston-Salem, N.C., banking services firm,
under FW; and Oceaneering International Inc., a Houston
contractor of underwater services to oil and gas industries,
under OEQ.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   La Jolla Bancorp's
   Holders Back Merger
   With Security Pacific
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SPC LJC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- La Jolla Bancorp said shareholders approved
its agreement to merge with Security Pacific Corp. in an
exchange of stock valued at about $110 million.
   La Jolla said 64% of its shareholders approved the merger
at the company's annual meeting on Friday, while fewer than
2% voted against it. The agreement calls for the conversion,
at a rate to be determined later, of each of La Jolla
Bancorp's about seven million shares outstanding into the
right to receive about $15 in market value of Security
Pacific common stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Security Pacific's stock closed unchanged at $38.50 a share.
La Jolla Bancorp's stock closed at $13.875 a share, down 12.5
cents, in American Stock Exchange trading.
   Security Pacific is a Los Angeles-based bank holding
company. La Jolla Bank &amp; Trust Co., La Jolla Bancorp's
principal unit, has 12 branches in San Diego.
   The two companies signed a letter of intent to merge last
October and ratified a definitive merger pact in December. La
Jolla Bancorp said it expects federal regulators to approve
the combination in the next two months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The SEC's Blind Alley
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Birds gotta fly and regulators gotta regulate, but these
primal instincts do not forgive the Securities and Exchange
Commission its latest overstepping. The unanimous federal
appeals court that recently invalidated the SEC's one-share,
one-vote requirement may have done the agency a favor.
Perhaps now its bureaucrats can remember that their job is to
give shareholders more say, not less.
   The SEC has indeed opposed management-entrenching
anti-takeover devices, but this was no reason to invoke its
authority with dual classes of stock. Unlike standard poison
pills, every state requires that adopting more than one
voting class of stock must be preceded by the vote of a
majority or supermajority of shareholders. Several companies
in recent years approved a higher class of stock, notably
when the possible alternative was losing the benefits of a
controlling family interest. Dow Jones, which publishes this
newspaper, adopted dual classes of stock after non-family and
non-management shareholders voted 2 to 1 to approve the
change.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge Stephen Williams of Washington, D.C., was not amused
by the agency's argument that it could substitute its rule
for state corporate law on the ground that it was only
regulating how stock exchanges list firms. "To argue that
Congress's `equal regulation' mandate supports SEC control
over corporate governance through national listing
standards," Judge Williams wrote, "is to gamble that the
court will accept a Commission spin on a statutory fragment
without even a glance at its context. Wrong court, bad
gamble."
   That said, a word of caution to the winner of this case.
The Business Roundtable brought the lawsuit because many
chief executives oppose restrictions on what they can do to
foil unwanted takeovers. This opinion is not a clear victory
for that view. The court emphasized that shareholders get to
vote on dual classes of stock, in effect agreeing to rewrite
the ownership contract. This case again raises the question
of why managers should be allowed to take actions that risk
harming share price without first getting shareholder
approval.
   One understandable reason the SEC hoped for a different
ruling was to add to its power to stop state legislatures
from interfering in the free national market for corporate
control. Massachusetts and Pennsylvania are the latest states
to throw a protective cloak around firms they incorporate.
The market eventually could take care of the problem. The law
passed to protect Armstrong World Industries has cost
shareholders in Pennsylvania firms some $1 billion in
share-price losses, according to Institutional Shareholder
Services.
   There's probably not too much the SEC can do about poison
pills unless it wants to lobby Congress for a federal rule
that all firms must get shareholder permission before
adopting defensive tactics.
   SEC Chairman Richard Breeden has had some wise things to
say about reducing the cost of capital in the U.S. compared
with Europe and Japan. The SEC recently has deregulated the
private-placement market and made it easier for foreign firms
to register securities in the U.S. Still, Mr. Breeden refuses
to define insider trading, despite courts reversing
convictions, or pull back on the long, expensive list of SEC
disclosure requirements for most transactions. Mr. Breeden
might consider that the instinct to find things to regulate
in the U.S. by his agency remains the single greatest
difference among the world's securities markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Monsanto Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MTC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MONSANTO Co. (St. Louis) -- Grant W. Denison Jr., 41 years
old, was elected vice president, corporate planning,
effective July 1. He succeeds S. Allen Heininger, who is
retiring. Mr. Denison joined Searle, a Monsanto unit, in 1986
as corporate vice president, strategic marketing and
planning. In 1988, he became corporate vice president and
president, U.S. operations for Searle. In September 1989, he
was named senior director of corporate planning at Monsanto,
a chemicals concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FNM CHIR CSN F.STG
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chiron Corp. -- $100 million of convertible subordinated
debentures, due July 1, 2015, priced at par to yield 7.25%.
The offering was increased from an originally planned $75
million. The debentures are convertible into common stock at
$47 a share, representing a 23.68% conversion premium over
Thursday's closing price. Rated single-B-1 by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and single-B-plus by Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters led by
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Cincinnati Bell Inc. -- $75 million of 9.10% notes, due
June 15, 2000, priced at 99.865 to yield 9.12%. The
non-callable notes were priced at a spread of 60 basis points
above the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated double-A-2 by
Moody's and double-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold by
underwriters at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. Inc.
                                                                                                       

                        MORTGAGE
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in 14 classes by
Prudential-Bache Securities. The offering, Series 1990-86, is
backed by Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities with a weighted
average coupon rate of 10.15% and weighted average remaining
term to maturity of 29.75 years.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in six classes by First
Boston Corp. The offering, Series 199-85, is backed by Fannie
Mae 9 1/2% securities.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in 17 classes by Kidder
Peabody &amp; Co. The offering, Series 1990-88, is backed by
Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities. The interest rates for classes
FA, SA, F and S are based on one-month London Interbank
Offered Rate, reset monthly.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $200.1 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in 12 classes by
PaineWebber Inc. The offering, Series 1990-87, is backed by
Fannie Mae 8% securities with a weighted average remaining
term to maturity of 26.83 years.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Saint Gobain Nederland BV -- 750 million French francs of
10 1/2% Eurobonds due July 27, 1995, priced at 101.80 to
yield 10.52% less fees via lead manager Credit Commercial de
France. Guaranteed by Compagnie de Saint Gobain. Fees 1 7/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Olivetti's Chairman
   Says Strength of Lira
   Will Hurt Sales, Profit
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   I.OLV
</CO>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Carlo De Benedetti said the effects of the
strong lira will cut into Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; C. S.p.A.'s 1990
group sales by between 300 billion and 400 billion lire ($243
million to $324 million) from what they otherwise would have
been.
   The chairman of the Italian computer and business machines
group also said the strength of the lira will wipe about 100
billion lire off the group's net profit compared with what it
might have been if the lira weren't so strong.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. De Benedetti made the comments at Olivetti's annual
meeting in Ivrea.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Slates Sale
   Of $10.25 Billion Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury said it plans to raise $1.23
billion in new cash Thursday by selling about $10.25 billion
in 52-week bills and redeeming $9.03 billion in maturing
bills.
   The bills will be dated July 5 and will mature July 5,
1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum denominations
of $10,000, must be received by 1 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time
Thursday at the Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or
branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Goods Orders
   Posted Surge
   Of 3.9% for May
   ---
   Data Said to Show Stability
   In Manufacturing Sector;
   Personal Income Gained
   ----
   By Tuesday Georges
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The jump in orders for big-ticket goods last
month suggests to some analysts that the manufacturing sector
may be beginning to stabilize.
   Orders received by makers of durable goods -- factory
equipment, planes, cars, appliances and other items intended
to last at least three years -- leaped 3.9% in May, to
$128.19 billion, after dropping 4.2% in April and soaring
6.7% in March, the Commerce Department said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But a separate report suggested that other parts of the
economy may be softening. That data showed personal income
edged up only 0.3% in May, while personal spending was flat.
   "The durable goods report reinforces the suspicion that
the manufacturing sector is no longer declining, but we are
by no means seeing an upturn," said Laurence H. Meyer, senior
economist for Laurence H. Meyer &amp; Associates in St. Louis. "I
wouldn't anticipate a rebound."
   Mr. Meyer said he was disappointed by the weak consumer
income figure. "Usually the consumer sector is a stabilizing
sector" he said. "This sector usually tends to grow even as
the economy weakens, but now that it is slowing down so much
. . . we are losing that protection that we normally have.
That makes the economy more vulnerable to a recession."
   Many economists say they are skeptical about the upbeat
durable goods figure and suggested that the report could be
misleading.
   "It was a stronger number than we were looking for . . .
and on the surface the report looks positive, but when you
look under the surface it is not as positive as it seems,"
said Daniel Friel, an economist for NCNB Corp. in Charlotte,
N.C.
   According to some analysts, the durable goods industry is
still demonstrating softness. Last month's climb in orders
was led by transportation equipment, which tends to fluctuate
widely from month to month. These bookings rose a strong 9.9%
in May, but didn't make up for the 13.5% decline in April.
The April decline followed a 24.1% increase in March. The
bulk of last month's increase came in bookings for airplanes,
although orders for automobiles increased strongly. Overall,
however, the automobile industry remains weak, said
economists.
   Excluding transportation, manufacturers' orders increased
only 1.8% in May and dropped 0.5% in April. Orders for
primary metals rose 2.2%, while orders for nonelectrical
machinery, which includes computers, surged 3.2%. Orders in
the electrical-machinery category fell 0.2%.
   Orders for nondefense capital goods -- which include the
increase in aircraft orders -- declined 1.4% in May, after a
10.5% plunge in the previous month. Overall, capital-goods
orders edged up 2.4%, following an 8.2% drop in April.
   Unfilled orders for durable goods rose 0.4%, to $500.31
billion, compared with a 0.3% increase in April.
Manufacturers' shipments in May climbed 3.5%, to $126.12
billion, after a fall of 2.6% a month earlier.
   Last month's rise in personal income brought it to a
$4.701 trillion annual rate. Personal income increased 0.3%
in April, compared with a 0.8% rise in March.
   Americans saved 6.2% of their after-tax income last month,
compared with 6.0% in April and 6.3% in March.
   After adjusting for inflation, personal spending fell
0.3%, following a 0.4% rise in April and a 0.3% drop in
March.
   All the figures are adjusted for seasonal changes.
                                                                                                       

   Here is the Commerce Department's latest report on
personal income. The figures are at seasonally adjusted
annual rates in trillions of dollars.
                                                                                                       

                                      May          April
                                      1990         1990
                                                                                                       

 Personal income .................... 4.701        4.687
   Wages and salaries ............... 2.791        2.780
   Factory payrolls .................  .570         .564
   Transfer payments ................  .675         .672
                                                                                                       

 Disposable personal income ......... 4.013        4.005
                                                                                                       

 Personal outlays ................... 3.766        3.765
   Consumption expenditures ......... 3.660        3.660
   Other outlays ....................  .106         .106
                                                                                                       

 Personal saving ....................  .248         .239
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UPS Recommended
   For Cargo Service
   Between U.S., Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   X.UPS CNF JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- An administrative law judge recommended
giving United Parcel Service Co. authority to offer new
airline cargo service between the U.S. and Japan.
   If the recommendation is approved by the Bush
administration, UPS would be authorized to make six new
round-trip, all-cargo flights weekly between the two
countries. The authority would continue for five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Acquisition of the route by UPS would be a defeat for
Emery Worldwide Airlines, a unit of Consolidated Freightways
Inc., which also sought the authority.
   The law judge, Burton S. Kolko, said UPS "presented a
credible and achievable proposal that will provide greater
public benefits and enhance the competitive environment to a
greater degree in the U.S.-Japan all-cargo air transportation
market" than Emery would.
   He recommended giving Emery backup authority for a year to
provide the service should UPS fail to do so.
   The recommendation now will be considered by top
Transportation Department officials. Their decision is
subject to review by the White House, which generally goes
along with the department.
   A final decision is expected by the end of the year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                        U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $17.2 billion of three-month and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   $11.25 billion of two-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   $8.25 billion of four-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   $10.25 billion in 52-week bills.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   AICorp. Inc. -- 2,250,000 common shares, via Alex. Brown &amp;
Sons Inc.
   Arctco Inc. -- initial 3.2 million common shares, via
PaineWebber Inc.
   Bancorp Hawaii Inc. -- 1.5 million common shares, via
Montgomery Securities.
   Countrywide Credit Industries Inc. -- 1.6 million shares
of depository convertible perferred stock, via Salomon
Brothers Inc.
   Foundation Health Corp. -- initial 3.3 million common
shares, via Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. Inc.
   Horsehead Resource Development Co. -- 3,250,000 common
shares, via Kidder Peabody.
   Martech USA Inc. -- 2.6 million common shares, via Salomon
Brothers.
   Medical Imaging Centers of America Inc. -- 2,174,000
common shares, via Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. Inc.
   Micrografx Inc. -- initial 1.3 million common shares, via
Alex. Brown.
   Offshore Pipelines Inc. -- initial 2.7 million common
shares, via Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
   Orthopedic Services Inc. -- initial 2,250,000 common
shares, via Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   Software Toolworks Inc. -- 3,850,000 common shares, via
Montgomery Securities.
   Sundowner Offshore Services Inc. -- initial 1.3 million
common shares by Alex. Brown.
   Swift Transportation Co. Inc. -- initial 1.650,000 common
shares, via Alex. Brown.
   Tele-Communications Inc. -- three million Class A common
shares, via First Boston Corp.
   Tyson Foods Inc. -- 2.6 million Class A common shares, via
Stephens &amp; Co.
   Wet Seal Inc. -- initial 2.5 million Class A common
shares, via First Boston.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   Santa Cruz County Public Financing Authority -- $58
million of various tax allocation revenue bonds, via
competitive bid.
   Texas Public Finance Authority -- $57 million of general
obligation bonds, 1990 Series B, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Houston -- $83 million of 12-month tax and revenue
anticipation notes, via competitive bid.
   Maryland -- $95 million of general obligation bonds, via
competitive bid.
   Ohio -- $75 million of highway general obligation bonds,
Series P, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Arizona -- $175 million of Arizona Transportation Board
highway revenue bonds, 1990 Series, via a First Boston group.
   New York State Dormitory Authority -- $778 million of City
University System consolidated second resolution revenue
bonds, 1990 Series A, B and C, via a Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
Inc. group.
   Texas Housing Agency -- $140 million of collateralized
home mortgage revenue bonds, Series A and B, via a Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dallas Semiconductor,
   SGS-Thomson Settle,
   Enter Patent Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DS TCSFY
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Dallas Semiconductor Corp. said that all
lawsuits between it and SGS Thomson Microelectronics Inc.
have been settled and that the two companies have entered
into a comprehensive, patent cross-licensing agreement.
   Dallas Semiconductor, a specialty chip maker whose
personnel include several former employees of SGS-Thomson's
predecessor, sued SGS-Thomson in state court in January over
a 1986 agreement to swap proprietary information. SGS-Thomson
responded with a suit in federal court, charging patent
infringement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under terms of the patent cross-licensing agreement,
confirmed by SGS-Thomson, all state court litigation has been
dismissed, and a consent judgment has been entered in federal
court.
   Dallas Semiconductor said the cross-licensing agreement
covers virtually every patent owned by both companies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Conston Corp. Files
   For Chapter 11 Status
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KCS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Conston Corp., a women's apparel retailer,
said it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection in
federal court here after failing to attract investors or
buyers.
   Under Chapter 11, a company is protected from creditor
lawsuits while it works out a plan to repay its debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chairman Charles Conston said management had been looking
"vigorously" for investors or buyers since June 4 and decided
to file for Chapter 11 when those efforts failed.
   The company said it had a net loss of about $10.5 million,
or $1.38 a share, for its year ended March 30 and that sales
have continued to decline in the current year.
   The company said it has arranged for the sale of its
inventory and has hired a specialist to help it recover from
insolvency and return to business.
   The company didn't disclose the amount of its liabilities
or identify its creditors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   King Hussein Fears Mideast Strife
   Could Flare Into War, Chides U.S.
   ----
   By Karen Elliott House and Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   AMMAN, Jordan -- King Hussein, alarmed by rising Middle
East friction, said the region is approaching the same state
of hair-trigger tension that led to the outbreak of an
Arab-Israeli war in 1967.
   "We are at the most dangerous crossroads we have found
ourselves in the 37 years of my life serving in this area,"
he said in an interview.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 54-year-old monarch, who led Jordan into that war,
seemed almost resigned to another war as he dispassionately
listed what he sees as U.S. missteps that have led to a
decline in Arab-Israeli relations. He called for an urgent
reassessment of U.S. Mideast policy. The point that now has
been reached, he said, echoes all too closely the June 1967
situation: rising tension, righteous rhetoric and, finally,
rash action.
   "The 1967 situation was a trap set by Israel into which
the Arabs fell," he said, "and I'm afraid this situation is
very similar." Asked if the Arabs may again fall into war,
the king said, "They may have no other choice."
   It is this fear of inexorable collision between frustrated
Arabs and a seemingly frozen Israeli government that is
producing widespread talk of a new Mideast war. Iraqi
President Saddam Hussein's repeated declaration that Iraq
will retaliate if Israel strikes also has heightened war
talk. Jordanian officials believe Israel soon will hit Libya
to retaliate for a recent abortive guerrilla raid on the
Israeli coast.
   With a photograph of the Iraqi president just behind his
shoulder, King Hussein, a longtime U.S. ally and Arab
moderate, laid out his own alarmist assessment in the
comfortable sitting room of his palace.
   As the king sees it, the winds of change that brought
freedom and human rights to Eastern Europe have brought
Palestinians nothing but a flood of Soviet Jewish immigrants
who may push them out of their land -- something he says the
U.S. refuses to see. That plus the election of a hard-line
government in Israel and the U.S.'s suspension last week of
its dialogue with the Palestine Liberation Organization have
combined to raise Arab "anger and frustration," he said.
   His own frustration with the Bush administration is
clearly rising, too. In March, the monarch expressed faith in
the president's knowledge of the region and said he was the
right man at the right time to bring progress towards peace.
Now, he says he can't distinguish between President Bush and
President Reagan, who never visited the Middle East and who
was widely perceived by Arabs to be biased toward Israel.
   He listed what he called U.S. missteps dating from former
Secretary of State Henry Kissinger's theory that a stronger
Israel would be a more moderate Israel to Vice President Dan
Quayle's recent adoption of the Israeli terms Judea and
Samaria in referring to the occupied West Bank of the Jordan
River.
   "My honest concern is that if the U.S. doesn't reassess
the current problems against this background, it can't play
the role it must play based on the principles it upholds and
responsibilities far greater than existed when there was a
Cold War," the king said.
   Without some U.S. action, King Hussein said, he fears that
Israel might spark a war in one of two ways -- by forcing a
mass exit of Palestinians from the West Bank or by some
military adventure in the region. "My concern is that Israel
could act in a way to force an exodus from the territories to
give room for settlers," he said.
   Any exodus of West Bank Palestinians is particularly
frightening to the Jordanian monarch, as they would
inevitably flee next door to his small, poor nation where
already half the population is Palestinian -- mostly refugees
from previous wars. Many in the new Israeli government have
long argued that Jordan is in fact a Palestinian state and
that declaring it to be so is the real solution to the
Arab-Israeli dispute. The king says about 46,000 Palestinians
have crossed to Jordan from the West Bank since the beginning
of the Palestinian uprising, or "intifada", in 1987.
   The other potential flashpoint, he said, would be "a
military adventure" by Israel such as its 1981 destruction of
an Iraqi nuclear reactor. "Israel cannot continue to throw
its weight around without response," he said. "The Arabs have
taken all they can take." In a speech on Baghdad radio in
April, Iraq's president warned: "We will make the fire eat up
half of Israel if it tries to do anything against Iraq. We
are not carrying the banner of challenge. But if anyone
challenges us, he will find us stronger than a diamond. . . .
We will not be trampled upon."
   The king said the U.S. could act to reduce these tensions
by opening its doors to more emigrating Soviet Jews, many of
whom would rather settle in the U.S. than in Israel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   If You Answer to Another Name,
   You Might End Up Spending Less
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Murphy Card. Don't leave home without it.
   Too bad] Somebody else already has that slogan. But no
matter. In a new foray into the realm of prestige charge
cards, Maryland National Bank is offering the Murphys of this
world and the Bowes, Careys, Finnegans, Gallaghers, Hubers,
Kellys, Kennedys, McCarthys, O'Briens, Stewarts and
Williamses -- the chance to have the ultimate in personalized
plastic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Maryland National, the nation's sixth-largest issuer of
credit cards, is soliciting Americans with those 12 ancestral
British Isles names to order "family cards," with their own
names boldly emblazoned across the top. Applicants can choose
a handsome black card or a more-upscale gold card. Both sport
the family's crest -- well, something like it, anyway.
   "The design of the crests is a somewhat educated guess,"
concedes Terrance R. Flynn, senior vice president of MBNA
America, the bank's credit-card subsidiary. "There are some
where there's basically just a description and not much
artwork. In that case we do an artistic rendering of the
verbal description. I won't guarantee it's 100% accurate."
   In reality, the family cards are little more than the
standard pauper's Visa cards dressed up in princely garb.
They're the latest offshoot of the affinity-card phenomenon
in which banks cook up cards designed to appeal to various
special-interest groups. Of the 211 million Visa and
MasterCard charge cards in consumers' hands, an estimated 31
million are affinity cards.
   As such, the family cards join such earlier prestige
plastic as Leader Federal Bank's "Elvis card" and a proposed
card for the Young Astronauts of Utah that, not surprisingly,
never got off the ground.
   Credit-card critics don't take well to such seeming
frivolity. "There are only a couple of dozen really valid
affinity groups," says Spencer Nilson, publisher of a
credit-card newsletter. "All these others are mutants, like
those Ninja Turtles."
   But at Leader Federal in Memphis, Tenn., Executive Vice
President Brad Champlin isn't about to concede that the Elvis
card is anything less than a national treasure. He warns that
the current card, featuring a guitar-pounding Elvis in front
of a Wurlitzer jukebox, is "a limited first edition." When
25,000 have been issued (10,000 are outstanding right now),
"we'll retire the current design and register it in the
national archives or somewhere."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quaker Oats Sees
   Flat Sales, Profit
   From Operations
   ----
   By Carlee Scott
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7C
</SO>
<CO>
   OAT WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Quaker Oats Co., citing "disappointing results"
in its U.S. grocery products business, said it expects "flat
to slightly lower" sales and earnings from continuing
operations for the fiscal year ending Saturday.
   In fiscal 1989, the packaged foods concern earned $2.88 a
share from continuing operations, before a $124.3 million
restructuring charge. Sales were $4.9 billion. Final net
income for the year was $203 million, or $2.56 a share,
including $54.1 million from the company's troubled
Fisher-Price toy division, which Quaker now considers a
discontinued business following the board's decision last
April to spin off the unit to shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As reported earlier, Quaker decided to spin off the toy
division to concentrate on other difficulties at the company,
such as sluggish sales in its U.S. and Canadian grocery
products businesses, and increased competition.
   A spokesman said the weak results in its U.S. grocery
products division are due to soft volumes in a number of
major product areas, such as cereals and pet foods.
   As part of an effort to help turn around the company's
fortunes, Quaker said it will reorganize its U.S. grocery
products division, create a separate frozen-foods division
and eliminate between 350 to 400 salaried positions by Jan.
1. Quaker's world-wide employment is about 30,000.
   Quaker also said its 51-year-old chairman and chief
executive officer, William D. Smithburg, will assume the
additional posts of president and chief operating officer,
following the planned retirement of Frank J. Morgan, 64, in
September.
   The company made several management changes under the
reorganization of its U.S. grocery products businesses, all
effective next Sunday. David L. Bere, vice president, Mini
Meals, was named president of the company's Golden Grain
division, succeeding Verinder Syal, who was named to another
post earlier this year.
   Barbara R. Allen, vice president, convenience foods
marketing, was named president of a newly formed frozen-foods
division.
   David J. Anderson, vice president, finance and planning,
was named senior vice president, finance and customer
service, U.S. grocery products.
   Keith L. Robinson, director of ready-to-eat cereals, was
named to the new post of vice president, marketing, hot
cereals; Lyle G. Hubbard, director and general manager of
Lite Snacks, was named vice president, marketing, Aunt Jemina
Mixes and Syrup, Lite Snacks, Corn Goods and Granola Snacks;
and John S. Breuer, vice president, marketing, grocery
specialties, was named vice president, marketing,
ready-to-eat cereals. Margaret Dyer, director, product
management, consumer Gatorade/New Beverages, was named vice
president, marketing, grocery specialties, succeeding Mr.
Breuer.
   Quaker Oats shares closed Friday at $48.25, off 50 cents,
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Red Army Battles for Good Used Cars
   As East German Capitalism Revs Up
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOLSCHLEBEN, East Germany -- Before Rainer Rauchmaul gets
around to opening the gate in the morning, a few Russians
have usually jumped the fence to check out what's for sale on
his lot.
   As both the organizer and a dealer in one of East
Germany's most colorful weekend "auto markets," Mr. Rauchmaul
takes the Soviet gymnasts in stride. He has to. They are
among his best customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The Russians are obsessed with buying our cars," says the
East German. "It's too bad they don't have much money."
   At least a third of the buyers that show up here on a
typical weekend morning are Soviet officers, who often try to
barter for cars with everything from diamonds to rifles. The
Soviets, drawn from the many military installations sprinkled
around the countryside, seem to realize their days here may
be numbered, and they are scrambling to buy things that will
have enduring value back home. Cars top the list.
   "They're afraid they're going to be sent back to the
U.S.S.R. without anything to show for it," says Mr.
Rauchmaul, who sells used cars from his family's farmhouse at
the edge of the auto market.
   The rule of thumb for Soviet buyers, it seems, is "the
bigger the better."
   "They're hung up on prestige, just like people are
everywhere, and big cars mean prestige to them," says Frank,
a West German car dealer who requested anonymity. Frank,
sporting a bright pink polo shirt and a heavy gold chain,
says half his customers at Molschleben are Soviets. "They're
always looking at Mercedes, but most of them can't afford to
go for that much luxury," he says.
   Besides Western cars, the Soviets are snapping up
Russian-made Ladas and Moskviches, which many East Germans
are trying to sell as the country surges toward monetary
union with wealthy West Germany. It isn't unusual to see rows
of Soviet-made cars parked outside the gates of Soviet
military installations -- belonging not to people on the base
but to East Germans hoping to attract buyers.
   Even Soviets, however, won't buy East German Trabants. The
sputtering two-cylinder cars are nearly impossible to sell at
any price. "Mercedes good, BMW good, Trabant bad," says a
burly Ukrainian in broken German, when asked what he thinks
of the models on sale here.
   "To tell you the truth, I wouldn't expect one of these
cars to make it all the way back to the Soviet Union,"
confesses an East German teen-ager, who nonetheless is trying
to sell his Trabant -- which features an assortment of racing
stickers and a Ford emblem plastered across the dashboard --
for 3,000 East marks (about $895, at official rates). Six
months ago, the car would have easily sold for four times
that or more.
   Molschleben's auto market is a perfect setting for the
Soviets. Every weekend, as many as 400 cars converge on a
sprawling field at the edge of this tiny East German village
-- a piece of land belonging to Mr. Rauchmaul. He charges
each seller 10 East marks for the right to do business here.
Beyond that, he pretty much leaves everyone to do what they
like.
   The result is a capitalistic free-for-all. Some locals
have set up refreshment stands to peddle a foul-tasting East
German pseudo-cola, while others sell tacky trinkets, such as
stuffed animals that cling to the insides of car windows.
   The main business here, however, is used cars. Dozens of
West German car dealers have discovered the market as a
perfect place for unloading cars that they might not be able
to sell in the West, while East Germans use it to get rid of
old Eastern European models.
   Mr. Rauchmaul, leading the way onto the lot, points to a
candy-apple red Moskvich that was once the pride of the
town's police chief. The policeman has already bought an
Audi, and the 1975 Russian model -- which features a gaping
hole in the floor next to the gas pedal -- is for sale for
3,000 East marks. "It will be bought," says Mr. Rauchmaul,
"but only by a Russian."
   Of course, doing business with Soviets takes some getting
used to. Mr. Rauchmaul has been offered diamonds and even the
gold rings being worn by an officer's wife to sweeten a deal
put together by a cash-strapped Soviet. "I can't do these
sort of deals," says the East German, "because I have no way
of knowing what any of these things is really worth. I'm no
jeweler."
   But that doesn't stop the Soviets from trying. Walking
down one of the rows of cars, Mr. Rauchmaul is nearly tackled
by a pair of Soviet officers who have already announced that
they intend to buy three cars today. They want to know what
Mr. Rauchmaul has to offer.
   Like a benevolent candy-store owner who doesn't have the
heart to tell children that they don't have enough money to
buy a piece of chocolate, the East German dealer leads them
over to his cars. The men quickly zero in on a 10-year-old
brown Mercedes sedan. Besides cash, an officer quickly pulls
the gold necklace out of his shirt -- pointing to both this
and the gold ring on his finger. But negotiations falter. The
two Soviets head back out into the throng in search of more
attainable targets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harley-Davidson
   Investor Sells
   A Stake of 6.9%
   ----
   By Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   HDI
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The sale of a 6.9% stake in Harley-Davidson Inc. by
Malcolm I. Glazer relieves the Milwaukee-based motorcycle
company of what it considered a pesky investor and apparently
leaves the shares in friendlier hands.
   Mr. Glazer wouldn't comment, but there was little doubt
that he was the seller of the block of 1.2 million shares
Friday. Harley's other two big holders said they didn't sell
their shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Harris Associates L.P. said its 9.2% stake held for its
investment clients is unchanged. And the State of Wisconsin
Investment Board said it bought 100,000 of the shares,
boosting its Harley holdings to 9.8%.
   The 1.2 million shares had a total indicated value of
nearly $31 million, based on the $25.625-a-share price
reported by Cleary Gull Reiland McDevitt &amp; Collopy Inc., the
institutional research firm that matched the seller and the
buyers.
   Michael Cleary, president of Milwaukee-based Cleary Gull,
said he considers the purchasers of the shares "friendly" to
Harley. While he wouldn't disclose the identity of the
buyers, he said they were institutional investors.
   Although Mr. Glazer once said in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission that he might seek control
of the company, Harley and its investment advisers have said
privately that that didn't worry them. They were concerned,
however, that Mr. Glazer's investment could lead others to
bid for the company.
   "He sure made a lot of noises, but I didn't think he stood
much of a chance of making a successful offer," said John
Nelson, investment director of special equities at the
Wisconsin Investment Board, which manages pension money for
public employees.
   Richard F. Teerlink, Harley's chief executive officer, had
called Mr. Glazer's investment "disruptive" and vowed to
fight any takeover attempt. He was out of the country Friday.
   Among other things, Mr. Glazer wanted Harley to sell its
Holiday Rambler unit. But Harley refused to even discuss sale
of the recreational vehicle maker. Harley hopes to turn it
around, much as it did the motorcycle company in the 1980s.
   Harley officials wouldn't comment Friday, but Mr. Glazer's
sale is likely to lead to the end of the company's costly and
time-consuming legal battle with the investor. That started
last year, when Harley accused Mr. Glazer in federal court in
Milwaukee of filing false statements in connection with his
holdings. Mr. Glazer has denied the accusations.
   Although he didn't get Harley to change its ways, Mr.
Glazer walks away with a hefty profit. Harley's stock surged
in recent months as its motorcyle market share, sales and
earnings climbed to record levels. Harley fell 75 cents to
$25.875 a share in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
Friday in a sharply lower overall market.
   Mr. Glazer amassed his shares last year at prices well
below the $25.625 he sold them for Friday. Adjusted for a
2-for-1 split, he paid $15 to $20 a share for purchases in
August and September, for example.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S.-Japan -- Tension Between Partners
   ---
   Strained Alliance:
   What U.S. Scientists
   Discover, the Japanese
   Convert -- Into Profit
   ---
   In Applying Technology, U.S.
   Falls Short for Reasons
   Both Corporate, Cultural
   ---
   Rising Nationalism at MIT
   ----
   By Alan Murray and Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporterss of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.MHI
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   {Part of a series}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   YOKOSUKA, Japan -- It has become a common scene in the
battle between Japan and the U.S. over pre-eminence in
technology: a laboratory in Japan racing against one in
America to be first in a hot new area of computer science.
   In this case, researchers at Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone
Corp. here have made big strides in the new field, which
involves building machines that can understand and react to
human speech. Already, the NTT system can recognize 32 words.
   Eight thousands miles away, though, at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Mass., U.S. researchers
are way ahead. Their computer has mastered more than 400
words.
   But in one of those twists that have become common in
U.S.-Japan technology races, the Japanese may laugh last. For
while the U.S. has a better machine in the laboratory, NTT
hopes to begin actually selling a voice-recognition system as
soon as next year. The MIT scientists, on the other hand,
don't have any immediate plans to take their invention
commercial.
   Technology is the future. It drives economic growth and
determines the course of living standards. The U.S., which
has great institutions like MIT and dominance in much basic
research, might think it is entering that future with
promise. Yet while Japanese scientists may win fewer Nobel
Prizes, time and again they do a better job of turning
research into products. "We value creativity and
innovativeness, and we don't value production," says Michael
Dertouzos, director of the MIT computer-science laboratory.
"But the money is not in invention, it's in production."
   This difference between the U.S. and Japan is clearly
evident to Japanese business people. "When I first visited
the U.S. in 1953 and 1954, Americans were producing very good
goods," says Yotaro Iida, the blunt-talking chairman of
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. "But recently, America has
stopped making things. And as America stops making things,
Japan steps in."
   Peter Likins, the president of Lehigh University, blames
federal government science policy, which, he says, tends to
promote basic research, defense and medical science at the
expense of everything else. "The culture of the university,
shaped by government decisions, directed a whole generation
of engineers away from commercial work," Mr. Likins argues.
   Michael Porter, a Harvard Business School professor, puts
the problem in broader sweep. Nations, he theorizes, move
through three stages: First, they are driven by the natural
advantages of their people, geography and resources; second,
as they advance, they become driven by innovation, pushing
the frontiers of technology; finally, they are driven by
wealth, which creates "a backward-looking, rearguard action
to protect what they've got." Mr. Porter worries that the
U.S. may be in that third, look-over-the-shoulder stage.
   Now, major U.S. institutions like MIT find themselves in
something of an identity crisis. Throughout most of its
postwar history, this university saw itself in global terms:
Its purpose was to spread technological progress throughout
the world. Its doors were open to all, its research available
to all. If this meant providing technology to foreign
competitors of American companies, then so be it. If
countries that took advantage of MIT's research did most of
their own work in private companies, where it was unavailable
to Americans, then that was all right, too.
   Today, that attitude is changing, as the school wrestles
with its responsibility to help keep the U.S. competitive.
One sign: a new book, co-authored by Mr. Dertouzos, called
"Made in America." Economic nationalism is on the rise.
   "Does the university have a national mission?" asks
Kenneth Smith, vice president for research. People on campus
"never even asked that question before." It was simply taken
for granted that the school's interests were consistent with
the national interest. "But now, it's not that apparent." As
a result, he says, the university has begun rethinking its
role.
   Leading MIT professors fret openly that Japanese companies
appear far more interested in the university's research than
American companies do. Two decades ago, Harry Smith, an
electrical engineering professor, and his colleague David
Spears did pathbreaking work in the development of X-ray
lithography, a technology for printing tiny and complex
circuits on semiconductors. Today in Japan, Mr. Smith says,
there are 10 major programs for the development of X-ray
lithography; in the U.S., there are two.
   "It should bother everybody," he says. "All the (U.S.)
semiconductor industry except IBM has a very short-term
view."
   Ronald Latanision shares that frustration. Mr. Latanision
is director of MIT's Materials Processing Center, which is
working on materials such as high-strength ceramics and
composite metals that may someday replace steel and plastic.
The center's research is open to any company willing to pay a
$10,000 fee. Between 50% and 60% of the companies involved
are American; about half the rest are Japanese. But Mr.
Latanision says the Japanese participate with an enthusiasm
that outstrips that of Americans.
   The Japanese are doing their most advanced research under
the auspices of private companies. Sure, American companies
are denied access to that research, says Mr. Latanision, but
the real problem is much broader than that: American firms
"aren't even taking advantage of what they can do here."
   Moreover, people in Japan's giant corporate research labs
are encouraged to care as much about the practical
applications of technology as about pure research. Joyce and
Nathanael Fortune have seen this fundamental difference from
the inside of Japanese industry.
   The couple, both 28 years old, are among the first of a
new wave of American scientists to migrate to Japan for an
extended stay. Mr. Fortune, who has a doctorate in physics,
is doing work at an electronics lab operated by Japan's
Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Ms. Fortune,
who has a Ph.D. in engineering, is the lone foreigner in a
300-person lab operated by NTT.
   "In graduate school in the United States, everybody wants
to be in basic research," not commercial research, Ms.
Fortune says. "It's more aesthetically pleasing." Graduate
students, she says, believe that "if you join a company, your
work may not be published and you won't advance as a
scientist."
   In Japan, the incentives are reversed. Universities are
poorly funded, and much of the most important work occurs
within companies. Scientists and engineers who join those
companies aren't expected to pursue their own scientific
curiosity, but rather to work toward breakthroughs that will
help the company. Japanese scientists who come up with
innovations to this end "can write their own ticket" at most
companies, Ms. Fortune says.
   Back at NTT in Yokosuka, the potential gain from that sort
of thinking is clear. Yoshitake Suzuki, a researcher, is
demonstrating the company's fledgling voice-recognition
computer system. His program is designed to take a
reservation for an imaginary drivers' training class.
"Drivers' Training School Reservation System," the computer
announces. "Please enter your identification number."
   Mr. Suzuki responds slowly through a microphone. "One.
Two. Three. Four." The computer confirms the number and,
after several more seconds of carefully contrived
"conversation," books Mr. Suzuki a lesson at noon on the
25th. Mr. Suzuki then lets his visitor book a reservation,
proving that the computer can also understand voices it has
never heard. "You could use a system like this for making a
doctor's appointment or ordering merchandise," Mr. Suzuki
says.
   John Stern, the American Electronics Association's vice
president for Asian operations in Tokyo, sees this fervid
pursuit of technology as an outgrowth of the culture at
Japanese corporations. They don't exist just for the
enrichment of their stockholders, he contends, but also pay a
great deal of attention to the needs of their employees, who
expect to work for them their entire lives.
   "Is there anybody in an American company who says, `My job
is to see that this company is still in business 10 years
from now?'" Mr. Stern asks. "In Japan, people have to worry
about continuing to provide employment."
   To power the research and development to produce those
jobs, one also, of course, needs deep pockets. And that's
another reason the Japanese have an edge in commercializing
technology -- they have lots of money to invest. Take
biotechnology. Increasingly, U.S. biotech startups, hungry
for financing, are getting acquired by the Japanese, or find
themselves going hat in hand to Japan in pursuit of capital.
   On a beat-up side street in Cambridge, Mass., a U.S.
company called Matritech Inc., founded in 1987, is working on
new products to help detect diseases such as cancer. But
Matritech, which wants to stay independent, needs money to
take some of those projects the next step. So Stephen Chubb,
its president, packed a bag and headed to Japan. "We are
talking to U.S. and European companies too," he says, "but
there's a disproportionate interest on the part of the
Japanese." Eventually, several Japanese companies proffered
financing.
   During his visit, Mr. Chubb also saw firsthand how Japan
tends to make longterm commitments. While at a cultural
center, he learned of a time capsule the Japanese have sealed
-- and don't plan to open for another 5,000 years. "How long
would someone put a time capsule in the ground in this
country?" he asks. "That indicated to me a difference in
thinking."
   When Japanese and American values come together in the
same enterprise, there are many differences in thinking. Or
so discovered the people at Shin Caterpillar Mitsubishi
Ltd.'s facility near Kobe.
   SCM, jointly owned by Caterpillar Inc. and Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. and founded in 1963, is one of the
oldest U.S.-Japan joint ventures. Today it functions as the
world-wide design center for all of Caterpillar's hydraulic
excavators.
   Some 30 American engineers from Peoria, Ill., moved to
Nishi Akashi to work side-by-side with Mitsubishi engineers.
The philosophical differences were apparent immediately. The
Japanese engineers couldn't understand why their American
counterparts wanted to knock off and go home each evening for
dinner with their families; the Americans couldn't understand
why the Japanese didn't want to. The top American engineer
had a private office back in the U.S. In Japan, he ended up
in an open room with seven other managers, his own desk
abutting that of a Japanese colleague.
   But the difference that mattered most was how the two
groups viewed their role, claims Noriyuki Itakura, who came
from Mitsubishi. "The Japanese engineer tends to consider the
impact of his design on cost or manufacturability," Mr.
Itakura says. The Americans, he contends, simply "want to
know whether it can be done from an engineering point of
view."
   This inclination to take in the bigger picture seems to
explain much of the Japanese success in technological
industries. But there are other critical traits as well: Once
Japan decides it wants to be strong in an industry, it
typically pursues its goal with determination and a view to
the longterm. Japan's approach to aerospace may be the
ultimate example.
   America's lead in aerospace is one of its most important
competitive advantages. The industry generates high-wage jobs
and lucrative exports for the U.S. It also creates demand for
other, related high-tech industries such as opto-electronics
and propulsion.
   Japan has struggled for 30 years to build an aerospace
industry, undaunted by its own failures and by the
superiority of overseas rivals. In the 1960s Mitsubishi Heavy
and other Japanese aircraft makers did build a 60-seat
commercial plane from scratch -- the YS11 -- but they were
able to sell only 160 of them.
   In the U.S., where there isn't much patience when it comes
to losses, that might have been the end of the aerospace
effort. Japan simply regrouped. Representatives of industry
and the government, which had agreed on the initial
industrial policy of developing a purely Japanese airplane,
decided that Japan would instead follow a course of
"international collaboration" as a subcontractor of parts and
systems and as a licensee of foreign technology.
   Today Mitsubishi Heavy and other Japanese companies
produce military planes under American licenses, make major
components of Boeing Co. jetliners and are eager to
collaborate with other foreign manufacturers. Mitsubishi
Heavy, for example, is widely expected to announce in the
next year or two that it will begin joint development of a
75-seat airliner with a European company.
   Meanwhile, Japanese companies are winning contracts to
provide some of the highly advanced materials that will go
into foreign and domestic planes of the future. The
government is coordinating research on a new kind of engine
that could propel a supersonic plane from New York to Tokyo
in less than half the 14 hours the flight currently takes.
And, using technology that was created in the U.S. but
largely left unexploited, the Japanese are positioning
themselves to become the major launchers of commercial space
satellites by the end of this decade.
   "Because they're investing in technology, they're going to
become an increasingly important player," says Lawrence
Clarkson, a senior vice president of Boeing's commercial
airplane group. "Today they're looked at by the world as
subcontractors. Fifteen years from now they'll be major
players however you define it." Mr. Clarkson says Boeing is
preparing for that day by investing in research and
development and by protecting its most sensitive technology
from competitors. If the industry fails to maintain its edge,
the consequences for the U.S. could be serious.
   In fact, Mr. Iida, the Mitsubishi chairman, is inclined to
issue a chilling warning to his American competitors. Sitting
in his conference room high above Tokyo's financial district,
he says: "If you get out of the business of making airliners,
if you let what happened to you in other industries happen in
aircraft, your economy will really go downhill."
   ---
                   Different Perceptions
                                                                                                       

   Which nation do you believe is stronger in science and
technology right now, the U.S. or Japan?
                                                                                                       

                 How Americans Answered
                                                                                                       

                U.S. stronger       32%
                Japan stronger      63%
                                                                                                       

                 How Japanese Answered
                                                                                                       

                U.S. stronger       63%
                Japan stronger      18%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Wall Street Journal/NBC News; Wall Street
Journal/Nippon News.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Is It Time to Lie Low on High-Growth Stocks?
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   IP FBO
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Is growth overvalued?
   Growth stocks have been the darlings of 1990. They're at
the head of the market's climb to records this year, and some
of the growth stocks have soared two or three times as much
as broad market indexes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But second-quarter earnings reports loom on the horizon,
and many investors wonder if the markups on growth have
pushed prices too high. Stocks in the good-earnings-news club
weren't spared from Friday's 44.55-point, or 1.55%, knockdown
in the Dow Jones industrials. Wal-Mart Stores tumbled 1 to 61
1/4, a 1.6% decline.
   The ratio of stock prices to per-share earnings for many
of these issues is more than double the 16.4 multiple on the
500 stocks in the Standard &amp; Poor's index.
   Home Depot, a high-growth company, is trading at a P-E of
38 times earnings, or 2.3 times the multiple of the S&amp;P 500.
Wal-Mart Stores is trading at 30 times earnings, or 1.8 times
the S&amp;P multiple. Bargain hunters are shocked by growth-stock
investors' ambitious earnings expectations.
   "If we were coming out of a recession, it would be a time
to buy long-term growth prospects," says William Leugers,
president of Gradison Growth Trust. But, as he points out,
the economy looks closer to the end of an economic cycle than
the beginning. "We don't want to pay for growth," he says,
and an average P-E of 9 on Gradison's Established Growth Fund
shows he means it.
   Gradison is making a bet on some cyclical stocks, such as
International Paper and Federal Paper Board, that its
stockpickers think can survive an economic downturn. Both of
those stocks trade at less than half the market P-E, yet both
companies have seen earnings rise more than 20% annually over
the past five years.
   Growth-stock investors, who couldn't be happier this year,
won't argue that growth is commanding a high price. But, "Are
we overvaluing growth?" asks Eldon Mayer, chairman of Lynch &amp;
Mayer, which manages $2 billion. "My answer is a clear and
resounding, `No.' "
   Indeed, he argues that growth stocks are near record cheap
valuations. If that's true, the stock market could rise
further still with growth issues leading the way. Mr. Mayer
figures about 35% of the S&amp;P 500 consists of growth stocks.
"If 35% of the market is going to be working its way higher,
it rules out a serious bear market," he says.
   Mr. Mayer's idea of growth stocks is shares of companies
with average annual earnings growth in excess of 15% over the
past five years, and no down years in that period; and
expected earnings growth for the next five years must exceed
15% annually. Recent returns on equity must be at least 15% a
year; and, finally, debt must be less than 50% of total
capitalization.
   Yes, the earnings outlook for many companies is dim, Mr.
Mayer agrees. But something happened in the 1980s that will
allow companies with strong earnings ability to survive and
flourish in an economic slowdown.
   "You've had an absolute mania in mergers and acquisitions
culminating in transactions that haven't even stood the test
of the short-term, never mind the long-term," says Mr. Mayer.
Conversely, many growth issues have clean balance sheets and
are grabbing market share from their highly indebted
competitors.
   It was merger mania that caused many investors to dump
growth issues so they could bet on potential takeover
targets, Mr. Mayer says. "Every year," in the mid-1980s,
"they sold more growth stocks and bought more junk," he says.
That's one reason why the multiple of the top 50 growth
issues was only 1.3 times the S&amp;P index in November 1988, a
historic low.
   Mr. Mayer says growth stocks are worth their high
multiples. "If the rest of the world grows earnings at 5%,
and you can assemble a group of companies growing at 20%,
it's not outlandish that you should pay three or four times
the market multiple," he says.
   That's not to say he isn't worried. Growth stocks have
caught on with large investors now. As big banks and
insurance companies jump on board the bandwagon, growth-stock
prices could balloon to multiples more than three times
greater than the market; the most recent time that happened
was in the "Nifty 50" rally of the early 1970s. But here's
the danger: If growth issues fall short of current
expectations, big investors might start dumping shares as
fast as they're buying them today.
   Growth stocks are typically the most sensitive to earnings
surprises -- either positive or negative -- and to estimate
revisions, says Benjamin Zacks, executive vice president of
Zacks Investment Research.
   "Even the slightest estimate reductions in Home Depot
would have a very significant price effect; and if the
company should report a negative quarterly earnings surprise,
investors would probably take the stock down 20%," says Mr.
Zacks. Home Depot is expected to earn $1.89 a share in fiscal
1991, up 33% from $1.42 a share in fiscal 1990.
   Warren Shaw, managing director at Chancellor Capital
Management, owns many growth stocks, including Home Depot. He
thinks the stock may be getting a bit rich. But he is happier
betting that growth stocks will fulfill earnings expectations
than he would be putting money into stocks of companies tied
to economic growth; besides obviously being vulnerable to an
economic slowdown, he thinks many of these concerns have too
much debt.
   "The issue you have to raise is, what's the risk of being
in growth stocks or not being in them?" says George Boyd,
director of quantitative research at Kidder Peabody. "Is not
the {greater} risk in the low-growth stocks, that value
investors have been buying for a long time?"
   Interest rate changes and tax cuts can affect earnings
valuations dramatically, as they did in the early 1980s.
Taking into account current rates, and past valuations,
growth stocks "are fairly valued -- not rich or cheap," says
Mr. Boyd.
   But Graham Tanaka, president of Tanaka Capital Management,
says many growth-stock bargains can still be found.
   "We're beginning to see a two-tiered growth-stock market,"
he says. One tier contains the high P-E stocks that big
institutional investors have discovered. And the other
contains cheaper, sometimes smaller stocks that have been
overlooked by the crowd.
   "You can buy the same kind of growth in Novellus
{Systems}" -- an over-the-counter semiconductor stock selling
at 1.16 times the market P-E -- as in some of the
high-profile stocks, he says. "The real opportunity is to
find them before brokerage houses and institutions put them
on their recommended list," he says. "And there are a ton of
them {still} out there. We feel like kids in a candy store."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The stock market ended the week the way it began -- with a
steep sell-off. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost a net
78.71 points this past week, down from the record of 2935.89
on June 15 and the biggest weekly decline since January.
   Friday, the average traded in a narrow range most of the
day, mainly higher, then plunged more than 40 points in the
last half-hour as futures-related program selling kicked in
on heavy volume.
   The Dow Jones industrials fell 44.55 to 2857.18, the
lowest level since the Memorial Day weekend. The late selling
surge was attributed to index arbitrage -- offsetting trades
in the stock and index-futures markets to profit from
differences in price between the two.
   Traders said little stood in the way of the program
selling, because a number of institutions had already closed
the books on the second quarter and other activity was light.
Friday was the final day for many portfolio managers to make
trades that can be included in second-quarter statements.
   New York Stock Exchange volume was 172.6 million shares,
the busiest day of the week. Declining issues outnumbered
advancers, 893 to 607.
   Trading was especially heavy in American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph, American Express and Philip Morris, accounting for
9% of total Big Board volume.
   Philip Morris was one of only three stocks among the 30
Dow Jones industrials to close higher, up 3/8 to 44 3/4. The
company confirmed it agreed to an acquisition that fits with
a plan to expand international food business.
   Dividend-related trades swelled volume in AT&amp;T, the Big
Board's most active issue, which dropped 1 1/8 to 42 1/2.
American Express, second most active, rose 1/4 to 30 1/2
following an offering of 17.5 million shares.
   International Business Machines fell 2 3/4 to 116 1/4;
Boeing slipped 1 5/8 to 57 3/8; General Motors tumbled 1 1/2
to 48; Merck slid 1 7/8 to 81 3/4; and United Technologies
dropped 2 1/8 to 58.
   First Brands surged 4 3/4 to 28 3/8 after the company
disclosed that shareholders with about 70% of the common
shares plan to solicit takeover bids.
   Beverly Enterprises advanced 5/8 to 5 7/8 after County
NatWest USA reiterated a buy recommendation on the stock.
Harley Davidson dropped 3/4 to 25 7/8, with 6.9% of the
company's common stock outstanding sold in a single block.
   Eli Lilly rose 1/2 to a 52-week high of 79 1/2, on a
positive analyst report. Compaq Computer fell 3 3/4 to 120
1/4 on a report that sales of one of its products have been
slower than expected. Digital Equipment lost 2 1/2 to 83;
Hewlett-Packard dropped 7/8 to 46 7/8, and Motorola fell 2
1/8 to 86.
   Four defense contractors moved lower on news that the
companies face possible debt-ratings downgrades by Moody's
Investors Service. Raytheon dropped 2 to 62 1/2; Litton
Industries plunged 3 5/8 to 71 1/2; McDonnell Douglas fell 1
1/4 to 34 1/2; and Lockheed fell 3/8 to 34 7/8.
   MGM/UA Communications rose 5/8 to 17 1/8. Pathe
Communications sweetened its bid for the company.
   Rayonier Timberlands fell 1 to 20 and IP Timberlands went
down 5/8 to 21 3/8 on news of a federal endangered-species
decision that is expected to curtail logging in the Pacific
Northwest.
   Quaker Oats eased 1/2 to 48 1/4 on the company's
announcement that earnings for the fiscal year would be flat
to slightly lower than a year ago. Curtice-Burns Foods
slipped 5/8 to 17 3/4, also on news of expected lower
earnings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Brands
   Holders Seek
   Buyer for Firm
   ---
   Stock Soars on Disclosure;
   Partial Sale Is Possible,
   Public Offering Mulled
   ----
   By Leon E. Wynter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   FBR Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   The controlling shareholders of First Brands Corp. said
they were seeking buyers for all or part of the company,
setting off a 20% runup in the share price.
   In a filing last week with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the holders, which include CS First Boston Inc.
and Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., said they would actively
solicit bids for all or a portion of the consumer products
company's shares or assets. The holders also indicated they
might consider selling their stake in another public
offering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading Friday, First
Brands shares closed at $28.375, up $4.75. About 1.8 million
shares traded Friday, making First Brands the fifth most
active Big Board stock. At the closing price, First Brands
has a total indicated value of $613 million for the more than
21.6 million shares outstanding.
   First Brands, based in Danbury, Conn., manufactures and
markets such products as Prestone anti-freeze, Glad plastic
bags and STP automobile additives. It was created in a
leveraged buy-out of these businesses from Union Carbide
Corp. in 1986. In December the buy-out group, which includes
company management and other individuals, sold 30% of the
company in a public offering.
   At the time of the buy-out, the investors' equity was
about $80 million, according to Donald DeSantis, vice
president and chief financial officer at First Brands. A 30%
stake in the equity was then about $24 million. The public
offering of the 30% stake, at $19 a share, netted the
investors $115 million -- almost a fivefold return.
   The timing of Friday's announcement by CS First Boston and
Metropolitan Life, which together hold about 48% of the
shares, surprised some analysts, who wondered why such a move
wasn't made when the 30% stake was offered in December.
   The stock's runup also was unexpected. Pat O'Brien, who
follows Union Carbide for Anantha Raman &amp; Co., was surprised
at the share price jump because "the company has been on the
block from day one."
   Spokesmen for CS First Boston couldn't be reached for
comment Friday. Metropolitan Life officials declined to
comment. In the SEC filing, the investor group said that
while it still thinks the shares are "an attractive
investment," it has "received expressions of interest" from
third parties.
   First Brands reported an 83% decline in profit for its
fiscal third quarter ended March 31, to $2.7 million, or 12
cents a share, but the company said the results were
distorted by gains from the sale of certain businesses in the
year-earlier period. The company started up heavily in debt,
and posted a loss of $7 million on sales of $837 million in
1987. Cost cutting and quality improvements led to a $61
million profit in 1989 on sales of $1.2 billion.
   Mr. DeSantis said that he wasn't surprised at the move by
the major investors. "But the timing is a bit sooner than we
thought," he said.
   "Typically, investment bankers are not long-term
investors," Mr. DeSantis said. "One possibility, which would
be good for the business, would be to find a permanent home,
rather than be controlled by financial investors."
   According to the fiscal third-quarter statement, First
Brands' long-term debt was $370.7 million, down from $434.4
million at June 30, 1989.
   Ms. O'Brien noted that CS First Boston led the buy-out
creating First Brands under pressure to assist Union
Carbide's defense against a hostile takeover bid from GAF
Corp. "When the investment banks started taking ownership, it
was one of the signs that the price was too high. These
people would rather be back to their own business rather than
run a polyethylene bag business," she said.
   The most likely buyer would be one with a strategic
interest, "a chemical company seeking vertical integration,
or an offshore company that wants our company's distribution
strength," Mr. DeSantis said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alberto-Culver Says Profit Will Increase
   In Current Quarter Despite Difficulties
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7B
</SO>
<CO>
   ACV
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   MELROSE PARK, Ill. -- Although soft industry conditions
make it "a tougher ball game than it was in previous years,"
Alberto-Culver Co. expects per-share earnings will rise to
about 34-36 cents in its third quarter, ending June 30,
Leonard H. Lavin, chairman and chief executive officer, said.
   Those earnings are largely in line with analyst
expectations for the maker of personal-care products, and
would represent a solid increase from year-ago net income of
$8.3 million, or 31 cents a share, which came on sales of
$182.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an interview, Mr. Lavin said a number of retailers,
pressed for cash as a result of leveraged transactions, have
cut back on inventory levels. Others, although not similarly
burdened with debt, have tightened inventory levels by
implementing computer-based systems that allow them to
monitor ordering needs more effectively. Both developments
work to make the marketplace "much more competitive," he
said.
   "In order to increase sales, companies are introducing new
products. And to make sure that the new products go,
{they're} putting massive sums of advertising behind them,"
he said. In addition, he said, retailers have boosted the
slotting fees they impose on manufacturers trying to place
new products on the crowded shelves. "Everything is
tightening up the bottom line," he said.
   Alberto-Culver boosted advertising and promotional
expenses 15%, to $130 million, in fiscal 1989, Mr. Lavin
said, and the current year will see such expenditures
increase by "at least" a similar percentage. Alberto-Culver
historically emphasizes heavy advertising for its products.
   The company's long-term strategy calls for continued
growth. But in its efforts to find acquisitions, Mr. Lavin
said, bigger and less-cautious bidders -- "the people who can
afford to give away lots of dollars or lots of shares" --
have pushed prices to levels Alberto-Culver won't pay. He
said, "We're still looking," however, and added that
Alberto-Culver expects to find a suitable acquisition if it
keeps "knocking on enough doors."
   Howard B. Bernick, president and chief operating officer,
said that because of the restructurings currently under way
in the industry, the company expects that "there will be good
{acquisition} opportunities available." And he said that
Alberto-Culver, which has a voting and a nonvoting class of
comon shares, is in a better position to make stock-swap
purchases than other potential buyers.
   In the meantime, the company's growth is centered on
internal efforts. Mr. Bernick said he thinks Alberto-Culver
has reached the point where it can "make the investments
needed in supporting our existing brands and introducing new
products."
   Alberto-Culver's international division, while anchored by
a solid market position in Canada, is enjoying rapidly
swelling sales in Europe. Alberto earlier this month
disclosed that its United Kingdom operation, where sales have
doubled in the past three years, will spend $17 million to
build a larger factory and warehouse in Wales. International
sales currently represent about 25% of the company's overall
sales; Mr. Bernick said the percentage could be up to 30% in
five years.
   The professional division, which sells to beauty-industry
trade and some upscale retail markets, and which historically
enjoys the highest margins, is continuing to perform well,
Mr. Bernick said.
   Alberto-Culver also operates Sally Beauty Co., which
operates about 850 retail beauty-supply stores. As a
retailer, the unit tends to generate narrower profit margins.
   "We have decided to slow the opening rate" of new stores,
said Mr. Bernick. In the current fiscal year, Sally will open
about 75 stores, he said, compared with 125 in 1988; in 1989
the unit bought and converted 175 stores formerly owned by
Safeway Stores. Besides the expense associated with opening a
new store, sales require a while to build at start-up stores,
Mr. Bernick said. The slowdown in new-store growth is
expected to provide an "all-time record level" of profit
margins, Mr. Bernick said: In the current fiscal year,
"Sally's profits are growing at a rate double their rate of
sales growth.
   The Sally unit reported lower-than-anticipated results in
the first quarter of the current year, blaming unseasonably
cold December weather. But the unit's sales rebounded in the
second period, leading Merrill Lynch analyst Vicki Weber to
label the first-period shortfall a "glitch."
   Alberto-Culver doesn't use Sally as a captive outlet --
the parent's products represent only 5% of the sales at the
chain, which carries all its major competitors' offerings.
"Sally gives us a big advantage," in that "we're in position
from time to time to pick up a trend" from the retail end of
the business, Mr. Lavin said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Mark May See
   Further Gains
   In Unification
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Though the West German mark has been stalled for the past
five months, some analysts still think German unification
will lift the currency to new highs and into a more dominant
role in world markets. But this journey will be no
high-speed, trouble-free dash on the autobahn, they warn.
   "There is no precedent for this; it's never been done
before," says Kurt Morgen, a Frankfurt-based member of the
managing board of Dresdner Bank AG.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The engine driving the mark's upward mobility, predict the
bulls, will be a combination of a booming German economy,
higher interest rates, enlarged domestic financial markets
and wider use of the currency in trade and investment,
particularly in Eastern Europe.
   "The D-mark is going to be the basis for German political
and economic power in Central and Eastern Europe, and
therefore throughout Europe," predicts Peter Rona, president
and chief executive officer of IBJ Schroder Bank &amp; Trust Co.
in New York. Among the implications of this are stronger
German stock and bond markets.
   But these forecasts come with timetables that are at least
six months to a year away.
   Meanwhile, monetary and economic union between East and
West Germany is scheduled to take place Sunday. Apprehension
about its effects has had currency markets on edge since
early February. That's when the mark's 20% rise against the
dollar and yen -- a climb that began last September and
accelerated after the fall of the Berlin Wall in November --
stopped dead in its tracks.
   In late New York trading Friday, the dollar stood at
1.6745 marks and 154.85 yen, compared with 1.6778 marks and
154.80 yen late Thursday. Meanwhile, the British pound rose
to $1.7330 from $1.7200.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was quoted at
155.10 yen; it closed Friday in Tokyo at 154.75 yen.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.6743
marks, down from Friday's Tokyo close of 1.6796 marks.
   Since early February, the mark has mostly traded in a
narrow band of 1.65-1.71 to the dollar. Slowing its advance
were worries over the inflationary impact of the planned
currency union and the huge outlays needed for overhauling
the East German economy.
   The mark also has been weakened by concern about growing
turmoil in the Soviet Union, and it is especially vulnerable
to political instability in Eastern Europe because of
Germany's geographic proximity and trade links to the region.
   Few traders or economists expect these negative factors to
disappear anytime soon. The West German budget deficit will
be about 50 billion marks ($29.8 million) this year and rise
to 100 billion marks in 1991, predicts David D. Hale, chief
economist at Kemper Financial Services Inc. in Chicago.
   "The Bundesbank will have to increase its money supply to
make credit available for growth in East Germany and make it
possible for corporations to raise funds they want to invest
in Eastern Europe," says Thomas Barman, head of treasury
operations for Credit Suisse in New York.
   At the same time, "it's very clear there will be
Pan-German elections in December or January. Meanwhile,
unemployment in East Germany will rise toward two million,
which will lead to more pressure for government spending,
which raises inflation," warns Mr. Hale. What's more, he
adds: "There's the unknown cost of Germany having to support
the Soviet Union." Last week, Bonn said it will guarantee a
five billion mark bank loan to Moscow.
   This spending spree puts the Bundesbank in a bind. If it
tightens monetary policy too quickly, "it could strangle
growth," warns Eric Taze-Bernard, senior economist at Banque
Indosuez in Paris. Yet if its policies are too lax, Germany
risks accelerating inflation and a weakening mark.
   "The big short-term, six-month question is the
independence of the Bundesbank," says Mr. Hale. "Can
{Bundesbank President Karl Otto} Poehl be allowed to do what
{Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul} Volcker did in
1981-1982?" -- temper faster growth and inflation with a
tighter monetary policy.
   In the long run, Mr. Hale and others are betting he will.
And as a consequence, many of the short-term mark bears
remain long-term bulls.
   Economists at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. see the combination of a
relaxed fiscal and tight monetary policies propelling the
mark to new highs, just as a similar U.S. policy mix sent the
dollar soaring in the early 1980s. Michael Andrews, a Merrill
economist, predicts the mark will eventually rise toward 1.50
marks to the dollar, surpassing its record of 1.56.
   "The {mark} will strengthen, because it will attract
capital," says Mr. Barman of Credit Suisse. "The German stock
market is going to look very, very attractive in years to
come."
   Mr. Rona of IBJ-Schroder envisions the evolution of a huge
trading bloc in Eastern Europe that uses the mark as its
payments currency. Neither the Soviet Union nor any of its
six former East bloc satellites -- Poland, East Germany,
Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Romania or Bulgaria -- have
convertible currencies. Up to now, trade within the group --
the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, or Comecon -- has
been paid for in so-called "convertible rubles," a hybrid
that is essentially a system of credits and debits.
   But as of Jan. 1, 1991, trade between the seven will be
conducted in hard currencies. Besides East Germany, Mr. Rona
believes other East bloc nations will adopt the mark for
trade transactions. "Poland, Romania, Hungary and
Czechoslovakia will be filing up to join," he argues.
"Imports, exports, investment decisions and returns will all
be calculated in D-marks." Even domestic prices and wages
will be figured in marks, he predicts.
   Germany "can create a Deutsche mark zone throughout
Europe," asserts Mr. Rona. Already, the Dutch, Swiss and
Austrian currencies are closely tied to the mark, and the
currency has long been the linchpin of the European Monetary
System's exchange rate mechanism, a joint float of nine
European currencies.
   "Given the economic links in the region, the mark could
emerge as a more important global currency," says Kemper's
Mr. Hale.
   The mark's status could be further cemented by the pivotal
role German companies and banks are expected to play in
Eastern Europe's development. Already, "Germany is the
biggest supplier of credit to Eastern Europe and its biggest
western trading partner," adds Michael Rosenberg, a vice
president at Merrill Lynch.
   George Noble, a portfolio manager at Fidelity Management
and Research Co. in Boston, says that one top Italian
executive called Eastern Europe "a private German hunting
preserve."
   Analysts also predict that the large costs of funding
German reunification will lead to a rapid growth in the
German bond, stock, short-term money and futures markets.
"That," says Mr. Hale, "will encourage increased use of the
mark."
   Not everyone, however, buys the supermark argument. David
M. Mars, European economist for S.G. Warburg Securities Ltd.
in London, predicts the Bundesbank won't be able to check the
inflationary pressures that unification unleashes. He argues
that despite the central bank's solid reputation as an
inflation fighter, it has oversold its ability to control the
German money supply and remain independent of politics.
   Mr. Mars says that at some point, five new members of the
central bank's governing council will come from East Germany
and "they will constantly fight for easier credit policies."
He adds: "Poehl and the rest of the council aren't going to
raise interest rates to fight inflation, and the mark will
weaken."
   Mr. Mars also questions East Germans' work ethic after
more than four decades of life under communist rule. Within
six months, he says, "people will start to look for an
alternative to the mark." He predicts it will be the French
franc. Backed by a big economy and a government committed to
low inflation, "France will look like a zone of stability,"
he says.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $350.40 an ounce, down 30 cents.
Estimated volume was a moderate 2.5 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at $350.35 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western States
   Backed by Court
   In Gasoline Case
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7D
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC XON MOB RD SC BP TX UCL
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- A federal appeals court ruled that four
Western states have a right to take major oil companies to
court over accusations that the companies conspired to fix
wholesale gasoline prices in the 1970s and to create a
gasoline shortage in 1973.
   The unanimous opinion by three judges of the Ninth U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals overturned a 1986 court decision and
is the latest step in a case that has been in and out of the
courts for 15 years. The lower court decision had dismissed
the suit on grounds it didn't have sufficient chance of
success at trial.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The appellate court held Friday that the states presented
sufficient evidence of a conspiracy to send the case to a
jury trial in Los Angeles.
   The litigation, brought by California, Oregon, Washington
and Arizona, seeks damages that could total billions of
dollars, according to Michael Spiegel, a lawyer acting for
California.
   The states are seeking the return of money they contend
they were overcharged for bulk purchases of gasoline between
1971 and 1975, when the suit was filed. There is a separate
action in state court that seeks to recover losses by
consumers from alleged overcharges for gasoline.
   The defendants in the case are Atlantic Richfield Co;
Exxon Corp.; Mobil Corp.; Shell Oil Co., a unit of Royal
Dutch/Shell Group; Standard Oil Co., a unit of British
Petroleum Co.; Texaco Inc.; and Unocal Corp. A number of the
companies said Friday they were studying the opinion and
would decide later whether to appeal.
   The appellate court said the states' evidence of a
potential conspiracy to affect prices included the use of
news releases announcing wholesale price increases, advance
posting of price changes at company offices and direct
contact with competitors. In the court's opinion, Judge
Dorothy Nelson wrote that "a jury could conclude that the oil
companies agreed, either implicitly or explicitly, to create
market conditions that would facilitate tacit or express
price coordination."
   The defendants argued that the evidence was "too anecdotal
and fragmentary to support a broad inference of conspiracy of
the sort alleged."
   Florida, Kansas and Connecticut originally were plaintiffs
in the suit but dropped out of it several years ago.
   The litigation isn't directly related to an antitrust
lawsuit filed by California and by the city of Long Beach,
Calif. That action alleges that major oil firms conspired to
depress crude oil prices to reduce the taxes and royalties
they paid on crude oil from state-owned tidelands.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   FHP and PacifiCare, Health Firms,
   Attract Some Analysts Despite Problems
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   FHPC PHSY USHC UNIH
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- As federal budget surgeons begin their annual
probe of health care spending, stock prices are languishing
at two health maintenance organizations that rely heavily on
Medicare.
   But even though analysts widely believe that
reimbursements won't sustain the double-digit increases of
the past two years, some say the outlook is brightening for
the two companies, FHP International and PacifiCare Health
Systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In contrast to two other HMOs with less exposure to
Medicare, FHP and PacifiCare have been dead on arrival for
much of the year. Both stocks have faded, even as the shares
of U.S. Healthcare and United Healthcare blossomed.
   Haunting the two HMOs is the prospect that an increase in
Medicare reimbursements for 1991 -- which the government will
determine by September -- won't keep pace with this year's
unusually generous 13.4% rise. (About six percentage points
of that rise consisted of one-time payments to HMOs to cover
high-cost medical procedures.)
   Wall Street got wind in February that next year's payments
might fall short of expectations. In a private meeting with
HMO executives, Edmund C. Moy, director of the Health Care
Financing Administration's office of prepaid health care,
indicated that 1991 reimbursements might be flat at the least
or, at the most, up 7%. Some analysts had been expecting
higher increases, after two years of double-digit boosts.
   That meeting took the wind out of the sails of FHP, a
Fountain Valley, Calif., HMO that analysts expect to receive
about 65% of total revenue this year from the government's
reimbursements for Medicare patients. FHP's stock plunged 3
1/4 to 17 1/2 on more than one million shares Feb. 27, when
word of the lower prospects hit the Street. Shares of
PacifiCare tumbled 3 to 19 3/4 the same day; analysts expect
about 45% of the Cypress, Calif., company's 1990 revenue to
come from Medicare payments.
   "The apple cart was upset in February," says Janet Lyons,
an analyst with the $700 million Evergreen Fund of Purchase,
N.Y., which owns FHP shares. "The risk that reimbursements
won't be favorable already is in the price of the stock."
(Evergreen first bought FHP shares at 5 3/4 in 1987 and this
year acquired more when they dropped below 16; the stock was
at 18 Friday.)
   As of Friday, four analysts rated FHP a "strong buy," two
called it a "buy" and only one, Salomon Brothers, ranked it
"neutral," according to Zacks Investment Research Inc. Four
brokerage firms following PacifiCare all had "buy" opinions
on that stock.
   With health care costs expected to spiral 11% to 12% a
year for the next five years, HMOs "represent the ultimate
solution to our cost-containment problem, even though the
country does not believe it yet," says health services
analyst Kenneth S. Abramowitz of Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co.
   America's ambivalence toward HMOs is based on several
factors, Mr. Ambramowitz says. Many major corporations are
self-insured or have long-established relationships with
insurers. HMOs reduce patient freedom, steering large amounts
of business to contracted providers. Physicians, hospitals
and other providers "generally hate HMOs" because they force
them to provide care under budgeted formulas, Mr. Abramowitz
adds.
   Nevertheless, HMOs will look attractive to companies,
particularly if the HMO costs continue to grow at 12% to 15%
annually compared with insurers' 18% to 22%, he says.
   "I've never cared for Medicare exposure," says Salomon
health services analyst Margo L. Vignola. She rates FHP a
"neutral;" she doesn't follow PacifiCare. She prefers instead
the strong earnings momentum of U.S. Healthcare, a Blue Bell,
Pa., organization with prospects for growth in the huge New
York market, and the diversified services of United
Healthcare, Minnetonka, Minn.
   FHP and PacifiCare have had other concerns besides
Medicare reimbursements. FHP has been paying to house some
patients at other sites since it ran out of room and hasn't
completed a new hospital, notes Amy de Rham, a portfolio
analyst with Massachusetts Financial Services, Boston. Ms. de
Rham, however, calls the strong earnings of U.S. Healthcare
and United Healthcare "compelling stories."
   As Washington officials begin to hone the federal budget,
a few analysts think investors may get a bullish surprise.
"The government clearly wants to put Medicare patients into
HMOs," says analyst Todd Richter of Dean Witter Reynolds, who
predicts a 3% to 7% rise in Medicare reimbursements. "They
get a much better benefits package and a much simpler
system."
   Prudential-Bache analyst Seth Shaw agrees. "I don't think
the administration wants the political and economic upheaval
that a 0% to 3% increase would bring about," he says. He
expects a 6% to 7% increase in reimbursements.
   ---
                      Medicare Exposure

                     MEDICARE EXPOSURE       NET CHANGE IN
                 (pct. of total estimated     STOCK PRICE
                            '90 revenues)      THIS YEAR
                                                                                                       

 FHP International         65%                  -15.0%
                                                                                                       

 PacifiCare
   Health Systems          45                   - 5.9
                                                                                                       

 United Healthcare         40                   +35.0
                                                                                                       

 U.S. Healthcare            5                   +32.0
                                                                                                       

 Source: Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks lost ground in the last hour of
trading as a flood of computer-driven sell programs drove
exchange-listed shares lower.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 1.94 Friday to 459.33, a
0.42% loss. Volume rose to 167.5 million shares from 144.3
million Thursday. Declining stocks overtook advancers, 1,023
to 872.
   Intermec plunged 3 1/8 to 13 1/8 on nearly 1.1 million
shares, more than five times average volume. The Everett,
Wash., maker of bar coding and other printing products said
it may report little or no profit for the first quarter,
ending Saturday, compared with net income of 28 cents a share
a year earlier. Intermec cited weak sales to the military and
the expense of moving to new facilities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Relaxes
   Rules on Banks
   For Fund-Raising
   ----
   By Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP J.MUB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese banks have been granted a new means to
help meet international capital-adequacy requirements set by
the Bank for International Settlement.
   The Finance Ministry Friday allowed Japan's major banks
for the first time to raise funds through the issuance of
subordinated loans. However, the ministry kept unchanged its
prohibition on issuing subordinated bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decision is viewed in Japan as very timely. Because of
the stock-market crash in Tokyo early this year, it has
become difficult for Japanese banks to raise equity levels to
meet higher BIS equity requirements, in part because of a
self-imposed ban by securities firms on underwriting new
equities. Instead, banks have had to restrain new lending,
particularly overseas.
   The BIS, based in Basel, Switzerland, is a sort of central
bank for central banks.
   The plunge in share prices not only has made it difficult
for banks to raise new funding in the capital markets but
also has reduced the value of the equities they hold in their
investment portfolios.
   Among major Japanese banks, Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank Ltd.
and three other instititutions failed at the end of their
latest accounting period to keep their debt-to-equity ratios
above the level that will be required by the BIS at the end
of March 1993. At that time, international banks are required
to maintain levels of equity above 8% of their total assets.
   An analyst at Nomura Research Institute, an affiliate of
Nomura Securities Co. says the subordinated loans are "a very
important means {of fund-raising} as they make it possible
for banks to raise capital quickly and systematically." But
he added that he doesn't expect any immediate sharp rise in
such loans. "Given the high cost," he says, "banks won't jump
for them until the time when they really need them comes, for
example perhaps at a time when they close their books for a
period and compile a report on the adequacy rate."
   Meanwhile, under the ministry's regulation, suppliers of
such loans are confined to insurance companies and financial
institutions, and banks are required to inform the ministry
of their borrowing each time before the deal is concluded.
The term of these loans is required to be set at five years
or longer.
   Analysts say subordinated borrowing by Japanese banks
during the current fiscal year, which will end next March 31,
could reach one trillion yen ($6.4 billion).
   The unsecured loan is already used in Britain, France,
Italy and other countries as a means to increase banks'
equity levels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, June 22, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                             Stock  N.A.    Stock      %
   Fund Name                 Exch.  Value   Price     Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express             NYSE   18.81   16       -14.94
   Baker Fentress            NYSE   24.40   20 1/8   -17.52
   Blue Chip Value           NYSE    7.66    6 5/8   -13.51
   Clemente Global Gro       NYSE  b12.15   10 1/4   -15.64
   France Growth Fund        NYSE   10.99   10 1/4   - 6.73
   Gemini II Capital         NYSE   16.06   13 3/8   -16.72
   Gemini II Income          NYSE    9.62   12 1/2   +29.94
   General Amer Invest       NYSE   24.60   20 3/8   -17.17
   Growth Stock Outlook      NYSE   10.38    9 3/8   - 9.68
   Liberty All-Star Eqty     NYSE    9.61    8 1/8   -15.45
   Niagara Share Corp.       NYSE   17.70   14 5/8   -17.37
   Nicholas-Applegate        NYSE   11.78   11       - 6.62
   Quest For Value Cap       NYSE   17.84   13 1/4   -25.73
   Quest For Value Inco      NYSE   11.69   13 1/8   +12.28
   Salomon Bros.             NYSE   15.42   12 7/8   -16.50
   Schafer Value Trust       NYSE   10.65   10 1/2   - 1.41
   Source Capital            NYSE   41.04   41 7/8   + 2.03
   Tri-Continental Corp.     NYSE   28.46   24 1/4   -14.79
   Worldwide Value           NYSE   18.91   16 3/8   -13.41
   Zweig Fund                NYSE   11.08   11 1/2   + 3.79
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs       AMEX    6.82    5 7/8   -13.86
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr      NYSE   b8.08    8 3/4   + 8.29
   Franklin Universal Tr     NYSE   b7.76    7 1/8   - 8.18
   Municipal High Inco       NYSE    9.39    9 1/4   - 1.49
   Zenix Income Fund         NYSE    6.34    5 3/4   - 9.31
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       

   America's All Seasn       OTC     5.89    4 1/2   -23.60
   Franklin M-M Inco         NYSE   b8.90    8 1/8   - 8.71
   Zweig Total Return Fd     NYSE    9.22    9 1/4   + 0.33
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd    NYSE   13.97   14 1/4   + 2.00
   Alliance New Europe Fd    NYSE   11.62   10 1/2   - 9.64
   American Capital Conv     NYSE   22.13   19 3/8   -12.45
   ASA Ltd                   NYSE bc52.22   44 1/4   -15.26
   Asia Pacific              NYSE   16.19   13 5/8   -15.84
   Austria Fund              NYSE   14.53   13 3/8   - 7.95
   Bancroft Convertible      AMEX   20.68   18       -12.96
   Bergstrom Capital         AMEX   64.17   61 3/8   - 4.36
   BGR Precious Metals       TOR  be10.46    9 1/2   - 9.18
   Brazil                    NYSE    9.26   10 1/4   +10.69
   CNV Holdings Capital      NYSE    9.89    5 1/8   -48.18
   CNV Holdings Income       NYSE    9.64   11       +14.11
   Castle Convertible        AMEX   21.88  181 1/16  -14.59
   Central Fund Canada       AMEX   b4.71    4 3/4   + 0.85
   Central Securities        AMEX   11.68    9 1/2   -18.66
   Chile Fund                NYSE   16.66   18       + 8.04
   Couns Tandem Secs         NYSE   12.37   10 1/4   -17.14
   Cypress Fund              AMEX    9.68    9 1/4   - 4.44
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils   NYSE    8.19    8 1/8   - 0.79
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc       AMEX    8.43    7 1/4   -14.00
   Emerging Ger Fd           NYSE   11.15   10       -10.31
   Engex                     AMEX   13.06    9 15/16 -23.91
   Europe Fund               NYSE   14.28   13 3/4   - 3.71
   1st Australia             AMEX    9.84    8 1/2   -13.62
   First Financial Fund      NYSE    6.76    7 1/4   + 7.25
   First Iberian             AMEX   11.22   10 7/8   - 3.07
   First Philippine Fund     NYSE   11.16    9 1/2   -14.87
   Future Germany Fund       NYSE   16.88   14 3/4   -12.62
   Gabelli Equity Trust      NYSE   12.00   11 1/2   - 4.17
   Germany Fund              NYSE   13.07   14 1/4   + 9.03
   Global Utilities Fund     NYSE   10.96    9 3/8   -14.46
   Growth Fund Spain         NYSE   12.40   10 3/8   -16.33
   GT Greater Europe Fd      NYSE   14.25   13 1/8   - 7.89
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv        NYSE   12.52   10 7/8   -13.14
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap      AMEX  b11.40   91 1/16  -15.02
   India Growth Fund         NYSE  f12.54   15 1/2   +23.60
   Indonesia Fund            NYSE   14.66   13 5/8   - 7.06
   Inefficient Market Fund   AMEX   11.33   10 1/2   - 7.33
   Irish Investment Fd       NYSE   11.15    9 1/8   -18.16
   Italy Fund                NYSE  b15.57   14 5/8   - 6.07
   Jakarta Growth Fd         NYSE   10.90   11 1/4   + 3.21
   Japan OTC Equity Fund     NYSE  b12.37   13 1/4   + 7.11
   Korea Fund                NYSE   14.83   22 1/8   +49.19
   Malaysia Fund             NYSE   14.11   15 1/8   + 7.19
   Mexico Fund               NYSE  b15.12   14 3/4   - 2.45
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap       NYSE   11.82   11 1/4   - 4.82
   New Germany Fund          NYSE   14.49   13 1/2   - 6.83
   Pacific Eur Growth Fd     NYSE   11.21   11       - 1.87
   Patriot Prem Div Fd       NYSE    8.80   10 1/4   +16.48

   Petrol &amp; Resources        NYSE   30.60   27 1/2   -10.13
   Pilgrim Regional          NYSE    9.33    9       - 3.54
   Putnam Dividend Inco      NYSE   10.29   11 1/4   + 9.33
   Portugal Fund             NYSE   13.68   13 5/8   - 0.40
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd     AMEX    6.53    5 3/4   -11.94
   ROC Taiwan Fund           NYSE   10.33   10 1/8   - 1.98
   Scudder New Asia          NYSE   18.26   16 3/8   -10.32
   Scudder New Europe        NYSE   12.04   10 3/8   -13.83
   SE Savings Inst Fd        OTC    b7.87    7       -11.05
   Spain Fund                NYSE   14.81   16 3/4   +13.10
   Swiss Helvetia Fd         NYSE   14.66   14 1/2   - 1.09
   Taiwan Fund               NYSE  b19.35   22 3/4   +17.57
   TCW Convertible Secs      NYSE   b8.20    8 3/8   + 2.13
   Templeton Em Mkts         AMEX  b15.92   15 1/2   - 2.64
   Templeton Global Util     AMEX  b11.04   11 1/4   + 1.90
   Templeton Value Fund      NYSE  b10.18    9 3/8   - 7.91
   Thai Capital Fund         NYSE   11.08   11 1/2   + 3.79
   Thai Fund                 NYSE   21.41   22 1/2   + 5.09
   Turkish Inv Fund          NYSE   14.40   12 5/8   -12.33
   United Kingdom Fund       NYSE   11.58   10       -13.64
   Z-Seven                   OTC    13.90   13 7/8   - 0.18
                                                                                                       

   b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at Commercial Rand
exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of Wednesday's
close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Banks Seem
   To Hold Fate
   Of Trump Loan
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   DRSDY F.SGF BT CCI CMB MHC FFB MIDL NW
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Donald Trump's pending $65 million bank loan appears to be
in the hands of two foreign banks who, as of yesterday, still
hadn't agreed to the proposal.
   Negotiations with the banks, West German-based Dresdner
Bank and French-based Societe General, are expected to resume
today, as Mr. Trump's creditors race to complete the proposal
by tomorrow night's deadline. If Mr. Trump doesn't receive
the $65 million by then, he will likely default on bond
payments on Trump's Castle, which could trigger other
defaults on his $2 billion in bank debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All told, 70 lending institutions must agree to the plan
that would allow Mr. Trump to suspend interest payments on
some $800 million of the bank debt. While a vast majority of
the banks have agreed to the proposal, a single dissent would
wreck the deal, bankers say.
   The $65 million loan would be supplied by Mr. Trump's
major creditors: units of Bankers Trust Corp., Citicorp,
Chase Manhattan Corp., First Fidelity Bancorp, Manufacturers
Hanover Corp., Midlantic and the U.S. unit of National
Westminster Bank PLC.
   On Friday, three Japanese banks that, like Dresdner, hold
first mortgages on the Trump Tower in Manhattan, lifted their
opposition to the bailout plan. Those banks have purchased
pieces of an original $75 million loan issued to Mr. Trump by
Chase Manhattan.
   The overwhelming majority of the 54 participants in more
than $1 billion in loans issued by Citicorp have also agreed
to the proposal, though a few holdouts remain, according to
people close to the negotiations.
   After a long silence, Mr. Trump issued a statement Friday
that expressed optimism that the deal would get done. "An
overwhelming number of the participating lenders,
representing both national and international financial
institutions, have now joined the major banks in supporting
our plan," the statement said.
   On Saturday, attorneys representing Chase Manhattan met
with representatives from Dresdner to get the German bank to
accept a second mortgage on the property, to no avail. Today,
senior executives from Chase are expected to call on Dresdner
officers to lobby for the proposal. Societe General owns less
than $15 million of a $200 million loan Chase issued to Mr.
Trump for his purchase of a 72-acre vacant site on
Manhattan's Upper West Side, according to an individual close
to the talks.
   The plan's purpose, say bankers, is to help Mr. Trump
avoid bankruptcy court. Instead, the banks want to have an
orderly sale of assets, and to give Mr. Trump time to improve
operations in his airline, casino and hotels empire.
   Lawyers for the banks worked through the weekend, while
many of the bankers took yesterday off. If the deal is agreed
to by tomorrow, the seven banks have arranged for a bridge
loan to be extended in case the paperwork for the $65 million
loan can't be completed in time, said a person close to the
talks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Henley Group Inc.
   Seeks to Dispose
   Of Itel Shares
   ----
   By Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HENG ITL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Henley Group Inc., moving forward in its plan to
liquidate, said it intends to dispose of as much as its
entire 38.5% stake in Itel Corp., a chunk of shares valued at
$381 million at current prices.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Henley said it plans to sell eight million to 16.7 million of
its 18.7 million common shares in the Chicago-based leasing
concern through a public offering "or otherwise."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Henley spokesman, Norman Ritter, said the filing
includes the possibility that some of the Itel shares would
be swapped with current Henley holders for their Henley
shares. But at least some of the Itel stake will be sold, Mr.
Ritter said.
   Henley, based in Hampton, N.H., said it plans to
contribute the remaining two million shares to Fisher
International Inc., a Henley subsidiary that Henley plans to
spin off.
   Henley acquired the Itel shares in 1988 as part of a $1.2
billion cash and stock payment from Itel. In return, Henley
sold Itel its stake in Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corp. and
leasing operations, among other holdings.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Itel
shares fell 37.5 cents, to $20.375. Henley stock fell 25
cents to $31 a share in national over-the-counter trading.
   Itel officials couldn't be reached for comment, but
Henley's holdings weren't considered a threat to Itel. The
1988 transaction included a 10-year standstill agreement that
restricted how Henley could vote or trade its Itel stake.
   At the time, Itel Chairman Samuel Zell asserted in an
interview that the terms of the standstill agreement meant
that Henley would be distributing its Itel shares to Henley
shareholders. But a Henley spokesman said at the time that
Henley planned to keep its Itel shares.
   Henley's disposition of Itel shares fits with its current
plan to liquidate. Henley has said it intends to spin off its
Fisher Scientific Group unit and 35% of Pneumo Abex Corp. The
spinoff plan is being reviewed by the SEC.
   Proceeds from the sale of any of the rest of the 16.7
million shares will be used to reduce Henley's huge debt load
of about $1.5 billion, a Henley spokesman said. Most of that
debt, about $1.03 billion, is Pneumo Abex's.
   But Henley said its plans don't currently call for using
proceeds of the sale to lighten that load before the 35%
spinoff. At current market prices, the 16.7 million Itel
shares are valued at $340.3 million.
   In addition to its railcar and container leasing
operations, Itel is involved in dredging, distribution and
wire making. It also invests in stocks of other companies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   NBC Is Willing
   To Discuss Offer
   From Cable System
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   TCOMA GE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- National Broadcasting Co. said it is willing
to discuss Tele-Communications Inc.'s proposal to use its
cable systems as NBC affiliates in rural areas not served by
broadcast affiliates of NBC.
   But the No. 1 rated network chided the nation's largest
cable company for using the request to gain political
leverage. And privately, NBC executives said there was
virtually no chance of Tele-Communications' proposal moving
forward.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tele-Communications President John Malone made the request
last week in a letter to Robert Wright, chief executive of
NBC, a unit of General Electric Co. The request was widely
viewed in the media industry as a ploy by Tele-Communications
to pressure NBC, which is lobbying Congress to ban exclusive
arrangements between cable operators and programmers.
   In its letter, NBC emphasized that any discussions would
include its 200-plus affiliates, which firmly oppose any
network-affiliate partnership with Tele-Communications.
   Tele-Communications said its proposal was aimed at
providing NBC programming combined with local newscasts in
markets where the company has cable systems that currently
have to import NBC affiliate signals from distant cities. For
example, Tele-Communications proposed to launch an NBC
affiliate on its cable system in Olympia, Wash., which
doesn't have a local station, instead relying on Seattle.
   "We're delighted at the prospect of negotiating with NBC,"
Robert Thomson, a Tele-Communications vice president, said
after reviewing NBC's letter, sent Friday. "We thought we'd
get a hell, no."
   While the response wasn't nearly so negative, NBC's Mr.
Wright scolded Mr. Malone in Friday's two-page letter by
writing: "But let's be honest, John. Your representatives
have admitted that you are raising the issue now in an
attempt to draw some . . . parallel between the availability
of NBC programming to non-broadcast distributors, and the
issue being debated in Congress about access to cable program
services by new technologies such as {direct-to-home
satellite TV}. . . . Whatever parallel you are trying to make
doesn't bear scrutiny."
   NBC is interested in dropping exclusivity rights because
it is partners in a direct-to-home satellite TV service,
called Sky Cable, that is scheduled to premiere in late 1993
with 108 channels. Sky Cable needs programming now available
exclusively on cable to ensure survival.
   Mr. Wright wrote that NBC was willing to talk with
Tele-Communications if the cable giant is "really interested
in localism." NBC Cable is partners with Cablevision Systems
Corp. in a 24-hour regional news channel titled News 12 Long
Island.
   In an interview, Thomas Rogers, president of NBC Cable,
said: "NBC has done a lot in regional news. If John Malone is
serious about that, then we could talk. But we've been trying
to get into discussions with TCI for years, and they've never
been supportive of it."
   Mr. Thomson of Tele-Communications said NBC always wanted
to maintain editorial control in local news operations.
   Mr. Rogers dismissed Mr. Thomson's allegations and said,
"If this debate {on program exclusivity} hadn't been going
on, Tele-Communications' letter would never have been sent."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Thrift Bailout to Transfer Wealth
   To Few States With Most S&amp;L Woes
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government's thrift-industry bailout
amounts to an enormous transfer of wealth to a few states
that have the bulk of the U.S.'s sick savings-and-loans, a
fact that is beginning to provoke resentment in states left
to foot the bill.
   The more than $100 billion the U.S. expects to spend to
close failed thrifts and pay off depositors will help prop up
the economies of Texas and several other states. But it means
taxpayers in the Northeast, Midwest and other regions will be
shipping huge sums of money to them without receiving direct
benefits in return.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I think there's starting to be a lot of anger," said
Keith Laughlin, staff director of the Northeast-Midwest
Congressional Coalition, a bipartisan group of House members.
"We're hearing this from our members. First, they don't know
why their tax dollars should be doing this, because they
caused so little of the problem."
   Last week, Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D., Ohio) complained on the
House floor that Ohio taxpayers "are being asked to bear too
great a share of the Bush savings-and-loan bailout." Saying
that Ohio was one of 17 states with a thrift industry in the
black last year, Rep. Kaptur declared, "Our citizens are
being asked to pay for collapsing institutions in other parts
of the country."
   Edward Hill, a Cleveland State University economist who
has closely studied the regional economic implications of the
thrift bailout, says that only 13 states -- Texas, New
Mexico, Arkansas, Arizona, Alaska, Kansas, Louisiana,
Nebraska, Minnesota, Colorado, Utah, Mississippi and Missouri
-- will receive more money than they pay out in the bailout.
The remaining 37 states and the District of Columbia, he
says, will be net losers.
   "The thrift crisis has wide-ranging regional implications,
and the solution will shift wealth between the states and
affect the way in which regional economies develop," Mr. Hill
wrote in a recent article.
   The biggest winner, most analysts agree, will be Texas.
After oil prices crashed in the mid-1980s, the state's real
estate market collapsed, leaving many Texas thrifts stuck
with bad loans. That has left the state's S&amp;Ls with
liabilities exceeding assets by more than $10 billion,
according to Mr. Hill's calculations.
   But if the nation's taxpayers were to write a check today
for their share of cleaning up the S&amp;L mess, based on Mr.
Hill's calculations, Connecticut residents would end up
losing an average of between $949 and $1,237 each, while
funds arriving in Texas would result in a net gain of between
$3,737 and $4,775 for every resident of the state.
   The discrepancy is becoming hard to swallow for some of
the rest of the country. At a Senate hearing last week, Sen.
John Kerry (D., Mass.), said: "Taxpayers are upset there is a
subsidy going to our friends in Texas. Texas pays 7% of
federal taxes but is getting 60% of the bailout." In
Massachusetts, which has had relatively few thrift problems,
residents stand to lose between $785 and $1,026 each in the
bailout, according to Mr. Hill.
   Of course, not all the depositors in Texas thrifts are
Texas residents. Some of the bailout funds coming into the
state could be used to insure depositors from New York, South
Dakota or any state in the union. Mr. Hill acknowledged that
he didn't take brokered deposits into account when he made
his calculations.
   Not all the states with big thrift losses are getting an
easy ride. California, whose thrift industry is more than $2
billion in the red, will pay out between $9.5 billion and $11
billion more than it takes in, Mr. Hill figures. That's the
second largest bill for any state. The net cost per person
comes to between $342 and $397. The reason California comes
out a net loser is that its residents are more affluent, on
average, than much of the rest of the country, so their tax
bills tend to be higher.
   The Bush administration recently raised its estimate of
the cost of the S&amp;L bailout to between $90 billion and $130
billion, not including interest, if the government wrote a
check today. Mr. Hill's estimates range from $159 billion to
$203 billion because he includes the money already spent to
resolve insolvent S&amp;L cases and makes a few other
adjustments.
   To reach his conclusions, Mr. Hill analyzed the
distribution of federal income taxes and deposit-insurance
premiums paid by the states. To measure the flow of bailout
funds into states, he distributed the present value of the
thrift-cleanup costs according to each state's portion of
overall bad thrift assets.
   He concluded that 24 states may end up losing more than $1
billion in the bailout, led by New York, where the net cost
could be between $13.5 billion and $17.3 billion. Incensed by
the costs of the thrift disaster, New York Gov. Mario Cuomo
has made criticism of the S&amp;L bailout a regular feature of
his speeches.
   Despite escalating complaints about the inequities of the
bailout, most people agree that the government has no choice
but to honor its commitment to reimburse depositors in failed
thrifts. "We have deposit insurance to spread the risk, and
we spread it," says James Smith, an economist at the
University of North Carolina business school.
   Nevertheless, some lawmakers plan to press the regional
issue. Reps. Kaptur and Howard Wolpe (D., Mich.) are planning
to introduce a bill that would require states with the
greatest state-chartered thrift losses to assume a bigger
share of the bailout bill. The measure was introduced as an
amendment to S&amp;L bailout legislation last year, but it
failed.
   Regional anger over the thrift bailout could affect the
current budget talks between the Bush administration and
Congress too. Mr. Laughlin of the Northeast-Midwest
Coalition, for example, said his group would fight any
proposal for an oil-import fee to raise government revenue.
   "That would be like rewarding the guilty and punishing the
innocent," he said. "It would clearly benefit the
oil-producing states and hurt the oil-consuming states."
   However, the controversy could also give some impetus to
the idea of an increase in the gasoline tax, because that
would hit hardest in states such as Texas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Integrated Resources' Partnership Sale
   To Be Considered by Judge at Hearing
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn  Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   IRE CMM AIMBZ AIMAZ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A federal bankruptcy judge agreed to decide
whether the Bankruptcy Court should get involved in efforts
to buy investment partnerships managed by Integrated
Resources Inc.
   Judge Howard C. Buschman III, who is overseeing
Integrated's bankruptcy proceeding, set a July 19 hearing on
whether to block CRI Inc.'s bid to buy the partnerships. The
Rockville, Md., real estate syndicator has proposed to
exchange shares in two ventures it manages for investors'
holdings in four partnerships managed by Integrated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If CRI's offer succeeds, the company then plans to oust
Integrated as manager of the investments. It also has sued in
Delaware and California to force Integrated to reverse
changes in its management contract adopted just a day before
Integrated filed for protection from creditors in February.
CRI's offer is conditioned on those changes being reversed.
   The partnerships, known as American Insured Mortgage
Investors, have about 64,000 investors. Integrated receives
income from managing the partnerships and owns an interest in
the businesses as a general partner. The partnerships, which
CRI has estimated are worth $664 million, aren't part of the
bankruptcy proceeding.
   At a hearing last week, the judge didn't issue a temporary
restraining order sought by Integrated. But he set a hearing
date to consider whether to issue a preliminary injunction.
   Judge Buschman indicated he would consider at that time
whether a federal Bankruptcy Court should issue an injunction
in a dispute involving the limited partners who aren't a part
of the bankruptcy proceeding. He also said he would consider
examining whether he should issue an injunction taking into
account CRI's refusal to participate in Integrated's auction
of its management contracts and direct interests in the
partnerships.
   In February, CRI offered as much as $60 million for the
contracts and direct interests but was turned down by
Integrated, which said the offer contained too many
contingencies. This month, Integrated recommended a $45
million offer from Krupp Cos., a Boston real estate
investment manager. That offer is conditioned on CRI's
proposal being ended.
   Integrated's attorneys argue that CRI's tactics are an
attempt to "bust up" the auction. And, they said, CRI's
proposal to buy the limited partnership investments could
reduce the value of Integrated's interests by an amount they
said CRI estimated at $25 million.
   In its suits, CRI charged that the managment contract
changes "entrench" the general partners. CRI has said the
changes allow for the management fee to be reset by a third
party designated by Integrated if Integrated is removed as
general managing partner by a vote of the limited partners.
Integrated has said the changes could benefit the limited
partners by allowing lower management fees to be set.
   Integrated manages more than 600 partnerships and values
its assets at about $700 million. The company is trying to
sell assets to satisfy creditors, who are owed about $1.8
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Midlantic Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MIDL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MIDLANTIC Corp. (Edison, N.J.) -- Donald W. Ebbert Jr. was
named senior vice president and director of investor
relations, a new post at this bank holding company. Mr.
Ebbert was previously senior vice president and treasurer at
Southeast Banking Corp., Miami.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Midlantic Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   MIDL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIDLANTIC Corp. (Edison, N.J.) -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
said it lowered its ratings on debt of this bank holding
company and certain units, including about $426 million of
long-term debt outstanding. "The downgrades reflect the
serious erosion in asset quality in recent months, due
largely to the downturn in the New Jersey real estate
market," the rating concern said. S&amp;P's rating on senior debt
of the parent and its Midlantic Banks Inc. affiliate was
lowered to triple-B-minus from triple-B-plus. The rating on
Midlantic Corp.'s subordinated debt was downgraded to
double-B-plus from triple-B. The Midlantic Funding Corp.
unit's commercial paper rating was reduced to single-A-3 from
single-A-2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Militant Small-Business Coalition is Fighting City Hall
   ---
   Tucson, Ariz., Entrepreneurs Protest
   Government Policies, Tight Credit
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   In most struggling regions, scared and angry entrepreneurs
voice their frustrations mainly to each other. But in Tucson,
Ariz., they are marching on city hall.
   Angry at the effects of a credit crunch, regional economic
slowdown and government policies, Tucson entrepreneurs
organized the Tucson Business Coalition last February to
fight back. Leaders of the grass-roots organization say
membership is already at 1,400 and still growing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In April, the coalition organized a protest march to a
city council meeting by several hundred business people, who
wore buttons and carried banners and signs in the coalition's
colors of red and black. The black, says an organizer, is to
mourn the businesses that have died while red is for the ones
still alive but bleeding.
   Being law-abiding citizens, marchers were careful to stay
on the sidewalk and cross with the lights, organizers add.
Confronted with a mass of angry business owners, the council
moved to the nearby convention center to hear them out. A
similar march was held the next day to Pima County's board of
supervisors meeting.
   "We haven't had much help from the big boys. So we are
going to do some things on our own," says Byron Howard,
coalition co-chairman and owner of B&amp;H Properties, a local
land-developer.
   Similar groups are forming in other Arizona cities, say
coalition leaders, and the protest may eventually go
nationwide. "We would like to take this movement right into
Washington, D.C.," says Bruce Greer, the coalition's other
co-chairman and owner of Bruce Greer Construction Inc.
   Some observers believe the ground is getting more fertile
for such militancy. "There is a rising anger among
small-business people" over government-imposed costs and
tight credit, says John Galles, executive vice president of
National Small Business United, a 67,000-member advocacy
group based in Washington, D.C.
   Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher earlier this month
said a "serious" credit crunch is beginning to grip small
business and other sections of the economy.
   However, Tucson coalition leaders are finding their
message isn't universally welcomed. For instance, Mr. Greer
says some of his construction equipment was recently
vandalized. He says the grafitti on the machines indicated it
was done by people who objected to some of his
pro-development stands on behalf of the coalition.
   The coalition aims to prune the size and cost of
government and get it out of competition with private
enterprise. It also hopes to lessen the dependence of small
businesses on big financial institutions; coalition members
assert the institutions have turned their backs on lending to
small businesses. Local bankers reply that they are still
interested in lending to small businesses but say the slowing
economic growth rate has hurt the ability of many firms to
qualify for loans.
   Dozens of coalition members are spending evenings and
weekends combing through city and county budgets looking for
spending for the governments to slash. The coalition is even
trying to set up an alternate banking arrangement for members
through a local credit union.
   Tucson Mayor Thomas Volgy decries some of the group's
"slash-and-burn" tactics, but says it is emerging as a force
to be reckoned with. Mr. Volgy says the coalition's rise
helped kill a recent move to increase business licensing
fees. Because of the coalition, "government is much more
sensitive on a day-to-day basis to the needs of small
business," he says.
   Tucson's business problems can be traced to the boom times
of the mid-1980's when Arizona was one of the U.S.'s
fastestgrowing states. Then, the biggest credit problem was
finding ways to spend the multimillion-dollar loans that
banks and thrifts were spewing out.
   All that easy money led to some business binges,
especially in real estate. Now Tucson is feeling the
hangover. While population and income levels are still
growing at about 2% a year, that's only a third of the rate
of the mid-1980's. Since most businesses had geared up for
the faster growth, the slowing "feels like a recession," says
Marshall Vest, an economist at the University of Arizona.
Bankruptcy filings in metropolitan Tucson last year hit a
record 3,700 and in the first quarter of this year were up
another 27%, he says.
   Exacerbating the slower pace, most of the state's major
savings and loans have been taken over by the federal
government and have adopted lending procedures that make
Uncle Sam look like Uncle Scrooge. Tucson residents joke that
the government has taken the "L" out of their S&amp;L's.
   While commercial banks are in better shape, they also have
turned more cautious, Tucson business people and economists
say. Georgia Carlson and her husband, Glenn, recently
discovered just how cautious when their bank told them it was
calling in the $500,000 credit line on their two businesses,
which supply various items to the construction industry.
   Mrs. Carlson says the businesses have never missed a
payment on the credit line. But both were hard hit by the
construction downturn, and the Carlsons' banker told them
their firms "had become bad risks," Mrs. Carlson recalls. She
says that unless they can come up with some way to pay off
the outstanding bank balance, they face bankruptcy and
possible loss of their home. (The credit line was personally
guaranteed.) "I'm damn mad and I'm not going to take this,"
says Mrs. Carlson, a leader in the business coalition.
   Such anger was a driving force behind the coalition's
formation. But the specific catalyst came from a local
talk-radio show that began airing small-business owners'
complaints. Then the station, KTUC, decided to hold a
luncheon earlier this year where business people could give
local politicians a piece of their mind. "People told me we
would be lucky to get a couple of dozen people there,"
recalls Tom Hassey, KTUC's owner.
   Some 500 showed up, along with most major local
politicians. Attendees say the business people ran out of
time before they ran out of gripes. For instance, Nicholas
Locastro, a restaurant owner and coalition activist, says his
property taxes more than doubled since 1983 and his liquor
license fees went up 50% in the past two years.
   Given the outpouring, some entrepreneurs decided an
organization was needed. "Instead of just lone whining
businessmen, we thought we'd at least have a bunch of whining
businessmen," jokes Jim Hilkemeyer, who operates two fitness
centers.
   Membership in the coalition is restricted to locally owned
small businesses, says Mr. Howard, the co-chairman. "We
aren't the chamber of commerce or old guard," he says with
some disdain. "We want people who know what it is like to
have a Friday morning with a $150,000 payroll due and only
$30,000 in the bank."
   Entree costs $25 and as much free time as an entrepreneur
can devote. Hundreds of volunteer hours are being put into
searching for ways to cut government budgets, merge
departments and privatize such activities as printing and
street construction. Mayor Volgy says the coalition's efforts
have led to a "department-by-department examination of what
is and isn't being contracted out."
   Coalition leaders say they aren't sure how much lasting
change all this activity will produce. But it has already led
some business people to do things they wouldn't have dreamed
of a year ago.
   Bob Jones, president and part owner of Apache Business
Systems Inc., says he always disdained protest marches and
made fun of participants. But when the coalition marched on
city hall, he was among the protesters. "I put my dignity
aside. We had to get {people's} attention," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Lisa Jones, Convicted Ex-Assistant
   At Drexel, Gets 10 Months in Jail
   ----
   By Ann Hagedorn and Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN AXP TWX MOB
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Lisa Jones, a former trader's assistant at Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc. who was convicted of perjury last year, was
resentenced to 10 months in prison.
   On Friday, U.S. District Judge Leonard B. Sand, prompted
by a recent decision from the Second U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals, reduced Ms. Jones's prison term from 18 to 10
months. The judge also cut Ms. Jones's financial penalty from
$50,000 to about $40,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 27-year old Ms. Jones, a former runaway who made
$100,000 a year at the now collapsed Drexel, sobbed as Judge
Sand announced his decision. Her attorney, Daniel Bookin, had
urged the judge to reduce her punishment to probation. He
expressed his concern that her fragile mental condition would
be further damaged by a stay in prison.
   Mr. Bookin read from a letter his client had sent Judge
Sand in which she described "never-ending sleepness nights
and days filled with anxiety." He also stressed that Ms.
Jones's sentence was unduly harsh in comparison with those of
more powerful players convicted during the government's
crackdown on insider trading on Wall Street.
   Ms. Jones was convicted of five counts of perjury and two
counts of obstruction of justice for lying to a grand jury
looking into allegedly illegal trading involving Drexel. Her
trial drew considerable attention because she had worked for
former Drexel trader Bruce Lee Newberg, who was later
convicted along with five partners of now-defunct
Princeton/Newport L.P. for engaging in a scheme with Drexel
aimed at generating bogus tax losses. Her attorney depicted
her as a hapless pawn in the government's sweeping
investigation.
   Mr. Bookin, of the San Francisco law firm Farella Braun &amp;
Martel, appealed the conviction and the original 18-month
sentence on the basis of alleged conflicts of interest by her
trial lawyer who also represented other Drexel employees. The
court upheld the conviction. But it ruled that Judge Sand had
improperly increased Ms. Jones's sentence beyond the level
deemed appropriate under the federal sentencing guidelines.
   The government sought a steep penalty based on the
argument that Ms. Jones's perjury had cost the government
time and money in its effort to prove its case against
Princeton/Newport. The appeals panel, seeing no evidence of
such cost, asked the judge to resentence Ms. Jones.
   At Friday's hearing, prosecutor Neil Cartusciello stressed
that Ms. Jones "could have added very relevant evidence" to
the Princeton/Newport investigation. After her conviction,
according to individuals familiar with the case, the
government urged Ms. Jones to cooperate in their probes, but
she declined. Mr. Cartusciello told the judge that Ms. Jones
"still has information concealed."
   ---
   FORMER HOLLY FARMS CEO sues Wachtell Lipton.
   The former president and chief executive officer of Holly
Farms Corp. sued Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz, alleging
that an error by the New York law firm cost him and other
employees of the poultry and feed-products concern millions
of dollars.
   In a suit filed earlier this month in Memphis, Tenn.,
Chancery Court, R. Lee Taylor II alleged that Wachtell failed
to "exercise due skill, care and diligence in connection with
rendering advice" to Holly and its former board. Mr. Taylor
has charged that Wachtell made an error in an amendment it
drafted for Holly's stock bonus plan in January 1989.
   The former Holly executive is suing Wachtell on behalf of
himself and some 600 participants in Holly's stock bonus
plan. Mr. Taylor had previously sued Holly in connection with
the alleged error. The litigation is pending.
   Mr. Taylor is seeking a jury trial and unspecified
damages. While the suit doesn't state how much money the
drafting error cost employees, attorneys familiar with the
matter had previously estimated the cost at more than $35
million.
   In recent years, state courts have increasingly ruled that
if lawyers act negligently, they may be liable to third
parties.
   Wachtell declined to comment on the suit. But in a court
filing opposing Mr. Taylor's action against Wachtell, lawyers
representing the New York firm say that Mr. Taylor, in his
capacity as a director and chief executive of Holly, "had
direct responsibility to supervise and control the review and
approval of the stock bonus plan." They say that Wachtell
could also sue Mr. Taylor for contributory negligence in
connection with the plan.
   Mr. Taylor was fired from his job last August, less than
two months after Tyson Foods Inc., another poultry producer,
acquired Holly for about $1.29 billion.
   Tyson's purchase ended eight months of bidding and
litigation with Holly.
   ---
   INS LIST bars 340,000 aliens from entering U.S. for
political reasons.
   According to the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which
obtained an edited version of the "Lookout" list from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service under a court order,
the number of people listed is far greater than many people
have estimated. The list dates back to 1904, but two-thirds
of the entries were made since 1980.
   "This is the first time we've gotten a sense of the
magnitude," said Arthur Helton an attorney with the
human-rights group. The 370-page document lists the dates
that individuals were added to the list and is broken down by
country. A federal judge previously ruled that for privacy
reasons, the individuals' names couldn't be disclosed. The
committee plans to ask U.S. Judge Leonard Sand in federal
court in Manhattan to order the INS to divulge further
details, such as the individuals' professions.
   The list is mainly used to identify non-Americans who fall
under three sweeping political categories under the 1952
McCarran-Walter Act. Under that law, people can be prohibited
from entering the U.S. if they are considered a threat to the
"public interest," a threat to "national security," or
affiliated with any Communist or totalitarian party. Nearly
all the individuals listed were listed under the third
category.
   In the first three months of this year, 4,399 people were
added to the list, including 401 from China and 3,486 from
Eastern Europe.
   The list includes people from 146 different countries and
other jurisdictions, such as Palestine and Hong Kong. China
accounts for the largest number of entries on the list,
106,777; second is the Soviet Union, 33,064; third is
Yugoslavia, 31,734; fourth is Hungary, 28,450; and fifth is
Poland, 24,608. Mexico ranked 10th, with 5,402, and Japan
ranked 11th with 4,393.
   It is unclear whether some people were listed more than
once over the years, so the exact number of individuals can't
be determined. Often individuals don't learn that they are on
the list until they apply for a visa or until they arrive in
the U.S. A spokesman for the INS couldn't be reached for
comment.
   Mr. Helton said he thinks the committee's findings will
spur legislators to change the law. "I think they will be
stunned by the magnitude of the lookout list and its recent
escalation," he said.
   ---
   AMERICAN EXPRESS TESTS prepaid legal services for
cardholders.
   The prepaid legal services of Signature Group of
Schaumburg, Ill., are being offered to about one percent of
American Express Co.'s 25.6 million U.S. cardholders.
   The solicitation is the financial-services company's first
test of whether cardholders are interested in paying monthly
fees to be eligible for fixed-price legal services. Signature
Group is a unit of Montgomery Ward &amp; Co., which is a
subsidiary of Mobil Corp.
   For $6.75 a month, cardholders will be able to retain an
attorney to handle an uncontested divorce for $210, a will
and a minor's trust for $170 or a noncommercial real estate
closing for $185, as well as other services.
   Maureen Bailey, a spokeswoman for American Express, says
that if a second solicitation proves successful, the company
may expand the service to all cardholders by the end of the
year.
   ---
   KAYE SCHOLER WILL MERGE with a bankruptcy law firm.
   Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays &amp; Handler, a 355-lawyer New
York law firm, approved a proposal to merge with the
14-lawyer Levin &amp; Weintraub, Crames &amp; Edelman, also in New
York. All five Levin &amp; Weintraub partners will become
partners at Kaye Scholer. The merger will become effective
July 1.
   Levin &amp; Weintraub, one of the nation's best-known
bankruptcy law firms, primarily represents debtors, including
Revco D.S. Inc. and Manville Corp.
   Kaye Scholer's bankruptcy lawyers represent mostly
creditors, including Equitable Life Assurance Society of the
U.S.
   ---
   HBO IS ACCUSED of violating song copyrights.
   In a trial that began this week in Manhattan, Broadcast
Music Inc., a not-for-profit group that represents thousands
of composers, claims that Home Box Office is transmitting
movies and programs that use BMI-licensed songs without
permission.
   BMI has asked U.S. District Judge John Sprizzo to issue an
injunction barring HBO, a Time Warner Inc. subsidiary, from
broadcasting the programming unless it pays licensing fees
for the songs. BMI also asked the judge to rule that it can
require separate licensing agreements from national cable
programmers, such as HBO, and from the programmers' local
cable-system customers.
   HBO maintains that it has an oral agreement with BMI
allowing it to transmit movies using the songs. The company
has also charged that BMI is a monopoly and that the group
has taken steps to make it more difficult for the cable
industry to license its music.
   ---
   Wade Lambert and Arthur S. Hayes contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Honeywell Drops
   ITC Complaint
   Against Minolta
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   HON J.MNO
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Honeywell Inc. dropped a potentially ground-breaking
complaint it recently filed with the International Trade
Commission, under which it sought to block Minolta Camera Co.
from importing certain products into the U.S.
   The Minneapolis-based maker of control equipment that
three years ago filed a patent infringement suit against the
Japanese concern laid the petition before the ITC out of
frustration over the slow pace of that litigation, which it
hadn't expected to go to trial until 1992. The commission
could have provided relief in about 12 months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Friday, Honeywell disclosed that a federal court in
New Jersey had set an expedited trial date of Sept. 3, 1991,
for the civil suit. The company said the court also appointed
a special master to help keep the case on schedule.
   The new trial date means a resolution for the patent
dispute in the "same time frame" as the ITC action, a company
spokeswoman said. But it's "preferable," she said, because
"in addition to an injunction, it also offers money damages
if we win the case."
   But Honeywell's decision to drop its ITC petition means
that there won't be an expected legal exploration of the
so-called Section 337 Amendment of the 1988 Trade Act. Under
that amendment, U.S. companies can seek to block imports of
products that infringe on intellectual property; the ITC's
historic role has been in protecting U.S. producers from
unfair practices by overseas competitors.
   A recent General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade panel
found against that provision of the Trade Act, however, after
determining that the provision discriminates against foreign
companies. The U.S. accepted that ruling, although it is
continuing to address intellectual-property matters in the
current round of GATT talks.
   Honeywell's suit says it confidentially provided Minolta
with information for making auto-focus modules with the
understanding that the Osaka, Japan, concern would later
incorporate Honeywell-made modules in its cameras. The suit
also charges that while absorbing this knowledge, Minolta
secretly conducted its own parallel development effort and,
in 1985, introduced products based on Honeywell technology.
   Asked whether the ITC complaint was designed to turn up
the pressure for getting its civil case heard, the
spokeswoman heatedly denied the suggestion. Honeywell was
surprised by the court's move, she said, adding that the
company had been pursuing relief through the court and the
ITC on a "parallel" basis.
   In disclosing its decision, Honeywell said, "We recognize
that our ITC complaint would have been an important test case
to clarify Congress's intent in amending Section 337 to
protect American technological know-how." The company added
that it "continues to believe that the ITC is an important
and appropriate forum" for protecting U.S. companies'
intellectual property.
   Minolta said that it hopes Honeywell will be encouraged to
"discontinue its efforts to drag this straightforward patent
dispute into the political arena." Minolta called Honeywell's
civil complaint "unfounded" and said it is confident "we will
prevail" when the issue comes to trial next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   U.S. Heads for New Furor as It Prepares
   Plan to Curb Logging in Owl Habitat
   ----
   By Ken Wells and Barbara Rosewicz
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Bush administration tomorrow may ruffle more feathers
than it soothes when it announces its preliminary plan to
regulate logging on millions of acres of Pacific Northwest
national forests to preserve the northern spotted owl.
   As long expected, the owl on Friday was declared
threatened and will be placed under the protection of the
federal Endangered Species Act on July 23.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Timber interests and environmentalists, locked in a long
and often bitter dispute over the owl, are girding for a
compromise plan that neither side may find satisfactory. At
least one Pacific Northwest timber group, predicting the
near-term loss of as many as 50,000 jobs, already has vowed
to sue to repeal the owl's designation as threatened. The
Sierra Club, meanwhile, said it won't hesitate to march into
court if the plan by the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of
Land Management seems based more on politics than on science.
   The administration, finding itself in the middle of this
rancorous debate, has indicated for weeks that it is seeking
middle ground that will allow it to protect the owl and jobs
at the same time.
   "I believe there is room in the world for both owls and
loggers," said John Turner, director of the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service, which is responsible for protecting
endangered and threatened species.
   Mr. Turner echoed the sentiments of Interior Secretary
Manuel Lujan, who pledged that the management guidelines
presented tomorrow will balance preservation with the need to
limit disruption "in the communities and lives of the
residents of the Pacific Northwest."
   Those close to the situation said the delay between
Friday's announcement of the owl's listing and today's
unveiling of a tentative management plan reflects a deep
division among competing federal agencies over those very
issues. The Forest Service is believed to favor a plan --
championed by environmentalists -- that would essentially
curb timber harvesting on as much as three million acres of
old-growth forests throughout the owl's range in Washington,
Oregon and northern California. The BLM and some Interior
Department officials favor a less restrictive approach
designed to soothe industry critics.
   One federal study has estimated the species, with perhaps
2,000 nesting pairs remaining, needs at least 8.4 million
acres of old-growth habitat to survive. Because about 5.4
million such acres are in national parks or wilderness areas
already off limits to logging, an additional three million
acres would need to be set aside. Of that amount, 90% is on
federal lands, with the rest under state or private control.
   The news of the owl's listing itself was greeted with
gloom in the redwood logging corridors from California to the
Canadian border. While federal authorities predicted the move
will have little effect on this year's federal timber
harvest, there is little doubt that -- even under an
acceptable compromise -- substantial acreage will be
withdrawn from logging.
   Pessimists, such as Barry Polsky, a spokesman for the
American Forest Resource Alliance, a timber supply trade
group, predicted a "very draconian" owl preservation plan
with enormous impact on jobs. William Dennison, president of
the Timber Association of California, agreed, asserting that
the owl's threatened status would mean the annual loss of
$770 million of timber in that state alone.
   "The forest industry is the fall guy," said Richard
Whitmore, general manager of Mount Baker Plywood Inc., a
Bellingham, Wash., company with about 220 employees. "We're
going to get hurt. Families are going to get hurt. . . .
That's what it boils down to."
   "We feel like there's already plenty (of old growth) set
aside," added Tom Mayr, a principal in Mayr Brothers Logging
Co., a Hoquiam, Wash., logging concern that gets 95% of its
timber from national forests. He predicted a severe impact on
his 190 employees from reduced timber harvests.
   Environmentalists say they aren't unsympathetic to those
concerns but note that the push to list the owl resulted from
accelerated clear-cutting of the remnants of once-vast
redwood forests that stretched from California to Canada. By
one estimate, less than 10% of the original old growth
remains; the spotted owl, in carving out its evolutionary
niche, has come to be dependent on food species that thrive
under old-growth canopy. It can't survive anywhere else.
   Environmentalists, in fact, for several years have pushed
a package of proposals that they say would mitigate the loss
of jobs resulting from the owl's listing. Among them would be
a ban on the export of logs from state and federal lands, a
practice that takes jobs away from regional sawmills. They
also have suggested a massive reforestation plan for idle
Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management lands that would
provide jobs as well as long-term sources of timber for
Pacific Northwest mills.
   ---
   Douglas Gantenbein contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Circle K Names
   Brown, a Lawyer,
   To Chairman's Post
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CKP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Circle K Corp., which is operating under Chapter 11
bankruptcy-law protection from creditors, said Bart A. Brown
Jr. was elected chairman.
   The post had been vacant since the May 7 resignation of
Karl Eller, who, as chairman and chief executive officer, led
the Phoenix, Ariz.-based convenience-store chain through a
period of frenzied and ultimately unsustainable growth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 58-year-old Mr. Brown, a tax and business law
specialist, will take a leave of absence from the Cincinnati
law firm Keating, Muething &amp; Klekamp, where he is a senior
partner, a Circle K spokesman said.
   Keating Muething -- its past partners include Charles
Keating, the prominent onetime thrift executive -- is one of
the principal law firms for the Cincinnati financier Carl
Lindner's American Financial Corp. Mr. Lindner, through
American Financial and other interests, is Circle K's largest
shareholder, with a 38% stake, and a substantial creditor.
   William A. Franke, a Circle K director, said Mr. Brown was
chosen to be chairman because, "It was felt that he had the
necessary skills to manage a relatively large and complicated
rehabilitation."
   Circle K operates the nation's second-largest chain of
convenience stores. It filed last month for protection from
creditors' lawsuits under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code, listing assets of $1.94 billion and
liabilities of $1.59 billion as of Jan. 31. Under Chapter 11,
a company continues to operate, while trying to work out
arrangements with creditors to pay its debts.
   Mr. Franke, a Phoenix investor, is the chairman of a newly
created, three-member "committee of independent directors" of
Circle K who aren't directly tied to Mr. Lindner. Circle K's
four other directors include Mr. Lindner and his son, Keith
E. Lindner. Mr. Franke said Mr. Brown has performed only "a
very limited amount of work for the Lindner interests" as a
partner at Keating Muething. Mr. Brown couldn't be reached to
comment.
   Mr. Franke said Mr. Brown will work on negotiations with
creditors, while Robert A. Dearth, who was named president
last January, will look after company operations. Mr. Franke
said the chief executive officer's post has been left vacant
since Mr. Eller's departure, because both Mr. Dearth and Mr.
Brown are new to the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   Keep Lawyers -- and Legal Fees -- on a Leash
   ----
   By Hal O. Carroll
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   The cost of legal defense in the U.S. has become a
significant factor in evaluating the competitiveness of U.S.
operations. One multinational manufacturing company based in
France sells fewer than 25% of its products in the U.S. Yet
90% of its legal and insurance expenses were incurred here.
There are 30 times as many lawsuits per capita in the U.S. as
in Japan.
   In addition to placing U.S. operations at a competitive
disadvantage in the global marketplace, fear of exposure to
catastrophic jury awards often distorts major strategic or
product-development decisions. In a recent Conference Board
survey, 47% of the firms contacted reported having
discontinued at least one product line because of concerns
about liability litigation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Large verdicts catch the headlines, but the real cost of
litigation is the cost of defending cases. By restructuring
the purchasing and use of legal services, corporations can
bring costs down while preserving or improving the quality of
their legal services. The following suggestions refer
specifically to litigation, but the approach outlined here
can be applied to all legal services.
   -- Solicit bids, and hire more than one firm. Insurers
have solicited bids on legal costs for decades. But many
companies that expect and get substantial discounts on the
purchase of large quantities of equipment pay the full rate
charged by expensive law firms. Yet law firms will often
reduce their hourly rate by 30% or 40% in exchange for a
commitment for a minimum amount of work.
   Soliciting bids introduces a welcome element of
competition into the process, but it is only a beginning. If
the bid is awarded to a single firm, the effect of price
competition ends as soon as the bid is awarded and the firm
makes itself indispensable. The experience of the military
with sole source contracts illustrates the foolishness of
giving all legal work to a single firm, even one selected by
a bidding process.
   -- Avoid excessive delegation. Companies that face
litigation in many states often employ lawyers in each state,
as well as one or more national or regional "supervising
counsel" to coordinate the work of the others. This is
wasteful. Coordination should come entirely from inside the
corporation, thereby eliminating one layer of administration.
   -- Bring control of litigation in-house through policies
and guidelines. Eliminating national supervising counsel does
away with a layer of bureaucracy, but doesn't by itself bring
control of legal services inside the corporation. Often the
outside lawyers have near complete power to decide which
services the client will buy and how much it will pay.
   The company must adopt a detailed set of criteria for when
specific work should be done, how long it should take and
what it should cost. The starting point is that senior
management must get involved in the control of legal costs.
Legal expenses are too important -- and too high -- to be
left to the lawyers. If purchasing is left to staff
attorneys, they and the outside attorneys as suppliers tend
to settle into patterns of doing business that are
comfortable but costly.
   -- Institute a legal triage system: sort cases by exposure
risk. In the medical profession, "triage" is the sorting of
injured persons according to the seriousness of their
injuries. Seriousness in litigation is a function of the size
of the possible verdict or settlement and the probability of
that outcome. The precise categories depend on the nature of
the litigation, but as a general rule, cases can be sorted
into three categories, and each category should be handled
differently:
   a) Low exposure cases should be handled by paralegals, for
quick settlement. These cases involve claims for small
amounts of money. They are typified by breach of warranty
cases with no personal injuries. In-house paralegal
assistants can be trained to handle these and given authority
to settle them up to a specific amount.
   b) Mid-range exposure cases should be handled by newer
attorneys. These cases become a training ground for new law
firms, which will first bid against one another and then
eventually compete with more experienced lawyers to handle
high exposure cases.
   c) High exposure cases should be entrusted to experienced
trial counsel. For these cases, as for the others, there
should be more than one law firm, to preserve competition.
   -- Senior management should participate in setting
litigation defense policy. A lawyer who wins is popular with
the client; a lawyer who loses is not. For the lawyer,
therefore, the question of how much to do to win a case is
always an easy one: do everything possible. This may be a
sensible approach if the company has only one lawsuit, but it
doesn't work for a company with the full range of legal
problems.
   All litigation decisions involve risks. Defending each and
every case results in legal fees out of proportion to the
exposure. On the other hand, settling every case will quickly
identify the corporation as an easy mark and settlement costs
will go up. A balance is necessary.
   -- Implement a detailed cost monitoring system. The use of
computers makes it possible to set up a detailed cost
monitoring system. The company can require law firms to
submit invoices with services categorized in a way that
permits detailed analysis of time and cost. The analysis
program will make it possible to perform detailed evaluations
of the invoices, comparing the cost of similar services by
different firms or by the same firm in different cases or at
different times in the same case. The service categories
would include, as examples: meetings, pleading preparation,
motion hearings, research, witness preparation, dispositions
and preparation of answers to interrogatories.
   Controlling legal expenses is not just a task for the
legal department. The need for legal services will not go
away, but if senior management will take an active role in
reviewing the way the work is handled, in selecting among the
alternatives to find the most cost-effective approach and in
monitoring the result, it can substantially reduce the cost
of those services.
   ---
   Mr. Carroll is an attorney practicing in Pinckney,
Michigan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Schafer Value Trust Inc.:
   Big Board to Suspend Trade
   Of Fund's Common Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SAT
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The New York Stock Exchange said it will suspend trading
on the common stock of Schafer Value Trust Inc. before the
opening July 5.
   The closed-end investment fund declared a liquidating
distribution of $10.25 a share, payable July 5, to stock of
record Wednesday. As a result of the dividend, the market
value of the shares will be less than $5 million, the
exchange said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The exchange said it would apply to the Securities and
Exchange Commission to delist Schafer, a routine action when
the market value of publicly held shares falls below $5
million.
   In Big Board trading Friday, Schafer closed unchanged at
$10.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pamour Group:
   Giant Yellowknife Chairman
   To Gain Additional Titles
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   A.GTR T.ROL T.PMX WNEWS GYK
</CO>
<LP>
   Giant Yellowknife Mines Ltd., Toronto, said Chairman
Robert Needham will assume additional positions of president
and chief executive officer, effective July 1.
   The gold mining company chairman succeeds Adrian Fleming,
who will remain as a director. Mr. Needham also will serve in
similar positions at other companies in the Pamour Group, the
parent company of Giant Yellowknife.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move follows the recent sale by Australia's Giant
Resources Ltd. of its interests in the Pamour Group to Royal
Oak Resources Ltd. of Calgary, Alberta.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Peace Activist
   As Military Chief?
   Wait, It Gets Odder
   ---
   Pastor Eppelmann Becomes
   A Most Unlikely Defender
   Of East Germany's Army
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WINTERSHEIDE, West Germany -- As defense minister of East
Germany, Rainer Eppelmann presides over the Warsaw Pact's
second most potent military. He has named a Soviet-trained
Communist as his chief of staff. At a recent gathering of the
uniformed brass of Eastern Europe, he tried gamely to march
in step.
   All of which seems pretty unusual for a man who, until a
few months ago, was one of East Germany's most prominent
peace activists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But even more unusual -- and worrisome for the West -- is
this: The pacifist pastor, who was supposed to aggressively
dismantle East Germany's military, has instead become its
biggest defender.
   Critics think maybe those big dinners did it. One West
German official takes part of the blame for that. He says
West Germany's military erred by inviting Mr. Eppelmann and
other East German defense officials to Western conferences in
places like Paris and Brussels.
   There, the official frets, they were wined and dined in a
manner that has given them incentive not to abolish their own
power in a unified Germany. "He likes driving in his official
car, flying in his official air force plane and, most of all,
acting like and being treated like a minister," says the
official.
   Minister Eppelmann sees this as just another example of
the West putting down his fellow East Germans. He plaintively
replies, Merchant of Venice-style: "Do not they have souls,
do not they have feelings, their own values, desire for
equality and dreams for the same opportunities in a future
Germany?"
   Western officials and many East Germans are worried about
what one West German official calls "the conversion of Pastor
Eppelmann." At the stairwell of his church, disappointed
followers have written graffiti: "Rainer Out."
   "I always knew that Eppelmann was vain," East German peace
activist Barbara Bohley told a West German newspaper, "but I
never knew he was that vain."
   But many of those who know him best consider Mr.
Eppelmann's actions totally in character for a Protestant
minister who had negotiated tricky waters for years in his
struggle against the state and thus gained a taste for
politics.
   "He has remained true to his goals, but he is very
flexible about how he gains them," says Manfred Stolper, a
lay leader in Mr. Eppelmann's church who has known him for
years. "He feels responsible for the officers. But more than
that, he loves being at the center of decision-making. He is
enjoying himself. He knows the most difficult goals are not
gained overnight."
   Says Mr. Eppelmann: "When Rainer Eppelmann went his way in
the 1970s, he felt he was one who was plowing and planting,
and with luck he would see the seeds grow. But now I belong
to the harvest. I can only say, it is a joy to be alive."
   Mr. Eppelmann, 47 years old, was 18 when the wall went up,
and it changed everything for him. He was a student at a West
Berlin school at the time, hoping to become a pilot or
architect. Instead, he returned to East Germany and became an
apprentice to a bricklayer, then studied construction
engineering.
   In the late 1960s, he was drafted into the army, but he
refused to take the oath of allegiance to communism. He was
jailed for eight months, and got out only by agreeing to work
for 18 months with an army construction brigade.
   He turned to religion as the only profession relatively
uncontrolled by authorities, and began studying theology in
1969. For 15 years, he has been the master of East Berlin's
large Samaritan Church, although he is on a leave of absence.
   Under his leadership, the Samaritan Church was the
rallying point for the unofficial peace movement from which a
good share of last October's revolution grew.
   In the middle of the 1970s, he started the "blues fair," a
musical event at the church where politics was often
discussed. Thousands of East Germans came each year. In 1982,
he started the "Berlin Appeal -- Bring Peace without
Weapons." He was imprisoned for several days.
   In 1989, he founded the Democratic Awakening Party, which
was an effort to channel spontaneous demonstrations into
established structures. In the March elections, Mr.
Eppelmann's small party joined the coalition that won.
   Many of the leading forces in the East German government
are churchmen, partly because they are the only ones who had
any organizational or leadership experience -- and Mr.
Eppelmann was considered the hardest driving and perhaps most
egotistical of them.
   Even so, his appointment as defense minister in the
coalition government was startling -- especially to some
members of the military itself. He wasn't surprised when an
officer warned him that some generals were plotting against
him.
   For a time, the first peacenik and cleric to rule over any
country's military carried a pistol to defend himself against
his new flock, the East German officer corps.
   "I had perhaps the most perilous position in the cabinet
because of the ingrained interests I was confronting," he
said over lunch at this wooded retreat near Bonn, where he
was addressing an audience of conservative academicians and
some former West German military officers. "But I'm not as
worried anymore."
   Now, it is the West that is worried about Mr. Eppelmann.
The way he sees it, the East German army serves as his best
leverage to do away with both the Warsaw Pact and the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization -- long a goal of the peace
movement. So to the surprise of many -- and dismay in the
West -- he has vowed to retain the National People's Army
until both military alliances are abolished.
   "Even after unification," he says, "there must be a second
Germany army on East German territory that isn't integrated
into any military alliance." West German officials fear that
he is complicating reunification talks that resumed last week
in Berlin and encouraging foot-dragging by the Soviets.
   Speaking in May before 480 of his Soviet-trained officers
-- all of whom were required to be members of the Communist
Party -- Mr. Eppelmann promised to defend their jobs and
their army. The minister used his new pulpit to turn angry
grumbling ahead of his speech into a standing ovation.
   The officers were also pleased when he named Adm. Theodor
Hoffman, also Communist and Soviet-trained, as chief of
staff. An East German official said it was part of the deal
the shrewd pastor struck to get the army's blessing for the
job.
   Some people around Germany, both East and West, say Mr.
Eppelmann has been seduced by power and perks. His job brings
with it a villa and swimming pool, an official plane and
plenty of Western trips, on which he often brings his wife.
"He knows once the East German army ceases to exist, then so
does his power," says one West German official.
   When he landed at Bonn airport for the conference here,
the East German ambassador's Zil limousine and the more
modest car of the conference organizer, Guenther Wagenlehner,
were waiting for him. Mr. Eppelmann decided to invite the
organizer to join him in the limousine. "He likes being a
minister," says Mr. Wagenlehner.
   With relish, Mr. Eppelmann recounted for Mr. Wagenlehner
tales of his participation at the recent Warsaw Pact summit
-- how, standing out in a blue cap, he tried uncomfortably,
and perhaps symbolically, to match their military stride.
   Mr. Eppelmann says his critics are off base. "I don't know
why Rainer Eppelmann is always misunderstood," he says.
"Maybe it is because I don't speak German well enough." He
says he has learned that the only way to change institutions
is to get inside them.
   He says most of the army's officers have pledged loyalty
to East Germany's newly democratic government and will soon
take a new oath to prove it. He has also negotiated the
cancellation of new deliveries of weapons from the Soviets,
saving several billion dollars.
   He proudly calls himself the world's first "disarmament
minister." The East German army has already been reduced from
170,000 to 135,000, and he intends to reduce it further, to
100,000. To the chagrin of many of his officers, he has
renamed his embassy's military attaches "attaches for peace
and disarmament."
   He also has replaced Communist military medals, which bore
names like Marx and Lenin, with new ones. There's the new
Disarmament Medal. And there's the Order of Stauffenberg,
named for the officer who tried to assassinate Hitler.
   Mr. Eppelmann says Western attempts to abolish his army
too quickly are part of a more worrisome West German trend of
dismissing everything built by East Germany as lacking worth.
He strikes a chord with East Germans when he complains that
their interests are sometimes ignored by West Germans whose
political parties, institutions, banks and companies are
slowly taking over East Germany.
   "We learned painfully in the peace movement how people
tried to turn us into second-class citizens," he says. "We
didn't carry out a peaceful revolution only to become
second-class citizens again."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Wesbanco Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WSBC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WESBANCO Inc. (Wheeling, W.Va.) -- James C. Gardill,
formerly vice chairman of this bank holding company, was
named chairman. Mr. Gardill, 43 years old, succeeds Roland L.
Hobbs, 57, who resigned earlier this month, but continues on
the board and is a member of the executive committee. Thomas
G. Dove, 63, continues as chief executive officer and
president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   PHILIP MORRIS AGREED to acquire 80% of Swiss coffee and
chocolate maker Jacobs Suchard for $3.8 billion. Suchard's
trove of brands, including Toblerone chocolate, will
significantly strengthen the U.S. firm's European presence
before trade barriers fall in 1992 and will help lessen the
company's dependence on tobacco sales in the U.S.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Orders for durable goods leaped 3.9% in May, suggesting to
some that the manufacturing sector is stabilizing. But other
parts of the economy may be softening; personal income rose
only 0.3% in the month, while personal spending was flat.
                                                                                                       

   Machine tool orders dropped 29% in May from a high April
rate but were above a year earlier.
   ---
   The Dow Jones industrials tumbled 44.55 points Friday to
2857.18, the average's lowest level since Memorial Day. The
sell-off in stocks pushed bond prices modestly higher.
   ---
   USX has held "exploratory" talks with foreign investors
about the possible sale of some of its steel operations.
USX's chairman played down the likelihood of such a move but
said the firm's future is in energy.
   ---
   First Brands' controlling shareholders are seeking to sell
all or part of the consumer-products firm. Its stock jumped
on the annnouncement.
   ---
   Zinc and lead prices are expected to rise sharply if new
labor contracts aren't reached this week at Canada's two
largest producers, Cominco Ltd. and Noranda Inc.'s Brunswick
unit.
   ---
   NBC may overhaul its daytime schedule, perhaps expanding
the "Today" show to three hours.
   ---
   The EPA is expected to propose today that second-hand
smoke be declared a human carcinogen, which could encourage
more firms to adopt total workplace bans on smoking.
   ---
   The prison term for former Drexel trading assistant Lisa
Jones was reduced to 10 months from 18 months.
   ---
   Trump gained the consent of three Japanese banks for a
bailout loan. The proposal's fate now appears to rest with
two European banks.
   ---
   Circle K named Cincinnati lawyer Bart Brown to be
chairman, succeeding Karl Eller, who quit in May.
   ---
   Bank of New England named a new head of its main unit as
part of a continuing shuffling of management.
   ---
   Northrop and McDonnell unveiled their version of the Air
Force's next-generation fighter. But the jet is emerging just
as lawmakers question how much such a warplane is needed.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 172,570,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2857.18, off 44.55; transportation 1164.23, off 12.41;
utilities 208.19, off 1.00.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3421.24, up
4.52.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 130.66, off 0.51;
spot index 130.96, off 0.36.
   Dollar: 154.85 yen, up 0.05; 1.6745 marks, off 0.0033.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Indonesia Awaits Development
   ---
   Despite Jakarta's Efforts,
   Area Lags Behind West
   ----
   By Richard Borsuk
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ANAIWOI, Indonesia -- The coastline in this part of
southern Sulawesi offers a good setting for picture postcards
of tranquil tropical life. But views of thatch-roofed
dwellings amid swaying coconut trees wouldn't show the
reality behind the idyllic facade.
   There's no running water and no electricity. The nearest
doctor is an hour away. While villagers make a living, they
aren't thriving.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For residents like 45-year-old Condoh, whose income comes
from coconuts and rice, life is better than it was in the
past. Road improvements, for instance, make it easier to get
to the hospital. But, "There are many problems, and we aren't
satisfied," the father of four says. "There's not enough
money for school fees."
   Anaiwoi is one of hundreds of Indonesian villages where
people generally have higher living standards than in the
past but remain relatively poor. A disproportionate
percentage of such villages are in the eastern half of the
archipelago, where resources are limited and problems with
the infrastructure seem endless. Most eastern provinces are
handicapped by poor soil and inadequate rainfall, so the
region can produce only meager crops compared with fertile
Java and Bali.
   Authorities in Jakarta acknowledge that eastern Indonesia
lags considerably behind the country's western region, which
has more sources of income and fewer isolated districts.
President Suharto, in his annual budget speech in January,
talked of the need to help eastern Indonesia catch up.
   His statement has prompted a host of seminars urging
investors to "go east" and calling on Jakarta authorities to
give the region special help. There will be help, but it's
unlikely to be particularly special or substantial. Making a
chain of widespread islands attractive for investment is a
daunting task requiring lots of money and political will.
Many political analysts, economists and businessmen doubt
there will be sufficient supplies of either.
   They think the long-term prospects for eastern Indonesia
will improve, but it may lag further behind in the short
term. They believe government spending, though being markedly
increased, may remain insufficient to make much difference.
And some suggest the government may end up mainly paying lip
service to helping a region that doesn't carry much clout in
the capital.
   Helping eastern Indonesia isn't a burning issue, though
one former governor from the area says there could be
political problems if its people don't feel they're getting a
better deal from Jakarta. Continued neglect "can create bad
feelings against the central government," says ex-Gov. Arnold
Baramuli, now a Jakarta-based businessman. "In the past, the
government has mostly just talked about helping."
   The government is now doing more than talk. For the year
that began April 1, budgets for transport and communication
in eastern provinces more than quadrupled from last year.
While the increases have been commended by economists, Mr.
Baramuli dismisses the rises as "meaningless"; he contends
that expenditure in the east remains about the same as for
two resource-rich provinces of Sumatra.
   Mr. Baramuli advocates a Marshall Plan for eastern
Indonesia that involves years of massive spending and special
aid programs -- something government is hardly likely to
undertake. Other businessmen have more modest goals: They
want tax holidays and other investment incentives such as
government subsidies to cut loan rates and high transport
costs.
   "Industry won't come here if incentives are only the same
as the rest of Indonesia," says Jusuf Kalla, managing
director of a trading company in Ujung Pandang and chairman
of the South Sulawesi chapter of the Indonesian Chamber of
Commerce. "All of Indonesia must get some chance, not just
Jakarta and Surabaya."
   Special treatment for eastern Indonesia is "badly needed,"
says Basri Hasanuddin, rector of Ujung Pandang's Hasanuddin
University, the region's largest state university.
Infrastructure in the east, he adds, "is very, very poor
compared with Java." And South Sulawesi Gov. Achmad Amiruddin
says: "If the government doesn't give us incentives, we can't
compete with (western Indonesia) because of our higher
costs."
   In Jakarta, ministers have called for as much help as
possible for eastern Indonesia -- but government planners
hint that this is likely to amount primarily to steadily
larger budget allocations and not special incentives.
   "We'll keep all the suggestions in mind," a senior
official of the National Development Planning Board says,
"but it's difficult to treat one region in a different way
from others." There are poor provinces in the west, he notes,
that would feel discriminated against if special incentives
are given in the east.
   Some economists doubt special incentives should be given.
Iwan J. Azis of the University of Indonesia says extending
investment incentives to the east could harm the overall
national economic growth rate. "You would bring down the
national efficiency by developing the naturally less
efficient areas," he says. Businessmen in eastern Indonesia
argue that if their areas aren't better developed, the
imbalance with Java will worsen, putting an unbearable burden
on Indonesia's most populous island -- which already accounts
for 60% of the population even though it has only 7% of the
land area.
   Industrial investment has been booming in Indonesia in the
past three years, but most of it is coming to Jakarta and
other urban areas in Java. Sulawesi hasn't benefited; other
than a shrimp farm and a state-owned nickel smelter, there
isn't any industry near Mr. Condoh's village.
   By sheer numbers, most poor Indonesians live in Java, but
in terms of percentage of the population, poverty is more
widespread in eastern Indonesia. A draft World Bank report on
poverty alleviation, completed last December, said while
Indonesia was doing a good job in many ways, poverty was
increasing in some eastern provinces. The draft included the
bank's calculations that the percentage of the population in
poverty in Southeast Sulawesi, for example, increased to 45%
in 1987 from 36% in 1984.
   (The bank's final report, completed last month, used
different criteria for defining poverty and contained a more
upbeat assessment. The statement in the draft about poverty
increasing in the east was dropped; the final report says
only that the incidence of poverty in the region "remains
high.")
   Government officials in the east argue that their growth
has been slowed by history as well as geography and
resources. Some provinces, such as East Timor, are relatively
new with almost no past economic development. Irian Jaya,
another new province, has huge infrastructure problems and a
population almost wholly without education. Provinces of
Sulawesi, far advanced by comparison, have been held back by
decades of disturbances; Islamic insurgents created chaos
during the 1950s and 1960s.
   "Our potential is high, but we had a big problem before
with unrest that has held us back," says Achmad Amiruddin,
the South Sulawesi governor. "There was no peace from World
War II till 1970."
   Given the historical problems, some officials maintain
that eastern Indonesia hasn't done badly at all. Central
government funds have built schools, a network of roads and
health clinics in every district -- though some are in a poor
condition.
   "We've done a lot with little money," says Alala, governor
of Southeast Sulawesi. "Can you imagine how well we'll do if
we have a lot of money?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environmental Companies, Encouraged
   By Public Interest, Plan Initial Offerings
   ----
   By Neal Lipschutz
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6D
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- More environmental companies are planning
initial stock sales in light of strong investor interest in
the sector and the success of earlier issues.
   With an amended federal Clean Air Act moving through
Congress and public desire to improve and protect the
environment on the upswing, analysts say companies are eager
to take advantage of the positive climate by selling stock.
In addition, there's the perception among many market
analysts that pollution control is one of the few growth
sectors in a sluggish economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "People have a thirst for pure environmental plays," says
David Beckwith, one of two portfolio managers who run the
Freedom Environmental Fund.
   Adds Al Hadhazy, senior analyst for the newsletter, "New
Issues": "All sorts of `green' companies have come to market
this year. The timing is especially fortunate and certainly a
factor in the decision to go public."
   At least two more pollution-control offers are well along
in the IPO pipeline. Environmental Elements Corp. plans to
sell 2.3 million shares at $14 to $16 each, while Horsehead
Resource Development Co. plans about a 3.3 million share
offer at $10 to $12 a share.
   The Horsehead deal is scheduled for this week, while the
Environmental Elements offer is set to come to market by
mid-July, according to a syndicate official at Kidder Peabody
&amp; Co., book-running lead underwriter for both deals.
   Companies need look only at the success of some recent
environmental IPO's to take heart. Sanifill Inc. sold two
million common shares in mid-April at $9.50 each. They are
now trading at 19 3/8. Mid-American Waste Systems Inc. sold
three million shares about a month ago at $24 each. They now
trade at 37 1/2. And Tetra Technologies Inc. sold 2.4 million
shares in April at $10 each. They now are traded at 14.
   Five IPO's for what Securities Data Co. categorizes as
"waste refuse system" companies have come to market so far in
1990 (all since April) for an aggregate $130.6 million. In
all of 1989, five companies in this category went public,
raising $123 million.
   "There are just a few industries that have positive
underlying fundamentals because we're in a slow-growth
economy," says Robert Natale, who tracks new issues for
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
   Along with pollution-control companies, he cites in this
category high technology, telecommunication, and, until
recently, energy services firms.
   These sectors "have been the beneficiaries of the need to
place cash," and have provided about 80% of this year's
IPO's, says Mr. Natale.
   As for pollution-control stocks, one big question is when
climbing prices will be considered out of line and a
correction set in.
   Analysts are loath to pick a turning point, and many think
upward momentum for clean-up stocks will continue for a
while.
   "Conventional wisdom never goes on forever," says Mr.
Beckwith, of the Freedom Environmental Fund. He says that
already on some days, stock market investors rotate out of
environmental stocks into other sectors.
   The mutual fund's more than $60 million in assets aren't
strictly in U.S. pollution-control stocks, one way to cushion
an eventual downturn in the sector. Mr. Beckwith says 30% of
the fund's investments are in foreign environmental
companies, providing geographic diversity. Also, about 33% of
investments are in what Mr. Beckwith calls companies
providing "superior alternatives" as far as the environment
goes.
   The latter group includes stocks such as those of
alternative energy producers and makers of natural
pesticides.
   The fund maintains about 5% to 10% of its proceeds in
cash, and while Mr. Beckwith frets about a "herd mentality"
and says clean-up stocks tend to trade as a group, he's
bullish on the long-term growth prospects of such companies,
anticipating significant increases in monies spent in the
future to clean up and better preserve the environment.
   Environmental Elements' planned 2.3 million share initial
offer (1.6 million from the company, 700,000 from holders)
represents a 34.5% stake. The company provides large-scale
air pollution-control systems, mainly for electric utilities,
private power generators, the pulp and paper industry and
municipal solid waste incinerators.
   The company was organized in March 1983 for a management
buy-out of the environmental services subsidiary of Koppers
Co. It and its predecessors have been in the air
pollution-control business since 1946.
   The company says in its preliminary prospectus that
"currently proposed amendments to the federal Clean Air Act,
if enacted, will further increase demand for its systems and
technologies by imposing more stringent air pollution-control
standards."
   The company had profit from continuing operations of $1.1
million in the year ended March 31, or 20 cents a share, on
sales of $57.9 million. That compares with a loss of $1.4
million, or 37 cents a share, on sales of $46.1 million in
the prior fiscal year.
   Mr. Natale of S&amp;P recommends a "quick flip" for the
Environmental Elements IPO. He says the company's margins
have improved since it discontinued manufacturing operations,
but he questions how much the company can ask for its
services from customers with manufacturing and installation
of systems done by subcontractors.
   Environmental Elements says in its prospectus that it
designs and engineers the air pollution-control systems,
supervises fabrication and installation and provides project
management and quality control.
   On the plus side, Mr. Natale notes the company's backlog
increased 91% to about $103 million in fiscal 1990 after a
74% gain the prior year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   U.S., Allies to Help Moscow Save Face
   ---
   Moves Aimed at Easing
   Acceptance of German Unity
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger and Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   EAST BERLIN -- The U.S. and its European allies plan to
use some coming events to help Moscow swallow the humiliating
loss of East Germany.
   Following a meeting of the four World War II victors and
the two Germanys here Friday on German unification, there was
a consensus that the merger of the two Germanys has acquired
a breakneck momentum, and that despite Moscow's latest
foot-dragging effort, its leverage to block it is declining
rapidly. But the Western allies want to bolster besieged
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev to allow him to complete
the Soviet retreat from Eastern Europe and to carry out a
series of sweeping arms-control reductions while he still
retains domestic political control.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At a North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting in London
next month, the allies will focus on reshaping the alliance
to make it less threatening militarily to the Soviet Union --
a step the Soviets are urging. At a meeting of European
Community heads of government in Dublin this week and at next
month's economic summit in Houston of the major
industrialized countries, Western leaders will discuss
economic assistance for the Soviets. And there is optimism
about completing a conventional arms-reduction pact by this
fall, in part because it gives Moscow "some political cover
for withdrawals they are going to have to make in any event,"
said a senior American official.
   Mr. Gorbachev is facing serious domestic opposition to
German unification on the West's terms. This pressure adds to
the sharp criticism over his handling of the Soviet economy.
Critics on Mr. Gorbachev's political left welcome freedom for
the German people but are concerned that the way unification
is taking place will produce a powerful Germany, according to
Anatoly Sobchak, the mayor of Leningrad, who recently spoke
at Lewis and Clark College's law school in Portland, Ore.
   But Mr. Sobchak said the real danger to Mr. Gorbachev is
from the political right and their allies in the military who
fear Mr. Gorbachev is giving away their war gains. Last week
at the Russian republic's party congress, Gen. Albert
Makashov, commander of the Volga-Ural military district,
complained that "The Soviet army is being driven without
combat out of the countries that our fathers liberated from
fascism." Mr. Gorbachev faces a tough test during a national
party congress next month.
   The Soviets underscored this pressure during Friday's
meeting here by presenting a unification plan that would
require a continuing presence of occupation forces for as
long as five years following unification. The plan was
opposed by the U.S., France, Britain and West Germany, at the
meeting of the four World War II victors and the two Germanys
-- known as the "two-plus-four" talks.
   U.S. and European officials were quick to tell reporters
that the Soviet hard-line proposal was mainly for Soviet
domestic consumption. Indeed, Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze, in a joint press conference ending the
two-plus-four meeting, weakened his own proposal by noting
that "the provisions in our draft are not regarded by us as
the final truth. We are ready to seek compromise approaches."
   Nevertheless, one U.S. official who specializes in Soviet
affairs said it is difficult to calculate how much pressure
will be exerted on Mr. Gorbachev to resist German
unification. The official added that because of the political
changes that have taken place in Moscow permitting open
criticism, Mr. Gorbachev himself may not know how far he can
go. The official noted that beginning last February, Yigor
Ligachev, a Politburo member who is Mr. Gorbachev's leading
conservative critic, began publicly blaming Mr. Gorbachev for
"losing" Eastern Europe.
   It is clear in Berlin how quickly Soviet leverage over
German unification is evaporating. Last Friday's ceremony
removing Checkpoint Charlie, a well-known crossing point
between East and West, symbolized reunification. Several
yards away, providing a symbol of declining Soviet influence,
some youthful entrepreneurs were selling Soviet military
uniforms displayed on hangers attached to a remnant of the
Berlin wall.
   Events are moving rapidly. German economic unification is
set for next week, the Western allies hope German unification
will be endorsed at a 35-nation conference in late fall and
West German leaders predict that all-German elections will
take place in December.
   Resisting this process could be a dangerous game for the
Soviets. Moscow sees West Germany as its most important
source of help for economic rebuilding and trade. Bonn last
week agreed to guarantee a bank credit for the Soviets
totaling five billion West German marks ($2.98 billion), the
largest ever granted to Moscow by anyone. And this week's
edition of the weekly Der Spiegel says that West German
Chancellor Helmut Kohl is planning to present a much larger
aid package -- totaling 25 to 30 billion marks -- during a
visit to Moscow in late July.
   At the same time, the leverage provided by 380,000 Soviet
troops in East Germany also is growing weaker. The first
demonstrations ever against Moscow's troops there, which took
place earlier this year, underline the danger of their
continuing presence. Soviet officials also fear the domestic
impact of keeping these troops there long enough to witness
the bounties of West German capitalism.
   "The effect on troops of the Deutsche mark in Germany
could be more dangerous to the Soviet Union than were drugs
in Afghanistan," said a Soviet Foreign Ministry official.
   A U.S. official traveling back to Washington from Berlin
on Secretary of State James Baker's airplane, concluded that
"The leverage the Soviets have, and the only leverage the
Soviets have, is to delay sovereignty" by refusing to give up
their legal rights of occupation. But, the official added, "I
think they must realize that would not be a particularly
profitable course for them to follow."
   Ronald Asmas, a Rand Corp. expert on Germany, said, "The
Soviet leverage is currently at its height, but it is
decreasing rapidly."
   But even though Mr. Gorbachev is playing a weak hand, U.S.
officials believe it is important to bolster him. Ironically,
the ultimate leverage he may have is the chaos and danger
that would ensue if the Soviet Union were to collapse. After
initially resisting providing economic assistance to Moscow,
the Bush administration now is prepared to reluctantly go
along. The Houston economic summit "will begin the process of
discussing that issue in international forums," said the
official on Mr. Baker's aircraft.
   In the West, there is a degree of understanding and
tolerance for Moscow's problems. "I've told my American
friends that we have to avoid turning two-plus-four into
five-against-one," said Karsten Voight, a Social Democrat
member of West Germany's Parliament and a security expert.
   At Friday's two-plus-four news conference, when Mr.
Shevardnadze was questioned sharply about his new proposal
for unification, he asserted that Moscow wasn't rejecting the
consensus views of the Western allies. Rather, he said, "We
add something to them." His answer produced a good-natured
laugh from Mr. Baker, who admires a facile response by a
politician who is fighting an uphill battle.
   ---
   Timothy Aeppel in Bonn contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   Yeltsin, Boosted by Political Success
   In Russia, Gains Respect in Washington
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In the wake of his remarkable political
comeback at home, maverick Soviet politician Boris Yeltsin is
making another sort of comeback as well -- in the inner
councils of the Bush administration.
   After consistently dismissing Mr. Yeltsin publicly and
privately as an eccentric or even dangerous demagogue,
administration officials now say they are gaining a new
respect for the beefy radical. They cite his political skill
in winning election as president of the Russian republic when
mounting political woes are afflicting the man who is still
President Bush's favorite Soviet politician, Mikhail
Gorbachev.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For fear of offending the Soviet president, top officials
still won't publicly say a kind word about Mr. Yeltsin, who
has been Mr. Gorbachev's chief left-wing critic. But in
private they're much more positive about him now.
   "There's been a certain evolution in people's views here
lately," says one important U.S. foreign policy official. "He
has shown a political adeptness that has made people here sit
up and think." A second senior official says: "He has to be
taken seriously. He represents real democratic forces in the
Soviet Union."
   That isn't to say the U.S. is rooting for Mr. Yeltsin or
shying away from Mr. Gorbachev. All recent evidence points to
a continuing close tie between President Bush and the current
Soviet leader. The Bush administration doesn't even have a
post-Gorbachev plan. And the newest generation of Soviet
reformers -- such as Moscow Mayor Gavril Popov and Leningrad
leader Anatoly Sobchak -- rarely makes it onto the
administration's foreign policy radar screen, even though
many Soviet experts in the West view them as more genuinely
inclined toward democracy than either Mr. Gorbachev or Mr.
Yeltsin.
   The new regard for Mr. Yeltsin is largely a result of
respect for the raw political skill and appeal he has
demonstrated in climbing from political oblivion to head
Russia, which occupies two-thirds of Soviet territory.
   There is still grave doubt about his dedication to
Western-style government and economics and considerable
nervousness about his tendency to pop off in public.
   U.S. officials weren't thrilled recently when Mr. Yeltsin
said he wanted Russia to have a foreign policy "independent"
of the Soviet Union's. And they are deeply skeptical when he
promises an unspecified market reform plan that he pledges
won't burden average citizens. But officials here are now
unwilling to write him off on the basis of some of these
off-the-cuff remarks. "We don't know what he'll produce,"
says a high official. "But we're taking a wait-and-see
attitude."
   It was Mr. Yeltsin's blustery rhetoric that turned the
administration against him in the first place. Last
September, while visiting the White House and State
Department, he came across as disorganized and impractical in
talks with Mr. Bush, Secretary of State James Baker and
National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft. Among other
things, he touted wild schemes -- proposing, for instance,
that U.S. companies build a million apartments in the
U.S.S.R.
   The view of Mr. Yeltsin as simply an erratic populist was
reinforced by tales of heavy drinking during his U.S. tour
and by private criticism from Mr. Gorbachev right up through
the recent Washington summit, where the Soviet leader told
some U.S. officials Mr. Yeltsin was only a "destroyer" and
had no constructive reform proposals.
   Even some leading Soviet liberals reinforced that view. "I
cannot imagine how Yeltsin could go to Washington and have
negotiations with Bush and Baker," says Andrei Kortunov, a
reformist Moscow foreign policy expert whose views are
followed closely in Washington. "It would be ridiculous,
because he doesn't know anything about foreign policy."
   But one senior administration official now concedes that
the initial negative U.S. assessment was an overreaction and
that "Yeltsin isn't some drunken buffoon."
   One reason for the cautious turnaround may be pressure
from U.S. conservatives, who have pressed the White House to
hedge its bets on Mr. Gorbachev. They argue that his
political survival isn't as crucial as it once seemed because
he might be succeeded by an even more liberal figure, notably
Mr. Yeltsin or Mr. Popov or Mr. Sobchak.
   "We should not be comfortable about him {Mr. Yeltsin}, but
we should give him the benefit of the doubt," says Leon Aron,
a Soviet expert at the conservative Heritage Foundation who
is writing a book about Mr. Yeltsin. "For years, we've been
pining for a democratically elected leader there, and in
Yeltsin we've come closer than ever to having that kind of a
Russian politician. So we should have a cautious attitude,
but we can't dismiss him."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Merrill Lynch Merges
   Financial Service Line
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MER WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. said it merged two major
units that serve the corporate market.
   As part of the merger, senior vice president Herbert S.
Ruben, the head of one of the units, is retiring at age 60
after 34 years at the big securities firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Merrill Lynch said it folded Mr. Ruben's Group Financial
Services unit, which provides retirement-plan and related
services to large companies, into the firm's Business
Financial Services unit, which serves small and midsize
companies. The newly combined Business Financial Services
operation will have annual revenue of about $550 million.
   Senior vice president J. Arthur Urciuoli, 51, remains head
of Business Financial Services.
   Mr. Ruben is a former Merrill human-resources director,
research director and regional sales director who "helped the
firm achieve prominence" in retirement-plan services, Merrill
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LAW
   ----
   By Ann Hagedorn
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Arizona Students Learn
   The Score on Swindlers
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   THE CAVEAT should now be: "Swindler, beware." Consumers
and investors in the next generation may not be such easy
prey for your scams -- at least not in Arizona.
   Teachers in 200 Arizona high schools last year used video
dramatizations of real swindles to teach 12th graders how to
detect fraud. Created by the securities division of the
Arizona Corporation Commission, the three 22-minute films
show the zeal of con artists and the devastation of conned
investors in tales of "boiler-room" scams, pyramid schemes
and other swindles.
   The idea came from Matthew Zale, a Phoenix attorney who
worked for 12 years as a litigator for the Securities and
Exchange Commission and for 13 years as director of the
Arizona securities division. He says his frustration with
"traditional methods of law enforcement" inspired him to seek
new ways to fight fraud.
   "After so many years of putting these boiler-room cons in
jail, I became convinced the fraud would go on forever unless
the public became better informed," Mr. Zale says. "By making
films and showing the slimy guys in their element, I wanted
to convey to others the horror of what I had seen."
   Funding for the films came from a $300,000 settlement paid
by E.F. Hutton &amp; Co. to settle state securities charges.
   Says Tracy Lewis, a teacher at Chaparral High School in
Scottsdale: "Some (students) suddenly realized they were
inadvertently involved in a scam during a summer job. . . .
I'll be really amazed if any of my students is ever a victim
of any scam in their lives. They know the score now."
                                                                                                       

   States Lack Funds to Deal
   With Rising Elder Abuse
                                                                                                       

   REPORTED INCIDENTS of elder abuse have increased
approximately 50% since 1980, to 1.5 million in 1989.
   This year, according to the House Select Committee on
Aging, one of every 20 elderly people will be a victim of
physical, psychological or financial abuse.
   Part of the jump can be attributed to increased reporting
because of heightened public awareness and new mandatory
reporting laws in some states. In 1980, only 16 states had
such laws; now 43 states do.
   Still, many states don't have the funding to enforce their
reporting laws nor can they afford to staff agencies to deal
with the abuse. In most states, only one out of eight cases
of elder abuse is reported, compared with one out of three
child-abuse cases, the committee says. States spend an
average of $3.80 on protective services for each elderly
victim, as opposed to $45 for each allegedly abused child.
   In recent testimony before the House Subcommittee on
Health and Long-Term Care, Scott Harshbarger, district
attorney for Middlesex County, Mass., and an advocate for the
elderly, said: "Five years ago I testified . . . that I
feared we would soon learn that the tragedy of child abuse
would pale in comparison to the systematic familial abuse of
older Americans. Unfortunately, the prediction was accurate."
   The subcommittee is sponsoring a bill that would allocate
a total of $10 million to state agencies coping with elder
abuse. The bill also provides funds for a national research
center on the issue.
                                                                                                       

   Next: Collaring Cats
   To Protect the Populace
                                                                                                       

   LEASH LAWS for cats? Don't laugh. Big jury awards for
victims of dog attacks have inspired stricter dog laws. Cats
may be next.
   In Los Angeles Superior Court last month, a jury awarded
$1 million to the victim of an allegedly ferocious feline. In
what many lawyers believe to be the nation's first cat-attack
trial, the jury decided that a small black cat known to stalk
and scratch female tenants at a Hollywood apartment complex
was to blame for a tenant's nasty fall.
   Liability for the serial scratcher, said the jury, lies
with the complex's owner and manager, both of whom denied
owning the cat. Photos presented as evidence, however, showed
plastic bowls outside the manager's door filled with what the
jury apparently believed was cat food.
   The plaintiff, 61-year-old Mary Cockrell, and other
tenants testified that the cat was vicious. One said it would
reach through slats of poolside chairs to scratch the ankles
of hapless sunbathers.
   Ms. Cockrell testified that once as she was walking
downstairs, the cat reached through the space between two
steps and grabbed her ankle. She said that when she asked the
apartment manager to get rid of the cat, he refused.
   Then one day, Ms. Cockrell testified, she was so startled
by the cat's sudden appearance that, in turning to flee, she
fell and ruptured a disk in her lower back.
   The defendants couldn't be reached for comment. A hearing
is set for today to discuss their motion for a new trial
based on a claim of excessive damages and insufficient
evidence.
   As for the cat, Ms. Cockrell's Los Angeles attorney,
Edward Barker, said: "After the accident, the owner told the
manager to get rid of the cat. He chased it away, and
nobody's seen it since."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   SUPERIOR COURT Judge Lawrence Fleishman of Pima County,
Ariz., ordered a convicted real estate swindler to appear on
TV as part of a four-year probationary term. "Niles Thim: How
I stole $9.2 million," will be aired on KGUN-TV, the ABC
affiliate in Tucson. . . . Since 1898, the town clock in
Hatfield, Mass., has chimed hourly. No more. Two newcomers
who moved in 75 feet away from the clock -- while it was
stopped for repairs -- filed suit. After a local jury found
the noise was a nuisance, a judge ruled that the bell can no
longer ring at night.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Commonwealth Mortgage:
   Houston Firm Backs Plan
   Of Liquidation, Dissolution
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMA CCMC
</CO>
<LP>
   Commonwealth Mortgage of America LP, Houston, said it
approved a complete plan of liquidation and dissolution.
   The plan was adopted by written consent of Commonwealth
Mortgage Corp. of America, the general partner of
Commonwealth and holder of 59.1% of its Class A units and
100% of its Class B units; and of Commonwealth Federal
Savings Association, the parent of CMCA and holder of 100% of
the Series I preferred units of limited partner interests in
Commonwealth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Because of the size of Commonwealth's debt and the
preference in liquidation of the Series I units, Commonwealth
said it was unlikely that holders of Class A units will
receive any distribution.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   French Luxury-Goods Makers Bid Adieu
   To Days When Market Was All Theirs
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French manufacturers have long enjoyed a lock on
the ultra-high end of the luxury-goods market, where the
super rich don Yves Saint Laurent evening garb, eat off
Limoges china with Christofle silverware and wash down foie
gras with a little Chateau Lafite-Rothschild '62.
   But the marketers of French
if-you-need-to-ask-the-price-you-can't-afford-it products are
getting worried. It's not exactly that they're hurting.
French brands control nearly 50% of this very high-margin,
$52 billion-a-year business. But a lot of the people who
don't need to ask the price are now wearing Romeo Gigli
clothes, dining off Royal Doulton plates and sipping
California Cabernet. "French companies can't be complacent,"
says Christian Blanckaert, president of the Comite Colbert, a
grouping of 70 of France's most exclusive brands. "This
industry doesn't just hum along by itself."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To see just how fierce the competition is, and figure out
what to do about it, the Comite Colbert commissioned a study
by McKinsey &amp; Co. that is probably the most detailed snapshot
ever taken of this highly visible but little understood
retailing niche. The consultants chose 14 product sectors,
ranging from shoes to perfume to cars to tableware, and
sampled prices at stores in six countries (the U.S., France,
West Germany, Japan, Italy and Great Britain). To be defined
as "luxury," an item had to sell above an arbitrarily chosen
(and high) price -- for instance 6,000 French francs ($1,053)
for a ladies suit. A brand was deemed French if created and
first commercialized in France, even if it's no longer made
there.
   Not surprisingly, given these definitions, the French, who
invented a lot of the categories, led the world in nine of
the 14 sectors. They were second in three of them, third in
one, and out of the money only in automobiles, where neither
Renault nor Peugeot makes a car that costs as much as a
Porsche or Maserati. Besides autos, France is weakest in
porcelain, watches, shoes and cosmetics. The U.S. led the
luxury world only in cosmetics.
   On the surface, France looks in the swim. The country's
share of the sectors it led in ranged from a definitional
100% for champagne to 59% for haute couture and deluxe
ready-to-wear fashions. It had market share of more than 40%
in eight categories; no other country topped 40% in more than
one. French brands accounted for 47% of the total market,
which grew an average 8% a year between 1985 and 1989. That
put it miles ahead of Italy with 14%, West Germany with 13%,
Britain with 12% and the U.S. with 9%. Business has been
particularly strong for the Comite Colbert's members. Last
year the 70 companies had combined sales of almost $4.8
billion, up 25% from 1988. Exports, which accounted for
nearly 70% of the companies' sales, rose 27%.
   And yet all is not good news for the French. While the
home market is big and loyal -- French brands have 84% of the
French market -- Italians have been shunning their neighbors'
wares in favor of local high-priced products. And while
French companies have a 61% share of luxury sales in Japan,
where annual growth has been in the 7.5% range and is likely
to accelerate, some categories fare better than others: Of
all high-fashion, Western-made clothes imported into Japan in
1988, 56% came from Italy and only 15% from France.
   "All French luxury-goods makers must beware of the
competition now," says Yves Martin, chief of the McKinsey
study.
   The French also think they should do better in the U.S.,
even though they had 49% of the $17 billion in U.S. luxury
sales last year, by far the biggest single supplier, in a
market growing about 13% a year.
   One specific problem in the U.S. is the rapid decline of
"better" department stores. Only a few of the French brands
can afford their own boutiques in enough places to cover the
vast American market. Most depend on corners or shelf display
in appropriately trendy stores, especially for clothing and
tableware. But McKinsey says the quick and tumultuous buying,
selling and closing of U.S. stores has confused the French
makers, who are trying to guess which retail chains will be
losers, and which will be good places to reach the ultra
rich.
   Tempting as it is, the U.S. is also a crowded and
expensive market. Take perfume, for example. McKinsey found
that the number of new perfumes launched in the U.S. each
year has more than doubled, to 70 last year from 30 in 1980.
And the cost of getting a new perfume on the shelves and
appropriately advertised has skyrocketed from a typical
$300,000 in 1975 to a staggering $15 million now.
Increasingly, the U.S. perfume market is a battlefield for
newly formed luxury giants such as Yves Saint Laurent, now
backed by Italian financier Carlo De Benedetti, and LVMH Moet
Hennessey Louis Vuitton, the alcohol and luggage giant
controlled by Bernard Arnault.
   Attacking the U.S. market while retaining an image of
exclusivity also is a continuing problem. Hermes, the
Paris-based leather and fashion goods house, is rich enough
to sell its $179 silk scarves and other products in its own
stores, including several in the U.S. Patrick Thomas,
director general, says the challenge is to maintain the
highest quality at whatever price, and expand the market
while "never tumbling into banality."
   Krug, one of the grand old names in champagne, has enough
cachet that some vintages sell for $160 in Paris, nine times
the price of other champagnes. The company sells about 10% of
its high-priced bubbly in the U.S., and aims for more. But
Managing Director Remi Krug fears that a broad advertising
campaign should only hurt it's image as the Rolls-Royce of
champagnes. Instead, Krug has sent a small team to New York
to conduct intimate tastings for wine wholesalers and
aficionados. "Nothing splashy, nothing big," says the
managing director Remi Krug. "We'll progress from word of
mouth, taste by taste."
   Not all French luxury goods makers have that luxury of
going slow and steady. France's market share in high fashion
-- where it all started -- has shrunk during the past five
years, at the hands mainly of Italian brands. Milan has
succeeded in creating an image of its clothes as fashionable
yet more utilitarian than the more-extravagant French
designs. Once-stodgy German clothes are gaining ever-more
respect, even from the French.
   American jewelers and Italian silverware makers also have
gained share at French expense. In all 14 areas, Italian
brands have grown faster than French ones over the past five
years.
   That worries the dozens of family enterprises that forged
the image of the French industry. "Fast growth is whetting
the appetites" of both foreign competitors and big
conglomerates, says Olivier Mellerio, who runs the Mellerio
jewelry company, founded by his ancestors back in 1613. "This
means more competition and more concentration at the same
time." Mr. Mellerio says family companies have a rich
tradition and valuable name, but often lack the money,
management structures and world-wide distribution arms at the
command of conglomerates.
   So what should manufacturers do? Mr. Thomas of Hermes says
luxury goods makers and sellers must increasingly try to
create "new" luxury goods out of everyday products. He says
watches and shoes have already undergone such a
metamorphosis, becoming at the high end "works of beauty, not
just things that tell the time or protect your feet."
   Likewise, McKinsey says French luxury-goods makers need to
"creatively manage their brands" by continuing to bet on high
quality and high prices for their basic products, but also
paying more attention to marketing and distribution,
advertising and line extensions. Spinning off new products
can generate cash to help shore up the basic brands, and lead
to new spinoffs, the report says.
   McKinsey also recommends stepping carefully. For instance,
a high-fashion house bringing out a lower-priced line should
make the spin-off much cheaper, not sell it where the main
brand is sold, and give it a distinctive name and label so as
to not cheapen the image of the exclusive parent brand. Many
French couturiers, such as Christian Lacroix, who is backed
by Mr. Arnault, have successfully introduced separate
ready-to-wear and "deluxe" labels, both priced at fractions
of their showcase one-of-a-kind dresses.
   But when the product involved has long sold mainly on
image, such an approach isn't for everybody. "Many luxury
groups have done very well with franchising or licensing,"
says Mr. Krug, "But for us, it would only hurt our name."
   ---
                           Sellers
                                                                                                       

 Sales of luxury goods by brands' country of origin
                                                                                                       

            France                           47%
                                                                                                       

            Italy                            14
                                                                                                       

            W. Germany                       13
                                                                                                       

            Britain                          12
                                                                                                       

            U.S.                              9
                                                                                                       

            Switzerland                       3
                                                                                                       

            Japan                             2
   ---
                           Buyers
                                                                                                       

 Purchases* of luxury goods by country
                                                                                                       

            U.S.                             32%
                                                                                                       

            Japan                            17
                                                                                                       

            France                           13
                                                                                                       

            Italy                            11
                                                                                                       

            W. Germany                       10
                                                                                                       

            Britain                           9
                                                                                                       

            Switzerland                       3
                                                                                                       

    *Excludes 5% sold in duty-free shops
                                                                                                       

    Source: McKinsey &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Easel Corp. Files
   For Initial Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WOBURN, Mass. -- Easel Corp., a maker of software
applications that support computer graphics, said it filed a
registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission for
an initial public offering of 1,850,000 common shares.
   The company said it expects to price the shares between $9
and $11 apiece.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One million shares will be sold by the company and 850,000
will be offered by certain stockholders. Net proceeds will be
used for general corporate purposes, working capital and
possible acquisitions.
   The offering will be managed by Robertson, Stephens &amp; Co.
and Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Petroleum Helicopters Inc.:
   Industrial Equity (Pacific)
   Increases Interest in Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   PHEL H.IEP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd., a Hong Kong investment
firm, said it exercised an option to purchase 473,638 shares
of Petroleum Helicopters Inc. common.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Industrial Equity (Pacific) said it bought the additional
shares for $7,920,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Its stake consists of 669,838 shares, or 17.12%.
   In a previous filing, Industrial Equity (Pacific) said it
was seeking federal antitrust clearance to raise its stake in
the company to as much as 25%. It also said it would seek
board representation.
   Petroleum Helicopters, based in New Orleans, operates
helicopters servicing offshore oil and natural gas locations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   With Exception of Domenici, GOP Lawmakers
   Limit Role in Deficit Package to Playing Spoiler
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Congressional Republicans, outnumbered in
both chambers, love bipartisan budget summits. It's their
only chance to play in the high stakes deficit-reduction
game.
   Now they've got their summit. But so far their role has
been limited largely to carping about the slow pace of the
talks and threatening to block a deal if it risks their
party's anti-tax reputation. With the talks at an apparent
stalemate, Republican congressional negotiators exercise
little influence over their Democratic opponents, and not
much more over their ostensible allies in the White House.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   House Minority Whip Newt Gingrich (R., Ga.), leader of the
anti-tax forces in the House, talks only occasionally. His
most memorable utterance to date has been an oration against
reviving the draft, participants say. Sen. Bob Packwood (R.,
Ore.), who played a key role in past summits, underscores his
pessimism by saying little inside the room and declaring
outside that nothing is going to happen until December. Sen.
Phil Gramm (R., Texas), an earthy economist best known for
the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law, is such a fervent
advocate of spending cuts that some others discount his
observations even where they're on the money.
   The exception is New Mexico Sen. Pete Domenici, who has
been at the budget game so long that he knows more of the
details than most others in the room. One of few Republicans
who confronted President Reagan directly about the deficit,
Sen. Domenici's obvious frustration with the creaky budget
process has abated as he sees a chance to help forge a
significant deficit-reduction pact.
   The former budget committee chairman tends to forget that
others see him as a supporting player. He annoyed White House
Budget Director Richard Darman the other day by suggesting
changes in Medicare premiums that he hadn't first cleared
with the administration. And sometimes he upstages the budget
committee chairman, Sen. James Sasser (D., Tenn.). On the
Senate floor one night, Sen. Sam Nunn (D., Ga.) was peppering
Sen. Sasser with questions about a pending budget resolution.
When Sen. Sasser paused to get whispered advice from an aide,
Sen. Domenici jumped right in with the answer.
   As the leader of the Republican congressional contingent
to the budget talks, Sen. Domenici can't move much beyond the
White House position -- at least right now. But once the
summit gets down to the nitty gritty of shaping a
deficit-reduction compromise, he insists there will be time
for "individual initiative" -- including plans for defense
and entitlement spending cuts and tax increases that he and
his staff are putting the finishing touches on.
   Sen. Domenici's eagerness to find the deficit deal that
has eluded him for a decade is undisguised. "There are many
proposals around," he said impatiently last week. "They're in
defense . . . in entitlements . . . in taxes," uttering the
word that others shun. "The sooner we put them on the table,
the better off we are." Traditional deficit-fearing
Republicans like Sen. Packwood and House Republican Leader
Robert Michel of Illinois are on his side, but a split among
congressional Republicans may prevent these men from being
constructive in the talks.
   That's because the one clear role that Rep. Gingrich, Sen.
Gramm and their allies may play is that of spoiler: By
threatening to denounce a compromise, they prevent it from
happening. One reason the talks are going so slowly is that
Democrats are determined not to take the blame for tax
increases that many of them believe are necessary. Mr.
Darman's new deficit-reduction proposal, which suggests
deeper spending cuts but no more taxes or other revenues than
those included in the president's January budget, reinforces
Democrats' suspicions.
   Republicans fed Democrats' fears with a round of speeches
on the House floor this spring. "Sometimes I had the feeling
they were putting up signs to show the animals: This way to
the trap," says House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta
(D., Calif.).
   Simply put, anti-tax Republicans figure they have a veto
at the summit -- and they're feeling their oats. Sen. Gramm
says flatly, "I can't envision a circumstance where the White
House would sign off on a budget agreement if I objected."
Republican congressional staffers say that Sen. Gramm and
Rep. Gingrich were named to the summit negotiating team by
Republican leaders who figured they would be more likely to
help sell any resulting compromise if they participated in
reaching it.
   That ploy might just work. Mr. Darman acknowledges that
some people were concerned that the fiery Mr. Gingrich might
not play by the rules of budget summitry, "which essentially
require that you be relatively temperate." So far, he says,
Mr. Gingrich has "favorably surprised some people."
   Because it's understood that the Democrats won't back a
deficit-reduction package unless a majority of Republicans do
too, Republicans say they wield more power than usual. "In
the Congress, we have no role other than to get overrun by
the Democrat majority," says Rep. Bill Frenzel of Minnesota,
senior Republican on the House Budget Committee. "When we are
working with Big Brother {the White House} we have the clout
we don't have in the House of Representatives."
   Mr. Darman and Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady don't
ignore their congressional brethren. The two travel to
Capitol Hill to caucus -- usually once a week -- with the
Republican negotiators. But Mr. Frenzel says the talks
usually center on what's likely to happen at the next
session. "We haven't counseled closely on the ultimate
outcome," he says. President Bush has invited the Republican
summit team to the White House this afternoon for a pep talk,
congressional staffers say.
   In past budget summits, Republican lawmakers occasionally
have moved talks forward by offering a proposal, giving both
Democrats and the White House something to talk about without
either taking the blame for presenting it. But this time,
Republican congressional leaders aren't likely to perform
that service. Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (R., Kan.)
is still smarting from the drubbing he took in the 1988 New
Hampshire Republican primary after George Bush unveiled his
"no new taxes" line. He isn't enthusiastic about doing Mr.
Bush's dirty work by proposing tax increases now.
   What's more, Democrats insist that they won't settle for a
vaguely Republican proposal. They want a deficit-reduction
plan with George Bush's fingerprints on it, and they reject
the one the White House sent over last week as nothing more
than a warmed over version of Mr. Bush's January budget.
   To underscore the point, Sen. Wyche Fowler (D., Ga.)
delights in quoting to Mr. Darman and Treasury Secretary
Brady excerpts from a speech that a Texas Republican
congressman named George Bush made in June 1967 urging the
House to reject an increase in the debt ceiling that
President Johnson was seeking.
   "We had better tell the administration again to take
another look at their figures and come back to the Congress
with some constructive proposal for reducing the amount of
the deficit," Mr. Bush said back then.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Polly Peck International PLC:
   Interest in Sansui Electric,
   Now 51%, to Rise to 72%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SNE U.POL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Polly Peck International PLC of Britain and Sansui
Electric Co. completed an agreement that will raise Polly
Peck's holding in the Japanese company to 72% from 51%.
   Sansui is to issue 84.9 million new shares at 940 yen
($6.08) each in a private placement to investors to finance
its purchase of two Polly Peck divisions, Capetronic Group
and Imperial Group. Polly Peck, which announced the deal in
May, said it will take up about 91% of the new issue, with
the remainder going to third-party investors. The
conglomerate said it expects the sale to occur on July 10.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move is part of larger restructuring aimed at
developing Polly Peck's electronics businesses around Sansui,
in which it acquired a controlling interest last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Can Aid to Soviets
   Help a Sick Economy?
   ----
   By Alan Murray and Walter S. Mossberg
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- When Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev was
in California earlier this month, he was treated to a brief
inspirational lecture from Nobel-prize-winning economist
Milton Friedman. Mr. Friedman told the Soviet leader how the
first Western visitors to Meiji, Japan, a century ago wrote
back that the Japanese "were lazy, unmotivated and
inefficient. They would never get anywhere."
   The moral: Economic disparities among nations have little
to do with cultural differences. If Mr. Gorbachev would
simply embrace capitalism, his nation, like Japan, could
become an economic powerhouse.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Soviet leader liked the tale, and repeated it a few
days later. But once back in Moscow, he was quickly reminded
that life is not always as simple as Mr. Friedman's theories.
The Soviet economy is caught in a steep downward spiral. For
Mr. Gorbachev, there is no easy way out. And for Western
policy makers -- if they are so inclined -- there is no easy
way to help.
                                                                                                       

   Soviet economists attending conferences here and in Europe
in recent weeks have estimated that the U.S.S.R.'s economy
may shrink by 5% or more this year. "The Soviet economy,
which was already in poor shape after suffering seven decades
of central planning, has deteriorated even more in the last
year," says Michael Boskin, the chairman of President Bush's
Council of Economic Advisers.
                                                                                                       

   Bush administration officials say Mr. Gorbachev's problems
demonstrate the folly of piecemeal reforms in a
centrally-planned economy. By freeing up some sectors of the
economy while keeping others controlled, the Soviet president
has only made the nation's economic system more irrational
than ever. And his five year succession of bungled economic
plans has destroyed his credibility as an economic-policy
maker.
   This prevailing sentiment is illustrated by a popular
Soviet joke recounted by Marshall Goldman, an economist at
Wellesley University: A farmer goes to his priest to complain
that ten of his chickens have died. The priest instructs him
to give each chicken an aspirin. The farmer returns the next
day to report twenty more chickens have died. The priest
prescribes castor oil. The farmer returns again and reports
thirty more dead chickens, and the priest recommends a dose
of penicillin.
                                                                                                       

   Finally, the farmer tells the priest that all his chickens
have died. "Such a pity," says the priest. "I had so many
more remedies."
                                                                                                       

   This is the mess that faces U.S. officials as they begin
to grapple with the delicate question of whether to provide
direct aid to the Soviet Union. West Germany and France are
advocating an aid package of up to $20 billion, and President
Bush will be forced to confront the topic at the July
economic summit of industrialized nations in Houston.
   On political and strategic grounds, there is an argument
to be made in favor of aid. Mr. Bush and Secretary of State
James Baker believe they are within months of signing an
interlocking set of treaties that would seal Moscow's retreat
from Eastern Europe, end its 40-year edge in conventional
arms on the continent, erase the main Soviet nuclear
advantages and unify Germany on Western terms. They privately
argue these agreements depend on Mr. Gorbachev's survival and
retention of leeway in foreign policy, at least in the near
term. Financial aid could help prop him up.
   But on economic terms, the case for aid is far weaker,
which is one reason U.S. officials are reluctant to go along.
They won't say much about the sensitive subject for the
record. But privately, some worry that the Soviet president
has taken every opportunity to avoid or delay the painful
reforms needed to get the Soviet economy on track. A stream
of money from the West would merely enable him to buy more
time, and delay reforms even longer.
   As a result, any Western aid, they stress, should be
firmly tied to Soviet plans for a severe and comprehensive
economic reform plan, including legalization of private
property and rapid removal of price controls. And any such
plan should allow the West to monitor Soviet economic
reforms.
   That won't be easy. Some U.S. and German officials favor
using the International Monetary Fund to oversee the reforms,
as the agency does in similar economic adjustments in Latin
America. But Moscow doesn't belong to the IMF. Moreover, IMF
surveillance causes intense resentment even among the
smallest nations; it is certain to seem an intolerable
intrusion to a nominal superpower with 10,000 nuclear
warheads.
   A more modest aid plan being considered by the
administration is simple, humanitarian food aid to address
pockets of hunger. But even here, the problems are immense.
Western officials contemplating food aid worry it would
simply be dumped on docks or at rail and truck depots, where
it would rot or be stolen like so much of the Soviet's own
production. Officials are considering a plan to send Western
trucks and planes directly to interior Soviet cities, where
distribution could be made to consumers or small stores. But
Mr. Gorbachev could see that as an unwelcome intrusion.
   Whether any such efforts will help cure the sick Soviet
economy remains far from clear. Harvard economist Lawrence
Summers, an adviser to the Lithuanian government, argues the
best course for the U.S. is simply to sit back and allow the
gradual devolution of economic policy-making power from the
central government to the various republics. At least then,
he contends, there would be experimentation and competition
among the local governments to come up with an economic cure
that works.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Cox Enterprises Inc.:
   Two Newspapers in Texas
   Are Being Offered for Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Atlanta-based Cox Enterprises Inc. said it put up for sale
two of its Texas newspapers, the Port Arthur News and its
sister publication, the Orange Leader.
   The closely held newspaper and cable television company
didn't disclose the price it is seeking for the properties,
but said it retained Lee Dirks &amp; Associates, a Birmingham,
Mich.-based newspaper merger and acquisition company, to
assist in the process. Cox said proceeds from the sale would
be used to reduce debt incurred by the 1985 merger of Cox
Communications into Cox Enterprises.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Port Arthur News is a morning daily newspaper with a
circulation of 23,200 on weekdays and 24,900 on Sundays; the
Orange Leader sells 10,100 copies on weekday evenings and
Saturday mornings, and has a Sunday circulation of 12,100.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Drexel Creditors
   Urge Court to Bar
   Asset Liquidations
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc.
creditors' committee asked a U.S. bankruptcy court to prevent
the company from liquidating assets until steps are taken to
guarantee that the creditors will have a say in reviewing the
transactions.
   In their request, the creditors accused Drexel of backing
out of a court-sanctioned oversight process that allowed
members of the committee to review liquidation proposals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Drexel filed under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
on Feb. 13. According to the motion, Drexel ended the
oversight arrangement on May 27, two days before Drexel's
brokerage unit and other subsidiaries joined the parent in
bankruptcy proceedings.
   The motion asks that a procedure be set up to ensure that
all liquidation proposals be reviewed by the creditors and
approved by the court. The end result, however, is likely to
be an agreement by Drexel and the creditors to reinstate a
review process similar to the previous arrangement.
Representatives of the creditors and Drexel said they expect
an agreement to be reached before July 19, when a hearing on
the motion is scheduled before U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge
Howard Buschman III in Manhattan.
   "The committee is very eager to have the oversight
procedure back in place," said Wilbur Ross of Rothschild
Inc., the committee's financial adviser.
   A Drexel spokesman said plans for a new review procedure
were already being made before the committee filed its
motion. He said Drexel wants to include the creditors of
several units as well as the parent's creditors in the review
process.
   The creditors, in their motion, said that since the
oversight procedure ended one Drexel subsidiary has tried to
liquidate assets without informing the creditors or the
court.
   The Drexel spokesman, however, said no transactions have
been pursued without notifying the committee or the court. He
said the company isn't currently liquidating assets and
doesn't plan to resume doing so until a new review procedure
including the creditors is adopted.
   Mr. Ross said the committee also is concerned that Drexel
has missed some potential liquidation transactions in the
junk-bond market in recent weeks. He said that if the
oversight procedure was still in place, the creditors could
question Drexel about whether such transactions should be
made at this time.
   The Drexel spokesman said the company has missed no such
opportunities. He said "there has been no compelling reason"
for the company to enter into any liquidation transactions
since the oversight procedure ended.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Great Northern Nekoosa Corp.:
   Shareholders Back Merger
   With Georgia-Pacific Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GNN GP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Georgia-Pacific Corp. said shareholders of Great Northern
Nekoosa Corp. approved the merger of the Norwalk, Conn.-based
company with NM Acquisition Corp., a subsidiary of
Atlanta-based Georgia-Pacific.
   Georgia-Pacific, a forest products concern, said it
expects the merger to take effect this week upon the filing
of merger documents in Maine and Delaware, where Nekoosa and
NM Acquisition, respectively, are incorporated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After the merger, Nekoosa, a wood products concern, will
become a wholly owned subsidiary of Georgia-Pacific.
Georgia-Pacific said Nekoosa shareholders will then be sent
documents telling them how to surrender their shares for a
cash payment of $65.75 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mellon Bank Corp.:
   Staff Cuts Planned, Though
   Specifics Aren't Disclosed
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MEL
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mellon Bank Corp., Pittsburgh, said it will reduce
staffing this year but declined to indicate how deep the cuts
will be.
   The bank holding company, citing the need to operate more
efficiently, said the move stems from a review begun earlier
this year of all business lines. Rumors of broad staff
reductions had raised concerns among Mellon employees, who
fear a repeat of across-the-board layoffs in 1987. After
posting an $844 million loss that year, Mellon cut its work
force to 16,700 from 19,259.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mellon said it is evaluating each department individually
and won't make an across-the-board cut. It said it has
already dismissed trust department employees.
   Mellon returned to profitability last year, earning $181
million, or $3.33 a share. But some analysts have voiced
concern about how the bank will grow after cutting expenses
and shedding bad loans. A Mellon spokeswoman said the
impending dismissals don't stem from earnings problems but
reflect efforts to "fine tune" operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environmental Case
   Tied to Car Explosion
   Delayed in California
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- A municipal court judge here gave
prosecutors and police two more weeks to complete an
investigation aimed at determining whether two members of the
militant Earth First] environmental group were responsible
for a bomb that exploded in their car on May 12.
   Results of that investigation were due last Friday, but
prosecutors said a final report has been delayed because the
Federal Bureau of Investigation is taking longer than
expected to complete a detailed analysis of the bombing. The
blast seriously injured Earth First] member Judi Bari; her
companion in the car, Darryl Cherney, suffered minor facial
cuts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Police took the two into custody after the blast on
suspicion that they were carrying the bomb for a yet unnamed
"ecoterrorist" purpose when it exploded accidentally. Both
Ms. Bari and Mr. Cherney have denied the charges and contend
they were the objects of a murder plot. Both are the chief
organizers of a so-called "Redwood Summer" protest now under
way in Northern California against timber companies'
harvesting of the state's redwood forests.
   The demonstrations have thus far resulted in a few dozen
arrests of protesters and vocal clashes with timber and other
local interests, but there has been no reported violence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Tyson's Stock Is Up, But Poultry Concern's
   Depreciation Move Creates Some Squawking
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   TYSNA
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Since Tyson Foods swallowed Holly Farms last August along
with a big side dish of debt, the poultry processor has
posted three quarterly per-share earnings gains ranging from
13% to 23%. Tyson's stock has followed suit with a 36% jump
since the acquisition to $32.75 Friday.
   The impressive numbers have sparked some glowing reviews.
But other inquiring analysts want to know: Why did the
company decide to change its depreciation schedule recently?
And will a threatened cyclical downturn in poultry prices
affect the company's ability to digest the $1.3 billion of
long-term debt it absorbed in the acquisition? "They
leveraged their souls to get {the Holly deal} done," says
Craig Carver, a Dain Bosworth analyst in Minneapolis.
"They'll need continued luck now."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some analysts were taken aback when the company in its
second quarter, ended March 31, changed the depreciation
schedule it uses to write off the cost of poultry-processing
equipment, switching to 10 years from six years. The result:
Per-share net income rose 18% in the period, to 40 cents from
34 cents, despite the huge increase in debt. Without
stretching out the depreciation schedule, per-share net would
have dipped about 10%.
   Tyson's vice president and treasurer, Wayne Britt, says
Tyson made the change because Holly had been using a longer
equipment life for its depreciation than Tyson did. "We
picked something in between," he said. "You can't
characterize it as a move for an impact on earnings."
   But analysts aren't so sure. "You can question the timing
of the decision to change from six years to 10" because the
move coincides with the increase in debt payments, says John
McMillin at Prudential-Bache Securities. The accounting
change means the company "will show an earnings gain, but not
of the highest quality."
   Tyson has had some luck since it began pursuing Holly in
1988. Rising prices for beef and pork helped boost chicken
prices. Operating profit margins on chicken processing have
averaged about 11 cents a pound this year compared with about
eight cents a pound for the first five months of 1989. In
addition, chicken exports have risen, and Tyson received 63%
of an early May Soviet order for 50,000 metric tons of
poultry.
   But a down cycle may be just around the corner. Many new
poultry plants are coming on line, probably by 1991. Meat
industry experts also expect an increase in supplies of beef
and pork by then. Profit margins may already be on a
downtrend; in May, chicken producers' profit margins slipped
to three cents a pound from 10 cents a year ago.
   Still, says Mr. McMillin, "I don't think {Chairman} Don
Tyson will become the next Don Trump," referring to the
developer's liquidity crisis due to his highly leveraged
investments. Tyson's pretax cash flow in 1990 is expected to
be three times its interest payments.
   Tyson says it has become quite comfortable with its debt
load, even though the debt is the largest it has ever carried
and is considerably higher than that of other poultry and
meatpacking companies. Tyson's debt is currently about 2.8
times its equity.
   With the completion of the Holly deal, "we've learned to
use leverage," says Tyson's Mr. Britt. Nevertheless, Tyson is
trying to reduce debt. Recently it sold about $175 million of
accounts receivable to shrink its revolving credit line and
bank debt. The move will save about $3 million a year in
interest payments, which now total about $140 million
annually.
   It also plans to sell 2.6 million Class A common shares in
the next few weeks. (The company's controlling Class B stock
is held by Mr. Tyson and his family.) The new shares will
reduce the company's $1.3 billion in long-term debt by only
about $100 million. But, says Mr. Britt, the offering won't
dilute per-share earnings, because proceeds from the sale
will reduce interest payments just enough to make up for the
slight increase in shares outstanding.
   Many analysts say they aren't able to comment on the
company's debt or its stock offering because their firms plan
to sell the stock. But just prior to the offering, many of
them were recommending the stock for buyers with long-term
objectives, while several others, including Mr. Carver, rated
the stock a "hold."
   Mr. McMillin of Prudential-Bache, however, thinks the
stock is a little overpriced. Tyson, he acknowledges, is the
most stable of the chicken producers because much of its
business is in food-service sales, which are less prone to
rise and fall with the commodity chicken price cycles.
Nevertheless, he says, "for a chicken company to be selling
at 11 times cash flow is crazy."
   ---
   Tyson Foods
   (NYSE; Symbol: TYSNA)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Poultry
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Sept. 30, 1989:
   Sales: $2.54 billion
   Net income: $100.6 million; $1.55 a share
                                                                                                       

   Second quarter, March 31, 1990:
   Per-share ernings: 40 cents vs. 34 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   125,003 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 64.7 million
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Motors Corp.:
   Buick Unit Adjusts Prices
   Of Two Redesigned Models
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Buick division of General Motors Corp., Flint, Mich.,
said its substantially redesigned 1991 Park Avenue model, now
going on sale, will start at $24,385, up 12% from the 1990
Electra Park Avenue model it replaces.
   A more heavily equipped version, the 1991 Park Avenue
Ultra, will start at $27,420, down 1% from the model it
replaces.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new, full-size Park Avenues have improved engines and
transmissions and sleeker, more aerodynamic looks than their
boxy predecessors. Buick said the new Park Avenue model will
cost more in part because such equipment as anti-lock brakes,
driver's-side airbag and an anti-theft device are now
standard.
   The 1991 Park Avenue Ultra's base price is $405 lower in
part because Buick took out a seat that adjusted in 20
directions and replaced it with one that adjusted in just
eight directions.
   Buick also said it will eliminate two other models, the
Electra Limited and the Electra T-type, that were built off
the same chassis as the Park Avenue in the 1990 model year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   ANOTHER EARTHQUAKE ROCKED northern Iran as the death toll
mounted.
   The most powerful aftershock in three days shook the
devastated Caspian Sea region, triggering a landslide that
blocked a road linking the shattered town of Rudbar to the
coast and impeding relief efforts elsewhere. The casualty
toll soared to 50,000 killed and 200,000 injured, according
to a senior U.N. relief official. Sixty other tremors were
reported in the region within a 24-hour period. Army
mountaineers climbed peaks in the rugged area in an attempt
to rescue villagers trapped in remote hamlets, according to
Iran's official IRNA news agency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A plane carrying medicine and other supplies from the U.S.
was among 50 relief aircraft that landed in Tehran during the
day, the news agency said.
   ---
   QUEBEC INTENDS to draft its terms and conditions for
remaining in Canada.
   After the collapse of a constitutional plan to recognize
Quebec as a "distinct society," the French-speaking
province's premier said a public debate will begin this fall
on Quebec's role within Canada. Bourassa gave no hint of what
his government would demand. The proposed Meech Lake
agreement died after two provinces, Newfoundland and
Manitoba, failed to ratify it by a Saturday deadline. The
accord's collapse was viewed as a serious setback for
Canadian Prime Minister Mulroney.
   The Canadian dollar was expected to drop because of the
impasse, but traders said the decline would be cushioned by
Canada's high short-term rates.
   ---
   Activists shouted "shame, shame" as HHS Secretary Sullivan
gave a speech ending the Sixth International Conference on
AIDS in San Francisco. As Sullivan defended administration
efforts to fight the disease, hundreds in the audience loudly
protested U.S. travel curbs on people carrying the AIDS
virus.
   ---
   Israel's Sharon announced his nation won't settle Soviet
Jews in occupied territories. The housing minister's move was
seen as a way to head off any change in Soviet emigration
policy. Meanwhile, Egypt's foreign minister flew to the U.S.,
hoping to avert a crisis in U.S.-Arab ties over Washington's
suspension of talks with the PLO.
                                                                                                       

   Jordan's King Hussein said the Mideast is approaching the
same state of hair-trigger tension that led to the outbreak
of an Arab-Israeli war in 1967. The 54-year-old monarch
called for an urgent reassessment of U.S. policy in the
Middle East. He said Arabs "may have no other choice" than to
fall into another war.
   ---
   Mandela arrived in Washington for talks today with
President Bush and Secretary of State Baker about the
direction of U.S.-South Africa relations. The black
nationalist leader, who said he has been "greatly encouraged"
by his rousing U.S. reception, will address a joint session
of Congress tomorrow.
   ---
   The northern spotted owl was declared threatened and will
be placed under the protection of the federal Endangered
Species Act on July 23. The Bush administration tomorrow will
announce its preliminary proposal to regulate logging on
millions of acres of Pacific Northwest national forests to
preserve the owl.
   ---
   Sixty-three of Walesa's colleagues broke ranks with the
Polish Solidarity leader over his criticism of the current
Solidarity-led government. The senior advisers and longtime
allies of Walesa signed a letter that called for him to
dissolve the national Citizens Committee in which they fought
together to overcome Communist rule.
   ---
   European Community leaders begin a two-day summit meeting
today in Dublin, divided over the issues of financial aid to
the Soviet Union and sanctions against the South African
government. However, Irish Prime Minister Haughey remarked,
"The whole trend is toward unity and coherence and
integration, and not the other way about."
   ---
   Hooded gunmen shot 19 people to death execution-style
outside a nightclub near Medellin, Colombia's cocaine
trafficking center, and 36 others were killed in weekend
incidents in the city, according to police. Medellin, a city
of about three million, has been placed under heavy army
guard because of drug-related bombings and assassinations.
   ---
   Talks were slated to resume between El Salvador's
insurgents and the government. Rebels said the government
agreed to discuss the dismantling of paramilitary groups
accused of human-rights violations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- McFarland Energy Inc.:
   Firm Has $3.4 Million Gain
   On Sale of Stake in Field
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCFE NER PPW
</CO>
<LP>
   McFarland Energy Inc. said it realized a cash gain of
about $3.4 million from the $3.8 million sale to Nerco Inc.
of a 6% working interest in the Trimble Field in Mississippi.
   McFarland Energy, based in Santa Fe Springs, Calif., said
it probably will use the cash to pay down debt. The gain,
however, won't appear as net income because McFarland Energy
uses so-called "full-cost" accounting, under which
exploration and development expenditures are pooled and
depreciated over time, J.C. McFarland, president and chief
executive officer, said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   McFarland's stake in the Trimble field was part of a $67
million purchase by Nerco earlier last week that gave Nerco,
a unit of PacifiCorp, an 80% working interest in the field.
   McFarland's stake in the field equaled 2.3 billion cubic
feet of natural gas, about 23% of the company's net proven,
developed gas reserves.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd.:
   Consolidated Pretax Profit
   For Fiscal Year Rose 20%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KWH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. of Japan reported that its
consolidated pretax profit for the year ended March 31
climbed 20% to 21.27 billion yen ($141.4 million) from 17.72
billion yen a year earlier.
   Net income rose 7.5% to 12.54 billion yen, or 9.42 yen a
share, from 11.66 billion yen, or 8.76 yen a share. Growth in
net was held back by foreign-exchange losses, which totaled
1.43 billion yen, compared with year-earlier foreign-exchange
gains of 2.24 billion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 5.1% to 920.75 billion yen from 875.59 billion
yen.
   The company previously reported pretax profit at the
parent company increased 25% to 17.17 billion yen.
Unconsolidated net income rose 55% to 12.35 billion yen, and
unconsolidated sales grew 5.9% to 812.81 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recycled Paper Is Finding Its Way
   Into Corporate Use Despite Problems
   ----
   By Bill Paul
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   MCD WMT PG DIS IP
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   What do Sam Walton and Ronald McDonald have in common?
   Both use corporate stationery, business cards and annual
reports made from recycled paper. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., of
which Mr. Walton is chairman, also uses recycled computer
paper, while McDonald's Corp. is big on recycled copier
paper.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Recycled paper has invaded the executive suite despite
price, quality and supply problems. A small but growing
number of big, high-profile companies are seizing on recycled
"white" paper as a highly visible way to demonstrate their
environmental concern to shareholders, customers, employees
and others.
   Although it can cost 5% to 10% more than virgin office
paper, using recycled paper "is still the right thing to do,"
says Kevin Heniff, McDonald's senior print graphics manager.
He adds that McDonald's stationery even carries a watermark
showing a McDonald's arch inside the standard triangular
symbol for recycled products, plus the phrase "McDonald's
Recycled Paper."
   A McDonald's spokesman says that had McDonald's annual
report been printed on virgin paper, "We could have gotten
crispier, more brilliant" pictures of food. Still, recycled
paper was "more than satisfactory," he says. (On the other
hand, the color graphics in Wal-Mart's annual report look
rather faded.)
   At Procter &amp; Gamble Co., the problem has been finding
enough recycled paper on which to print the consumer-products
company's in-house magazine. Still, when P&amp;G Chairman Edward
Artzt recently spoke to financial analysts, 80,000 copies of
his speech were printed on recycled paper and sent to every
P&amp;G English-speaking employee. Moreover, P&amp;G is "looking to"
using recycled stationery, a spokeswoman says.
   In Roundy's Inc.'s annual report, John R. Dickson,
president and chief executive officer, strikes a commanding,
full-page pose, while off to one side is his written message
to stockholders: "Quality, commitment and concern for our
world dictate our printing Roundy's 1989 annual report on
recycled paper." Roundy's is a Pewaukee, Wis., food concern.
   Meanwhile, executives of Walt Disney Co. write their
letters on recycled corporate stationery, although the
recipients mightn't know that because Disney is still
completing plans to print the triangular recycling logo on
each sheet. Kym Murphy, Disney's new vice president of
environmental policy, says he's also working on plans to have
Disney's annual report and business cards made from recycled
paper. Going recycled "isn't simple," he says. "But we're
going to put our money where our mouth is."
   McDonald's Mr. Heniff warns prospective corporate buyers
not to assume that all recycled paper includes the standard
10% "post-consumer" fiber. Some manufacturers, he says, tried
to sell McDonald's a "recycled" product that pretty much had
only mill scrap and the like. (Current federal policy allows
manufacturers to say their product meets federal recycling
guidelines without the paper's having been used by the
public.)
   Paper manufacturers get their true post-consumer paper
from a variety of sources. Future Fibres Group Inc., a
private company that markets a line called Sav-A-Source, uses
a lot of old school books. International Paper Co.'s
Hammermill unit makes recycled copier paper out of the likes
of canceled checks and old envelopes. Supply, though, is a
problem, says Carol Baker, an IP product-development manager,
because there isn't yet an infrastructure to collect old
white paper from homes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Canadian Court Says
   Apple's Silicon Chips
   Can be Copyrighted
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AAPL MNPI
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian Supreme Court ruled that Apple
Computer Inc.'s silicon chips are software eligible for
copyright protection.
   The court dismissed an appeal by a group of companies that
manufacture Apple II clones, computers that run the same
programs as Apple II. Mackintosh Computers Ltd., Repco
Electronics Co., House of Semi-Conductors Ltd. and Microcom
had copied Apple's Autostart ROM and Applesoft programs from
Apple's silicon chips. Apple holds a copyright for these
programs, which enable its computers to carry out such tasks
as word processing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies said they hadn't infringed Apple's copyright
because silicon chips aren't software eligible for copyright
protection. They argued that only the written version of the
programs is protected by copyright, not the chips on which
the programs are etched.
   The Supreme Court, upholding a lower court ruling, said
the programs embedded in the chips are a reproduction of the
programs in computer language and are protected by copyright.
   The court also upheld a lower court order directing the
companies to turn over any chips containing the copied
programs and an order for an accounting of profits made from
the sale of illegal chips.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Software Toolworks Inc.:
   Company's Stock Declines
   Amid Fears of Weak Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TWRX
</CO>
<LP>
   Shares of Software Toolworks Inc. fell $2.875 to $16 on
volume of 2.4 million shares in national over-the-counter
trading Friday, apparently reflecting investor fears that the
company's profit for the quarter that ends this week may be
disappointing.
   The concerns were spurred by a company filing Thursday
with the Securities and Exchange Commission indicating that
the company had net income of $5,000 on revenue of $2.7
million in the 30 days ended April 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the wake of the stock drop, the Sherman Oaks, Calif.,
software publisher said that the results "should not be
relied upon by investors as indicative of results for the
quarter." The filing was made to satisfy pooling-of-interest
requirements in the wake of Software Toolworks' March
acquisition of Mindscape Inc., a Northbrook, Ill., software
concern.
   Software Toolworks has seen its stock price triple this
year after tripling in 1989 amid the prospect the company
will sell Nintendo-related products. For the year ended March
31, the company reported net of $2.6 million, or 14 cents a
share, on revenue of $68.7 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quebec to Set
   Terms for Role
   Within Canada
   ---
   Province Mulls Its Options
   In the Wake of Collapse
   Of Meech Lake Accord
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad and John Urquhart
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Quebec's political leaders said the
French-speaking province will draw up its own terms and
conditions for staying in Canada after the collapse of a
constitutional plan to recognize Quebec as a "distinct
society."
   Premier Robert Bourassa said the province will begin a
public debate this autumn on its role within Canada. He gave
no hint of what demands his government will make but wouldn't
rule anything out. "Quebec is free to choose," Mr. Bourassa
said, adding that "in all these decisions, Quebec's own
interests will be the determing factor."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed Meech Lake constitutional accord died after
two provinces, Newfoundland and Manitoba, failed to ratify it
by a Saturday deadline. The other eight provinces and the
federal Parliament ratified the agreement, but it required
unanimous approval.
   Mr. Bourassa is under pressure from the opposition Parti
Quebecois, which wants independence for the province. In a
televised address, Mr. Bourassa said Quebec must debate its
future "calmly, lucidly and with realism" and promised to
avoid any sudden moves that would scare off foreign
investors.
   Mr. Bourassa, a 54-year-old economist, is worried about
the reaction of financial markets to the death of the
constitutional accord. A senior aide said that if market
reaction is too negative, the premier will take special steps
to reassure investors. He didn't elaborate.
   After the address, Mr. Bourassa reiterated the safety of
investing in Quebec and said he wouldn't make "any decisions
{adversely} affecting the economic security of Quebecers."
   Although foreign exchange traders expected the Canadian
dollar to drop today because of the constitutional impasse,
they said the fall would be cushioned by the country's high
short-term interest rates. Canadian 91-day Treasury bills
yielded 13.55% late Friday, compared with less than 8% for
similar U.S. instruments. "That's a big chunk of
exchange-rate protection," said Barry Davenport, vice
president, foreign exchange, at Bank of Montreal.
   Like several other other big Canadian dealers, Bank of
Montreal assigned extra staff to their trading desks last
night in anticipation of heavy Canadian-dollar trading as
soon as markets opened in Asia and the Pacific.
   Canadian Finance Minister Michael Wilson said investors
shouldn't overreact to the failure of the Meech Lake accord.
"Canada is still a very strong economy and stable place to
live, invest and do business," he said in an interview.
   Political analysts said the collapse of the constitutional
agreement was a serious political blow for Prime Minister
Brian Mulroney, who was widely seen as having created a
crisis atmosphere to pressure the holdout provinces to ratify
the accord. "Mr. Mulroney highlighted the worst-case scenario
as part of his strategy," said Joe Ghiz, premier of Prince
Edward Island.
   Two days after warning that failure to ratify Meech Lake
would send "negative signals to international markets," Mr.
Mulroney on Saturday urged Canada's "friends and partners"
abroad to stay calm. "Canadians have always overcome
challenges to our unity, and we shall do so again," a haggard
Mr. Mulroney said in a televised speech.
   "Everyone is trying to put the best face on things," said
Dalton Camp, a former senior Mulroney adviser. "But there is
no question that this is a serious situation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Friction Division Products Inc.:
   Firm to Pay $285,000 Fine
   To Settle Agency Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friction Division Products Inc. agreed to pay $285,000 in
fines as part of a settlement of Labor Department charges of
asbestos-related, workplace health violations.
   The Trenton, N.J., maker of brake pads and linings for
cars and trucks also agreed to pay as much as $1.7 million
more in fines if it violates a consent order by the federal
appeals court in Philadelphia, the department's Occupational
Safety and Health Administration said. The company further
agreed to take a series of actions aimed at abating serious
asbestos-control problems, OSHA said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last July, OSHA proposed fines of $2.7 million against the
company, the largest ever proposed for health violations.
   The company agreed to the settlement without admitting
guilt, OSHA said.
   Friction Division said that its president was the only
person authorized to comment on the settlement and that he
wasn't immediately available.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-GM, Raytheon
   Executives Convicted
   In Defense-Data Case
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GMH RTN
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A former market-research manager at Raytheon
Co.'s largest unit and a onetime marketing official at
General Motors Corp.'s Hughes Aircraft subsidiary were
convicted of conspiring to swap sensitive Pentagon planning
documents.
   Frank Caso, who worked at Hughes until last year, and John
Kiely, formerly a market-research manager for Raytheon's
Missile Systems division, were convicted after a weeklong
trial in federal district court in Alexandria, Va.
Prosecutors asserted that, beginning in the mid-1970s, the
two men conspired with employees of other defense contractors
to illegally acquire and trade classified Pentagon documents.
They face a maximum sentence of five years in prison.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prosecutors presented new details about how such
document-swapping over the years gave major defense
contractors access to some of the military's most sensitive
long-range planning materials. Six individuals and five
companies, including Hughes, Raytheon and Boeing Co.,
previously were convicted of charges stemming from the
investigation code-named "Operation Uncover." The grand jury
investigation is continuing.
   Mr. Caso was indicted on charges involving using a post
office box to receive the documents and placing false titles
in Hughes's document-accountability system to try to hide
some of his activities. Mr. Kiely, who was an Air Force major
before joining Raytheon in 1967, was accused of illegally
copying classified documents in the firm's Arlington, Va.,
office as part of a scheme to share them with other defense
contractors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cooper Cos.:
   Firm Sells Anacomp Notes,
   Says It Holds 5.25% Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AAC COO
</CO>
<LP>
   Cooper Cos. said it sold $3 million principal amount of
Anacomp Inc.'s 12.25% senior subordinated notes due 1995 and
$9 million principal amount of the company's senior
subordinated, increasing-rate notes due 1991.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Cooper said it has not recently sold any of its common stock
holdings in Anacomp. Its stake currently consists of
1,955,600 shares, or 5.25%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the filing, Cooper said that no decision has yet been
reached on its motion to dismiss a lawsuit filed last
February against it by Anacomp. The lawsuit alleges
violations of civil racketeering law.
   Cooper said it continues to evaluate whether to seek a
change in control of Cooper, maintain its investment, or
dispose of its holdings.
   Officials at Anacomp, a computer-services concern, hadn't
any comment on the filing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bennetton Family Sells
   62% of Financial Firm
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   BNG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- The Benetton family of Italy sold a 62%
stake in its financial-services group, In Capital S.p.A., to
Sviluppo Finanziaria, the investment bank of Franceso
Micheli's Finarte S.p.A. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The Benetton family holding, Edizione Holding S.p.A., will
retain a 26% stake in In Capital, and management will keep a
12% interest, Svilippo said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sviluppo said the new group after the acquisition will
control about 40 trillion lire ($32.54 billion) in
financial-services activities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tektronix Inc.:
   Holders File Suit Alleging
   Violations of Security Laws
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TEK
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tektronix Inc. said holders filed a class-action suit
against the company and certain of its officers and
directors, alleging violations of security laws.
   The suit, filed in federal district court in Portland,
Ore., accuses Tektronix of "withholding material adverse
information from the public" from July, 1989, to February,
1990. The electronics equipment maker didn't elaborate on the
lawsuit, calling it "entirely without merit."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As reported, Tektronix last month fired about 10% of its
13,000 work force and said it was taking a one-time charge of
$70 million against its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings, as a
result of slumping sales. It hasn't announced earnings for
that quarter, ended May 26.
   For the fiscal third quarter, ended March 3, the company
posted a loss of $25.5 million, or 88 cents a share, on
revenues of $421.8 million. It earned $6.4 million, or 22
cents a share, on revenue of $434.1 million a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Curtice Burns Foods Inc.:
   Profit Decline, Sales Increase
   Are Expected for Fiscal '90
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBI
</CO>
<LP>
   Curtice Burns Foods Inc., Rochester, N.Y., said it expects
to report a 40% decline in profit for the June 29 fiscal year
as sales rose about 10%.
   In fiscal 1989, the processor of regionally branded food
products earned $14.9 million, or $1.78 a share, adjusted for
a 3-for-2 split paid Dec. 20. Sales in fiscal 1989 were
$807.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it was hurt by a short crop of canning
and freezing vegetables in the Northeast, lower sales in its
meatsnack business and reduced sales of oat bran. Other
factors included costs related to development activities, and
plant and administrative consolidations.
   This year will mark only the second time since 1980 that
earnings haven't increased over the previous period, the
company said.
   Curtice Burns said that it considers its problems
short-term, and that it expects a return to its historic rate
of earnings in the next fiscal year. The company said crop
conditions have returned to normal this year, recent
acquisitions are producing satisfactory profits, and a major
portion of consolidation expenses are behind it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Loewen of Canada
   Agrees to Purchase
   Funeral-Home Chain
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LWNGF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURNABY, British Columbia -- Loewen Group Inc., a
funeral-home chain, said it agreed to acquire Houston-based
Paragon Family Services Inc. for $65.5 million.
   Loewen said the purchase, which is subject to various
conditions including board approval and possible adjustment
of the price, is scheduled to close Sept. 18.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paragon owns and operates 47 funeral homes, mainly in the
south-central U.S., and has agreed to acquire nine more.
Loewen said the acquisition would complement its existing
U.S. operations.
   Incorporated in 1985, Loewen spent 131.5 million Canadian
dollars (US$111.8 million) on acquisitions through 1989,
according to analyst Tony Yue of Vancouver's Goepel Shields &amp;
Partners Inc. The company now owns 164 funeral homes, 12
cemeteries and related operations, making it the second
largest funeral-service company in North America, behind
Texas-based Service Corp. International.
   Mr. Yue said further acquisitions are likely because fewer
than 5% of the 22,000 U.S. funeral homes are currently owned
by operators with multiple locations. In Canada, about 10% of
the 1,400 homes are owned by chains.
   Loewen said Paragon's 185 employees will remain with the
company and that three senior executivies will become senior
officers of Loewen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bytex Gets $1.8 Million Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BYTX
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOUTHBOROUGH, Mass. -- Bytex Corp. said it received a $1.8
million contract from Securities Industry Automation Corp. to
expand its computer network switching systems.
   Securities Industry Automation is co-owned by the New York
Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange and National
Securities Clearing Corp., Bytex said. The expansion of its
network will help support stock-exchange transactions, the
company added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bytex makes data communications products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Nippon Meat Packers Inc.:
   Consolidated Pretax Profit
   For Fiscal 1990 Fell 18%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NMP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nippon Meat Packers Inc. of Japan, citing rising costs,
said its consolidated pretax profit for the year ended March
31 fell 18% to 25.09 billion yen ($162.3 million) from 30.67
billion yen a year earlier.
   Net income fell 23% to 8.82 billion yen, or 40.99 yen a
share, from 11.52 billion yen, or 54.43 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales increased 11% to 658.134 billion yen from 592.623
billion yen. Sales costs and other merchandising and
administrative costs grew at a faster pace, however, pinching
profit. Ham sausage sales rose 6.6% to 144.04 billion yen,
and processed-food sales increased 12% to 97.19 billion yen.
   Nippon Meat has said its unconsolidated pretax profit rose
2.1% to 21.52 billion yen. Net income at the parent company
rose 7% to 10.04 billion yen, and sales rose 10% to 488.06
billion yen.
   The company said it expects fiscal 1991 sales of 740
billion yen, consolidated pretax profit of 30 billion yen and
net income of 10.5 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Snow Brand Milk Products Co.:
   Yearly Pretax Profit Fell
   11%; Transit Costs Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SBM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Snow Brand Milk Products Co., Japan's largest
dairy-products maker, reported an 11% decline in consolidated
pretax profit for the year ended March 31 to 19.23 billion
yen ($124.3 million) from 21.534 billion yen a year earlier.
   Net income slipped 3.2% to 6.5 billion yen, or 23.10 yen a
share, from 6.72 billion yen, or 24.07 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales increased 5.4% to 968.89 billion yen from 918.85
billion yen.
   A spokesman attributed the slip in earnings largely to
increasing costs for domestic transportation, and said the
company also was hurt by rising prices for imported
materials, as a result of yen's decline in the fiscal fourth
quarter.
   Sales of milk, other drinks and yogurt, accounting for 26%
of sales, rose 6.2% to 274.18 billion yen. Sales of butter,
cheese and other dairy products made up 17% of total sales
and totaled 160.19 billion yen, up 4.8%.
   In the current fiscal year, Snow Brand expects sales of
1.01 trillion yen, consolidated pretax profit of 20 billion
yen and net income of 6.7 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Troubled Excalibur Halts
   Production of Fancy Autos
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILWAUKEE (AP) -- Excalibur Automobile Corp., maker of
neoclassic automobiles fancied by wealthy collectors, has
suspended production after being rocked by layoffs, lawsuits,
bounced paychecks and allegations of mileage tampering.
   "If we could build 120 cars a year, we could be
profitable," said Scott Dennison, who became president of the
company June 1 after Henry A. Warner resigned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the company has been producing just one car a week
since January and has a backlog of 76 vehicles. Layoffs this
month left only five of Excalibur's 45 workers on staff.
   The company has $2.1 million in loans outstanding, owes
$97,000 in overdue property taxes and owes thousands more to
unpaid workers and vendors.
   Mr. Dennison said his restructuring plans include buying
Mr. Warner's 59% stake, raising at least $500,000 in
additional capital for debt financing and operations and
proceeding with plans to find new markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Kumagai Gumi Co.:
   Construction Firm Predicts
   Drop in Fiscal 1990 Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KMG
</CO>
<LP>
   Kumagai Gumi Co., a major Japanese construction company,
predicted that its profit in the fiscal 1990, ending March
31, would drop mainly because of higher running costs in the
U.S.
   It estimated that pretax earnings would fall 10.3%, to
around 41 billion yen ($265 million) from 45.685 billion yen
in the past fiscal year, and net profit 9.9% to 14 billion
yen from 15.523 billion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kumagai Gumi officials said their company projected lower
profit because of expectations of growing costs to maintain
buildings in the U.S. after they are built.
   "If we can sell them earlier, that will, of course, make a
difference in the running costs," one official said. "Right
now, however, we expect the costs to grow and pressure
profits down."
   Fiscal 1990 sales are estimated at about 1.4 trillion yen,
a 9.5% gain from 1.187 trillion yen in the previous fiscal
year.
   Kumagai Gumi changed its fiscal year to begin April 1. As
a result, its fiscal 1988 covers only six months, making
comparisons with fiscal 1990 results difficult.
   In the truncated fiscal 1988, pretax earnings totaled
14.147 billion yen and net income 4.057 billion yen. Sales in
the six months were 483.249 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   `Tracy' Following Is Strong
   As Film Leads the Weekend
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS OPC CRC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- "Dick Tracy," the closely watched summer
movie from Walt Disney Co., turned in a solid performance in
its second weekend, allaying fears that it might be a flop,
entertainment industry sources said.
   "Dick Tracy" was the top-grossing film for the weekend;
preliminary estimates put its weekend gross at $15.5 million
to $16.7 million. The No. 2 film was the estimated $14.8
million opening of Orion Pictures Corp.'s "RoboCop 2." The
No. 3 movie, Carolco Pictures Inc.'s "Total Recall," made an
estimated $8.6 million for its fourth weekend.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The estimate for "Dick Tracy" appears to be a modest
26%-31% slide from the movie's $22.5 million take on its
opening weekend. "It's a very, very good hold," said Martin
Grove, box office analyst with Baseline, an entertainment
information service. Some movies have slumped as much as 45%
in their second weekend, Mr. Grove noted.
   Moreover, the weekend pattern of a sharp 47% drop on
Friday, a smoother 5% slide on Saturday from a week earlier,
and a projected 18% drop for Sunday suggests that
word-of-mouth recommendations are holding up, said Mr. Grove.
He projects that the movie will "easily" top $100 million in
gross ticket sales at U.S. theaters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Continental Air Lowering
   Fares During July 4 Period
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6B
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Continental Airlines said it cut fares for
travel around the July 4 holiday by as much as 51%.
   The reductions vary by market, but the airline said the
maximum round-trip fare in the promotion is $238. That fare
applies to the New York-Los Angeles route, down from $426.
Other reduced fares include $158 on the Denver-Chicago route,
down from $280, and $158 on the Houston-Miami route, down
from $324.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Other airlines matched a similar promotion last year by
Continental, a unit of Continental Airlines Holdings Inc.,
and are expected to do so again this year.
   Continental said the lower fares are available on
"hundreds of thousands" of seats. It wasn't more specific.
   The reduced fares apply to travel that begins between July
1 and July 7 and returns July 4 or later. The carrier said
tickets must be purchased by Thursday and aren't refundable.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Brokers
   Share the Woes
   Of Wall Street
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Like their counterparts on Wall Street,
investment dealers on Canada's Bay Street are in the throes
of a major shakeout.
   Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.'s Canadian unit, citing
continued losses, bowed out of Canada last week.
Prudential-Bache sold its retail operations to Toronto-based
Burns Fry Ltd., where about 400 Prudential-Bache employees
will find jobs. But at least another 225 workers will find
themselves scrambling to find new jobs. Merrill Lynch Canada
Inc. sold its retail operations in January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New York-based Prudential-Bache is a unit of Prudential
Insurance Co. of America. Merrill Lynch Canada is a unit of
New York-based Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
   Only 28 of the Toronto Stock Exchange's 75 member firms
managed to make a profit in the first quarter of 1990. April
and May were even more difficult, many firms report.
   "We're seeing a shrinking revenue base in a more
competitive market that also suffers from overcapacity," said
Lyle Stein, vice-president and portfolio strategist at
Toronto-based investment dealer Nesbitt Thomson Deacon Inc.
   While many of these problems are familiar enough on Wall
Street, Canadian securities firms must grapple with
additional dilemmas, ranging from the country's sky-high
interest rates to a great degree of corporate concentration.
   "In a rising interest rate environment, it's very
compelling for most investors to be in the money market and
fixed income market," said Robert Schultz, president and
chief executive of Midland Walwyn Capital Inc., one of
Canada's largest investment dealers. Investors buy these
vehicles through brokerage firms, too, he acknowledges, "but
these types of transactions are much less lucrative for us"
than equity investments.
   Short-term interest rates are around 13.6% in Canada, more
than five percentage points above similar U.S. rates.
Investment industry executives say that encourages investors
to get out of stocks and into Treasury bills or similar
instruments.
   "The retail investor, our bread and butter, is alleged to
be coming back to life in the U.S.," said Nesbitt Thomson's
Mr. Stein. "But unfortunately he hasn't arrived up here yet."
   Institutional clients are still in the game, but they're
playing hardball with the brokers.
   "In the last 12 months, there's been a contraction of what
institutions are willing to pay as commissions," said John
Ing, president and chief executive of Maisons Placements
Canada Inc., a Montreal-based securities dealer. "It's no
longer a question of negotiating the commission, it's a
question of the institution deciding what commission they
intend to pay."
   Mr. Ing said those commissions have dropped from about
eight cents a share three years ago to about three cents this
year, figures confirmed by other major investment dealers.
   But it's not only interest rates that keep Canadians away
from stock markets, some investment dealers argue.
   Mr. Stein said that Canada's economy continues to
underperform those of other Western industrialized nations,
including West Germany and the U.S. The investment
environment, already seriously affected by rising interest
rates and economic uncertainty, has been further clouded by
the failure of Canada's Meech Lake constitutional accord,
aimed at bringing Quebec back into Canadian Confederation.
While debate over the accord and Quebec's future in Canada
hasn't directly affected the stock market, it has made the
outlook for foreign investment in Canada less certain.
   Mr. Stein also cited the specific characteristics of the
Canadian equity market as a reason for the lack of investor
interest. "The equity market here has also gotten thinner,"
he added, "with many large companies having been taken over
and taken out of the market in the last few years."
   In 1989 alone, Mr. Stein said, major Canadian firms such
as Connaught BioSciences Inc., Falconbridge Ltd. and
Consolidated-Bathurst Inc. were taken over. The high rate of
corporate concentration in Canada means many of the companies
listed on the stock exchanges have only relatively few shares
available for public trading.
   A high proportion of Canada's major publicly traded firms
are in natural resources, such as Abitibi-Price Inc., Inco
Ltd. and Noranda Inc. These companies, hit by the high
Canadian dollar and a downturn in the cyclical markets for
their products, are reporting significantly lower levels of
profitability that makes their stocks less attractive.
   There are also too many brokers chasing too little
business, further eroding margins, investment dealers say.
   "Between 1982 and 1987, we had a very buoyant market, and
everybody had the view that this was going to go on," said
Midland Walwyn's Mr. Schultz. "But that is capacity that
can't be supported now, and it has impacted profitability."
   Added Reay Mackay, chief operating officer of
Toronto-based RBC Dominion Securities Inc. in Toronto:
"Obviously, the industry has an overhead problem as much as
it does a revenue problem." RBC laid off 125 of its 200
London-based employees last month, and said in December it
planned to cut its Canadian staff by 175 people this year.
   "If markets stay like this, there will be a further
shakeout" in the form of both mergers of firms and takeovers
of some by others, Mr. Mackay said.
   But though bulls are an endangered species on Bay Street,
they aren't extinct.
   Charles Winograd, president and chief executive of
Richardson Greenshields of Canada Ltd., said that although
the retail business in Canada is weaker than in the U.S.,
Canadian firms haven't had to deal with the problems caused
by the frenzied merger and acquisition activity of the past
few years, or with junk bonds.
   "In 1988 and 1989, U.S. firms were cushioned by that
business," Mr. Winograd said. "Our toughest times came
immediately after the 1987 crash, and nothing's really
changed: This is a cyclical industry."
   John MacNaughton, president of Burns Fry, said his company
plans to generate interest among its extremely cautious
clients by seeking out "creative" new products.
   "We just completed the first placement by a British firm
of preferred shares in Canada by overcoming tax, accounting
and regulatory hurdles creatively," Mr. MacNaughton said,
referring to a 135 million Canadian dollar (US$114.8 million)
preferred share issue by Cadbury Schweppes PLC. He said the
company's retail brokers can overcome investor pessimism by
being more aware of the wide variety of products and issues
available.
   "Ultimately, we'll see a resurgence in investor
confidence," he said.
   ---
                       Bay Street Blues
                                                                                                       

          Member firms of the Toronto Stock Exchange
                                                                                                       

                                       1st qtr.   1st qtr.
                                         1990       1989
                                                                                                       

   Value of stock traded               C$19.72    C$21.47
                                       billion    billion
                                                                                                       

   Member firms profit (loss)          (C$43.1)   (C$5.4)
                                       million    million
                                                                                                       

   Profitable firms                       28         36
                                                                                                       

   Unprofitable firms                     47         39
                                                                                                       

   Total employees on March 31          21,641     22,699
                                                                                                       

   Source: Toronto Stock Exchange
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Lloyds Bank Italian Assets
   Seized Under Injunction
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   U.LLO EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- Just as measures have been announced making it
easier for foreign banks to operate in Italy, Britain's
fourth-largest bank, Lloyds Bank PLC, has found its assets in
the country seized in a mysterious legal move that
jeopardizes its business here.
   Lloyds said it is moving swiftly to safeguard its
customers' interests following a private injunction issued by
a Pisa court sequestering as much as $796.2 million of its
assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We believe the accusation behind the court order is
utterly without foundation. . . . We have lawyers taking the
appropriate action to have it set aside," a Lloyds spokesman
said in London.
   While neither Lloyds nor the Pisa court would give
information on the accusation or who was behind it, sources
close to the case said it related to the seizure by British
police of financial documents in 1987.
   According to Italian and British news reports and banking
sources, the problems apparently stem from an incident in
Manchester, England, in 1987, when a Swiss national, two
Britons and two Italians tried unsuccessfully to cash several
hundred million U.S. dollars of Philippine government
securities at a Lloyds branch. While the link between the two
actions isn't certain, a Lloyds official said the dispute
involves some of the same matters.
   The bank described the move as unprecedented and said the
court order affected all Lloyds transactions in Italy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   `Robin HUD' Is Sentenced
   To 46-Month Prison Term
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   BALTIMORE (AP) -- A former real estate agent, Marilyn
Harrell, who was nicknamed "Robin HUD" after she claimed she
stole from the Department of Housing and Urban Development to
help the poor, was sentenced to 46 months in prison and
ordered to return $110,000 to the government.
   Ms. Harrell, 46 years old, had acknowledged taking $5.7
million, and pleaded guilty in January to stealing government
property and filing a false tax return. She was given the
sobriquet "Robin HUD" after claiming she gave most of the
money to charity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in passing the stiff sentence recommended by
prosecutors, federal Judge Herbert Murray said a "substantial
amount" of the money went to Ms. Harrell and her family. Ms.
Harrell told the judge this wasn't true. Her attorney,
Anthony Gallagher, a public defender, said the sentence would
be appealed.
   As an escrow agent, Ms. Harrell collected money from the
sales of property purchased with HUD-guaranteed loans that
had been foreclosed. She became a symbol of mismanagement at
HUD during the Reagan administration, when the scandal broke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's May Production
   Of Market Pulp Fell 8%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Canadian production of market pulp dropped 8%
in May from a year earlier as the industry operated at 85% of
capacity.
   The Canadian Pulp and Paper Association, an industry
group, said Canadian mills produced 550,000 metric tons of
market pulp in May, compared with 596,000 metric tons a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 85% operating rate in May was up from 76% in April but
down from 94% a year earlier.
   For the year to date Canadian mills produced 2.751 million
metric tons of market pulp compared with 2.990 million metric
tons a year earlier, an 8% decline. The industry operated at
87% of capacity in the first five months, down from 97% a
year earlier.
   Market pulp is wood pulp sold on the open market to
producers of paper, sanitary and other products. The
statistics exclude pulp consumed at the producing mill or
shipped to another mill affiliated with the producing mill.
Canada is the world's largest producer of market pulp.
   Total market shipments in May dropped 15% to 488,000
metric tons from 573,000 metric tons a year earlier.
Shipments to all markets were down.
   Market shipments for the first five months dropped 13% to
2.528 million metric tons from 2.917 million metric tons a
year earlier.
   Canadian producer inventories at the end of May were
583,000 metric tons, a 35-day supply, compared with 521,000
metric tons, a 29-day supply, at the end of April. Producer
inventories at the end of May 1989 were 310,000 metric tons,
a 16-day supply.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farm-Bill Accord Is Reached by Panel
   Hoping to Avert Floor Fight in the Senate
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Agriculture Committee, seeking to
avert a nasty floor fight over commodity subsidies,
compromised on a $55 billion farm bill that left neither
Republicans nor Democrats fully satisfied.
   The lawmakers agreed to renew the basic thrust of the
nation's agricultural policies for an additional five years,
while embracing innovative proposals designed to give farmers
a freer hand to plant what they want and a chance to make a
little more money under some circumstances. But budget
pressures, coupled with Republican insistence on freezing
subsidies at current levels, thwarted the Democrats from
protecting farm income from rising production costs to the
extent they wanted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For two weeks, partisan bickering had prevented any
progress on the big-ticket commodity programs, with
Republican Sen. Richard Lugar of Indiana, the panel's ranking
minority member, threatening to create political havoc on the
floor if Midwestern Democrats forced through higher target
prices and loan rates. The committee was facing the prospect
of 10-9 party-line split until Thursday, when Committee
Chairman Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.) managed to broker a
compromise on the last contentious issues.
   The committee approved the huge package on a 15-4 vote,
with Sens. Thomas Daschle (D., S.D.), Max Baucus (D., Mont.),
Howell Heflin (D., Ala.) and Slade Gorton (R., Wash.)
opposing it. "There's not everything in here that every
member would want," Sen. Leahy said afterwards. But the bill
"makes sense for farmers and consumers and is within the
budget."
   "This bill will avoid a blood bath," said William Lesher,
a Washington-based agricultural consultant, who expects it to
undergo considerable changes on the floor and in conference
with Senate farm lawmakers. The House Agriculture Committee
has finished work on its version of the 1990 farm bill. Floor
action is expected in both chambers by mid-July.
   The legislation would give farmers the option to plant a
variety of crops on 25% of the acreage they customarily
devote to subsidized crops. But in taking advantage of this
flexibility provision, farmers would forgo any subsidies on
that land. The objective is to have farmers make planting
decisions in response to market signals, rather than
incentives created by farm-subsidy programs.
   For all but one commodity, the bill would freeze target
prices and loan rates at the current levels for the next five
years, halting a five-year decline under the expiring 1985
farm law. To spur oat production, the bill would boost the
target price for oats 10 cents a year to $1.85 per bushel by
fiscal 1994.
   The government pays farmers subsidies whenever market
prices for commodities fall short of target prices. The
government also lends money to farmers, who put up their
anticipated crops as collateral. If market prices fall below
so-called loan rates, farmers can forfeit their crops to the
government, instead of paying off the loans. The loan rate,
in effect, acts as a minimum price.
   Under the marketing-loan proposal for wheat, corn and
other feed grains, the lawmakers would give the agriculture
secretary the option of lowering the basic loan rates as much
as 20% to keep U.S. commodities competitive on the world
market. But for each one-cent drop in the loan rate, farmers
would get an advance payment of three-fourths of a cent a
bushel, with the proviso that the advance be repaid. This
wrinkle would reduce the need to borrow farm-operating funds
from banks.
   Some of the innovations embraced by the committee are
likely to be challenged by the Bush administration. One has
been dubbed the "high price bonus." If market prices are
higher than expected, and the government thus doesn't have to
pay out as much as projected in subsidies, the lawmakers
proposed giving farmers two cents out of every 10 cents
saved.
   Another innovation would allow farmers in 15-county areas
in at least four states to participate in a supply-management
experiment. Grain farmers would be required to limit the
number of bushels they sell each year, rather than the number
of acres they cultivate.
   "It doesn't make good economic sense," said Bruce Gardner,
the Agriculture Department's top economist. Some Republican
lawmakers question how the government would enforce such
marketing controls.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters -- Credit Markets:
   Mortgage Securities
   Caught in S&amp;L Crisis
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CUE
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Now that thrifts are dropping like flies, some of the
bonds they issued also face a shortened life span.
   That's bad news for many small investors who snapped up
mortgage-backed bonds issued by thrifts in the 1980s to enjoy
the unlikely combination of double-digit yields and triple-A
credit ratings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A lot of investors aren't even aware that they could be
hurt by a policy adopted in April by the Resolution Trust
Corp., the government's thrift-bailout agency. These
investors may not even know that the mortgage-backed bonds
they hold were issued by savings institutions, let alone that
the thrifts are insolvent and the bonds are callable.
   The RTC has the power to cancel, or "repudiate," bonds and
call them early if a thrift is insolvent. So far, issues from
three thrifts have been "repudiated" and more such moves are
expected, says an RTC spokesman.
   The most recent repudiation -- $391 million of bonds
issued by Merabank Federal Savings Bank of Phoenix, Ariz., --
was made June 8 but hasn't been widely publicized. By
contrast, $3.8 billion of bonds of Franklin Savings
Association in Kansas were repudiated the same day and got a
lot of attention.
   About $8.3 billion of mortgage-backed bonds were issued by
thrifts that now are insolvent. Of this amount, $4.5 billion
in bonds, owned mostly by institutions, have been called. The
rest are mostly in the hands of individuals, says Francis
Parisi, who monitors the performance of mortgage securities
for Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
   Most investors won't lose their money, because the
government will redeem the bonds at face value, or par, plus
accrued interest. They will, however, lose the high yield and
face the inconvenience of finding a new place to invest.
   Investors can't just sell the bonds to some unwary soul.
The RTC policy has already led some institutional owners of
thrift-issued bonds to sell their holdings, driving down
prices in the $20 billion market for thrift-issued
mortgage-backed bonds.
   But bond experts say it might still be worthwhile to dust
off the prospectus or call the broker that sold the bonds to
determine whether prompt action should be taken. About half
the issues that individuals own contain features that enable
investors to sell their bonds back to the trustee. Doing so
could save them the risk of losing months' worth of interest
if the bonds are called.
   Here's what investors should look for:
   -- First, if the original issuer of the mortgage-backed
security is a thrift, ask the broker if the issuing thrift is
insolvent, or could become so. "They might be solvent today,
but the next time they have to report on their tangible net
worth, they might not meet the asset requirements," says Mr.
Parisi. Bonds of insolvent thrifts are more likely to be
called if their yields are substantially above the market
rate; many such bonds now have yields above 10%.
   -- Check to see whether the bond was sold at a premium to
its face value. If it was, investors will lose money if the
bond is called, as the government will redeem only the face
value. "This might be another case when bondholders bite the
bullet," says Byron Klapper, publisher of Fitch Investors
Service, a bond-rating concern in New York. In such cases, he
says, investors should just sit back and enjoy the yield as
long as it lasts.
   -- See if your bond is a so-called collateralized letter
of credit. This name typically applies to the type of bond
held by individuals that might get called by the RTC.
Institutions typically own a different form of
mortgage-backed bonds, securities sold directly by the
thrifts as a way of raising capital. And it was institutions,
which dominate the mortgaged-backed market, that got stung
when the the RTC began the bond-repudiation campaign by
calling $1.3 billion of the bonds of Centrust Bank, a
Florida-based thrift seized in March.
   Next on the RTC's hit list are mostly the collateralized
letter-of-credit bonds held by the little guys. These are
industrial revenue bonds backed with top-quality collateral,
such as Government National Mortgage Association securities.
Collateralized LOCs are owned mostly by individuals, says Mr.
Parisi, because they are regional issues sold by local
underwriters.
   -- If the bond is a collateralized LOC, check to see
whether it has a "put" feature. About half have so-called put
options that enable bondholders to take the bonds back to the
trustee and redeem them at face value plus accrued interest.
Investors can find the name of the bond's trustee, which will
be a major bank, by checking the prospectus.
   Some investors might want to approach the trustee now
because the government hasn't indicated yet whether it would
pay holders of the LOCs interest up to the time the call is
announced, or only up to the date the thrift was taken over.
"Investors risk losing a few months' worth of interest, so
that would be the incentive to get out now -- particularly if
the thrift has one foot in the grave," says Standard &amp; Poor's
Mr. Parisi. This lack of certainty over the payment period of
post-insolvency interest applies only to the collateralized
LOC bonds. The RTC recently issued a policy regarding
mortgage-backed bonds, stating it would pay interest up to
the date of redemption.
   Some bond specialists see other risks. Richard Lehmann,
president of the Bond Investors Association in Miami Lakes,
Fla., and publisher of the Defaulted Bond Newsletter,
believes unscrupulous brokers may take advantage of investor
ignorance and continue to sell these bonds. "Brokers might
buy the bonds at a discount," he says, "and sell them at a
premium to investors who will face a loss of their principal
investment if the bonds are called early."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices finished modestly higher in response to a late
sell-off in the stock market.
   For much of the day, bonds barely budged. But the market
was aroused late in the day when the Dow Jones Industrial
Average plunged 44.55 points in the last half-hour of trading
and closed at 2,857.18. That was the lowest level for the Dow
since the Memorial Day weekend.
   In the afternoon, "There was a pop in bond prices after
the stock market's quick free fall," said Mitchell Held,
chief financial economist at Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   The benchmark 8 3/4% 30-year Treasury bond rose 1/8 point,
or $1.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The bond was
quoted late at a price of 102 27/32, compared with 102 23/32
Thursday. The benchmark bond's yield, which moves in the
opposite direction from its price, eased to 8.47% from 8.49%
Thursday. Shorter-term securities were little changed.
   Tumbling stock prices dragged down junk-bond prices. Most
junk bonds, the high-yield high-risk corporate securities
that have low credit ratings or no credit ratings at all,
closed between 1/4 and 3/8 point lower.
   Hard-hit were junk bonds from cyclical and
recession-sensitive companies, such as Quantum Chemical Corp.
It was recently reported that securities analysts believe
commodity-chemical and plastics companies, a group that
includes Quantum, will see declines in second-quarter
earnings ranging from 30% to 35%.
   Quantum Chemical's 12 1/2% senior subordinated notes,
maturing in 1999, ended down 1 point at 91 1/4.
   In the Treasury market, bond prices fluctuated aimlessly
before the stock market declined. Traders said the market's
lifeless tone reflected confusion over two contradictory
economic reports that provided mixed signals about the
economy's health.
   The durable-goods report for May showed that factory
orders rose a stronger-than-expected 3.9%, a sign of
resurging economic strength. But a report on personal income
and personal-consumption expenditures was weaker than
expected. Personal income rose 0.3% in May and
personal-consumption expenditures were flat, both suggesting
that the economy remains sluggish.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Pledges to Intensify
   Attack on Financial Crime
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush vowed to "leave no stone
unturned" in an intensified federal attack on criminal fraud
in the savings and loan and banking industries.
   Firing back at Democrats who have criticized his
administration's efforts to prosecute white-collar crime, Mr.
Bush told a gathering of hundreds of federal enforcement
officials that the Justice Department will form new
committees and task forces to coordinate S&amp;L investigations
and "throw the crooks in jail."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The president praised a variety of recent legislative
proposals to help prosecutors go after financial crime,
including one that would allow federal investigators to
request court-ordered wiretaps in bank fraud cases. He
chastized Congress for moving too slowly to appropriate
additional money for criminal investigations of the deeply
troubled S&amp;L industry. And he proposed that Congress
authorize $100 million for such investigations for fiscal
year 1991, a $25 million increase over the amount currently
authorized.
   Congressional Democrats rejected the Bush assault,
pointing out that for fiscal years 1989 and 1990, Mr. Bush
didn't even propose spending the full $75 million that
Congress had authorized for S&amp;L enforcement. Speaking on
behalf of the critics, Rep. Charles Schumer (D., N.Y.) said
federal prosecutors have moved slowly in seeking indictments,
creating a huge backlog of unaddressed cases.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Thompson Issues an Order
   On Patronage in Illinois
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Illinois Gov. James R. Thompson issued an
executive order requiring department heads to bring the state
in line with last week's Supreme Court decision striking down
patronage practices.
   Five Illinois residents successfully challenged the
Republican governor over his party's control of more than
60,000 state jobs. Mr. Thompson, who called the high court's
ruling "naive," told reporters that the death of patronage
"turns politics on its head."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the spoils system may still have some life in
Illinois. While the governor's order ends a requirement of
political loyalty in the state and specifically covers
promotions, transfers and firings, Mr. Thompson said that
when faced with two job candidates with equal qualifications,
"We'll hire the Republican."
   Mr. Thompson, the nation's longest-serving governor, will
leave office in January after 14 years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   While Some Analysts Ponder Whether Gold's Price
   Will Fall More, Others See $1,000 an Ounce and Up
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Gold may have plunged 20% from its February
high of $440 an ounce to about $350 currently, and some
traditional analysts may be pondering whether gold's next
move will be down to $300 or an excruciating struggle back up
to $400.
   But make way for the big-picture optimists who see glory
days for gold -- and gloom and doom for just about everything
else -- around the corner, or maybe the corner after that.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lawrence H. Heim says gold is headed for $8,000 an ounce.
James Dines sees $5,000 in gold's future. Anthony V. Caldaro
believes gold can reach $2,400. R.E. McMaster expects $1,000.
   When these prices might be achieved isn't a question that
elicits very specific answers. For the most part, these
people view gold as an underpriced standard of value in a
debt-ridden, problem-plagued world. At some point, they feel,
the negative financial and economic factors will become so
crushing that the inherent stability and value of gold will
suddenly become prized and cause its price to explode.
Current declines are only transitory, they say.
   For example, Mr. Heim, who says he advised traders to get
out of gold during the 1980s until 1989, links his gold boom
prediction to overheated government money-printing presses.
   Mr. Heim, who edits the Heim Investment Letter in
Portland, Ore., and heads a gold and silver dealership,
predicts a "panic into gold" that will be touched off by a
collapse of the dollar and by the "outrageous" governmental
creation of money over the past decade that has led to a
crushing national debt.
   Mr. Heim adds up a national debt of $3 trillion, a money
supply of $4 trillion and half of the $6 trillion he says the
government has in guarantees and obligations and comes up
with a "federal level of money" of $10 trillion for the U.S.
Dividing that by the 262 million ounces of gold he says the
U.S. has in stock, he says, "gold would have to be over
$38,000 an ounce to back this `money' 100%." He doesn't care
that the dollar is no longer officially backed by gold -- in
a crunch, the values of all currencies historically have been
measured against gold, he asserts -- nor that there isn't
wide recognition of his "federal level of money" concept.
   Mr. Heim is undaunted. "Only 10% backing would amount to
$3,000 an ounce for gold, which {would be} around 10 times
where it is now," he says. "I really think 20% backing is
what we will eventually see, so that would make the value of
gold close to $8,000 per ounce."
   The advance to that level will take place over the next
several years, he says. The current weakness in gold is
transitory and "will only make for a greater profit," he
says.
   Mr. Dines, editor of the Dines Letter in Belvedere,
Calif., was among the famous gold bugs when the metal rose to
a record $875 an ounce in 1980. When he first told his
clients that the price would rise from $35 to $400, he says,
"I thought I would get arrested," and so he tempered his
prediction. Now, he thinks gold will top $2,000 in the next
five years and climb to between $3,000 and $5,000 by the end
of the decade.
   These prices will be brought about by some kind of
monetary crisis, probably in the banking system, he says.
"Just look at the savings-and-loan mess, where the bailout is
now estimated at $500 billion. I've been warning about
trouble in the banking system for over 10 years, and that
includes the entire banking system. The savings-and-loan
situation is just the first shoe dropping."
   Mr. Dines believes that the Soviets have been selling gold
right along, contrary to reports that they slowed down in
May. "They have been selling gold to survive," he says.
Silver has resisted going down with gold and has actually
risen, he notes.
   "As soon as the Soviet selling stops, gold will rise again
and catch up with silver," Mr. Dines says. This move could
set the stage for an "explosive surge that will ignite a
short-covering panic that will accelerate the rally."
   Mr. Caldaro, editor of Long Term Trends, an investor
newsletter in Columbia, Md., sees gold going to more than
$2,000 an ounce by 1995 because he believes interest rates
will rise to more than 10% by late this year and to 14% to
15% by 1992 or 1993.
   He says prices in the 30-year bond market topped out in
December 1989 in what he terms a "major cyclical low" for
interest rates and that the stock market reached its peak
this month. He thinks the U.S. will get an "inflationary
recession" like the one that took place in the late 1970s and
early 1980s that will last until 1992 and will trigger a
"flight to safety" -- to gold.
   Mr. Caldaro says the real "kicker" in gold's climb will
come in 1992, when the government's printing presses go into
high gear, churning out money to get the economy out of a
recession.
   "This will create an economic expansion that will devalue
the dollar vs. its buying power, and a rush to gold will take
place," he says. Among the calamities Mr. Caldaro foresees
enhancing gold, in addition to the inflation he expects to
continue through the 1990s, is a stock market crash and a
collapse of the dollar. "Any one of those could happen," he
says.
   Mr. McMaster, in the May 24 issue of his newsletter, The
Reaper, published in Phoenix, Ariz., deals extensively with
gold and its undervaluation. He cites "other studies" that he
says "indicate that gold should be priced at approximately
$1,200 an ounce to cover U.S. net liquid liabilities."
   He says: "Gold, as I see it, is a time bomb. Gold is a
chaos hedge. Gold at any time could explode the deception and
delusion which has driven the debt-ridden post-WWII financial
world." He, too, thinks the withdrawal of the Soviet Union as
a gold seller will help the metal's price rebound.
   Not all extremist thinkers are bulls, however. Robert
Prechter, editor of the Elliott Wave Theorist in Gainesville,
Ga., said in 1980, after gold had hit $875: "On a long-term
basis, gold won't be attractive as an investment until it
falls below $200 an ounce."
   That statement still holds, according to David Allman, Mr.
Prechter's director of research, who says Mr. Prechter no
longer gives interviews. The gold market is still in a
correction from that record high, Mr. Allman says, and
according to a series of historical chart patterns could drop
as low in the next few years as the $105 an ounce it reached
in 1976.
   Deflation rather than inflation is the great danger, Mr.
Allman says, and could cause the price decline. Historical
patterns show that after a surge of inflation, such as the
one that ran through 1980, there is a leveling-period during
which stock and real estate prices boom. That has already
taken place, he says. Then comes a period -- which he says is
now beginning -- in which commodities and real estate sag.
   "This will ultimately be followed by a drop in stock
prices as well, which will culminate in a general deflation.
The early warning signs are already present in the price
action of gold," Mr. Allman says.
   Looking ahead to other commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Crude oil prices jumped Friday in a market driven by
technical factors, but traders remain wary of buying in a
market glutted with crude. Trading in the crude oil pit at
the New York Mercantile Exchange Friday was at times the
lightest of the week. Many market participants are expecting
prices to decline slowly during the next several weeks.
   Production by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries has swamped the market with crude. Even modest
cutbacks by Kuwait, an OPEC member that had been flagrantly
violating its quota, have barely affected the huge quantities
of crude being offered for sale.
                                                                                                       

   Orange Juice
                                                                                                       

   Frozen orange juice concentrate prices are expected to
settle down, according to Celeste Georgakis, tropical
commodities analyst at Cargill Investors Services Inc. in New
York. She says that prices two weeks ago were sent into a
tailspin by a combination of the Federal Reserve Board's
statements about achieving a zero inflation rate and a major
Brazilian processor offering to sell juice at prices
substantially under those quoted by other producers.
   "It appears that this processor was offering juice at a
discount for technical reasons -- a lack of storage space,"
Ms. Georgakis says. Other major Brazilian processors didn't
follow with price cuts. However, after the price cut was
announced, the U.S. futures market fell below a technical
support level at $1.89 a pound, which had held since last
December's freeze. Once that level gave way, prices plummeted
to under $1.70.
   Ms. Georgakis pointed out that the processors and dealers
started to buy as prices began to sink, slowing the decline.
Additional buying came in under the $1.70 level from
short-sellers who were evening positions that profited from
weakening prices. That buying kicked off the rally that
dominated the market most of last week.
   The Cargill analyst says she expects prices for the July
contract to rise no higher than $1.90 and to fall no lower
than $1.80. She says there is an unusually large total of
more than 4,000 July contracts outstanding. She also says she
thinks some speculative short-sellers and commodity funds
holding short positions are still in the market and will have
to buy back their positions in the next few sessions, which
could fuel a rally to about $1.90. The first day that juice
processors can give notice to the exchange that they intend
to deliver juice is next Monday.
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   The highlight this week is a quarterly hog survey slated
for release by the Agriculture Department Friday.
   The big question is whether high hog prices are prompting
farmers to expand their herds. Such a development would help
indicate when hog prices might ease enough to bring pork
prices in the supermarket down from their current record
levels.
   Jerry Abbenhaus, a livestock analyst at A.G. Edwards &amp;
Sons, said the government's June 1 survey probably found that
the nation's hog herd continued to shrink. He calculates that
the population dropped 1% from June 1989. What's more, the
number of piglets born in March, April and May probably
declined 2% -- indicating relatively tight supplies for the
rest of the year. It takes about six months to fatten a hog.
   Because of the seasonal breeding pattern, the supply of
fattened hogs should increase in the fall from the relatively
tight levels expected this summer. But some analysts don't
expect to see any significant year-to-year increase in the
supply of fattened hogs until early next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Panel Calls for Sharp Cut
   In Worker Radiation Limit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- An international commission recommended
sharply lower radiation exposure limits for workers regularly
exposed to high levels of radiation.
   The International Commission on Radiological Radiation
Protection, which conducts research into the effects of
radiation on humans, said the risks from ionizing radiation
are about three times as high as was estimated a decade ago.
The organization, made up of scientists and physicians from
the industrialized countries, recommended lowering the
acceptable level of exposure to two rems a year, measured as
an average over five-year basis, from five rems a year. A rem
is a measure of radiation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which sets standards
for worker exposure levels in the U.S., currently sets a
limit of five rems a year with a maximum exposure of three
rems in any three-month period. An NRC official declined to
comment on the new recommendation pending review of the
commission's report.
   The chairman of the international commission, Dr. Dan
Beninson of Argentina, estimated that 1.5 million people in
the U.S. were involved in occupations that would put them at
risk of exposure beyond the new suggested range. Dr. Beninson
said that people working in occupations such as nuclear plant
repair, medical radiology and uranium mining could be
affected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Charter Medical Says U.S.
   Is Probing Reimbursements
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CMDA
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   MACON, Ga. -- Charter Medical Corp. said federal
regulators are investigating the company for possible fraud
related to its Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements.
   C. Michael Ford, chief financial officer of the hospital
and psychiatric-care company, said the Office of the
Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
Services has interviewed several former reimbursement
specialists from Charter in connection with the probe. The
interviews, he said, have taken place in the past several
months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Ford added, however, that he isn't aware of any
current employees who have been interviewed.
   Mr. Ford said the company expects to make a statement
today regarding the investigation.
   Charter, which went private in a 1988 buy-out, posted a
$67 million loss on revenue of $475.2 million for its second
quarter ended March 31. The year earlier, Charter had a $14.6
million loss on revenue of $397.3 million.
   The most recent figures, which included a $35 million
pretax charge for accounting problems, have raised some
concerns on Wall Street about the company's ability to
service its debt. Charter has said it will cut capital
expenditures and other costs to ensure its ability to meet
its payments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Union Group
   Will Go to Europe
   To Seek Investors
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR UAL BAB U.RR F.ABI BA GE UTX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Representatives of the unions seeking to buy
UAL Corp. will travel to Europe this week to talk with
airlines and suppliers about possibly investing in the labor
group's $4.38 billion buy-out proposal.
   Gerald Greenwald, former Chrysler Corp. vice chairman who
is heading the UAL buy-out effort, is expected to talk with
British Airways PLC, Rolls-Royce PLC, a British jet-engine
manufacturer, Airbus Industries, a European aircraft maker
and Guinness Peat Aviation, a leasing company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   British Airways was an investor in a previous, failed
labor-management bid for UAL. In the earlier bid, British
Airways agreed to provide $700 million in equity in return
for a 15% stake in UAL. The airline's management has refused
so far to participate in the new buy-out effort, but
apparently has agreed to listen to a pitch from Mr.
Greenwald, according to an individual familiar with the
situation.
   As previously reported, the unions are also talking with
Boeing Co, the Seattle aircraft manufacturer; General
Electric Co., a Fairfield, Conn., maker of jet engines and
electrical products; and Pratt &amp; Whitney, the jet engine
maker that is a unit of United Technologies Inc., Hartford,
Conn.
   The unions are said to be seeking between $500 million and
$1 billion in financing from these companies that would be
subordinate to any bank financing.
   In return for their investment, the suppliers would
receive either a note or nonvoting stock in UAL as well as
"preferred-supplier" status.
   The labor group is seeking to reduce its dependence on
bank financing. Commercial lenders have been cool to the
transaction, which would result in the largest employee-owned
company in the nation.
   Banks repeatedly have expressed concern about the absence
of an outside equity investor. Currently, the only equity in
the deal is the $2 billion of "sweat equity" the unions
agreed to provide over five years in the form of wage
concessions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Producer of Bond Films
   Puts Rights Up for Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MGM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- Albert R. Broccoli, producer of the James
Bond films, has put up for sale his interest in the
successful series and rights to the famous British spy's
name.
   Danjaq S.A., Mr. Broccoli's Swiss holding company, owns
the Bond library of 16 films and certain rights to any future
Bond films, television shows or other projects. MGM/UA
Communications Co., Culver City, Calif., holds longterm
distribution rights to the films.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MGM/UA is talking with Mr. Broccoli's representatives
about acquiring his rights, said Dean Stolber, executive vice
president of MGM/UA's entertainment business group. But it is
considered more likely that another buyer will be sought
because negotiations with MGM/UA aren't going well.
   An attorney for Mr. Broccoli and Danjaq declined to
discuss the talks and Mr. Broccoli's reasons for selling the
company now. Mr. Broccoli and his partners would continue as
producers of future Agent 007 films after Danjaq is sold, the
attorney said.
   While estimates of the library's value weren't available,
film distributors have had a big appetite in recent years for
big-budget action movies. The 17th film in the series is in
development now.
   Lazard Freres &amp; Co., the New York investment-banking
concern, is handling the sale for Danjaq.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Central Mortgage
   Plans to Write Off
   $1.1 Million Goodwill
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   MOUNT CLEMENS, Mich. -- Central Mortgage Corp. plans to
write off $1.1 million in non-tax-deductible goodwill
associated with the 1987 acquisition of Superior Mortgage
Inc.
   Separately, the bank holding company said it has been
ordered to boost its loan-loss reserves $1.7 million, a move
that will reduce net income for the quarter ending June 30
about $1.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Central Mortgage said the Office of Thrift Supervision
ordered the increase in loan-loss reserves following a review
of its Colonial Central Savings Bank. The majority of the
additional reserves considered necessary by the OTS relate to
six construction projects that had been identified as problem
assets.
   Although they agreed to increase reserves, Central Holding
executives said they believe the additional reserves may be
greater than necessary, considering the collateral value of
the properties.
   The goodwill write-off comes in connection with Central
Mortgage's closing of its loan-origination offices in Topeka
and Wichita, Kan. Central Mortgage acquired the offices in
1987. Since this goodwill was already excluded from
regulatory capital, the write-off will not affect regulatory
capital, Central officials said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Machine Tool Orders Dropped in May
   From April but Topped Year-Ago Pace
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   GIDL GE
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   Machine tool orders placed with U.S. producers dropped
abruptly in May from the relatively high April rate, but
remained slightly above a year earlier. However, machine tool
distributors had a strong sales month.
   Industry executives say the disparity illustrates the
danger of placing too much importance on any single month's
figures. Machine tool producers say underlying demand is
relatively good, except from automotive and defense-related
customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. machine tool plants received $206.2 million of orders
last month, down 29% from April's $289.3 million, according
to NMTBA -- The Association for Manufacturing Technology, a
McLean, Va., trade group. However, orders remained slightly
above the $205.3 million of May 1989, and were about in line
with the monthly average for the final quarter of last year
and the first quarter of 1990.
   Machine tool distributors, who sell imported as well as
domestic machines, had an 8.8% order increase in May from a
year earlier, and a striking 38% jump from April, according
to the American Machine Tool Distributors' Association,
Rockville, Md. In April, however, distributor sales were
unusually weak, while U.S. machine tool factories had a good
month.
   Machine tools are sophisticated parts-making machines,
including lathes, machining centers and metal-forming
presses, and are bought mainly by factories that produce
durable goods. While plants that make machinery, household
appliances and other metal products are operating at
respectable rates right now, few are being pressed to add
capacity.
   That gives them time to shop for the most suitable
equipment to raise productivity, and there's a lot of
shopping going on, machine tool producers say. "Our activity
level is incredible," says Michael O. Harrington, vice
president, sales, for S.E. Huffman Corp., Clover, S.C.,
producer of specialized grinders, laser systems and water-jet
cutting equipment. But some customers will defer signing an
order until after the international machine tool show in
Chicago in September, he says.
   Buyers want to see the latest machines on display at the
show. Also, some will find it easier to justify the cost of a
trip to Chicago if they haven't already ordered the machines
they need.
   Some large machine tool users have more basic reasons to
hold off buying. Producers of cars, trucks and automotive
parts, for instance, continue to order cautiously, partly
because their own sales have been sluggish. Also, some
haven't yet decided what vehicles to produce in 1993 and
beyond in light of tightening governmental regulations on
fuel economy and exhaust emissions.
   Listening to the debate in Congress, it is becoming
increasingly clear that defense spending is going to be
slashed, machine tool executives add. Defense-oriented
aerospace concerns will soon have a lot of surplus capacity,
discouraging them from buying new machinery.
   However, other manufacturers are ordering machine tools to
increase plant productivity. "We're seeing order activity
from a good cross section of industry and from all across the
country," says Stephen M. Peterson, vice president, sales,
for Giddings &amp; Lewis Inc., Fond du Lac, Wis. "The oil patch
is coming back," and the company is getting orders from jet
engine manufacturers in the Northeast, machinery producers in
the Midwest and aerospace concerns on the West Coast. May
orders were higher than April, he says, and the proposal rate
is 20% higher than a year ago.
   Automotive companies are buying equipment to modernize
their tool and die shops, says Richard R. Burkhart, chairman
and chief executive officer of Pratt &amp; Whitney, West
Hartford, Conn. And some are placing orders for machines to
make a new generation of engines for 1993-model cars, he
says. But like most other producers, he says current orders
are lower than inquiry rates would indicate they should be.
   May orders for lathes, grinders, milling machines,
machining centers, boring mills and other machines to shape
metal by cutting were $137.6 million, the NMTBA said, down 7%
from $147.9 million a year earlier and off about one-third
from April's $206.7 million.
   Domestic producers of metal-forming presses and other
machines to shape metal with pressure received $68.7 million
of orders in May, up 20% from $57.4 million a year earlier
but 17% below April's $82.6 million.
   Machine tool shipments by U.S. plants totaled $272.6
million last month, up 13% from $240.8 million a year
earlier, the NMTBA said. The industry's backlog of unfilled
orders declined in May, as it has in four of the first five
months of 1990. At the end of the month, the backlog totaled
$1.65 billion, the NMTBA said, down 8.7% from the end of last
year and off 29% from the high for the current economic
expansion, which came in February 1989.
   ---
                        May, 1990   April, 1990   May, 1989

   Comparative new orders for metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

   Domestic ......... $116,550,000 $187,450,000 $138,100,000
   Foreign ..........   21,200,000   19,200,000    9,800,000
     Total ..........  137,550,000  206,650,000  147,900,000
   5- month total for 1990: $799,850,000; for 1989:
$903,250,000.
                                                                                                       

   Metal-forming machine orders:
                                                                                                       

   Domestic .........  $64,500,000  $77,250,000  $49,850,000
   Foreign ..........    4,150,000    5,350,000    7,500,000
     Total ..........   68,600,000   82,600,000   57,350,000
   5- month total for 1990: $357,300,000; for 1989:
$347,850,000.
                                                                                                       

   Comparative shipment of metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

   Domestic ......... $171,950,000 $141,650,000 $145,400,000
   Foreign ..........   21,850,000   27,300,000   13,000,000
     Total ..........  193,800,000  168,950,000  158,400,000
   5-month total for 1990: $908,600,000; for 1989:
$824,000,000.
                                                                                                       

   Metal-forming machine shipments:
                                                                                                       

   Domestic .........  $71,000,000  $76,700,000  $74,100,000
   Foreign ..........    7,800,000   12,450,000    8,250,000
     Total ..........   78,800,000   89,150,000   82,350,000
   5- month total for 1990: $405,350,000; for 1988:
$353,950,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FMC Receives Navy Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FMC LIT
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- FMC Corp. received a $76.6 million Navy
contract for guided-missile launching systems.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ingalls Shipbuilding Inc., a unit of Litton Industries
Inc., was awarded a $26.4 million Navy contract for cruiser
yard services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   A Little S&amp;L Budget Honesty, Please
   ----
   By Herbert Stein
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   The valiant budget summitteers seem to have agreed on one
thing. The costs of the Savings and Loan bailout do not have
to be included in total budget expenditures, at least not for
the purpose of determining how much expenditures have to be
cut or taxes increased to meet the Gramm-Rudman deficit
target.
   For a change, this politically convenient decision has the
support of distinguished economists. Thus, more than a year
ago (March 1, 1989) Martin Feldstein, former chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers, said on this page:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The proposed thrift-rescue plan is fundamentally
different from other debt-financed spending because the
outlays are essentially only a formal recognition of
government liabilities that already exist. The $50 billion of
new government outlays will therefore not cause spending on
goods and services to rise and will not reduce the pool of
funds available to finance private investment in plant and
equipment or housing."
   Since that was written, of course, we have discovered that
we are talking about much more than $50 billion. And just the
other day (June 19) Robert Eisner, former president of the
American Economic Association, repeated the Feldstein
argument on this page, saying:
   "Current government borrowing to finance the purchase of
S&amp;L assets only makes explicit an element of deficit or debt
that was implicit earlier in the commitment of backing to S&amp;L
liabilities -- the deposits or money of S&amp;L creditors. . . .
{T}he S&amp;L bailout has nothing to do with the current budget
deficit."
   The argument is ingenious, but I do not find it
convincing. The liabilities that already exist and are now
being formally recognized were incurred earlier, mainly in
the 1980s when the S&amp;Ls had losses that the Federal
government had committed itself to make good to the
depositors. These liabilities were not included in government
expenditures when they were incurred. Now it is proposed to
exclude them when they are recognized. This is a plan to keep
the government's books on a cash basis when obligations are
incurred and on an accrual basis when the obligations are
paid off. That would really be Wonderland.
   Following that principle, we could exclude from the
current budget all expenditure for Social Security benefits
because the obligation to pay those benefits was incurred
long ago and today's payments are only a formal recognition
of liabilities that already exist.
   There are two reasons -- one economic and one political --
for setting a limit to the government's deficit. The economic
reason is to protect the growth of the nation's capital stock
by limiting the extent to which the government's deficit
absorbs private saving and crowds out private investment. The
political reason is to limit government spending to the
amount the government and the public are willing to pay for
explicitly. Both reasons argue for including the S&amp;L losses
in expenditures today.
   The nation's capital stock is now smaller than it would
have been if there had been no deposit insurance. One may
take the clearest example. Suppose that between 1981 and 1988
the owner-operators of the S&amp;Ls stole $100 billion from
depositors -- which is, of course, not entirely true. Then
the owners spent $100 billion on Mercedeses and champagne.
But the depositors who lost the money did not cut their
purchases of Chevrolets and beer by the same amount, because
the government had committed itself to make their losses
good. There was more consumption and less investment than
there would have been in the absence of the government
commitment. It is as if the government had borrowed the $100
billion from the depositors and given it to the
owner-operators.
   Or, suppose that the $100 billion had been lost because it
had been invested in projects that were no good -- houses
that no one wanted to live in, for example. One hundred
billion dollars of the nation's saving had been crowded out
of productive investment. Because the government insured
their deposits, however, the depositors did not feel any loss
and did not feel any need to increase their saving to restore
their assets.
   In any case, because of the government's commitment, there
was more consumption than there would have been without it
and less investment during the period when the losses were
being incurred. Some will say that is water over the dam or,
as economists put it, bygones are forever bygones. Perhaps
these losses should have been counted as government
expenditures when the government's liability was incurred,
but there is no point to counting them as expenditures now,
they will say.
   But the consequences of these losses are not bygones. We
are left with a smaller stock of productive capital than we
would have had if the government had not insured the
deposits. That is a present fact that is relevant to present
budget decisions. Unless we are satisfied with the loss of
the capital stock, we should take steps to compensate for it
now. One way to do that would be to include the outlays in
expenditures now and cover them by additional revenues or
reduced expenditures for other purposes.
   The political argument for paying the costs of the S&amp;L
bailout is, in my opinion, even stronger than the economic
one. Someone in the government, or many more than one, made
bad mistakes about the S&amp;Ls. They allowed the government's
liability, through the insurance of deposits, to get far out
of line with the government's willingness or ability to limit
its risks by regulating the S&amp;Ls. Some will say that the
insurance was too big. Others will say that the regulation
was too weak. I do not want to enter that argument now. But
surely the insurance was too big for the regulation or the
regulation was too weak for the insurance. And someone is
responsible for allowing that to happen.
   If the costs of the S&amp;L bailout are included in the budget
that the public has to pay for explicitly, either in higher
taxes or in reduced expenditures for other purposes, there
will be a demand to find out how that happened and who was
responsible. That will be unpleasant for some people, but it
will induce more prudence in the future. On the other hand,
if the S&amp;L thing is swept under the rug as far as today's
public is concerned, politicians will be reassured that there
is no limit to the liabilities they can safely incur in the
taxpayers' name.
   ---
   A former chairman of the president's Council of Economic
Advisers, Mr. Stein is an American Enterprise Institute
fellow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BP Unit Enters Hard-to-Crack Market
   For Ceramic Casings on Electronic Chips
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   BP
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The growing market for ceramic casings around electronic
chips has lured yet another entry into a field dominated by
the Japanese and littered with U.S. failures.
   British Petroleum Co.'s U.S. unit, Carborundum Co., says
it will start shipping samples of ceramic casings by the end
of the year, aiming at "a significant" portion of the $1.5
billion annual market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the next two years, the company says it plans to build
"at least two" full-scale production plants. It also is
trying to forge strategic alliances with major computer and
electronics makers. "We're very aware what we have to face up
to," says Gerald Miller, director of technology and business
development for Carborundum's new microelectronics division.
   Potential customers see Carborundum's entry as
significant. Steve Hansen, a technology manager at Digital
Equipment Corp., says having local suppliers would mean
"getting technology sooner" and having some influence on it.
"The Japanese don't tend to share the latest technology," he
says.
   Ceramics have been gaining wide applications, replacing
plastic casings, but their inherent brittleness makes them
tricky to produce for sophisticated applications. The
difficulties are compounded by exacting standards for
electronic packaging, the casing that both insulates a chip
and connects it to an electronic system through an array of
minute pins.
   The world-wide market is dominated by Japan's Kyocera
Corp., with an estimated 63% share, according to Will
Strauss, president of Forward Concepts Co., a
microelectronics consultant. N.G.K. Spark Plug Co. has 18% of
the market, followed by Narumi Seito Ltd. at 9%, and Shinko
Electric Industries Ltd. at 3%, according to Mr. Strauss. All
told, he says, the Japanese account for 94% of the world-wide
market. "The prospect of an American company knocking the
Japanese is nil," says Mr. Strauss. "I don't think it's going
to happen in this lifetime."
   Neither the pessimism of Mr. Strauss and others nor the
recent experience of Aluminum Co. of America, which is
floundering in the business, has deterred Carborundum from
building a design and engineering facility in Phoenix.
   Alcoa got into the business two years ago, hoping to cash
in on its knowledge of alumina, the powdery intermediate
product in the making of aluminum that is also the basic raw
material for ceramics.
   The aluminum maker has invested more than $70 million in a
San Diego plant to turn that powder into advanced chip
casings. But months into the project, Alcoa replaced some top
managers and technicians at the plant with former
International Business Machine Corp. engineers. "We
recognized that we needed higher skills," says Kenneth
Blevins, president of Alcoa's electronic packaging division.
   Mr. Blevins acknowledges that the plant is behind schedule
in shipment and is still "going through learning curves" as
it tries to reduce product defects. He declines to discuss
Alcoa's specific problems at the plant, but acknowledges that
technology for making ceramic chip casings turned out to be
quite different from the company's expertise in alumina.
   Others before Alcoa had difficulties. Last year, General
Electric Co. sold its ceramics-packaging plant in
Chattanooga, Tenn., to Coors Ceramics Co., a unit of Adolph
Coors Co. GE had acquired the plant from 3M Corp., which in
turn had acquired the facility from American Lava Co. "No one
has been able to make a go of that plant," says Mr. Strauss.
"It will produce one perfect batch, and the next batch will
be out of tolerance and other specifications." He adds, "At
one time, it {the plant} was one big hope for America to
compete against the Japanese."
   Researchers say the technology to form and mold ceramics
into sophisticated products, such as silicon casing, is as
much a "black art" as science. The grain of the powder, the
"binding" solution to hold it all together, the baking
temperature and pressing techniques all influence the final
product. A minute flaw can cause a crack. "It's difficult for
any processing plant to control all this," says Peter
Lagerlof, a specialist on ceramics at Case Western Reserve
University, where Kyocera has endowed a chair for the study
of ceramics. "Even the furnace design affects the product,"
he adds.
   Mr. Lagerlof says that the Japanese, who have been at it
much longer, have managed to achieve that perfect set of
combinations where "they have {fewer} flaws" in the final
product. These process details are "trade secrets," he says.
   In ceramics packaging, a particularly challenging problem
has been controlling the shrinkage rate in the final baking
process. The ceramic must be precisely shaped and patterned
before it's vitrified by heat, which shrinks it. "You find
variation from package to package. When you are dealing with
very fine geometry, the {tendency for ceramics to shrink}
introduces a lot of complications," says Digital's Mr.
Hansen. He adds that as chips get smaller and faster, they
will put even "greater demands" on ceramic casings.
   Carborundum's Mr. Miller says his company will overcome
most of the common problems, drawing upon its "100 years" of
experience in working with ceramic materials. The Niagara
Falls, N.Y., company makes structural ceramics for
refractories, gas-ignition systems and other industrial uses.
   To start with, he says, the company will use aluminum
nitride as the basic material, instead of alumina, which is
the current standard among the Japanese. Mr. Miller said
aluminum nitride has "certain key properties" that
Carborundum will exploit. The material's expansion and
contraction, for instance, matches that of the silicon chip
and dissipates heat better than alumina. Moreover, he says,
the company has developed "a proprietary" knowledge of how to
tweak the sintering and pressing process to "get the precise
combination" of factors to make the perfect piece of ceramic
packaging.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   SEN. JOHN KERRY (D., Mass.) hasn't accepted contributions
from political action committees in any of his campaigns for
federal office. Because of an error in Federal Election
Commission data, he was listed in Thursday's edition as
having received $2,000 in PAC contributions from companies
supporting the overhaul of federal product-liability laws.
   (See: "Politics &amp; Policy: Product-Liability Bill Provides
Opportunity for Long-Term Milking of PACs by Congress" -- WSJ
June 21, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   MITSUBISHI TRUST &amp; BANKING Corp. was incorrectly described
in Friday's edition as one of the banks opposed to a $65
million loan to Donald Trump. The bank was Mitsubishi Bank.
   (See: "Judge Declines to Drop Claims Against Trump ---
Pratt Hotel Corp. Alleges Violations of Antitrust Law; Fall
Trial Possible" -- WSJ June 22, 1990)
   ---
   CONTINENTAL AIRLINES HOLDINGS Inc. short interest volume
was 7,532,266 shares for the month ended June 15, making it
the largest-volume issue and bringing total American Stock
Exchange short volume to 75,240,053 shares. Because
Continental recently changed its name from Texas Air Corp.,
some brokerage firms neglected to report some of the
company's short positions, the Amex said.
   (See: "Short Interest Rose to Highs In Latest Month ---
Big Board Figure Up 2.6% And Amex Climbed 0.3% in Period
Ended June 15" -- WSJ June 22, 1990)
   ---
   ENERGY SERVICE Co., a Houston energy services concern,
said the short interest in its shares for the month ended
June 15 rose because investors appear to be arbitraging its
common and preferred stock. The company was incorrectly
described in Friday's short interest article as being
involved in a hazardous-waste facility.
   (See: "Short Interest Rose to Highs In Latest Month ---
Big Board Figure Up 2.6% And Amex Climbed 0.3% In Period
Ended June 15" -- WSJ June 22, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Helionetics to Enter
   Computer Venture
   With Chinese Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7D
</SO>
<CO>
   HLXC FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Helionetics Inc., which emerged from
bankruptcy-law proceedings in March 1989, said it plans to
launch a joint venture with a Chinese company to build
computer workstations in Shenyang City, an industrial center
north of Beijing.
   Helionetics Chairman Bernard B. Katz said the venture,
Shenyang Shenlong Computer Systems Co., would be financed
with equal contributions of $600,000 in cash and equipment
from Helionetics and from Northern Computer Application
Development Co., a technology concern sponsored by the
Chinese government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Katz said that Helionetics was attracted to China
because of the relatively inexpensive scientific talent
there. "Physics is physics the world over, and price is the
big factor" in selling computers, he said.
   After riding the wave of the defense-industry buildup in
the early 1980s, Helionetics' large debt load forced it to
seek bankruptcy-law protection in 1986. Now the company is
pinning its hopes on its computer business.
   Under terms of the agreement, Helionetics said its
recently acquired Definicon International Corp. unit will
sell to the joint-venture certain advanced technology boards
that are about to enter production. Helionetics hasn't yet
received an export license from the U.S. Department of
Commerce to sell the boards, a Helionetics spokesman said.
   Mr. Katz said Helionetics has approval to export a less
advanced board. These, or the more advanced board if
government approval is granted, will be installed in personal
computers made by the new company. The computers would be
sold mainly in China, as well as in the U.S. and Europe, for
scientific and engineering applications, Mr. Katz said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financier Adds to Texas S&amp;L Holdings
   In Government Sale of Insolvent Thrifts
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6B
</SO>
<CO>
   MSLA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Financier Lewis Ranieri strengthened his
savings-and-loan holdings in Dallas, acquiring Metropolitan
Financial Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association in one of 25
sales and liquidations of insolvent thrifts announced by the
government Friday.
   Mr. Ranieri's United Savings Association of the Southwest,
Houston, will pay a $15.6 million premium to Resolution Trust
Corp., the S&amp;L cleanup agency, to assume Metropolitan's $732
million in deposits. United Savings also will purchase $432
million of the Dallas thrift's $800 million in assets and
will have one year to return any that have bad underwriting
or other defects.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The RTC will advance $308 million to United Savings and
hold the remaining bad investments of Metropolitan. Once
those are sold, the RTC expects its net cost in the deal to
be $259 million. The agency received three proposals for the
sale of Metropolitan.
   United Savings, which has $3.5 billion in assets, also
recently acquired Murray Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association,
a $1.1 billion-asset thrift in Dallas, from the RTC.
   In all the transactions announced Friday, the government
will hold all the bad investments of the thrifts it sold.
Buyers of the institutions will have options to hold
performing assets for various periods and may return them to
the government.
   Kilgore Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association, Kilgore,
Texas, which was a $156 million-asset thrift last year,
acquired three north Texas thrifts from the agency with total
assets of $419.2 million. The three are Taylorbanc Federal
Savings &amp; Loan Association, Taylor, with $138.2 million in
assets; Denton Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association, Denton,
with $160.8 million in assets; and First Garland Federal
Savings &amp; Loan Association, Garland, with $120.2 million in
assets.
   Kilgore was the only bidder for the thrifts, although the
RTC solicited more than 100 bids on each, it said. The agency
expects, after its sales of the thrift assets, to incur a
loss of $88 million on the sale.
   Other transactions Friday included:
   -- Anchor Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association, Kansas City,
Kan., with $645.8 million in assets, was sold to Bank IV
Kansas City, Olathe, Kan., in a deal expected to cost the RTC
$124.6 million.
   -- Occidental Nebraska Savings Bank, Omaha, Neb., with
$630.6 million in assets, was sold to FirsTier Savings Bank
in a transaction expected to cost $148.1 million.
   -- Great Southern Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association,
Savannah, Ga., with $587.4 million in assets, was sold to
First National Bank of Atlanta in a transaction expected to
cost $181 million.
   -- Deposits of Universal Federal Savings Association,
Houston, with $158.5 million in assets and $309.8 million in
liabilities, were transferred to Channelview Bank,
Channelview, Texas, in a transaction expected to cost $222.9
million.
   -- Frontier Federal Savings Association, Walla Walla,
Wash., with $154.8 million in assets, was sold to Washington
Mutual, Seattle, in a transaction expected to cost the RTC
$3.4 million.
   -- Family Federal Savings Association, Dallas, Ore., with
$113.8 million in assets, was sold to Washington Federal
Savings &amp; Loan Association, Seattle, in a transaction
expected to cost the RTC $9 million.
   -- Landmark Savings Bank, Hot Springs, Ark., with $111
million in assets, was sold to two separate Arkansas banks,
Arkansas Bank &amp; Trust, Hot Springs, and Benton State Bank,
Benton, in transactions expected to ultimately cost the RTC
$81.4 million.
   -- Huntington Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association,
Huntington Beach, Calif., with $110.5 million in assets, was
sold to American Savings Bank, Stockton, Calif., in a
transaction expected to cost $4.5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Homes or `Housing'?
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<GV>
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   A huge, stinking pile of sleaze was heaved up by the
revelations in the HUD scandal recently, but there was never
much said about how such a thing could come to pass. The
conventional explanation given the public was that it mainly
involved political appointees who misused good programs. We
always thought the problem was more systemic, that it had to
do with the nature of government paid-for housing, real
estate development, the scale of money involved, and the
large claims politicians could make for deciding how that
money was distributed.
   Now, we think it can be fairly said that as Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development, Jack Kemp has been making a
good-faith effort to reform the public-housing system in ways
that benefit the poor first and the political-developer
interests only incidentally. However, talks collapsed last
week between Secretary Kemp and Congressional Democrats over
the current $17 billion housing bill. Mr. Kemp says the
Senate's version of the National Affordable Housing Act will
"institutionalize profiteering and political influence
peddling." Those are harsh words, but we think the concerns
voiced about what is happening to this bill deserve some
detailed attention.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week, Senator Alan Cranston, the main proponent of
the Senate version, said, "I believe that, in general, scarce
resources should go to the most needy." But the act does not
primarily target the estimated 3.8 million Americans who have
what are called "worst-case needs." These are people whose
incomes are no better than half that of their area's median
income, but who pay more than 50% of their income for rent or
who live in substandard housing.
   The act's centerpiece, Housing Opportunity Partnership
grants, consolidates and eliminates several existing housing
programs. But HOPs diffuse some benefits away from the truly
needy and seem biased toward the construction alone of new
public housing. A Democratic article of faith is that merely
erecting the buildings equates with help for the poor.
Republicans, however, now emphasize the need to give poor
people an ownership interest in their housing, or an
incentive to own it. Call it the difference between having a
real home or what the public-welfare promoters call
"housing."
   In any event, HUD estimates that only one-fourth of the
500,000 developments that would be funded by HOP would end up
with the lowest income groups. The bill's supporters "freely
admit that it is a supply program," says Mary Brunette, a
chief aide to Mr. Kemp. "HOP is meant to create a supply of
housing. And it's biased toward the type of new construction
or substantial rehabilitation that ultimately has the same
cost as new construction, that will create more public
housing units, regardless of whether there is a need in that
community for housing units, instead of focusing the
assistance on the low-income people who may need a rent
supplement to afford a unit of housing that already exists in
that community."
   Meanwhile, the bill greatly dilutes the administration's
attempts to move housing policy away from the status quo. The
core of the HUD proposal is called Homeownership and
Opportunity for People Everywhere (HOPE). HOPE would make it
easier for the poor to own their own homes, which in turn
would remove these units and their carrying costs from
government-controlled housing stock.
   To start this, the administration had asked for $1.89
billion, but Congress slashed this amount to $330 million. A
vital component of HOPE called Operation Bootstrap, which
ties housing vouchers for the poor to child care, job
training and other self-help initiatives, has been reduced to
a pilot program.
   Perhaps the most revealing difference is in the debate
over who actually benefits from the competing proposals. The
Senate proposal reduces by 40% the number of "worst-case"
individuals helped. It used to be that 100% of those who
received housing help met the worst-case requirements
described above. But in 1988, Congress cut that percentage to
90%, under the rubric of "tenant diversification." Now
Congress wants to cut this share down to 50%. Because of
this, only 65,000 more of the worst poverty cases will be
helped next year, while better-off people will gain access to
the housing. What's going on here?
   The political calculation here is plain. Voter turnout is
very low among the poor. But the middle class votes heavily,
and it's the group that would be most helped by this new
restriction and that the Democratic Party is trying to
romance again. Senator Cranston refers to the "broad
spectrum" that the bill would help.
   There also is the matter of letting the poor make their
own choices or letting the bureaucracy as Congress's agent
make the choices for them. Section 8 certificates, a type of
quasi-voucher program already in existence, have allowed many
poor people to choose where they want to live, with limited
restrictions. Currently, there is a 15% cap on the number of
"project-based" certificates, subsidies the poor can use only
if they are willing to live in a specific location. The
Senate's housing act removes this cap, so more of the poor
will be required to move into specific buildings, limiting
their ability to make choices. Landlords of these buildings
won't have much incentive to maintain them, since the tenants
are, almost too literally, a captive clientele.
   The Senate bill (which is $4 billion over President Bush's
original request) leaves in place many of the problems that
existed during the time of the HUD scandals. The emphasis
isn't on people; it's on buildings and builders. The
intriguing irony is that Senate Democrats are fighting to
maintain the status quo, and a Republican HUD Secretary is
trying to reverse it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philip Morris Seeks to Gain in Europe
   With $3.8 Billion Bid for Suchard Stake
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.JAC MO EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- With its plan to acquire Swiss coffee and
chocolate maker Jacobs Suchard AG, Philip Morris Cos. is
seeking to strengthen its position in the $550 billion
European food business.
   On Friday, Philip Morris, the tobacco and
consumer-products company, announced it would acquire 80% of
Suchard for $3.8 billion. Suchard's trove of brands, such as
the Jacobs Cafe and Night and Day brands of coffee, and the
Toblerone and Milka brands of chocolate, will significantly
strengthen Philip Morris's presence in Europe before trade
barriers are lifted in 1992. The acquisition also will help
lessen Philip Morris's dependence on U.S. tobacco sales as
consumption steadily declines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With its Maxwell House, Tang, Kraft and other popular
brands, Philip Morris already had $3.1 billion in revenue
from the European markets. But it ranked far behind the two
food industry titans of Europe: Nestle S.A., based in
Switzerland, and the Anglo-Dutch Unilever Group. The Suchard
acquisition will vault Philip Morris into a strong No. 3
ranking from the No. 5 position.
   Philip Morris's plan is "to move in the direction of more
Pan-European brands," said Michael Miles, vice chairman of
Philip Morris and chief executive officer of Kraft General
Foods, the company's food unit.
   Despite Philip Morris's considerable marketing abilities
-- it is already the world's largest consumer-products
company -- industry experts say its Pan-European strategy is
a gamble. Few companies have successfully developed food
products that please more than a fraction of the 320 million
Western Europeans, with their nine languages and distinct
food preferences. And in spite of enthusiasm over falling
trade barriers, regional protectionist regulations linger.
   The acquisition won't materially change Kraft General
Foods' U.S. operations. Under the agreement, Philip Morris
won't acquire Suchard's Canadian operations or its E.J. Brach
Inc. sugar-confection business, based in the U.S. Philip
Morris will reap some revenue from Suchard's U.S. Toblerone
chocolates, which Brach will continue to distribute. Sales of
the triangular candy bars in the U.S. accounted for a paltry
$16 million at retail last year, according to Lisbeth
Echeandia, publisher of Confectioner Magazine.
   For now, Mr. Miles insists Philip Morris hasn't any plans
to boost imports of Suchard's candy to the U.S. "This deal
doesn't involve any noticeable expansion of Philip Morris's
business in the U.S," he said.
   Industry analysts praised the deal, which is expected to
have little effect on Philip Morris's earnings. "This is
acquisition heaven," said Emanuel Goldman, a tobacco and
beverage analyst with PaineWebber Inc. in San Francisco.
"It's a good fit, and there is virtually no
earnings-per-share dilution." Last year, Philip Morris earned
$2.9 billion, or $3.18 a share, on revenue of $44.1 billion.
   The announcement pleased Wall Street. Philip Morris shares
rose 37.5 cents to $44.75 in composite trading on the New
York Stock Exchange Friday. The shares traded as high as
$46.375, but fell late in the day amid a broad decline in the
market.
   The planned transaction also squelched Wall Street fears
that Philip Morris was planning a much larger acquisition
that might clip future earnings. Rumors had circulated that
Philip Morris might attempt to buy such giants as Campbell
Soup Co. or PepsiCo Inc.
   Analysts also hailed Philip Morris's efforts to pump up
its European operations, where some of company's brands were
stragglers. Under the terms of the deal, Philip Morris will
acquire only Suchard's European operations, which had revenue
of $3.6 billion last year. Sales were divided about evenly
between coffee and chocolate operations. "Strategically, it
is a very good move," said Nomi Ghez, a food analyst with
Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. Philip Morris is "a big, strong player in
the U.S., but it needed more scale in Europe."
   Together, Kraft General Foods and Sucard will become
Europe's market leader in ground roast coffee, commanding a
respectable 20% of European sales.
   The planned combination also appears to be a good fit
geographically. Suchard's coffee brands are especially strong
in countries where Kraft General Foods' presence is the
weakest.
   The acquisition also will mark Kraft General Foods' entry
into the European confectionery market. Although the company
sells gum in France, it does little candy business in other
countries. Suchard, by contrast, is the continent's
third-largest player, with about 13% of the market, after
Nestle with 23% and Mars Inc. with 17%, Ms. Ghez said.
   But while the stature of its new brands is assured, Kraft
General Foods' strategy of building Pan-European brands isn't
risk-free. Although a few marketers have succeeded in selling
the same brand across borders, including Philip Morris with
its Marlboro cigarettes and Nestle with Nescafe coffee,
strong local preferences still rule the food business.
Executives familiar with the market there doubt that regional
tastes will be easily changed.
   And despite the coming economic unification of the
European Community, a tangle of regulations might still
stymie U.S. marketers. Italy, for example, allows only
products made from durum wheat -- not surprisingly, Italy's
predominant type -- to be called pasta. But most spaghetti or
macaroni is made from many varieties of wheat.
   The transaction also will represent an important symbolic
shift in Philip Morris's business. Once the acquisition is
completed, U.S. tobacco sales will account for less than 50%
of the company's total revenue for the first time.
   ---
   Craig Forman in London contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Travel:
   Free Tickets Are Getting Many Frequent Fliers Nowhere
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   PN MDW U CTA TWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   A lot of frequent fliers are about to get grounded.
   After being promised great trips for their loyalty,
frequent fliers are being told they can't use their free
travel awards to such popular locations as Europe and Asia
for the entire summer -- and even early fall. First-class
upgrades, one of the most popular awards in frequent-flier
programs, are getting increasingly scarce on many routes too,
travel specialists say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reason? Airlines limit the number of free-trip seats
per flight for award winners. The allocations have always
inconvenienced some fliers, but they've become far more
critical as membership in the programs mushrooms.
   "It's never been this bad before," says John Holland,
president of Business Flyer, a trade letter. "The chances of
using a free ticket to a place like Europe right now is about
as good as winning the lottery."
   And it could get worse. During a frequent-flier promotion
last winter, airlines gave away one free ticket for every
three flown. Most of those free tickets can be used only from
September to December, and travel experts say frequent fliers
will be scrambling for seats even then. "The smart people are
already booking these trips now," says Randy Petersen, editor
of Frequent, another trade magazine.
   Airlines insist the latest problem isn't their fault; they
say they need to limit the seats to make room for paying
customers. "The industry has to be profitable to maintain
these programs," says Earl Quenzel, a staff vice president at
Continental Airlines, a unit of Continental Airlines Holdings
Inc. But critics say airlines are too chintzy with their
allocations. Although they won't specify exact numbers, some
carriers set aside only a small percentage of seats on
popular flights, hardly enough for the nation's 22 million
frequent-flier club members.
   "The airlines are basically reneging on a promise to
reward their loyal customers," contends Theodore Harris, a
travel consultant in McLean, Va. "Some of these awards are
about as good as a three-dollar bill."
   Certainly many travelers are still benefiting from the
programs, by taking free tickets and hotel stays in less
popular destinations or during off season. Also, two
carriers, Pan Am Corp. and Midway Airlines, say they don't
limit the number of seats for award winners, although they
halt use of the freebies during certain holiday periods. Some
carriers also have removed seat restrictions for club members
willing to cash in twice as many miles as normal.
   Several airlines concede that free travel space is filling
up unusually fast.
   USAir Group says it has no space for award users who want
to fly to London "until probably at least September or
October, and there hasn't been for some time." A spokesman
for Trans World Airlines says that some seats are still
available for free travel to Europe this summer, but "they're
few and far between."
   Space is also tight for frequent fliers trying to redeem
awards with partners in the programs, which include hotels,
car rental agencies and some foreign carriers. Many of these
partners are even stricter with the allocations than the
airlines running the programs. Some foreign airlines that are
partners, for example, have limited the number of seats for
award winners to 12 of 250-seat planes.
   Learning of the space shortage isn't always quick and
painless either. "It's a maddening system," says David Wilf,
a frequent flier who says he had to make three sets of
requests through United Airlines to try to book a flight on
Alitalia Airlines, which honors United frequent-flier miles.
Each time, he says, he was allowed to give only three dates,
and then had to wait for United to call back. "It took weeks
just to find out they didn't have any room for me," recalls
Mr. Wilf, a San Francisco attorney. "I was totally
frustrated."
   The industry has frustrated frequent fliers before.
Concerned that too many award winners were displacing paying
customers, several carriers abruptly raised the mileage
credits needed to earn free trips a few years ago. The irony
of such moves, say travel experts, is they can alienate the
industry's most valued customers: Frequent fliers who travel
at least 12 times a year may account for only 3% of all
passengers, but they bring in almost a third of the
industry's revenue.
   "These are the last people you'd think the airlines would
want to get mad," says Mr. Petersen of Frequent magazine.
   For their part, airline officials say space would be tight
anyway on many of the flights frequent fliers want, because
travel is booming to Europe and Asia. "Even somebody with
hard cash is going to have a hard time getting a seat to some
of these places," says a United Airlines spokeswoman.
   Some carriers are trying to take a few steps to help their
members. Continental has started taking frequent flier
waiting lists and opening up more space for award winners two
weeks before departure. Other airlines have started advising
travelers to book their freebie flights as much as a year in
advance.
   But frequent fliers gripe that they can't take a vacation
on two weeks notice, nor can they plan a full year ahead. And
many wonder whether the very practice of restricting award
space, which airlines mention only in the fine print of their
brochures, is deceptive. Several state attorneys general
questioned the practice and issued national guidelines for
the programs in December 1987. But the airlines sued the
states over the guidelines and a Texas federal judge enjoined
the states from enforcing them.
   "Basically, the airlines can do what they want and our
hands are tied," says Steve Gardner, an assistant state
attorney general in Texas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Keating Plans to Offer to Buy Back
   $500 Million of Lincoln S&amp;L Assets
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr. and Jill Bettner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Charles Keating has an idea he thinks the government can't
refuse -- although his critics are already scoffing.
   Mr. Keating wants to buy back $500 million of the assets
of Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan Association, with no money down and
government financing, and manage the assets so the U.S.
doesn't lose any money on them. It's all aimed at proving
he's a smart businessman -- not the devious executive the
government says he is.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I've made a lot of money for myself and for other people
over the years, and I just want to show people that what the
government says isn't true," Mr. Keating said in a meeting in
New York with reporters and editors from The Wall Street
Journal. Mr. Keating is chairman of Phoenix-based American
Continental Corp., which was Lincoln's parent before the
government seized the Irvine, Calif., thrift last year.
   In five years, under his proposal, the U.S. would get its
$500 million plus interest. And he would contribute an
additional $50 million for creditors of American Continental,
including irate holders of $300 million in almost worthless
American Continental bonds sold at Lincoln branches. Mr.
Keating and two associates would personally guarantee the
$550 million.
   Mr. Keating plans to make his proposal in the next few
weeks to an Arizona federal district court that is overseeing
American Continental's bankruptcy-law filing. The plan
requires the approval of the court, creditors and the
Resolution Trust Corp., the government agency overseeing the
cleanup of the U.S. thrift industry. Even Keating associates
concede it is difficult to imagine the government, which has
a $1.1 billion civil racketeering suit against Mr. Keating
and other former members of Lincoln and American Continental
management, entrusting Lincoln's assets to him. The
government has made the charge that Mr. Keating and his
colleagues engaged in phony tax and loan transactions to
divert money from Lincoln into American Continental.
   Mr. Keating has denied any wrongdoing.
   "Psychologically, this may be difficult for the RTC," said
James Feder, an attorney for Mr. Keating.
   But Mr. Feder insisted that financially, Mr. Keating is
offering the government a no-risk deal. The $500 million in
assets -- including stock, junk bonds, loans and real estate
-- Mr. Keating would like to manage have been marked down by
the RTC to $250 million, Mr. Feder said. Mr. Keating is
willing to promise the government $500 million, the book
value of the assets when Lincoln, which had assets totaling
$5.5 billion, was taken over in April 1989. The assets don't
include the opulent Phoenician resort hotel in Phoenix, the
crown jewel of Lincoln's real estate holdings.
   "The government may sell {the assets} for $250 million.
We're saying we'll give them $500 million plus interest and
return money to the bondholders," Mr. Feder said. Mr. Feder
insisted that by taking the assets at full book value and
promising the extra $50 million, there's little likelihood
Mr. Keating could make a killing. "There's no harm or foul to
the government other than that if he succeeds, he proves the
government wrong," Mr. Feder said.
   RTC lawyers working on the Lincoln case couldn't be
reached to comment on Mr. Keating's plan over the weekend.
But it was scoffed at by lawyers for American Continental's
unsecured creditors.
   The proposal "sounds like the same thing he's been doing
all along, using government money to do whatever he wants to
do," said Susan Illston, a bondholder attorney. She added
that his offer to personally guarantee the $550 million to
purchase assets of American Continental and Lincoln "doesn't
make any sense. He claims to have no money."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Falters Abroad
   ---
   Overseas Woes Raise Questions
   About Global Ambitions
   ----
   By Cynthia Owens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   H.HKS U.MID X.MID
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Earlier this year, an analyst asked William
Purves to assess Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp.'s
international operations. The chairman replied dryly that the
record speaks for itself.
   And so it does.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For 1989, the bank's U.S. and Australian subsidiaries
required huge loan-loss provisions, as did Britain's Midland
Bank PLC, in which Hongkong Bank has a 14.9% stake. Hongkong
Bank has fared only slightly better in its international
securities-trading operations: James Capel &amp; Co., its
100%-owned London-based brokerage firm, and Carroll McEntee &amp;
McGinley Inc., a dealer in U.S. government securities the
bank bought in 1986, haven't been as successful as expected.
Further, Hongkong Bank recently disclosed that it carries a
sizable loan exposure to the failed finance company British &amp;
Commonwealth Holdings PLC.
   Hongkong Bank's dismal record overseas overshadows an
impressive record closer to home: Group profit, which doesn't
include results of many of the bank's troubled foreign
subsidiaries, advanced 11% in 1989 from the previous year,
while assets in the Asian-Pacific region jumped 25%.
Competitors in Asia consider Hongkong Bank to be the
best-managed bank in the region, and it is highly regarded in
the Middle East and Canada.
   Still, troubles elsewhere have raised questions about the
bank's ability to succeed in its ambition to become a truly
global financial institution. At the same time, abandoning
that goal would also mean abandoning its much-publicized
combination with Midland, a bank with problems enough of its
own.
   "The Midland Bank merger, which was seen as positive for
{Hongkong Bank's} stock, is now an unmitigated disaster," an
analyst wrote in a recent review of the Hong Kong stock
market. "The best thing Mr. Purves can do is cut the losses,
but he will not."
   Investors apparently agree. Many who bought Hongkong Bank
stock earlier this year in anticipation of a merger have
since been dumping their shares. The share price has dropped
more than 20% from its highs earlier this year.
   Most analysts agree that the two banks are too far along
in their plan to turn back. Still, if Midland's
well-publicized troubles diminish its luster, Hongkong Bank's
problems with its 100%-owned Marine Midland Banks Inc. of the
U.S. and other overseas operations could do the same to it.
   Just several months ago, the two banks appeared to be
headed for a fairly simple combination as early as December,
when Hongkong Bank is freed from an accord that freezes its
stake in the British bank. The merger would create the
world's ninth-largest bank; its nearly $240 billion in assets
would make it slightly bigger than Citicorp.
   Analysts have speculated that Hongkong Bank would
establish a holding company in Britain to oversee the
combined operations. Such a setup would both satisfy Bank of
England concerns about local ownership of Britain's four
clearing banks and give Hongkong Bank a domicile outside the
colony before 1997, when Hong Kong is to revert to Chinese
rule. (In the eight years following the Communist takeover of
China in 1949, Hongkong Bank lost all but one of its 33
branches on the mainland.)
   But the problems at both banks have raised doubts about
how quickly the transaction will be completed. With or
without the merger, Hongkong Bank will have to learn fast the
intricacies of managing a global bank -- something few have
been able to do well in recent years.
   Hongkong Bank didn't create all its problems; sagging
economies hurt several of its overseas operations. Nor is it
alone. Dozens of banks have been stung after venturing into
new and unknown markets, and even by misjudging their home
markets.
   However, Hongkong Bank also must confront a unique
problem: The home market it dominates is a tiny British
colony with a population of roughly six million, and the
market is already saturated. Hongkong Bank is the largest
non-Japanese Asian-based bank and the 30th-largest in the
world, making even all of Asia seem slightly confining. The
rational response to these factors, and to the reversion of
Hong Kong to Chinese rule in 1997, would seem to be global
expansion.
   That is what Hongkong Bank was thinking three years ago
when it bought its Midland stake. The purchase was an
extension of Sir Michael Sandberg's grand design to transform
the bank into a global player. Under Sir Michael, who served
as chairman from 1977 to 1986, the bank expanded rapidly into
the U.S., Australia, Canada and China, and entered the
securities business world-wide.
   In these efforts, the bank encountered aggressive
competitors with similar ambitions. Its local operations
fared well when the local economy was expanding, but often
took a hit when the economy flagged. "If you look at a lot of
problems the bank has been having, they are throwbacks to the
Sandberg era," says Steven Thompson, investment analyst for
County NatWest Securities Asia Ltd.
   Enter Mr. Purves, a nuts-and-bolts banker who has been
trying since taking up his post in 1986 to bring order to the
bank he inherited from Sir Michael. The job has been tough.
"I don't think it's possible to brilliantly manage a bank
once it gets to a global size," says Chris Munden, a research
analyst with Elders Roach Asia Ltd., a subsidiary of the
Elders Finance Group Ltd. of Australia.
   In Australia, Mr. Purves's team has reduced the bank's
exposure to struggling entrepreneur Alan Bond, estimated to
have been as much as $1 billion at one time.
   In the U.S., Hongkong Bank's original intention was to buy
a major money-center bank, but it eventually bought Marine
Midland, whose operations are concentrated in upstate New
York, with a presence in New York City.
   "The great thing about Hongkong Bank was that it had no
exposure to less-developed-country debt," says an analyst at
a U.S. investment bank in Hong Kong. However, buying Marine
Midland gave the bank its first taste of Third World debt
management.
   In 1989, Marine Midland added $414 million to provisions
against losses on developing-country loans, an 84% increase.
The bank's nonperforming loans totaled $1.2 billion at the
end of the year.
   The parent bank also took big losses when the property
market in the U.S. Northeast, Marine Midland's prime market,
soured last year.
   Disappointment has also accompanied Hongkong Bank's push
into international securities trading. The James Capel
brokerage operation recovered last year from a loss in 1988,
only to post a loss for the first quarter of this year. And
Carroll McEntee &amp; McGinley, the U.S. government securities
dealer, last year had its second consecutive annual loss.
   Asia remains Hongkong Bank's area of special strength.
Profits increased for nearly all of its operations in 25
countries across Asia and the Middle East last year. And
despite the bank's push into new, more distant markets, its
assets in the Asian-Pacific region rose to 48% of total
assets last year from 40% in 1986.
   Though worries about Hong Kong after 1997 have figured
largely in the bank's global expansion, it is committed to
retaining a strong presence in the colony, which analysts
estimate now accounts for about 20% of business. IBCA Ltd., a
London-based credit-rating agency, estimates that more than
40% of the bank group's deposits derive from Hong Kong.
   Given that, and the concentration of assets in Asia, some
analysts say Hongkong Bank would do best to drop its global
expansion plans altogether to concentrate on its successful
regional businesses and its more-distant successes in the
Middle East and Canada.
   Deputy chairman John Gray won't hear of such talk, but
acknowledges that "if you look out from Asia-Pacific, it's
very difficult to find areas which offer the same rewards."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900625-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900625-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Hong Kong Stock Exchange Sets Drive
   To Draw Local Investors Back to Trading
   ----
   By Jesse Wong
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Conventional wisdom has it that Hong Kong's
stock market has such a wide local following that everyone --
from the rich to the proverbial housekeepers and cabdrivers
-- stands ready to invest in just about anything that moves.
   So it has come as a surprise for the Hong Kong Stock
Exchange to learn from a survey that the colony's
stock-owning public numbers only about 363,000 people, or 9%
of the adult population. "The figure is disappointingly low.
It's a shock," said Francis Yuen, the exchange's chief
executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Commissioned by the exchange and conducted late last year,
the survey points to a big gap in efforts to repair the local
stock market's dented image. Such efforts have been under way
since the 1987 Black Monday crash exposed serious management
flaws in Hong Kong's market. They took on added urgency after
last year's brutal suppression on June 4 of pro-democracy
protests in Beijing. In addition to exacerbating public
concern over this British colony's 1997 return to Chinese
rule, that event helped underscore local stocks'
vulnerability to political turmoil in China.
   The consequent market reforms and promotion campaigns
undertaken by the government and the exchange have been aimed
mainly at allaying concerns of foreign investors. Little,
though, has been done to woo the local public. One result, as
the survey indicates, is dwindling participation by Hong Kong
investors.
   Professing alarm at the phenomenon, the stock exchange is
moving to win back its home market. Its campaign, announced
Thursday in conjunction with release of the survey, consists
of a five-week promotional exhibition. Moving from site to
site in mostly middle-income neighborhoods, the exchange's
display is designed to remind the public that Hong Kong has a
stock market and that people should consider putting money in
it.
   "Too much has been done since 1987 to promote the stock
market to foreign investors," Mr. Yuen said. "It's the
individuals we need to do more for."
   By his estimate, trading activity used to be split
relatively evenly among three camps -- rich local
individuals, small local investors and institutions, most of
them based overseas. With data only on those local
individuals, rich and otherwise, who owned stock as of late
1989, the survey doesn't show how the overall trading pattern
has changed over the years. Mr. Yuen argued nevertheless that
the role of small-time local investors has diminished
noticeably since the 1987 crash.
   Investment interest generally has picked up over the past
couple of months as the market slowly regains ground. As a
result, the value of shares traded each session on many
recent days has exceeded HK$2 billion (US$256.8 million),
double the daily average during the first quarter of 1990.
Much of the increase is attributed to Taiwan investors
switching out of their ailing market. But Mr. Yuen said Hong
Kong can't count on such a boon to last and must try harder
to rebuild investor confidence at home.
   He cited comparable surveys that put stock-ownership
levels in the U.S. and Canada at around 16% of the adult
population, saying Hong Kong should do at least as well. But
judging by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange's survey, much more
than the five-week promotion may be needed to address what
may be a lack of confidence by the colony's potential
investors.
   "Some of it may be just the result of misconceptions about
the market," Mr. Yuen said. "But it will take a long time to
correct."
   Hong Kong's survey, conducted from September to December,
bases its conclusions on 2,000 randomly selected adults. For
the survey's purposes, the term stock owners refers only to
those who invest directly in stocks and not those who do so
only indirectly, such as through unit trusts. Among those
2,000, 307 owners and 301 non-owners were picked for in-depth
interviews.
   Among the respondents who previously owned stock but no
longer did so at the time of the survey, the most oft-cited
reason for not investing is that they have had an "unpleasant
experience" in the market. Though not specified in the
survey, such experiences, according to Mr. Yuen, stem mainly
from losses suffered in the 1987 crash or during last year's
June 4 political crisis.
   As for stock owners, the survey undermines to some extent
the often-cited stereotype of them as greedy, ill-informed
speculators willing to take illogical risks.
   White-collar workers, at 29.2%, form a core of the
stock-owning population. Professionals and businessmen follow
with 28.1%. Next come blue-collar workers at 21.7%,
housewives at 12.5%, the retired at 7.3% and, finally,
students and the unemployed at 1.2%.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo stocks ended lower in thin trading Friday as
participants took conservative positions ahead of the
weekend, while the yen's softness discouraged buying, traders
said.
   London shares were moderately higher.
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was down 392.70
points at 31694.57. The index slipped 0.49 point Thursday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the Nikkei index gave up
another 339.09 points to 31355.48.
   Friday's volume on the First Section was estimated at 350
million shares, down from 409 million Thursday.
   Losing issues outnumbered winning issues, 703 to 227,
while 189 were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all issues listed
in the first section, which fell 5.24 points Thursday, sank
20.50 points, or 0.87%, to 2341.06.
   The second section index, which rose 4.15 points Thursday,
fell 16.31 points, or 0.39%, to close at 4135.42. Volume in
the second section was estimated at 20 million shares, down
from 24.5 million Thursday.
   Growing concern that Japan may not be able to avoid
inflation in the coming months is suppressing buying
activity, although volume indicates that the bearishness
hasn't gotten out of hand, observers said.
   Issues hit by moderate profit-taking and general
bearishness Friday included Canon Sales, down 140 yen (91
cents) to 4,880 yen, Chubu Electric, down 100 to 3,300,
Fujisawa Pharmaceutical, down 30 to 2,020, and Dainippon
Pharmaceutical, off 30 to 3,160.
   Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone fell 20,000 yen to 1,090,000
yen, KDD dropped 200 to 18,500 and Toho Co. fell 400 to
37,200. NTV fell 200 to 34,700.
   But Nintendo rose 200 to 26,100, while JAL was up 100 to
18,100.
   Hirose Electric added 140 to 6,990 and Intec rose 100 to
4,870.
   Sony ended 40 higher at 8,570 while TDK rose 30 to 6,780.
   London share prices finished moderately higher as
investors chose to sit out the session before the opening of
this week's new trading account and expiration of June
stock-index futures and options contracts.
   Dealers said there were too many corporate and economic
uncertainties lurking in the background for institutional
investors to get more deeply involved in the market.
Moreover, ongoing major U.K. sporting events, combined with
an unimpressive start on Wall Street, set the market adrift
for most of the session.
   The broad-based Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share
index closed up 8.2 points at 2378.5, down from the intraday
peak of 2381.1 just after the release of British trade
figures. The day's low of 2368.2, reached after one hour of
official trading, was down 2.1 on the day.
   At the final tally, the narrower FT 30-share index was up
5.2 points at 1913.5. Volume registered a moderate 497.8
million shares compared with the 415.4 million traded
Thursday.
   In the futures market, the June FT-SE 100 index contract
closed at 2390.0, up from its close of 2389.0 Thursday.
   Midmorning trade figures, which were slightly better than
market expectations, had only a temporary impact on an
otherwise sluggish market. There was little incentive to
shift existing positions before the forthcoming close of the
second quarter, market professionals added.
   May's current account deficit stood at #1.32 billion
($2.27 billion), down from #1.60 billion in April and
compared with estimates of #1.35 billion.
   Amid a session of sparse corporate developments, shares in
pharmaceutical company Wellcome were the biggest gainers on
the day. Dealers said the move came in the wake of a hefty
sell-off earlier in the week on bearish forecasts for the
company's Retrovir drug used to combat the effects of the HIV
virus. Dealers contended the drop was overdone and Wellcome
gained 25 pence (43 cents) to 625 pence on volume of 1.6
million shares.
   Stocks closed higher in Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich,
Amsterdam and Madrid and lower in Milan. Stockholm was closed
for a holiday. South African gold stocks closed mixed.
   Share prices closed lower in Taipei and Wellington, were
mixed in Hong Kong and Singapore and higher in Sydney, Seoul
and Manila.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                             Jun 21      Jun 20     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ...................   333.5       332.1   +  2.6
   Britain ................   706.4       705.7   -  2.0
   Canada .................   389.7       389.5   -  9.9
   Japan ..................  1317.9      1320.0   - 20.4
   France .................   561.6       561.0   -  0.9
   Germany ................   298.6       297.1   +  4.7
   Hong Kong ..............  2410.9      2397.1   + 15.0
   Switzerland ............   222.2       222.2   +  0.7
   Australia ..............   308.8       308.2   -  6.7
   World index ............   516.8       516.8   -  8.9
</TEXT>
</DOC>
