<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0193
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0193.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Lawmakers for Life
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   As Congress goes back into session today, the gulf between
legislators and the American people has never been greater. A
recent Gallup survey found that 70% of House Members oppose
the idea of limiting the number of congressional terms, while
the public backed the idea two to one. Now a detailed New
York Times/CBS poll has found that Members of Congress may be
the only demographic group in the country that doesn't favor
limits on terms. The rest of the country is frustrated with a
legislature where the turnover is about that of the
non-elected British House of Lords.
   The idea of limiting terms is overwhelmingly popular with
Americans regardless of party, ideology or income. Women are
more in favor of the idea than men. Martin Plissner,
political director for CBS News, says he has "never seen an
issue on which there was so little demographic variation."
The message is clear. Dissatisfaction with Congress is almost
universal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The root of the problems with Congress is that, barring
major scandal, it is almost impossible to defeat an
incumbent. In the past three elections, 96% or more of House
incumbents who ran won. This lack of turnover has resulted in
legislative arrogance, a dearth of new ideas and
unaccountability. Congress just violated its legal budget
deadline; where are the special prosecutors?
   Franking privileges, huge staffs, gerrymandering and
unfair campaign finance laws have combined to give incumbents
a grossly unfair advantage. One out of four House districts
this year likely will have an incumbent running with no
major-party opposition -- up from one out of five in 1988.
One-candidate races are now spreading to the Senate.
Democratic Arkansas Senator David Pryor had spirited
competition in 1984 when he won with 57%; this year he has no
opponent at all.
   Senators have become just as brazen as their House
brethren in shutting out competition. Take Republican Senator
Larry Pressler's latest mailing to South Dakotans. It
contains five pictures of the Senator and mentions his name
29 times on four pages. Last year, Mr. Pressler sent out more
than 2.8 million pieces of mail, the equivalent of 10 pieces
per household.
   Critics of term-limits say that -- franked mail or not --
it's wrong to blame Congress for the now nearly 100%
re-election rates since it is just as easy to vote against an
incumbent as for. Michael Kinsley writes in the New Republic
that if incumbents always win, it's because voters can't be
bothered.
   This presumes that voters can find out who the other
candidate is. It is a political axiom that people won't vote
for someone they know nothing about. That takes money, and
skewed campaign finance laws combined with taxpayer-paid junk
mail effectively mean that only incumbents have the cash to
make themselves known and to be taken seriously by the media.
Incumbents ended the 1988 elections with $63 million left
over, while challengers were able to raise and spend a total
of only $39 million.
   Some complain that limiting terms would infringe on
democracy by not allowing voters to elect whom they please.
The polls indicate voters by two to one think the only way
they can control Congress effectively is by limiting terms.
We also note that these critics are not agitating in support
of Ronald Reagan's call for repeal of the two-term limit for
Presidents. A big problem of the current system limiting
Presidents but not Congress is that this means political
power is constantly tipped in favor of the legislative
branch.
   Getting incumbents to reduce the advantages they have
voted themselves is something like asking banks to leave
their vaults unlocked. That's why the Washington, D.C.-based
Americans to Limit Congressional Terms is asking states to
call for a constitutional amendment to limit terms. It
already has won in Utah and South Dakota. This fall, the
group will try to get both incumbents and challengers to
pledge they will not serve more than 12 years in office.
   Self-imposed limits on office-holding were once part of
this country's public-service ethic, with Members returning
to private life after a couple of terms. As late as 1860, the
average length of House service was four years. The number of
freshmen in a new House never dipped below 30% until 1901. In
the current House it is 8%.
   Term limitation, once the accepted American tradition, has
been replaced by congressional careerism. The opinion polls
for term limitation show that the voters don't like the
change. They now think the voluntary service limitation of
the past must be made mandatory.
   ---
                   Curbing the Incumbents
                                                                                                       

 Do you think there should be a limit to the number of times
a member of the House of Representatives can be elected to a
two-year term, or not?
                                                                                                       

                                      FAVOR        OPPOSE
                                                                                                       

 Total Sample                          61%          31%
                                                                                                       

 By Party
   Republicans                         64%          28%
   Democrats                           60           30

                                                                                                       

 By Philosophy/Ideology
   Liberal                             58           34
   Moderate                            64           30
   Conservative                        63           29
                                                                                                       

 By Presidential Preference
   Voters pro-Bush                     61           32
   Voters anti-Bush                    60           28
                                                                                                       

 By Race
   White                               61           31
   Black                               61           27
                                                                                                       

 By Gender
   Men                                 57           35
   Women                               63           27
                                                                                                       

 Source: New York Times/CBS News poll. Survey of 1,515 adults
conducted March 30-April 2, 1990, with a 3% margin of error.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0192
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0192.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection &amp; Insurance Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HBOL
</CO>
<LP>
   HARTFORD STEAM BOILER INSPECTION &amp; INSURANCE Co.
(Hartford, Conn.) -- Lois D. Rice, senior vice president,
government affairs, at Control Data Corp., was named a
director of this boiler and machinery insurance concern,
expanding board membership to 11.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0191
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0191.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Executive Pay (A Special Report): Pay Policies
   ---
   Hush Money:
   Nobody Wants to Talk About Pay, but the Shroud
   Of Secrecy Is Increasingly Difficult to Keep in Place
   ----
   By Jolie Solomon
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R22
</SO>
<LP>
   THE TABOO HAS LONG been lifted from talk about alcohol and
drugs. Sex? Just flip on your TV set.
   But there's another three-letter word that's still
shrouded in inhibitions. It's PAY. The less said about it,
the better, a lot of people on both sides of the paycheck
believe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Public companies, of course, must disclose top executives'
salaries, and labor contracts are public knowledge. But
between Ross Johnson and the union hall, most salaries are
discussed in whispers, if at all. Paychecks come in sealed
envelopes, and some companies forbid employees to disclose
their salaries.
   Talking about pay "borders on the vulgar," declares Lyle
Clapper, co-owner of Clapper Communications, a Park Ridge,
Ill., publisher. "It's a real emotional issue, and (in
business) emotional issues need to be quiet."
   Employees, too, are queasy. Etta Williams, a claims
representative at Allstate Insurance Co.'s Cheshire, Conn.,
office, says colleagues applauded her at a recent ceremony
where she was awarded a special cash bonus. But she didn't
want Allstate to announce the amount. "You're dealing with
human beings," warns Ms. Williams. "So far we get along great
here, and I'd like to keep it that way."
   Pay secrecy, however, is becoming an increasingly
difficult policy to maintain, particularly as companies look
to strengthen the link between pay and performance. At the
same time, employees are less willing to accept the company
line on pay. And as they begin to bargain individually over
such options as flexible schedules or part-time work, says
Elaine Evans, a consultant with Wyatt Co., "they are saying,
`Why can't I know about pay?'"
   Next Inc. may be the only major company in the U.S. where
the answer is, "You can." Lists of all employees' salaries
hang in company offices at Redwood City and Fremont, Calif.,
and anyone can consult them. "We're not dancing around the
problem," says Phillip E. Wilson, vice president of human
resources for the computer company started by Steve Jobs, the
cofounder of Apple Computer Co. Anything less than openness,
he says, "doesn't establish the same level of trust." Next's
attitude, he adds, was a major draw in wooing him from
Cummins Engine Co., which keeps a much tighter clamp on
salary data. But Mr. Wilson admits that such a "huge cultural
shift" is easier for a startup company like Next.
   "Once you're in it, it makes perfect sense. You wonder why
other companies don't do it," says Kathryn Kilcoyne, director
of marketing communications for Next. She has seen many new
hires at Next react to the news of its policy incredulously,
saying, "You do? They know?" Ms. Kilcoyne herself was
"extremely apprehensive about it" at first, but she's found
it makes managing easier. Now, when she interviews potential
new employees, if they express too much caution about the
idea, she questions whether they will fit into the Next
culture.
   Most companies experimenting with openness seek a balance
between old ways and new. Vanessa Jorgenson, a Calfed Inc.
branch manager, was old school when it came to pay. Before
she joined the bank two years ago, she was a manager in a
department store where, she says, "you didn't breathe
salaries." People figured that if employees learned what
others made, "who knew what else would come out?"
   Even at Calfed, when she joined the bank, pay information
traveled primarily by the grapevine, she says, and a manager
heard about it only when someone "up and walked out the
door." If Ms. Jorgenson got a complaint, it would be a long
game of "telephone" just to get the necessary information to
explain employee salaries, let alone act on it.
   But today Calfed is a more open company, and she finds out
faster whether ill will over pay is eroding morale. She has,
she says, a better chance of keeping people she has trained
and invested in. And Ms. Jorgenson now is armed with facts
and figures. Calfed's new Pay for Performance guide has a
bold, four-inch green dollar sign on its cover and data
inside ranging from how to compute a merit increase to salary
brackets for every job. She can share the contents with
employees and use this information in discussing pay with
them. And she can tap into Calfed's data banks to find out
how much other branches -- or competitors -- are paying.
   If someone complains that Joe Schmo is making more, "first
you figure out whether Joe Schmo is making more," says Ms.
Jorgenson. She won't disclose Joe's exact salary to the
complaining employee. But, if appropriate, she may make up
the difference. Or she may explain why Joe should be making
more. Maybe he supervises more people than the employee who's
complaining; maybe he was hired with higher expectations on
the company's part and "if (he) doesn't perform within 90
days, (he) may not have a job."
   Once employees know their boss will answer such questions,
says Ms. Jorgenson, word gets around. Before, she says, "it
was always taboo in their eyes; you just didn't ask."
   Traditionally, in fact, that's the way companies liked it.
Bob Baird, who taught training at the General Motors
Institute in the 1970s, remembers signing a form that barred
him from discussing his own salary. Fewer companies now take
that tack, but it isn't unheard of. In fact, although General
Motors Corp.'s operating companies have never required it,
says a spokeswoman, GM's Electronic Data Systems Corp. unit
is adamant on the subject. New hires, says spokesman Roger
Still, sign a form acknowledging several policies, including
this one: Employees are allowed to disclose their salaries,
but if such disclosure leads to "disruption," they can be
fired.
   In many companies, the message trickles down even if it
isn't written down. Fran Stetson, a secretary for Health
Northeast in Manchester, N.H., says that managers at her
former office made sure that even the payroll accountant
caught their "paranoia. If you walked into her office while
she was working on it, she'd literally throw herself over the
desk."
   U.S. courts have generally supported companies in their
view that salary information, like a product formula or a
marketing strategy, is confidential and the property of
management. An employee who ferrets out and releases such
data can be discharged for "willful misconduct," says Mark
Dichter, an attorney at Morgan Lewis Bockius in Philadelphia.
In a legal battle concerning overtime pay at NBC News,
employees earlier this month won a ruling that management
must release to them the salaries of top staffers. But the
plaintiffs' use of the information was limited so that none
of it can be disclosed to anyone else.
   For many years, the cloak over salary served a dark
purpose. "There were no (pay) systems, no grades," says Fred
Cook, a New York consultant. "Pay was (figured) on the back
of an envelope, women got screwed, favorite sons were taken
care of."
   And managers saw the confidential information as a
critical element of control. "Giving pay information to a
subordinate . . . empowers" him, says Ed Lawler, a professor
at the University of Southern California. Of course, it also
opens to scrutiny the boss's own salary. When Mr. Wilson
described Next's open policy to a group of counterparts at
Fortune 200 companies recently, their reactions, he says,
were "Ridiculous] Impossible]" The sticking point? "Primarily
the notion that you can never sufficiently defend to the
ordinary folk (what) you pay to senior people."
   But even companies ready to open up have to fight a
psychology that is ingrained long before an executive or an
employee goes to work. "Lots of people don't talk to their
children about money any more than they talk to them about
sex," says Linda Barbanel, a therapist who specializes in
money matters. "So the same sorts of feelings get attached;
it's dirty and it's not nice." Pay is doubly sensitive
because many Americans tie their ego directly to their
paycheck.
   Thus, employees often join the boss in keeping salaries
secret. "In a sense, it's a conspiracy between the individual
and management," says Prof. Lawler. "It's the old joke: I
don't talk about my pay because I'm embarrassed, and the
organization doesn't talk about it because they're
embarrassed."
   Employees may even be skittish about learning each other's
salaries. They are loath to know something that may only
anger them, says Ms. Barbanel, especially if they feel
powerless to do anything about it. Ms. Stetson, the Health
Northeast secretary, is furious about one colleague who makes
more than she does but who, Ms. Stetson feels, doesn't pull
her weight. "It just creates hard feelings" if you know what
other people make, she says. "Sometimes, ignorance is bliss."
   Sensitivity about money, in fact, is often compounded by
sensitivity about a closely related topic: performance. And
this is where the debate on openness is joined. "Some people
with exactly the same job description and years on the job
may be making more . . . than the person sitting right next
to them," says Mr. Still of EDS. Why? "Because maybe they're
doing a better job."
   For EDS, that's good reason to reject the open approach. A
critical competitive tool for the company, says Mr. Still, is
the manager's ability to motivate employees case by case.
"There's a lot of discretion given to managers," he explains.
"If the employees begin to manage that process themselves . .
. truly that takes that power away from (managers)."
   But Next's Ms. Kilcoyne argues, "Why do you need secrecy?"
She discusses salary details with her team of 12
subordinates, including how much a new hire should be paid or
who gets a bonus. Sure, it may be hard to hear that someone
else makes more, she admits. But if employees understand and
believe the system is fair, they're going to say,
"Absolutely, Phyllis deserves to get that."
   Mr. Wilson says the system works well partly because it
doesn't try to make the narrow pay distinctions other
compensation experts believe in. Next pays employees in the
same classification about the same salary. And when
executives get raises, they're likely to be in increments of
at least $5,000. "Don't pretend that . . . you can sort out
(more) variables of human behavior than we can balance in our
feeble minds," he warns.
   But that philosophy still doesn't have many believers,
even among advocates of openness. Richard Bevan, a vice
president of Towers Perrin, a compensation consultant, used
to be an "idealist" on the subject, he confesses. Now, he
says, "I'm a pragmatist." Even where a company has the most
rational system, he says, "life is too complicated" to
explain every detail to employees. It's not practical, he
adds, to justify to other employees why a fellow worker got a
good raise despite a poor performance rating: "He had some
family crisis for six months this year, really his
performance is better, plus we suspect that this type of
computer analyst is a rare bird.'"
   When a company lets everyone know the salary or bonus
budget, says Mr. Cook, the consultant, it runs into problems.
With a limited pool of money, some employees have to get only
"average" increases or less while others get more. What
manager, asks Mr. Cook, wants to motivate his employee by
saying, "Let me make sure you understand. You're average"?
   Some companies that want to reward employees for extra
productivity try to avoid dollars altogether. Clapper
Communications makes non-cash awards, such as microwave ovens
and diamond pendants. If employees get too much information
on salaries, says Mr. Clapper, "I get into the job of proving
to the whole company that my decisions are good. We're not
democracies. We're corporations."
   But where companies are pushing workplace democracy,
communication becomes critical. U.S. productivity problems
are partly a result of treating employees like children,
argues Next's Mr. Wilson. Letting employees in on salary data
is the same as letting them in on who might be a new
joint-venture partner, says Ms. Kilcoyne. The message is,
"You're on the inside, not the outside."
   Next recently promoted one manager, with a raise to
$36,000, after considering an outside hire for the same
opening at $45,000. Aware of the earlier plan, the manager
complained. Mr. Wilson explained that Next had decided to let
someone from inside grow into the job rather than buy a
higher level of experience. "I spend a lot of time educating
people" about how compensation works, he says.
   Managers at Donnelly Corp., a large manufacturer of
automotive glass based in Holland, Mich., believe that
employees should get salary data for the same reasons they
now get information on technology or markets. "We're
committed to getting people involved in decisions that have
to do with money," says Mr. Baird, the former instructor at
the GM Institute and now Donnelly's manager of organizational
development. Employees are elected from all company levels to
serve on committees that make decisions, from manufacturing
technique to pricing to benefits and pay brackets.
   ---
   Ms. Solomon reports on management from The Wall Street
Journal's Washington bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0190
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0190.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Executive Pay (A Special Report): Looking Abroad
   ---
   Perks vs. Pay:
   In Japan, the Sky's the Limit for Executive Expense
   Accounts, but Salaries Are Definitely Earthbound
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R30
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Four nights a week, Ken Moroi, a top-ranking
cement executive here, is whisked to a lavish restaurant,
where he dines with clients and business leaders. Once a week
or so, a chauffeur drives him to a luxurious private club to
play a round of golf with other executives.
   The dinners could cost the equivalent of, say, $535 a
person; the golf games, $670 for a foursome. And, of course,
Mr. Moroi's company picks up the tab -- an entertainment bill
that ran about $13,500 one recent month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Limits on social expenses are vague," Mr. Moroi, chairman
of Chichibu Cement Co., says matter-of-factly. Lounging on a
long leather couch in his spacious office here, he adds:
"There almost aren't any."
   It certainly sounds like the good life. And in many ways
it is. But there's another side of the coin. The 62-year-old
Mr. Moroi, as head of a major Japanese cement company, is
paid only about $260,000 a year, well below what an American
would earn in a corporation with 1989 sales of about $416
million.
   The gap in salaries between Japanese and American
executives is as wide as the ocean that separates the two
countries. Although the disparity is obvious, comparisons are
difficult to make because Japan lacks disclosure requirements
and people here are generally unwilling to discuss pay.
   Towers Perrin, a U.S.-based benefits consulting firm,
estimates that the average top executive of a large Japanese
company receives between 40 million yen and 60 million yen a
year, the equivalent of about $270,000 to $400,000. That's
well below Towers Perrin's calculation of an average of $1.3
million in 1989 for chief executives of the top 100 companies
in the U.S. (For both countries, the figures are for base
salaries plus annual incentives. They don't include stock
options in the U.S.; such options remain an alien concept in
Japan.)
   Part of the reason for the gaping disparity is that
Japanese companies strongly emphasize a kind of equality in
pay, from top to bottom. This policy means that an
executive's salary, like the executive himself, isn't on a
fast track as he trudges through the ranks to the top. Thus,
his compensation stays more in line with the salaries of
lower-ranking executives and managers than is the case in the
U.S. If there were an acute gap, managers here say, it would
discourage the lower-ranking employees.
   Income disparities are narrower here not just between the
top and the bottom of the corporate ladder but also among
those executives bunched on the top rungs. That derives from
the importance the Japanese place on another kind of
equality. Japanese executives make more decisions by
consensus, and power and responsibility are less concentrated
than in the U.S.
   Another factor is the Japanese tendency to promote by age.
Even Honda Motor Co., which emphasizes that it takes
performance into consideration when determining an employee's
pay, concedes that age is still the basic deciding factor.
   "If you pay money" to reward workers for their jobs and
responsibilities, says Hiroshi Matsuzawa, a manager at SGS
Inc., a Swiss-based headhunting company, "the whole pay
system will collapse" because the concept of equality won't
function. When a 42-year-old manager jumped from his Japanese
financial company to a foreign financial institution, says
Mr. Matsuzawa, his annual salary of about $94,000 nearly
doubled.
   But the prospering manager who makes such a move won't be
able to run up those big wining-and-dining bills.
Foreign-owned companies, despite their higher salaries,
aren't nearly as generous with their expense accounts. Thus,
the peripatetic executive may have to dig into his own
pockets to pay much of the entertainment tab.
   Executive job-hopping, so common in the U.S., started just
recently here, remains relatively uncommon and so far is
confined to lower-level managers. In Japan, senior executives
tend to reach their positions only after some 20 years with
their companies.
   One other factor helps to explain the discrepancy in
executive pay between Japan and the U.S. Here the inflexible
system bases compensation more on the position a person holds
than on the person who holds it. Thus, companies shower the
people occupying their top spots with chauffeurs, golf-club
memberships and sumptuous entertainment fees. Not all
executives and managers are pleased with the Japanese system.
But many remain cautious about adopting the American way,
even if that might raise their salaries. Top executives would
be forced to concentrate on improving quarterly revenue, says
a manager for a Tokyo trading company, making it difficult to
decide on long-term policies. Besides, says the manager,
"there's an atmosphere here that doesn't allow wealth to
concentrate on one person."
   And the current Japanese system does have one advantage:
It's a way of getting around taxes. The executive doesn't
have to pay taxes on such perks here, where the maximum
marginal income-tax rate is 65%. That's double the comparable
33% in the U.S.
   Client entertaining, called "settai", can include anything
from dinners and golf games to mah-jongg sessions, trips to
hostess bars, and sumo matches.
   "You enjoy the tickling feeling of becoming an executive,"
says Kenji Yatomi, president of Tokyo's Wage and Salary
Management Consulting Institute, which takes annual surveys
of executive compensation. Companies willingly pamper
executives with allowances of $6,700 to more than $10,000 a
month, says Mr. Yatomi, a former Honda manager.
   Discussing business isn't the main point of the
entertaining, and guidelines are loose -- often encouraging
bosses to sneak a drink or two with their underlings, he
says. But companies believe that a fancy dinner with a geisha
show and perhaps a little souvenir may deepen ties with
clients and smooth the way toward successful deals. Too
little of that, on the other hand, could be deadly, they
think, for the company could be labeled as stingy.
   Corporate spending on entertainment nationwide totaled
4.55 trillion yen, the equivalent of more than $30 billion,
in the year ended in January 1989. And an array of pricey
businesses are sprouting. The lavish King Field Golf Club in
central Japan offers extravagantly priced business dinners
and receptions in its clubhouse. Players are accompanied by
caddies clad in purple jumpsuits. Cost: a one-time membership
fee of more than $1.3 million, plus a per-player charge of
more than $185 on weekends. This kind of outlay is almost
always paid by companies in Japan.
   "People seem to think you need a luxurious atmosphere,"
says a former automotive official, remembering a fancy
$470-a-person meal in a well-known Japanese restaurant. But,
the official says with a laugh, he found that a large part of
the bill paid for the plush surroundings and the
super-attentive waitresses. A main course of his meal
contained only about five thin strips of beef, which the
women grilled one by one in front of him.
   Companies also offer their executives other tax-free
perks, such as sports and lodging facilities scattered around
Japan and even in other countries like Australia. Company
housing is another big plum: Yamaichi Securities Co. last
year provided its president a plush new apartment in central
Tokyo, thus eliminating his hour-long commute.
   Although many businessmen say they would rather get the
perks, not all take them to be particularly gainful. Playing
mah-jongg with clients can be a somewhat stressful
obligation, says SGS's Mr. Matsuzawa; the hosts, for
instance, must make sure the clients win the game. Haruhiko
Katsumata, a young president of a company connected to the
pinball-parlor industry, confesses that to spare older
clients any embarrassment, he spends more time rolling his
guests' golf balls out of the rough than playing his own
game.
   Many think that the pay system and the importance of
entertainment will continue for some time to come. Still,
says Chichibu Cement's Mr. Moroi, if given the choice between
cash and perks, he might choose not to entertain.
   "If we're young and want to have fun, we might think of
these things as a plus," says the snowy-haired executive.
"But at times, I wish I could just relax on holidays."
   ---
   Ms. Ono is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's
Tokyo bureau.
   ---
                        On the Town
                                                                                                       

   A breakdown of average entertainment expenses for large
Japanese companies
                                                                                                       

   Bars, Nightclubs                             47%
   Gifts                                        20
   Restaurants                                  17
   Golf                                         10
   Other                                         6
                                                                                                       

   Note: Based on a survey of 122 Japanese companies with
more than 1,000
   Source: American Express International, 1987
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0189
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0189.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Executive Pay (A Special Report): Pay Stubs
   ---
   Notes from the Executive Compensation Front
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   THE IDEAL SECOND JOB?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   When you're a company chairman, it pays to moonlight.
   Consider James D. Robinson III. His compensation from
American Express Co. totaled $2.6 million last year. But he
earned up to $139,000 more by serving as a director of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Coca-Cola Co. and Union Pacific
Corp.
   Lawrence G. Rawl did pretty well, too. On top of the $1.4
million he received from Exxon Corp., his director fees from
Champion International Corp., Chemical Banking Corp., and
Warner-Lambert Co. totaled as much as $118,000 last year.
   Takeover threats and time pressures have prompted many top
executives to trim outside board obligations over the last
decade, from an average of about six to about three, says
Abraham Nad, who runs Directorship DataBank of Westport,
Conn. His data, based on proxies issued last year, show that
214 chairmen of Fortune 1,000 companies sit on four or more
major company boards outside their own. Several prominent
CEOs, including Walt Disney Co.'s Michael Eisner and Chrysler
Corp.'s Lee A. Iacocca, don't serve on any.
   Companies typically don't disclose attendance or fees for
committee meetings, so it's tough to know precisely how much
individual directors earn. Roger Smith of General Motors
Corp., for one, got $30,000 in retainers for serving on the
board of Citicorp and its consulting committee. But he might
have earned as much as $30,400 more with perfect attendance
on those panels and two other board committees, which met a
total of 32 times at $950 a pop.
   In all, Mr. Smith's board fees -- he's also a director of
Johnson &amp; Johnson, PepsiCo Inc., and International Paper --
totaled as much as $158,000, nice pocket change for a man who
earned $2.5 million last year from his day job.
                                                                                                       

   THE LITTLE THINGS
                                                                                                       

   Sure, Michael Eisner makes millions. But in the wonderful
world of Walt Disney Co., little things count, too. Like the
$3,813 the company put out last year to match Mr. Eisner's
savings and investment plan contribution. And the $1,800 in
premiums it paid toward his supplemental medical insurance.
Not to mention -- but the proxy does -- the $197 in premiums
to keep active Mr. Eisner's $1 million excess-liability
insurance plan. The proxy notes that Mr. Eisner has a $3
million life-insurance policy, but doesn't specify what the
premiums were last year.
                                                                                                       

   GOLDEN AGE
                                                                                                       

   Earning your age. There was a time when that was the
standard of measurement for executives. Making $45,000 at 45
years old? You're doing just fine. Then came the inflation of
the '70s, coupled with the huge run-up in executive salaries
in recent years. Suddenly, it seems more appropriate to earn
your great-great-grandfather's age -- at the least. Consider
the calculations if today's CEOs were to be judged by the old
standard: They'd have to be older than Methuselah to merit
their pay. Based on last year's compensation, Paul Fireman of
Reebok International would be 14,600 years old, Coca-Cola
Co.'s Roberto C. Goizueta would be 2,500 years old, and John
F. Akers of International Business Machines Corp., 1,400
years old. No wonder they get all those health and retirement
benefits.
                                                                                                       

   CULTURE SHOCK
                                                                                                       

   Looking for hefty bonuses and nice annual raises? If
you're an American working for a Japanese company, you may be
looking in the wrong place.
   "The Japanese don't reward on individual performance,"
says Christine R. Houston, a consultant with Tasa Inc. who
has conducted executive searches for the American offices of
many Japanese concerns. "It's against their ethic."
   That ethic has its costs. Japanese banks in New York, for
instance, often have problems recruiting and keeping
first-rate American managers, Ms. Houston says. That's
largely because the banks' pay packages average about 20%
below what a top U.S. competitor might offer, she says.
   One vice president now at a major U.S. bank left Tokai
Bank's New York office last fall after a year and a half on
the job, in part because his first annual raise trailed
inflation and his bonus was just 10%, not the 25% he says the
bank told him to expect.
   "Our system says you have to do certain things for
employees or they will leave," he says. "Japanese employees
don't leave."
   Several major Japanese banks in this country, including
Tokai, recently hired Americans to help them grapple with
U.S. ways of paying. Fuji Bank Ltd., among other changes, has
introduced 401K plans for the 170 employees in its New York
office and has doubled some potential bonus levels. "We
weren't getting the quality of person we needed," admits
Brian T. Thompson, who joined Fuji last year as senior vice
president for human resources. Now, he says, "we want to deal
with Americans the way they would expect to be dealt with in
an American company."
                                                                                                       

   NO DEPOSIT
                                                                                                       

   Computers may promise a paperless society, but there's one
bit of paper that's unlikely to disappear from the American
workplace any time soon: the paycheck.
   Just 14% of private-sector employees have their checks
deposited in their bank accounts electronically. That
compares with 70% of federal workers and more than 95% of all
employees in Japan and some European countries, according to
the National Automated Clearinghouse Association, a trade
group that promotes direct deposit.
   Many employees clearly don't want direct deposit.
According to the clearinghouse association, more than half
the major U.S. companies offer it, though some restrict the
option to managers and senior executives. Dallas-based AMR
Corp., parent of American Airlines, recently rejected direct
deposit as an option for its 77,000 employees, after a poll
of workers showed insufficient interest.
   Other companies prefer not to offer direct deposit because
of the cost-both of adopting a new payroll system and of
giving up a day or two of bank float on every paycheck. And
some firms may not want to lose the opportunity that
disbursing checks can provide. "It's a weekly reminder of
who's boss," says Larry Hirschhorn, a specialist in
organizational behavior at the Wharton Center for Applied
Research.
                                                                                                       

   ALL YOUR EGGS
                                                                                                       

   More companies are tying compensation to performance by
increasing the role of stock in the pay of top executives.
But it's causing a problem for many executives: Can they hold
big chunks of company stock and also maintain balanced
personal portfolios?
   "It's a struggle," says Carol R. Caruthers, a Price
Waterhouse consultant who advises senior managers on personal
finance. At some companies, "it would not appear you're part
of the team or the leadership if you didn't hold large
amounts of company stock."
   Younger executives with growing families feel the pain
most, she says. After covering expenses, they often find
company stock their only remaining asset. One told her his
cash flow was better when he was working a paper route as a
14-year-old.
   To relieve the pressure, Ms. Caruthers says, some
companies are becoming more flexible about letting employees
sell their stock in order to raise cash to exercise new stock
options. And they're giving more bonuses and special rewards
in cash, not stock. "That gives people a chance to
diversify," she says.
   ---
   Mr. Fuchsberg is a staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's New York bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0188
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0188.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Immunomedics Inc.,
   Johnson &amp; Johnson
   End Research Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IMMU JNJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARREN, N.J. -- Immunomedics Inc. and Johnson &amp; Johnson
agreed to terminate their research relationship, and
Immunomedics said it is negotiating to arrange financial
support for clinical trials of its monoclonal antibody-based
products.
   Johnson &amp; Johnson, New Brunswick, N.J., which had been
funding research in return for certain product rights, will
pay $2.7 million to Immunomedics for research under their
previous arrangements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Immunomedics makes antibody-based products for detecting
and treating cancer. Johnson &amp; Johnson, an investor in the
company in the early 1980s, sold most of its holdings in 1988
and has been cutting back on its research commitment with
Immunomedics.
   Russell McLauchlan, president of Immunomedics, said the
company is "now free to implement our strategic plan" to
become a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company.
   Mr. McLauchlan said the company is spending about $1.4
million a quarter, a figure it expects to continue over the
next two years.
   The company is conducting clinical trials of a colo-rectal
cancer imaging agent and expects to begin European and Asian
clinical trials for the product soon.
   Sales of products in its in-vitro diagnostic business rose
to $870,000 for the nine months ended March 31 from $330,000
a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0187
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0187.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Deutsche Bank
   Plans Venture
   In East Germany
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP G.DBK
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- Deutsche Bank AG said it has signed a letter
of intent to form a banking joint venture in East Germany
with Deutsche Kreditbank AG, the commercial banking arm of
Staatsbank, East Germany's central bank.
   The accord paves the way for West Germany's largest
commercial bank to take the leading role in the East German
financial industry when the country's monetary union with
West Germany is completed this summer. No financial details
were disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Deutsche Bank said the East German partner will contribute
facilities for the creation of a branch network while
Deutsche Bank "contributes its know-how, its training
capacity and its organization."
   The joint venture will be formed once the necessary legal
framework is in place, Deutsche Bank said. Starting April 1,
East Germany introduced a Western-style commercial banking
system, but so far hasn't granted any banking licenses to any
West German or other foreign banks. All major West German
commercial banks are planning to set up a branch network in
the country once they are allowed to operate there.
   Under the old Communist regime, the Staatsbank had a
monopoly on all major financial transactions in East Germany,
combining both commercial and central bank activities. But
last month, the Staatsbank spun off its commercial banking
activities into Deutsche Kreditbank, which is now a joint
stock company temporarily owned by the Staatsbank.
   Beside Kreditbank, there are only savings banks and
cooperative banks operating in East Germany at the moment.
   Deutsche Bank disclosed in late March that it is in talks
with Kreditbank about various forms of cooperation and even
considering acquiring an interest in the East German bank.
Last month, Chairman Hilmar Kopper denied that it is weighing
taking a direct stake in Kreditbank, but expressed interest
in some of Kreditbank's facilities.
   At the time, Mr. Kopper said he would like to see about
250 Deutsche Bank branches with 4,000 to 6,000 employees in
the long term, but said the realization of that "vision" will
take several years.
   Kreditbank operates 150 branches all over East Germany and
has 9,000 employees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0185
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0185.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Executive Pay (A Special Report): Pay Policies
   ---
   Calculating Compensation:
   Companies Use a Formula to Compute
   Executives' Incentive Pay; Finding Out
   What the Formula Is Can Be a Tiresome Task
   ----
   By Lee Berton
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R26
</SO>
<LP>
   WANT TO KNOW how much a top executive makes? That's easy.
Just peek at the company's proxy statement and you'll find
the dollar amount of his salary plus bonus.
   Want to know how that compensation was computed? That's
another story -- and a complicated one.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But why should you care anyway? Because that's one way
that you as a shareholder can find out whether the company is
too generous with its top brass.
   To figure out the computation, you first have to find the
formula the company uses for incentive pay. Only a few
companies give enough details to do that. These include Walt
Disney Co., with a formula of 2% of the amount by which net
income exceeds 9% of stockholders' equity; Toys "R" Us Inc.,
1% of pretax profit above $18 million; and Reebok
International Ltd., 5% of pretax profit above $20 million.
Each of these formulas is for the company's chief executive
officer.
   But most companies don't give enough specifics to make the
calculation. Typical is Limited Inc., which in its 1988 proxy
says the executive-compensation plan "awards bonuses to
designated executives and employees of the company if their
performance or that of the company meets specified goals."
The big retailer, based in Columbus, Ohio, doesn't give its
stockholders the faintest clue as to how it computed the
$1,030,753 cash compensation of chairman and president Leslie
H. Wexner in 1988. Asked why Limited doesn't disclose an
executive-compensation formula in its annual proxy, Alfred
Dietzel, vice president-financial, declined comment.
   A company doesn't have to disclose the compensation
formula under Securities and Exchange Commission rules. "A
public company only has to report the dollar compensation of
the five highest-paid executives," says an SEC spokesman.
   But many experts think that holders have a right to know
the formula. "It should be an open compact between the
company and the shareholders dividing the spoils," says Graef
Crystal, a compensation specialist and adjunct professor of
business administration at the Haas School of Business,
University of California at Berkeley. "The fact that many
chief executives are loath to disclose their outdated
incentive formulas shows they have sound survival instincts."
Adds Peter Chingos, national director of
executive-compensation consulting for Peat Marwick, a major
accounting firm: "The formula shows whether top management's
compensation properly reflects profits and measures up
against a reasonable return for shareholders."
   Compensation specialists say the formulas help directors
measure executives' performance against the passive
investment of equity at current market yields. Under many
formulas, executives are paid from profits after deducting
that yield. Thus, to get a bonus, top executives must show
they outperformed simply investing stockholders' equity in
fixed-income securities. (In simplest terms, stockholders'
equity is total assets minus total liabilities.)
   Here's how a typical formula works: Company A pays its
executives from an incentive pool, which represents 5% of net
income that tops an 8% return on equity. This is known as a
five-over-eight formula.
   Say the company reported $500 million in annual profit,
which met targeted goals of the board. Shareholders' equity
amounted to $2 billion. So Company A's total incentive pool
for top executives amounts to $17 million -- 5% of $340
million ($500 million of profits minus $160 million, or 8% of
$2 billion in equity).
   In Company A, executives are paid a bonus geared to a
percentage of their annual salary. The higher an executive's
rank, the higher the percentage. The chief executive officer
may get 50% to 100% of his salary as a bonus from the pool,
depending on his performance. The chief operating officer may
receive from 45% to 90% of his salary; the chief financial
officer, 40% to 80%; and lower-level executives, 30% to 60%.
   Thus, the chief executive, who gets a salary of $1
million, could get $500,000 to $1 million as a bonus. The
chief operating officer, who earns $750,000, could get a
bonus of $337,500 to $675,000; the chief financial officer,
who earns $500,000, a bonus of $200,000 to $400,000. These
percentages aren't disclosed in corporate proxies beyond an
occasional reference that bonuses can't exceed a certain
percentage of salary.
   Let's look at companies that provide full disclosure in
their latest proxies. At Walt Disney, Toys "R" Us and Reebok,
the chief executives alone are compensated based on a single
formula. Disney Chairman Michael Eisner, who is paid a bonus
based on a two-over-nine formula (changing to two over 11
after 1990), received a bonus of $8.8 million for the fiscal
year ended last Sept. 30, up from $6.7 million the previous
year. His annual base salary is $750,000.
   Charles Lazarus, chairman of Toys "R" Us, got an annual
base salary of $315,000 with a bonus of $4.1 million for the
year ended Jan. 31, 1989. The bonus is 1% of annual pretax
profit that exceeds $18 million. And Reebok Chairman Paul
Fireman, who receives an annual salary of $350,000, got a
bonus of $11 million for 1988; his bonus is 5% of annual
pretax profit above $20 million.
   But at Paramount Communications Inc., no formula is
specified. Chairman Martin Davis, who got a 1988 salary and
bonus of $3.67 million, is paid his bonus based on the
"extent to which performance targets set by committee are
achieved," according to the company's proxy. P. Roy Vagelos,
chairman of Merck &amp; Co., got a salary and bonus of $1.6
million in 1988. His bonus was awarded "in such amounts as {a
compensation} committee determines but it cannot exceed 12%
of `incentive earnings' as defined in Merck's compensation
plan." There's no way to compute the formula.
   That, however, may not matter too much longer because
compensation consultants say that the formula may one day
become passe. That's probably either because it reveals too
much or because companies ignore it anyway if it proves to be
a bar to bonuses. Many boards are deciding to drop it and
substitute more subjective criteria.
   For example, J.P. Morgan &amp; Co., the big bank holding
company that operates Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York,
has been paying its top executives from a pool consisting of
net income that exceeds 8% of stockholders' equity. During
1987, Morgan added $875 million to its allowance for credit
losses, mainly to reserves for questionable loans overseas.
This wiped out executive bonuses under the formula. So the
board ignored the formula and gave Morgan executives bonuses
anyway.
   Lewis T. Preston, who stepped down as Morgan chairman in
January, got $641,667 in salary and a discretionary $600,000
bonus for 1987. For 1988, Mr. Preston received a total of
$1.8 million in cash compensation under the formula. The
salary and the bonus weren't disclosed separately.
   Edmund Rogers, Morgan's senior vice president and resident
counsel, declines to give the formula that shows how the pool
is distributed to senior executives. "We don't disclose it
because we don't think it's meaningful," he says. "We're
required to provide the total dollar compensation for each
top executive, but we've decided not to disclose the bonus
alone because we feel it's competitive information."
   When Morgan issued its proxy last month, shareholders saw
Mr. Preston's total cash compensation, which included a bonus
for 1989 despite a $2 billion increase in the bank's
foreign-loan reserves during the year. "We'll be
discontinuing the formula for senior officers," Mr. Rogers
says, "and the bonus will henceforth be included in the
general incentive compensation plan, based on performance and
at the discretion of the board."
   "The trend is away from fixed formulas to goal-attainment
incentives," says Mr. Chingos, the Peat Marwick consultant.
"Under these incentives, executives are paid bonuses based on
their meeting certain performance goals, such as return on
investment or cash flow." The SEC doesn't require these goals
to be disclosed, he notes, so the shareholder will see only
the total cash compensation in the proxy.
   ---
   Mr. Berton is a staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's New York bureau.
   ---
                    Olympic-Size Pools
                                                                                                       


executive compensation pools.
                                                                                                       

   Aluminum Co. of America      15% of total cash dividends.
                                                                                                       

   Ashland Oil                  6% of after-tax net income.
                                                                                                       

   Boeing Co.                   6% of before-tax net income.
                                                                                                       

   Bristol-Myers                Lesser of 6% of before-tax
                                net income or 8% of
                                after-tax net income.
                                                                                                       

   Du Pont                      20% of after-tax net income
                                in excess of 6% of
                                stockholders' equity.
                                                                                                       

   Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber       10% of after-tax net income
                                in excess of consolidated
                                book value of outstanding
                                capital stock.
                                                                                                       

   ITT Corp.                    12% of after-tax net income
                                in excess of 6% of
                                stockholders' equity. d
                                                                                                       

   International Paper          8% of after-tax net income
                                in excess of 6% of
                                stockholders' equity.
                                                                                                       

   Rockwell International       2% of the first $100 million
                                of before-tax net income
                                plus 3% of the next $50
                                million of before-tax net
                                income plus 4% of the next
                                $25 million of before-tax
                                net income plus 5% of the
                                balance.
                                                                                                       

   Unocal Corp.                 3% of after-tax net income
                                in excess of 6% of
                                stockholders' equity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0184
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0184.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sales of Cars, Light Trucks Fell 11.2%
   In Early April, Easing March's Optimism
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   J.IZM SBRU J.MOT J.MZD NSANY TOYOY HMC C F GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Sales of domestically built vehicles in early
April fell 11.2% from a year ago, tempering some optimism
generated by a 2.9% rise in late March.
   The 10 companies that build vehicles in the U.S. sold
262,692 cars, vans and light trucks in the April 1-10 period,
down from 295,735 vehicles a year ago, despite deep discounts
and other incentives. Analysts attributed the lackluster
performance to a still-sluggish economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "For a spring selling market still characterized by
incentives, these numbers don't look so good," said Tom Webb,
chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers
Association. "Unless there is a major change in the economy,
such as reduced interest rates, domestic new cars sales
appear to remain in their current doldrums."
   Following recent patterns, the drop in car sales was
steeper than that for van and light trucks. Auto makers
reported they sold 163,585 cars built in the U.S., Canada and
Mexico during the period, down 13.3% from a year ago.
Domestic truck and van sales fell 7.5% to 99,107 vehicles.
   Car sales yielded a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.6
million cars, according to a Department of Commerce formula.
That's down from late March's 7.2 million rate and the 7.6
million pace of a year ago.
   Despite the overall downturn, the seven Japanese companies
that build cars in the U.S. increased the number and
percentage of car sales they made to 21,062, or 12.9%, from
13,894, or 7.4% a year ago.
   Among the Big Three U.S. auto makers, General Motors Corp.
reported a 13.6% drop in domestic car sales, but a 2.2%
improvement in light truck sales, partly because GM has added
a trio of plastic-body minivans to its truck lineup. GM was
the only one of the Big Three that didn't lose ground
year-to-year in the truck market.
   Ford Motor Co. attributed its relatively weak sales to big
incentives that boosted sales a year ago. In the most-recent
10-day period, Ford's U.S. car sales dropped 20.7%, while
truck sales declined 9.3%.
   Company officials have said the introduction of the 1991
Escort subcompact car later this month will help sales;
Escort has been one of Ford's best-selling cars.
   Despite the lower truck sales, a Ford spokesman said the
company is pleased with customer reaction to its Explorer
sport utility vehicle. Ford has sold almost 15,000 of the
Bronco II replacements since they made their debut in
mid-March, the spokesman said.
   Sales at Chrysler Corp. continued to plummet. The auto
maker's domestic car sales declined 29.2%, while sales of
light trucks, which include Chrysler's minivans, dropped
24.9%.
   Meanwhile, five of the Japanese auto makers that build
cars in the U.S. reaped gains from plant capacity brought on
line since last year. Toyota Motor Corp. nearly doubled its
sales of domestically produced cars, while Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. nearly tripled its sales.
   Honda Motor Corp. registered a 17% gain. Fuji Heavy
Industries, which markets Subaru vehicles, and Isuzu Motors
Ltd. only recently began reporting sales of the cars and
trucks produced at their joint venture plant in Lafayette,
Ind.
   The total for sales of all vehicles reported for early
April, including imported vehicles sold by the U.S. Big
Three, was 270,386, down 11.9% from a year ago.
   ---
                    INTERIM AUTO SALES
                                                                                                       

          RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                              1990       1989         x-%
                            Apr. 1-10  Apr. 1-10      Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM total vehicles .......   122,069    134,095    -  9.0
   Domestic car ..........    74,400     86,110    - 13.6
   Imported car ..........     4,345      5,413    - 19.7
   Total car .............    78,745     91,523    - 14.0
 Domestic truck ..........    43,298     42,350    +  2.2
 Imported truck ..........        26        222    - 88.3
   Total truck ...........    43,324     42,572    +  1.8
                                                                                                       

 FORD total vehicles .....    86,621    103,977    - 16.7
   Domestic car ..........    50,116     63,165    - 20.7
   Imported car ..........     1,644      2,364    - 30.5
     Total car ...........    51,760     65,529    - 21.0
 Domestic truck ..........    34,861     38,448    -  9.3
                                                                                                       

 CHRYSLER total veh.......    37,660     52,672    - 28.5
   Domestic car ..........    18,007     25,439    - 29.2
   Imported car ..........     1,208      2,493    - 51.5
     Total car ...........    19,215     27,932    - 31.2
   Domestic truck ........    17,974     23,938    - 24.9
   Imported truck ........       471        802    - 41.3
     Total truck .........    18,445     24,740    - 25.4
                                                                                                       

 HONDA domestic car ......     9,455      8,082    + 17.0

 TOYOTA domestic car......     5,379      2,700    + 99.2
                                                                                                       

 NISSAN total vehicles....     4,257      4,015    +  6.0
   Domestic car ..........     1,526      1,624    -  6.0
   Domestic truck ........     2,731      2,391    + 14.2
                                                                                                       

 MAZDA domestic car ......     3,139        977    +221.3
                                                                                                       

 MITSUBISHI-c ............     1,485        511    +190.6
                                                                                                       

 SUBARU domestic car .....        78          0         d
                                                                                                       

 ISUZU domestic truck ....       243          0         d
                                                                                                       

 Total cars ..............   170,782    198,878    - 14.1
   Domestic ..............   163,585    188,608    - 13.3
   Imported ..............     7,197     10,270    - 29.9
 Total trucks ............    99,604    108,151    -  7.9
   Domestic ..............    99,107    107,127    -  7.5
   Imported ..............       497      1,024    - 51.5
                                                                                                       

 Total domestic veh ......   262,692    295,735    - 11.2
                                                                                                       

 Total vehicles ..........   270,386    307,029    - 11.9
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   d-Percent change greater than 999%.
   x-There were 8 selling days in the most recent period and
8 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily sales
rate rather than sales volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0183
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0183.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Announces
   New Base Prices
   On Some Models
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Ford Motor Co. said base prices for its 1991
Mercury Tracer will range from $8,969 for the least expensive
model to $11,219 for its new LTS model.
   Ford also raised prices by an average of 2%, or $354, on
the 1991 Ford LTD Crown Victoria and an average of 1.9%, or
$353, on Mercury Grand Marquis cars. The price increases
apply to full-sized sedans and station-wagon models.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford raised base prices on its Tracer station wagon by
1.5%, or $148, to $9,990. The base price of the 1991 two-door
Tracer is down $389, or 4.2%, from the price of the 1989
Tracer; the 1991 model, however, lacks four features that
were included as standard on the 1989 model.
   Ford said it eliminated power steering, window defrosters,
intermittent windshield wipers, and remote-controlled side
mirrors in order to make the model more affordable to
entry-level buyers. Consumers may purchase these features as
options; they would cost a total of roughly $548 if purchased
separately.
   Ford didn't produce any 1990 model-year Tracers. Last
fall, Ford closed the Hermosillo, Mexico, factory where it
assembles Tracers and didn't reopen it until January, after
preparations for building the 1991 models were completed. The
new Tracer LTS model is based on Mazda Motor Corp's. new 323
model.
   The Tracer price boost follows price increases averaging
nearly 7%, or $577, that Ford tagged last month on its 1990
base model Escorts, which also are engineered by Mazda. Last
month, Ford raised prices of selected options on all cars
except Escort and Festiva by an average of $29.
   Base prices for the 1991 Crown Victoria will range from
$16,984 for the S four-door sedan, to $19,024 for the Country
Squire LX Wagon. Grand Marquis base prices will range from
$18,138 for the GS four-door sedan, to $19,429 for the Colony
Park LS station wagon.
   Yesterday's price increases on the full-sized cars follow
boosts last fall that averaged 6% on the 1990 Crown Victoria
and 6.2% on the 1990 Grand Marquis models. The 1991 models go
on sale May 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0182
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0182.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Single-Vendor Policy
   Works Best in Yosemite
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
</GV>
<LP>
   Your March 27 page-one story on Yosemite Park &amp; Curry Co.
and its parent, MCA, harped on an unfair and false theme that
Curry somehow acts improperly by making a profit in Yosemite.
It does not.
   Curry is the only major company in Yosemite because
Congress created and has endorsed repeatedly the concession
system in the national parks, which provides for a major
concessionaire in each national park. Congress adopted this
plan because it found that both the public and the protection
of the park are better served by one carefully regulated
concessionaire than by a hodgepodge of competing vendors.
Each price charged, all products and services, the hours of
operation and the level of service are all specifically
authorized and regulated by the National Park Service. Even
minor changes in construction or operations must be approved.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The financial arrangements between the government and
Curry are governed by the system created by Congress. This
law also provides that service to the visitor and protection
of the resource are more important than the return of fees to
the government. The company has agreed to increase its
building-use fees and currently is negotiating an increased
franchise fee.
   In short, Curry is in the park as a contractor to the Park
Service to provide those services the Park Service determines
are in the public interest, in an environmentally sound
manner, and at totally regulated prices.
   Thus, the underlying theme of your story that there is
something untoward about making a profit under that detailed
system set up by Congress and administered by the Park
Service is extremely unfair.
   Curry did not, as you state, urge its visitors to vote for
expansion of facilities; it suggested they participate in the
planning process as others were doing. The company's position
has always been that the overnight-visitor level should
remain unchanged. We did not ask for more hotel rooms.
   The movie rental and barber shop you describe in
pejorative terms are authorized by the NPS and are primarily
for the benefit of employees, who otherwise might have to
drive 100-mile round trips on twisting, mountain roads for
these services.
   Yosemite Park &amp; Curry Co. shares Superintendent Mike
Finley's concern for increased funding to protect the park
and reduce the crowding on the few days it does occur. We
have carried out a wide range of environmental and
interpretive programs not required by our contract to assist
and supplement the park's services in these efforts. We look
forward to continuing to serve the public and protect the
park as we have in the past.
   Edward C. Hardy
   President
   Yosemite Park &amp; Curry Co.
   Yosemite National Park, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0181
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0181.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Farr Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FARC
</CO>
<LP>
   FARR Co. (El Segundo, Calif.) -- Richard P. Bermingham,
president and chief executive officer of Collins Foods
International Inc., was elected a director. He succeeds James
V. Crawford, who will retire from the board next month. Farr
produces filters for particulates and liquid and gaseous
filtration systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Sundstrand Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SNS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUNDSTRAND Corp. said shareholders at the annual meeting
approved tripling to 150 million shares the Rockford, Ill.,
company's authorized common stock, which clears the way for a
previously announced 2-for-1 stock split. The aerospace parts
maker's directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of 27.5
cents a post-split share. The split and the dividend are both
payable June 20 to stock of record June 6.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Finnish Inflation Eases
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   HELSINKI -- Finland's inflation rate fell to 6.5% in March
from 7.4% in February and was down from 6.6% a year earlier,
the Central Statistical Office said.
   The principal reason for the easing in the consumer price
index was a slower rise in home prices, the statistical
office said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   House prices went up 10.7% in March, against more than 13%
earlier this year and in 1989, the office said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cabot Buys AO Safety
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   CBT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WALTHAM, Mass. -- Cabot Corp. said it completed its
previously announced purchase of AO Safety, a safety products
division of American Optical Corp. Terms weren't disclosed.
   AO Safety and American Optical are in Southbridge, Mass.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cabot, a Waltham specialty chemicals concern, said it
plans to merge AO Safety with its E-A-R noise control and
hearing protection business in a subsidiary, Cabot Safety
Corp. Cabot said it expects annual revenue from the combined
businesses to approach $200 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   RCM Technologies Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS RCMT
</CO>
<LP>
   RCM TECHNOLOGIES Inc. (Los Angeles) -- Sylvan E. Leinwand,
a consultant, was appointed a director of this provider of
engineering and technical services. He succeeds William
Acton, who resigned from the board in January. Mr. Acton had
also resigned as president, chief operating officer and chief
financial officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NEC's U.S. Unit Cuts Staff
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NIPNY
</CO>
<LP>
   BOXBOROUGH, Mass. -- NEC Technologies Inc., a subsidiary
of Tokyo-based NEC Corp., said it dismissed 250 employees
here and in Wood Dale, Ill., or about 12% of the work force,
reflecting economies achieved in the wake of the merger last
November of two NEC units to form NEC Technologies. The
company markets laptop and desktop computers, printers,
monitors, video games, and audio-visual electronic products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Suntrust Banks Inc.'s
   Williams Named Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS STI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- SunTrust Banks Inc. said James B. Williams,
56-year-old vice chairman of the regional banking company,
was elected president and chief executive officer, and Joel
R. Wells Jr., 61, president, was elected chairman.
   The actions, taken yesterday at the company's annual
meeting, were first recommended in February, when Robert
Strickland, chairman and chief executive, announced his plans
to retire in 1992. Mr. Strickland, 62, remains the board's
executive committee chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said L. Phillip Humann, 44, previously
executive vice president, was named senior executive vice
president, banking, a new post.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Intergroup Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PPA+ NII
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- National Intergroup Inc. said it has
withdrawn its proposal to buy the units outstanding of
Permian Partners Limited Partnership it doesn't already own.
   National Intergroup said independent directors of the
partnership advised the company that they couldn't recommend
the offer. The company had offered $4 a unit. A subsidiary of
National Intergroup is the general partner of Permian
Partners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Intergroup owns a 44.7% interest in Permian
Partners, a limited partnership involved in oil and gas
gathering and marketing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Members Service Corp.'s Plans
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MSCX KVU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Members Service Corp., which has interests in
telecommunications and entered the energy business last year,
said it plans to buy $250 million of oil and gas properties
in the next three years.
   A spokesman said Members Service wants to acquire only
producing oil and gas wells.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Members Service also said it began talks with two
companies that hold 45% of the shares outstanding of Kleer-Vu
Industries Inc., a Brownsville, Tenn., consumer products
concern. In January, Members Service said it discontinued
merger talks with Kleer-Vu.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OECD Inflation Rate Slows
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- A drop in energy prices and slower growth in food
costs contributed to a decline in the monthly pace of
consumer price growth in February for the 24 member nations
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
   The organization said consumer prices rose 0.6% in
February, compared with a rise of 0.8% in January. But for
the 12 months through February, OECD consumer prices rose
6.4%, higher than the 6.2% annual rate recorded in January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The OECD said a 0.2% decline in energy prices contributed
to the slower February rise, after energy prices grew 1.9% on
average in January. Food prices in February rose 0.9% from
January, about half the rise reported in the previous month.
Excluding food and energy prices, the underlying rate of
inflation in the OECD rose 0.5% in February from January,
compared with 0.3% in January from December.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Polaris 1990 Earnings Estimate
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   SNO
</CO>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Polaris Industries Limited Partnership said
it expects to generate 1990 net income of $31 million,
compared with $26.2 million for 1989.
   The snowmobile maker didn't estimate per-share net income.
Net income for 1989 was equal to $3.24 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Polaris said it expects to generate sales for 1990 of $275
million, compared with $242.6 million for 1989.
   The company said snowmobile inventory is at very low
levels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korean Investment
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   SEOUL -- South Korean corporate investment overseas surged
in the first quarter to $383 million on an approval basis,
the Bank of Korea said.
   The central bank said the tally involved 125 equity
projects.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials said South Korean companies have been
increasingly moving operations to low-wage countries in a bid
to boost export competitiveness weakened by increased wage
and other domestic production costs, while seeking better
market access to industrialized countries.
   By region, North America, mostly the U.S., attracted $164
million for 30 projects, almost 10 times the year-ago level.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philippines Is Failing on Targets
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANILA -- The Philippines is failing to meet fiscal
targets prescribed by the International Monetary Fund
covering the government sector in exchange for new loans,
Finance Secretary Jesus Estanislao said.
   The official said the national government deficit for 1990
is heading toward 24 billion pesos, ($1.08 billion) wider
than the target of 17 billion pesos.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consolidated government sector deficit, originally set at
33.4 billion pesos, is moving toward 55.2 billion pesos,
while government sector borrowing has exceeded the ceiling of
28.4 billion pesos and is approaching 43.4 billion pesos.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Centurion Sets Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   KEYC SOBK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Key Centurion Bancshares Inc. said it
agreed to acquire Southern Bankshares Inc., Beckley, W.Va,
for $60.06 a share, or $36 million.
   Southern Bankshares, with $300 million in assets, operates
Beckley National Bank and Merchants &amp; Miners National Bank.
Key Centurion Bancshares is West Virginia's largest bank
holding company with $2.4 billion in assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition is subject to approval by Southern
Bankshares holders and regulatory agencies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Economic Expansion
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The Japanese economy continues to expand on
strong corporate fixed investment and private consumption
expenditures, despite the recent instability in the markets,
the Bank of Japan said.
   In its monthly Review of Monetary and Economic Trends, the
central bank said fixed investment by both manufacturers and
non-manufacturers continues to be strong while private
consumption, boosted by rising disposable income, remains
firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report comes amid fears that the roughly 27% fall of
the Tokyo stock market since January, together with the yen's
weakness, higher oil prices and higher interest rates, will
have a large, negative impact on the Japanese economy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   B.F. Goodrich Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GR
</CO>
<LP>
   B.F. GOODRICH Co. (Akron, Ohio) -- David L. Burner,
president of BFGoodrich Aerospace, will assume the additional
post of senior vice president of this plastics, specialty
chemical and aerospace products concern. William L. Wallace,
executive vice president and chief operating officer of
Dofasco Inc., was elected a director, which keeps the
membership at 13.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Sony Selects Site
   To Make TV Tubes
   In U.S. Expansion
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE G.VOW
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Sony Corp. said its decision to produce
television picture tubes in New Stanton, Pa., is the first
step in plans to invest between $500 million and $1 billion
in the U.S. in the next few years.
   The Japanese electronics concern plans to spend $300
million retooling an idled Volkswagen AG plant to produce one
million television tubes annually for its large-screen
Trinitron sets sold in the U.S. and in export markets. The
plant will have 1,000 employees within three years after
production begins in 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sony said part of the additional investment will be
targeted for its television manufacturing plant in San Diego.
That plant will use more computerized manufacturing, moving
more of the labor-intensive work to facilities in Mexico,
Sony officials said.
   Though Sony also was expected to announce plans to
assemble television sets in New Stanton, company officials
said yesterday that a decision hasn't been made on that
issue. They said the company is still considering several
locations, including the former Volkswagen plant. Sony
officials met this week with Kentucky officials to assure
them that that state was still being considered for the
television assembly plant.
   Eventually, the site chosen for television assembly could
be home to Sony's first U.S. production of high-definition
television sets. Neil Vander Dussen, president of Sony Corp.
of America, said Sony is awaiting federal government
guidelines on the new technology, expected to be released in
1991, before deciding where to locate U.S. production.
   In winning over Sony for its television picture-tube
plant, Pennsylvania competed with several other states,
including Kentucky and Ohio. The Pennsylvania incentive
package promises about $23.5 million in low-interest loans
for renovations and job training grants, among other things.
Kentucky apparently offered a hefty package valued at between
$30 million and $40 million, including free land and funds
for infrastructure improvements and training workers.
   But Sony officials said they favored the New Stanton site
over others because of its proximity to interstate highways
and the availability of skilled workers.
   Moreover, Pennsylvania agreed to waive a $40 million
mortgage owed by Volkswagen in exchange for ownership of the
West German auto maker's plant and 1,200-acre site. Sony will
pay about $21 million in lease payments for about 800 acres
of the property.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Northern Trust Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NTRS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORTHERN TRUST Corp. (Chicago) -- David W. Fox, president
and chief executive officer, was also elected chairman of
this bank holding company. Mr. Fox, 58 years old, succeeds
Weston Christopherson, 64, who had announced in December his
intention to retire. His retirement decreases the number of
directors by one, to 14. The company also said that Robert F.
Reusche, the 62-year-old vice chairman and head of trust and
financial services, will retire June 30. Those operations
will report directly to the chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Consumer Prices Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French consumer prices in March rose a
provisional 0.3% from February and 3.4% from a year earlier,
the National Statistics Institute said.
   The result is at the high end of Paris market economists'
forecasts of a 0.2% to 0.3% rise, and represents a moderate
acceleration of France's monthly price growth, which was 0.2%
in February. The March figure, though, leaves year-to-year
price growth unchanged since the beginning of the year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the provisional March result is confirmed when the
institute publishes its definitive data on April 27, this
would put the index -- the year 1980 equals 100 -- at 181.6
or 181.7, up from 181.1 in February and 175.7 in March 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Peerless Oil Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   OLN GD MD
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Peerless Oil &amp; Chemicals Inc. was given a
$60 million Defense Logistics Agency contract for jet fuel.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Dynamics Corp. received a $27.1 million Air Force
contract for F-16 aircraft engineering services.
                                                                                                       

   McDonnell Douglas Corp. got a $22.6 million Army contract
for helicopter support.
                                                                                                       

   Olin Defense Systems Group, a unit of Olin Corp., received
a $13.4 million Army contract for operation of an ammunition
plant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Meredith to Sell Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DES MOINES, Iowa -- Meredith Corp. said that it agreed in
principle to sell its MMT Sales Inc. unit to a management
group.
   The publishing and broadcasting concern said terms are
being negotiated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MMT is a New York-based advertising sales concern that
represents 30 television stations, including Meredith-owned
stations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Louisiana-Pacific Profit Falls
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LPX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PORTLAND, Ore. -- Louisiana-Pacific Corp. said a
construction slowdown and poor weather in its Southern
operating regions drove down first-quarter profit about 10%
to $35.8 million, or 95 cents a share. The forest-products
concern earned $39.9 million, or $1.05 a share, in the
year-earlier period. Revenue grew about 2% to $474.8 million
from $467 million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Louisiana-Pacific closed at $42.875, down 75 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong's Jobless Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Hong Kong's jobless rate for the three months
through February edged up to 1.5% from 1.2% a year earlier
and 1.3% in the preceding three months.
   The number of unemployed people was estimated at 17,500,
up slightly from 17,200 a year ago, but down from 22,000 in
the three months through November.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The underemployment rate in the latest period was 0.6%,
unchanged from a year earlier and off from 0.8% in the
preceding three months. Underemployed people are those who
work fewer than 35 hours a week and are available for more
work.
   The provisional unemployment rate for the first quarter
was 1.6%, and the provisional underemployment level was 0.7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Telxon Buys Debentures
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   TLXN
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- Telxon Corp. said it completed the purchase
of $10 million of its 7.5% convertible subordinated
debentures, due 2012.
   The purchase represents about 22% of the issue
outstanding, leaving about $36 million outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Telxon makes hand-held computers and computer systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sweden's Tax Overhaul Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- The Swedish government said domestic
households' disposable income would increase 2% next year,
under the final version of the tax overhaul proposal it
unveiled Tuesday.
   The Social Democratic minority government also proposed in
the document to allow companies to deduct 65% of the value of
their stock in foreign units. The revisions, which aim to cut
and simplify taxes while broadening the tax base over a
two-year period, reduce the top marginal tax to 50% from
80.2%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   State tax will be canceled on wages of up to 180,000
kronor ($29,502), and those wage earners will pay only city
or local council tax of about 30%. About 85% of all taxpayers
will pay only the local tax.
   The 76 billion-krona ($12.46 billion) overhaul is
guaranteed passage by the Riksdag, Sweden's parliament,
despite the goverment's lack of majority after its deal with
the opposition Liberal Party last week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.K. Retail Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- U.K. retail sales volume during March dropped
0.8% from February and rose 1.3% from a year earlier, 11
economists surveyed by AP-Dow Jones forecast on average.
   In February, sales volume grew 2.2% from January and 2.5%
from a year earlier, based on final government data. The
March figures are to be released today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Steel Output in 35 Nations
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Output of crude steel by companies in 35
nations, including the U.S., Japan and West European
countries, fell 1.5% in March to 41.8 million metric tons
from 42.4 million tons a year earlier, the International Iron
and Steel Institute said.
   A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds. The U.S.
led the decline in production, with output falling 4% to 7.8
million metric tons. This decline and a 5.9% drop in steel
production in 21 other countries offset a rise in European
Community nations and Japan; EC output rose 2.4% to 12.6
million metric tons, and Japanese production increased 2% to
9.2 million tons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first quarter, steel output of the 35 nations
eased 2.5% to 119.7 million metric tons from 122.9 million
tons a year earlier. The countries included in the steel
institute's monthly survey accounted for 61.6% of world steel
production in 1989 and for 97.2% of world output, excluding
the Soviet Union and other East European countries, China and
North Korea.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonald's to Buy Building Materials,
   Equipment Made From Recycled Plastic
   ----
   By Bill Paul
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MCD
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   McDonald's Corp. said it will give preference to goods
made of recycled material when building, remodeling or
re-equipping its U.S. fast-food restaurants, a move that
could provide a big boost for plastics recycling.
   McDonald's already gives preference to a number of
recycled paper products, including napkins and drink
containers. Its new program -- dubbed "McRecycle USA" -- will
also give preference primarily to items that can be made in
whole or in part from recycled plastic. Among them:
construction lumber, ceiling and floor tile, restaurant seats
and table tops and playground equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "McDonald's is acting where other people are only talking.
They've put a lot of pressure on us for quick delivery," said
Michael Dahl, general manager of Eaglebrook Plastics Inc.,
the Chicago-based manufacturer of Durawood, a wood substitute
made of 100% recycled high-density polyethylene.
   The potential demand for recycled plastics "ought to make
communities more willing to include plastic in curbside
recycling programs," said Dennis Saborin, vice president of
plastics-recycler Wellman Inc., explaining that many
municipalities shy away from plastic because it's bulky.
Indeed, only about one million of the 10 million or so U.S.
households covered by a curbside program presently have the
option of recycling plastic, according to Resource Recycling,
a trade publication.
   Moreover, said Mr. Saborin, those towns that do include
plastic generally limit collections to soda bottles and milk
jugs, whereas the McDonald's program will encourage recycling
of all sorts of plastic containers and articles.
   McDonald's pledged to spend $100 million this year on
recycled construction supplies and equipment, compared with
$5 million to $6 million last year. But Shelby Yastrow,
senior vice president and director of environmental affairs
for McDonald's, said that to reach that goal, McDonald's may
first have to encourage development of a manufacturing base
for construction and remodeling goods that use recycled
material. "McDonald's is talking about having things made
that have not been made before," said Mr. Saborin.
   To spur manufacturer interest, Mr. Yastrow said McDonald's
will have a 24-hour 800-number that manufacturers can call
for specifications and other information. In addition, Mr.
Yastrow said McDonald's will fight to change local building
codes wherever such codes effectively prohibit using
construction materials that contain recycled material.
   Mr. Yastrow said McDonald's plans to open about 370
restaurants in the U.S. this year, while remodeling an
additional 1,000 outlets. Eventually, Mr. Yastrow added, the
new recycling program will be expanded to include McDonald's
units abroad.
   In an interview, Mr. Yastrow also said that McDonald's has
other environmental plans in the works. He denied that the
company's concern about the environment in any way springs
from efforts by several communities to ban McDonald's
polystyrene packaging because it won't decompose in
landfills.
   Mr. Yastrow indicated that future plans might include
having McDonald's spur the use of water-saving devices,
energy-efficient light bulbs, and even backyard compost
shredders. "If I can use the muscle of McDonald's, I will,"
he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Epilepsy Drug
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CIG
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your March 1 article "FDA Asks Firms to Change Epilepsy
Drug's Packaging" cited Tegretol, the brand name of
Ciba-Geigy, and carbamazepine, sold as the generic, as losing
one-third of their effectiveness if stored in humid
conditions. We at the Epilepsy Institute in New York received
hundreds of phone calls after the article appeared.
   In order to advise people with epilepsy correctly on this
issue, we contacted the FDA, only to learn that the degree of
humidity and length of time were not available. Thank you for
making this information available to your readership.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reina Berner
   Executive Director
   Epilepsy Institute
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manufacturers National Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MNTL
</CO>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Manufacturers National Corp. said it has taken
a pretax charge of $6 million in the first quarter of 1990
for estimated expenses associated with the consolidation of
its Illinois banks.
   The bank-holding company said it expects first-quarter
earnings will fall compared with a year ago as a result of
the charge, but the company didn't provide further details.
For the first quarter of 1989, Manufacturers National
reported net income of $24.8 million, or $1.64 a share. The
company said it will announce on Friday earnings for the
quarter ended March 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Illinois banks that are to be consolidated are
subsidiaries of Affiliated Banc Group, Inc., which
Manufacturers National acquired in 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Newport Pharmaceuticals Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NWPH
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAGUNA HILLS, Calif. -- Newport Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. said it completed an exchange offer that
will result in a noncash charge of about $1.3 million in the
second quarter.
   Newport said about $6.5 million face amount of its 10%
senior secured convertible notes due 2002 were tendered in
response to the offer, representing more than 72% of the
notes outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American General Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AGC
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- American General Corp. said its American
General Finance Corp. plans to redeem all 625 of its
auction-market preferred shares, Series A, on June 6, for
$100,000 a share plus accrued dividends.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Stock Exchange
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (New York) -- Joel L. Lovett,
president and director of Jacee Securities Inc., was elected
to a three-year term as vice chairman of the exchange's board
of governors. Mr. Lovett, 51 years old, succeeds Jeffrey B.
Lane, 47, president of Primerica Holdings Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Baton Broadcasting Sues
   Thomson's Globe &amp; Mail
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.BNB T.TOC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Baton Broadcasting Inc. launched a lawsuit
against Canada's national newspaper, the Globe &amp; Mail, and
one of its reviewers over a negative article about a
television movie. The Globe &amp; Mail is owned by Thomson Corp.,
a Toronto-based publishing, printing and travel conglomerate.
   Baton, which financed the movie, is seeking 8 million
Canadian dollars (US$6.8 million) in damages, including C$1
million in special damages for loss of business, and C$1
million in aggravated and punitive damages.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Baton alleges in a statement of claim filed with the
Supreme Court of Ontario that Globe &amp; Mail reviewer John
Haslett Cuff intended to leave readers with the impression
that Baton financed the film "for dishonourable motives," and
that the broadcasting concern "lacked talent, intelligence
and skill in the production of television programs."
   Baton said in the statement of claim that because of the
article, it has "suffered injury to its character, credit and
reputation and damage to its trade and business." It said it
has lost the chance to sell the film for future distribution.
   The television movie, concerning the life of a
nineteenth-century Mohawk Indian leader, Joseph Brant, aired
on Canadian television Feb. 13. The article by Mr. Haslett
Cuff appeared Feb. 10, under the headline "Banal `epic' a
costly disappointment."
   Neither Mr. Haslett Cuff nor officials of the Globe &amp; Mail
could be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Customs Service
   Puts Its Foot Down
   On Move by Nike
   ---
   Ruling Would Deny Effort
   By Athletic Shoemaker
   To Lower Import Costs
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   NIKE RBK
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A ruling prepared by the U.S. Customs
Service denies Nike Inc.'s bid to lower customs fees totaling
millions of dollars a year on its highflying Air Jordan shoe
and related synthetic-leather athletic footwear.
   The fight has been closely watched by major competitors as
well as senators aligned with what remains of the domestic
footwear industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Marketed behind the name of Chicago Bulls basketball star
Michael Jordan, the high-priced Nike shoe, imported mostly
from Taiwan and South Korea, is one of the company's most
popular models.
   A Customs spokesman insisted yesterday that the case is
"pre-decisional." But soon afterward, Sen. Bob Packwood's
office released a copy of the ruling, which had been
forwarded by Commissioner Carol Hallett in a personal letter
to the Oregon lawmaker. The unusual process underscored the
senator's already high profile in the case. Mr. Packwood, the
ranking Republican on the Finance Committee, had lobbied
intensely on behalf of Nike, an Oregon-based company, in a
meeting last month with Customs lawyers and Commissioner
Hallett, and in a letter to Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady.
   Nike, which learned of the ruling through Sen. Packwood's
office, has yet to be given the final ruling, according to
Customs, but the company is expected to file an appeal with
the U.S. Court of International Trade. The decision could
require Nike to pay back duties of about $4.5 million on
shoes imported at lower rates, according to company
officials. Nike's Washington counsel estimated the total fees
at stake at $8 million to $9 million.
   In designing the new synthetic-leather version of Air
Jordan, Nike had assumed it could lower its customs fees to
6%, but the ruling imposes a zone defense and 20% duty -- or
more than double the cost charged on earlier leather models.
The added expense for Nike amounts to $2.50 to $3 per pair of
shoes, but when multiplied by wholesale and retail markups,
the added cost of the consumer could be $10 on a pair of $125
Air Jordan shoes.
   Avia, another Oregon-based importer, has a stake in the
case because of its investments in the same synthetic-leather
material, and the dispute illustrates the mix of new
technologies and old customs laws that influence the fierce
competition between athletic footwear companies. Opposition
to Nike came largely from the Rubber and Plastic Footwear
Manufacturers Association, headed by former Converse Inc.
Vice Chairman John O'Neill. Both Converse and New Balance
provided technical advice in preparing the associations'
arguments to Customs Service officials.
   The law at issue dates back to 1963, when Congress sought
to protect domestic manufacturers by imposing a higher 20%
tariff on shoes with a so-called foxing-like band. This is
essentially the strip of rubber that molds a sole to the
shoe's upper, but Nike argued that its new technology is
fundamentally different and not covered by the law.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   N.V. Philips
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PHG
</CO>
<LP>
   N.V. PHILIPS -- William A. Enser was appointed to the
newly created post of president of Philips Electronic
Instruments Co., a Mahwah, N.J., unit of this Dutch
electronics giant. Prior to Mr. Enser's appointment, the
operations of Philips Electronic were conducted by an
executive management committee, of which Mr. Enser, 45 years
old, was chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California Tops FDIC List
   Of Risky Real Estate Areas
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- California leads a list of potentially risky
real estate markets identified by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. as part of its effort to help lenders and
regulators sidestep future trouble spots.
   The ranking of 40 real estate markets represents the
FDIC's first attempt to identify areas where office vacancy
rates and construction rates are rising, while office
employment is declining.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Six California cities fell within the top 25 markets with
higher-than-average vacancy and construction rates and
lower-than-average employment rates. Anaheim was ranked third
overall, and Sacramento was 24th on the list. In between were
San Jose, Los Angeles, Riverside and San Diego.
   At the top of the FDIC's list were Phoenix, Ariz., and
Nashville, Tenn. Houston is ranked at the bottom of the list,
indicating few office construction starts, a declining
vacancy rate and growth in office employment.
   FDIC Chairman William Seidman, who released the study here
yesterday, cautioned that a market's ranking doesn't signify
it is headed for a real estate crash.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Sell
   $16.4 Billion of Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to pay down about $9.25
billion on the federal debt with the sale Monday of about
$16.4 billion in short-term bills. Maturing bills outstanding
total $25.64 billion.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills, which will be dated April 26 and will mature
on July 26 and Oct. 25, respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Citicorp
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CCI
</CO>
<LP>
   CITICORP (New York) -- Rozanne L. Ridgway, president of
the Atlantic Council of the U.S. and former assistant
secretary of state for European and Canadian affairs, was
elected to the board of this bank holding company. Board
membership stands at 22.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicare Payments to Rise
   9.9% Under HHS Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Department of Health and Human Services
recommended a 9.9% increase in payments to doctors under the
Medicare program in fiscal 1991.
   Pointing out that Medicare physician payments have risen
12% annually in recent years, HHS Secretary Louis Sullivan
called a target increase of 9.9% in the fiscal year starting
Oct. 1, "a realistic goal for physicians, one consistent with
both the prudent practice of medicine and the necessary
restraint on cost increases."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year, Congress passed a law that will overhaul how
doctors are paid under Medicare and, health policy makers
hope, slow the rise in payments. The recommended 9.9%
increase, called a "volume performance standard," is the
administration's calculation of how much the payments to
physicians under Part B of Medicare should rise after taking
account of price increases, the growing number of Medicare
beneficiaries, traditional service volume per beneficiary,
and new technology.
   The recommendation, which must be considered by a
commission and by Congress, wouldn't necessarily hold the
rise in payments to doctors to 9.9% next fiscal year. The
restraint could work with a lag, either by slowing the rise
in fees doctors charge or by reducing the volume of service
they provide.
   In fiscal 1991, the department estimates that 33.4 million
beneficiaries will receive $44.75 billion in Medicare Part B
payments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pic `N' Save Sales Rise 62%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<LP>
   DOMINGUEZ, Calif. -- Pic `N' Save Corp., the target of a
potential takeover, said its sales for the two weeks before
Easter rose 62%, to $24 million, boosting year-to-date sales
to $102.9 million.
   Last year, in the 11 weeks ending April 15, the company
had sales of $84 million. Pic `N' Save buys manufacturers'
close-out merchandise and sells it at deep discounts through
189 retail stores.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A partnership controlled by David H. Batchelder, a former
strategist for T. Boone Pickens and an adviser to Marvin
Davis, disclosed Thursday that it holds a 6.6% stake in the
company and plans to make a bid to acquire it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   M/A-Com's MAC Unit Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MAI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURLINGTON, Mass. -- M/A-Com Inc. said it reached an
agreement to sell its MAC division to Microwave Radio Corp.
of Lowell, Mass., as part of a previously announced
restructuring program.
   Terms of the cash transaction weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The maker of semiconductors and parts used in
telecommunications, radar and electronic warfare said the
division, which makes radio communications systems, had
fiscal 1989 sales of about $19 million.
   The company said it expects to complete the sale by the
end of the month.
   Microwave Radio makes portable microwave radios for
electronic news gathering.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Immigrants:
   Flood of Soviet Jews
   To Israel Could Beget
   Big Changes in Nation
   ---
   Newcomers Bring New Skills,
   And a Nationalist Outlook
   That Bolsters Right Wing
   ---
   Wanted: Jobs for Thousands
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FREST LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   JERUSALEM -- Vladimir Shiliar stares at the boiled egg,
horseradish and shankbone on the plate in front of him. It is
the first time the 32-year-old has seen the symbolic foods by
which Jews everywhere celebrate Passover, the festival of
their liberation from the Pharoah's Egypt. In a thick Russian
accent, Mr. Shiliar struggles with the Hebrew recited at the
feast. "Last year we were slaves," he reads. "This year we
are free."
   Last year, Mr. Shiliar was in Leningrad, where his only
contact with his Jewish heritage was the designation "Jew"
inscribed on his identity papers. In February, he arrived in
Israel on one of the crowded night flights that are
disgorging fatigued and disoriented immigrants at a rate of
more than 200 a day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Israeli planners say that by summer, a million Soviet Jews
will have requested exit visas. Now that the U.S. no longer
views all Soviet Jews as political refugees, and has limited
the number it accepts, the vast majority are destined for
Israel. The numbers are stunning: Between 1980 and 1988, only
15,752 Jews arrived in Israel from the Soviet Union. But when
emigration rules were relaxed, the flood began. In the first
three months of this year more than 17,000 arrived. In a
single 24-hour period last week, 1,000 landed.
   Such a huge migration -- Israel's total population is just
4.4 million -- could change the face of the Jewish state.
"The future of Israel, perhaps all the future of the Zionist
ideal, depends on this," says Natan Sharansky, the former
Soviet dissident who now heads a lobby group for new
immigrants in Israel.
   A look at the Russians who have arrived so far suggests a
future Israel enriched by talent and technical skill,
confronted by economic challenges -- and moving dramatically
to the political right.
   The newcomers are suspicious of socialism and fearful of
the echoes of anti-Semitism they hear from Arabs opposed to
their immigration. Since they are immediately eligible to
vote, their ballots at the next election could well give
right-wing parties the edge they need to end Israel's
political equipoise.
   Their presence is already being felt. On most Fridays for
the past two years, Ruth Barkai, a kibbutz-born Israeli, has
donned black clothing as a symbol of mourning and stood in a
vigil protesting the occupation of the West Bank and Gaza
Strip. Her group, Women in Black, is accustomed to abuse from
Israelis opposed to their dovish stance. But she says she has
been disturbed lately by the number of Russians heckling her.
"Some of them can't even speak Hebrew yet," she says. "It
really bothers me that these people, who care so much about
human rights in the Soviet Union, seem to forget what a human
right is the minute they set foot in Israel."
   Leonid Kelbert explains why that might seem so. The
45-year-old has already voted once, in the December 1988
election soon after his arrival from Leningrad. He chose
Moledet, one of the small right-wing parties that advocates
expelling Arabs from Israeli-occupied lands. "I wanted this
option to be part of the political reality, to put pressure
on the Arabs as they apply pressure to us," Mr. Kelbert says.
He was an award-winning documentary maker in the Soviet
Union, but he once was jailed there for 15 days on an assault
charge that he says was trumped up because he was staging
plays on Jewish themes. He contends "Arab petrodollars"
subsidize anti-Semitic groups in the U.S.S.R.
   Among Russian immigrants to Israel, the Israeli Labor
Party leader, Shimon Peres, "is absolutely unpopular," Mr.
Kelbert says. "Russians have experience of real socialism.
They know its dishonest games. For someone from the West, my
approach seems a little bit hard and quite unattractive, but
someone from my background has no illusions about the world,
about Arabs. That's why we don't support Peres, who would
sell this country for two extra American smiles."
   Labor supporters aren't particularly worried about such
comments, saying most of the new immigrants aren't
ideologues. "They're urban, middle-class people, many of whom
would probably have gone to America," says Shlomo Avineri, a
political scientist at Hebrew University. A study a few years
ago showed that Soviet Jews who arrived with distinctly
rightist views had changed within two or three years to
mirror the voting pattern of Israel as a whole. "There's a
process of socialization," Mr. Avineri says.
   For now, however, many newcomers are expressing opinions
that echo Mr. Kelbert's. "This land wasn't a gift from anyone
-- we've been through war to get it," says Alex Rabin, a
24-year-old engineering student in Haifa who arrived a year
ago. "There are Arabs living in Haifa, so why can't I settle
on the West Bank?"
   Kira Netdov, 36, and her brother Misha, 29, already have.
The two decided to leave the Soviet Union about a year ago,
and they arrived last month. "We had no good information
about Israel, not a single word," says Ms. Netdov. "All we
ever saw on television was shootings, killings, West Bank,
Gaza, Gaza, West Bank." Inclined to distrust the Soviet
media, and hearing positive reports from returning tourists,
the Netdovs came anyway.
   Now, stirring cabbage in his bare apartment in the West
Bank town of Ariel, where he and his sister joined some 60
families newly arrived from the Soviet Union, Misha Netdov
stumbles over an unfamiliar English word. "Obstacles," chimes
in Kira, whose English is better. "We have learned from the
media that we are `obstacles to peace,'" she says, quoting
the official U.S. view of Israeli settlements in the occupied
lands. "But why?" She gestures out the window to the stony
hillsides. "There are empty mountains all around us here, and
this mountain was empty before the Jews came. Where are the
Arab houses, the villages that we are crowding out? Where is
the problem?"
   To Samir Qumsieh, a Palestinian deportee, the problem is
all too clear. Mr. Qumsieh was 23 years old when he was
expelled from the West Bank and forced to walk nine hours
across the desert into Jordan. Now a successful businessman
in Kuwait, he hasn't seen his home in 18 years. In February,
Mr. Qumsieh picked up a newspaper and found a picture of a
smiling Soviet family, happily moving into their new West
Bank apartment. "Believe me, I felt real pain about it," says
Mr. Qumsieh, who says he was deported after refusing to
provide information to Israeli security police. (Israel
declines to comment on individual security cases.) "Why
should they be able to settle there when I am banned from
even visiting the land of my birth?"
   Like most Palestinians, Mr. Qumsieh isn't much comforted
by the fact that, with the exception of suburbs built by
Israelis on annexed land in Arab East Jerusalem, few Soviet
Jews are choosing to settle in the occupied territories.
Although exact numbers aren't available, immigration
officials estimate that only about 1% of the newcomers have
so far moved to the outlying settlements. Most have
aspirations for professional employment that can only be
satisfied in large cities such as Tel Aviv, Jerusalem and
Haifa.
   Though the immigrants bring a wealth of talent -- almost a
quarter hold qualifications as engineers, scientists or
professionals -- many have skills too highly specialized to
fit easily into Israel's much smaller labor market. One new
arrival, Simon Jakubovitch, has two qualifications: as a
mining engineer and an ice-hockey teacher. Neither skill is
likely to be much use in Israel, which doesn't play ice
hockey and hasn't done much mining since King Solomon's day.
   Jews are permitted to leave the Soviet Union with little
cash and few belongings. Israeli government subsidies and
Jewish-community donations pay allowances for food and
housing, and the government also provides mortgages. But
finding the capital to start a business in Israel remains
extremely difficult.
   Mr. Shiliar, the Leningrad immigrant learning the words of
his first Passover, faces this problem. In the Soviet Union,
he worked as a fencing instructor. He would like to give
Israeli youngsters lessons in the foil and epee, "but it
costs much money to start such a school," he says with a
sigh.
   Leonid Kelbert's wife, Masha, a forensic biologist with 15
years' experience, soon realized she wouldn't find work in
her specialty -- analyzing traces of blood and tissue at
crime scenes. "We had 24 forensic biologists just for the
city of Leningrad," she says. "Here, there are only six for
all of Israel." Finally, she found a job doing lab work in
endocrinology. "On March 15, they fired me," she said. "It is
a typical new-immigrant problem: Because I was the last
hired, when cutbacks came I was the first fired."
   The Kelberts are determined to remain in Israel, whatever
the hardships, but many of their friends don't have the same
commitment. One, an academic and poet, is leaving with his
family for London to take up a position with the British
Broadcasting Corp. In Israel he had to eke out his income as
a building guard. Another friend, Yuri Vitenson, visiting the
Kelberts on the Jewish sabbath, is quick to ask an overseas
guest about opportunities for musicians abroad. The
51-year-old violinist was a professor at Tashkent
Conservatory of Music. In Israel four months, he is
discouraged about his prospects. Living at a center for new
immigrants some 30 miles out of Jerusalem, he also is
battling cultural isolation.
   Housing the new immigrants is a challenge the Israeli
government hasn't yet faced. Even though large numbers of
Soviet Jews began arriving a full year ago, by March the
government had yet to break ground on even one of its planned
new housing units. As a result, rents are soaring, with some
landlords asking tenants for increases of as much as 40%.
   Such rises are an intolerable burden to many Israelis
already struggling on low incomes. And, not surprisingly,
there is some discontent.
   Raanana, a coastal town near Tel Aviv, has housed 200
Soviet families, greeting newcomers at the airport, finding
them apartments and even providing a cake as a welcome to
their new home. But the mayor, Zeev Bielski, says some of the
poorer residents of the town complained, "saying you give
them cake, you give them a fridge, what about us?" So he has
started a program to channel funds to poorer residents as
well as to newcomers.
   At the Technion in Haifa, Gad Eilam, the dean of students,
wrestles with a similar quandary. As Israel's foremost
science and engineering school, the Technion expects to play
a key role in fitting the huge numbers of technically skilled
Soviets into the Israeli economy. But the institution needs
funds to build dormitories, add teaching positions and hire
the influx of gifted researchers. At the same time, the needs
of native-born Israelis can't be neglected. "When my son gets
out of the army in three years I don't want to have to look
him in the eye and say `Sorry, there's no place for you
because we gave it to a Soviet immigrant,'" says Mr. Eilam.
   Despite all the difficulties, many Soviets are finding
great pleasures in their new home. While an Israeli
department store isn't Bloomingdale's, it is a far cry from
the ill-stocked drabness of Soviet shopping. Anna Gurevich, a
23-year-old student, is both delighted and baffled by all the
consumer choices. "All these banks," she says, bemusedly
listing them: "Bank Hapoalim, Discount Bank, Bank Leumi --
how does anyone ever decide on one?"
   Many newcomers also are finding pleasure in exploring
their religious heritage. "The word `Jew' is like `pig' to
Russian ears -- they try not to pronounce it," says Mikail
Tuvin, a 33-year-old organic chemist. He grew up in Moscow
knowing nothing about his faith except that Jews "cut the
penises of their boys and in spring they bake matzoh" --
unleavened bread. Since coming to Israel, Mr. Tuvin has
studied in a yeshiva, or religious seminary.
   Like most Russian Jews, Mr. Tuvin wasn't circumcised as an
infant, as Jewish tradition demands. He had the operation
before he left Moscow, performed in the kitchen of a friend's
apartment by a heart surgeon who wore both a surgical gown
and a Jewish prayer garment.
   So many adult Soviets are asking to be circumcised that
one Jerusalem hospital performed 13 circumcisions on adults
and young boys on a recent day, as surgeons from all over
Israel gathered to learn the procedure. Religious specialists
circumcise infants, but the operation for adults is more
complicated, requiring a local anesthetic and stitches.
   For the newest arrivals, though, realities of adjusting to
the new life are lost in the joys of first setting foot on
Israeli soil. At Lod airport, in the pre-dawn gloom, another
load of immigrants is arriving. Fifty-three-year-old Ethel
Arakian steps from the plane and, weighed down by several
bags of belongings, makes her way through the crowd. "I
wanted to come here to be with all the Jews -- I feel like
kissing the ground," she says, her broad smile revealing a
row of gold-capped teeth. Two sons and a daughter already are
in Israel; two more hope to make the trip. "Russia," she
says, "will soon be empty."
   ---
                The Demographics of Change
                                                                                                       

        Increased Emigration from the Soviet Union
             Will Affect Israel's Composition
                                                                                                       

   Israel's 1988 population of 4.4 million people, by country
of origin and religious background, in percent
                                                                                                       

   Other European Jews                      17.9%
   African Jews                             17.7
   Native born Jews                         17.5
   Asian Jews                               16.8
   Moslem                                   14.2
   Soviet Jews                               6.5
   North and South American Jews             5.3
   Christian                                 2.3
   Druse and Other                           1.8
                                                                                                       

   Sources: Union of Councils for Soviet Jews, Israel Central
Bureau of Statistics
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wider Margins Help Three Big Thrifts
   Report Robust Earnings for 1st Quarter
   ----
   By G. Christian Hill
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AHM GWF GDW
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Three California thrift giants reported robust
first-quarter earnings driven by a healthy state housing
market and widening net interest margins, at a time when the
margins of most big commercial banks are declining.
   The margins of H.F. Ahmanson &amp; Co., Los Angeles; Great
Western Financial Corp., Beverly Hills; and Golden West
Financial Corp., Oakland, rose partly because of an improved
spread between deposit costs and the adjustable-rate mortgage
index used in California. The big thrifts clearly benefited
from less deposit and loan competition from desperate savings
and loan associations shut down by regulators since passage
of the thrift-rescue legislation in August 1989. This trend
is helping boost earnings of many of the approximately 1,500
thrifts that are well-capitalized and profitable, an
often-overlooked group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Great Western, for instance, reported that its net
interest margin -- the difference between its cost of funds
and its yield on assets -- jumped to 3.01% from 2.43% a year
ago, contributing to a $55.8 million rise in net interest
income. Golden West's margin rose to 2.51% from 2.32%, and
Ahmanson's rose to 2.68% from 2.41%.
   In contrast, Wells Fargo &amp; Co., a California competitor
and one of the best-run commercial banks in the U.S.,
yesterday reported that its net interest margin fell to 5.09%
from 5.23%, a typical performance for commercial banks,
mainly because deposit costs a year ago lagged behind
increases in the commercial banks' prime rate.
   The much-feared collapse in the California real-estate
market clearly has failed to materialize. Ahmanson's mortgage
originations jumped 12% to a first-quarter record of $3.4
billion, up from $3 billion in the 1989 first quarter. Great
Western generated $2.9 billion in new loans, down 19% from a
year ago but still robust. Golden West reported the biggest
decline in new loans, a 40% drop to $845 million.
   Each of the big thrifts reported sharp gains in deposits,
with Ahmanson showing a 12% gain from a year ago, Great
Western 9%, and Golden West 14%. Golden West's deposit growth
in the period was twice the rate recorded in the year-ago
period.
   "Our savings volume has benefited from the decreased
competition for funds from troubled thrifts no longer allowed
to grow by the regulators," said Herbert M. Sandler, Golden
West's chairman and chief executive officer.
   Golden West's provision for loan losses remained minuscule
at $3 million, compared with $3.3 million a year ago. Great
Western's $20 million provision was slightly below the
year-ago level. But Ahmanson's provision doubled in size to
$25.2 million, reflecting a $41 million increase in
non-performing assets since the end of 1989.
   Analysts expect the three thrifts to report full-year
earnings about 25% to 35% above their 1989 net income,
excluding asset write-downs. But their stocks continue to
trade at six to eight times expected 1990 earnings, compared
with an average multiple of nearly 15 for most stocks.
   "It's an outrage," said Mr. Sandler. "We've recorded a 20%
yearly compounded growth rate in earnings over the last 20
years. No other bank or S&amp;L comes close to that."
   "The stock prices are clearly discounting {expecting} an
earnings decline this year," said Joseph Jolson, a thrift
analyst for Montgomery Securities, San Francisco. "Investors
are focused on the California real-estate market and expect
home prices to decline. Sooner or later they'll wise up to
the fact that there has been a soft landing for California
home prices, and that there hasn't been the debacle everyone
has been talking about."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Ahmanson closed at $17.125, unchanged. Great Western rose
12.5 cents to $16.50 while Golden West closed at $27, up 50
cents.
   ---
                 FIRST QUARTER NET INCOME
                                                                                                       

                            1990             1989
                         in      per      in      per    %
                      millions  share  millions  share  chg.
                                                                                                       

  Ahmanson ........... $61.8    $0.62   $39.2    $0.40  58.0
  Great Western ......  74.2     0.58    57.2     0.45  30.0
  Golden West ........  47.0     0.75    35.0     0.56  34.0
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Average Interest Rate Rises
   At Citicorp Paper Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate rose to 8.227% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.213% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $446 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.144% to 8.235%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said the average rate rose to 8.19% at its
$50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 8.16% at
last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $425 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.18% to 8.194%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   McGraw-Hill Net
   Fell 47% in 1st Period;
   Year's Rise Is Forecast
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MHP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- McGraw-Hill Inc. said first-quarter net income
fell 47%, although the publishing and business information
company forecast improvement "throughout the year."
   Net income fell to $16.5 million, or 34 cents a share,
from $31.2 million, or 64 cents a share; the year-earlier
figure includes a gain of $8 million, or 16 cents a share,
from a change in accounting for income taxes. Without the
gain, net would have fallen 29%. Revenue rose 7.6% to $420
million from $390.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joseph L. Dionne, chairman and chief executive officer,
said the results were in line with expectations of a soft
first quarter. He noted that the joint-venture school
publishing company with Macmillan Inc. has increased the
seasonality of the business; McGraw-Hill's share of the
venture's first-quarter loss was $12.8 million, "actually
less than anticipated. We expect fine results from the
joint-venture company for the full year."
   Borrowing for acquisitions increased interest expense to
$12.5 million from $4.7 million; the company's tax rate,
because of divestitures, was 43% in the latest period, up
from 30% a year ago.
   Mr. Dionne said the company expects to achieve its target
for 1990 earnings of $3.50 to $4 a share (which, based on
about 48.8 million average shares outstanding, would indicate
net income in a range of $170 million to $195 million).
   Operating profit for the largest unit, information and
publication services, fell 29% to $19 million from $26.7
million, reflecting continuing investments in the
construction information business, a shortage in certain
operations of the computer and communications business unit,
and decreased advertising at Business Week magazine.
   Broadcasting operating profit fell because of increased
programming costs and softness in some markets. Operating
profit from financial services rose 22% to $32.1 million from
$26.4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Movies --
   Coming Soon to a Theater Near You:
   The Battle of Big-Budget Summer Films
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS NLN PCI TWX MCA NWS OPC MGM SNE
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Walt Disney Co. executives recently got some alarming
news: A woman who had been recruited for a hush-hush research
screening for a rough cut of "Dick Tracy" had called a Los
Angeles radio station to blab her opinion. They scurried to
get a transcript of the broadcast, knowing that word of mouth
could help make or break the film in the crucial summer movie
season that starts heating up next month.
   They needn't have worried. "Oh, it was absolutely
incredible," gushed the caller, who identified herself as
Joanne. "It is as if the comic strip would come to life and
all your imagination came true."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joanne's opinion doesn't necessarily guarantee a hit, but
every little bit helps. "Dick Tracy," scheduled for release
June 15, will be fighting for attention with about a dozen
other high-profile, big-budget films, including the usual
plethora of sequels, action films and comedies. Among the
other leading box-office contenders: "Back to the Future
III," "Days of Thunder" and "Gremlins II."
   Right now, studios are rushing to finish their movies and
playing a frantic game of musical chairs, juggling and
rejuggling their release schedules in an attempt to avoid
head-to-head conflicts at the box office. "June is going to
be a disaster for somebody," predicts Dennis McAlpine, an
analyst at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. "There could be a lot of big
openings that will die fast because there will be so many
alternatives." And with so many big-budget films, he says, it
will be hard for some studios to make a profit even if their
movies do strong business at the box office.
   Moreover, the summer films may be competing with spring
holdovers. In contrast to past years, when the spring months
were typically arid for moviegoers, a half-dozen current
movies are racking up big ticket sales, including the
surprise smash "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" from New Line
Cinema Corp., Paramount Pictures Corp.'s "Hunt for Red
October," Walt Disney's "Pretty Woman" and the Warner Bros.
and Zanuck Co. best picture Oscar winner, "Driving Miss
Daisy."
   "Right now, we're looking at four movies with the
potential to do $100 million or more between January and
April, and that's an unheard-of phenomenon," says Barry
London, Paramount's motion picture group president in charge
of distribution. But Mr. London says the current crop of hits
will just whet moviegoers' appetites for new summer films.
"Business has never been better, and that sets up the summer
very well," he says.
   A.D. Murphy, who tracks box-office results for Variety,
notes that total box-office revenues so far this year are
$100 million ahead of last year. But Mr. Murphy adds that
last summer will be hard to beat. Because of the blockbuster
"Batman," which took in $251.1 million, and other big hits
such as "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" and "Lethal
Weapon II," box-office revenues last year rose 18% to $2
billion. "The pictures last year were awesome, and it will be
nothing short of a miracle if we can pass last summer," says
Sumner Redstone, chairman of the theater chain National
Amusements Inc.
   Mr. Redstone and other theater owners say "Dick Tracy" is
one of the most eagerly awaited summer films in the industry.
More than a decade in the making, it stars aging heartthrob
Warren Beatty and rock star Madonna. Because it is based on
the comic-strip character, it is drawing inevitable
comparisons to "Batman" -- whose success Disney clearly hopes
it will emulate. Licensees likewise are hoping for a bonanza
in merchandise featuring Dick Tracy's distinctive profile.
   Disney has a half-dozen other movies due for release this
summer, including two animated films, "Ducktales" and a
re-release of "The Jungle Book." It is also releasing the
first pictures produced by its new Hollywood Pictures unit:
"Arachnaphobia" and "Taking Care of Business." But the
company has the most riding on "Dick Tracy." The movie's
success or failure "will be a big event for the Disney
stock," says Mara Balsbaugh, an analyst at Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   Ms. Balsbaugh and other analysts say Paramount Pictures'
summer lineup, packed with big-budget films, has the
potential to generate some of the biggest hits. The studio's
first big summer release, "Another 48 Hours," is a sequel to
the Eddie Murphy-Nick Nolte buddy movie that was a big hit in
1982. The Paramount Communications Inc. unit originally
planned to release the movie on June 27, but moved it up to
June 8 to get the jump on three other high-profile action
films due for mid-June release: "Die Hard II," News Corp.'s
20th Century Fox Film Co. unit's sequel to the Bruce Willis
hit, scheduled to open June 22; Tri-Star Pictures Inc.'s
"Total Recall," which stars muscleman Arnold Schwarzenegger,
and Orion Pictures Corp.'s sequel "Robocop 2."
   The Paramount movie originally scheduled to open June 8,
"Days of Thunder," will now be released on June 27, a date it
has to itself, at least for now. That film, the first to be
produced in several years by "Beverly Hills Cop II" and "Top
Gun" producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer, stars Tom
Cruise as a race-car driver; industry executives describe it
as "`Top Gun' goes to the race track." The producers are
still racing to finish the film. And in an unusual move,
Paramount is considering releasing "Days of Thunder" in Japan
a few days after its U.S. release to generate added publicity
-- and quicker revenue -- there. Typically, studios wait
months before releasing movies overseas.
   Phil Garfinkle, executive vice president of Entertainment
Data Inc., which tracks box-office data, notes that there are
close to 50 films scheduled for wide release this summer, up
from 41 last summer. The reshuffling of release dates, he
predicts, may last right up to the start of the season.
"There's so much at stake that everyone is looking for
someone else to set the schedule so they can react or
anticipate the reactions of others," he says.
   As usual, the summer has its complement of sequels,
starting with "Gremlins II" on May 18 from Time Warner Inc.'s
Warner Bros. unit and "Back to The Future III" from MCA
Inc.'s Universal Studios on May 25, Memorial Day weekend.
John Krier, president of Exhibitor Relations Co., which
compiles box-office data, says theater owners he polls expect
those two movies to start the summer off with a blast because
of their appeal to both younger audiences and adults. Also on
the sequel front are "Young Guns II" and "Exorcist III" from
20th Century Fox Film. Sixteen years after "Chinatown,"
Paramount finally is releasing a sequel, "The Two Jakes,"
with Jack Nicholson reprising his role as a private eye.
   Despite the easing of East-West tension, Paramount's
success with "The Hunt for Red October" indicates there's
still a market for war movies. At least the studio hopes so;
in July, it will release "Flight of the Intruder," a Vietnam
War movie about fighter pilots. Orion Pictures hopes to cash
in on the wave as well with "Navy SEALS," starring Charlie
Sheen.
   A number of comedies are in the lineup, though industry
officials say they aren't sure which, if any, will become a
big comedy hit. Orion starts off the comedy race May 18 with
"Cadillac Man," featuring Robin Williams, and Fox is
releasing "Ford Fairlane" with raunchy comedian Andrew Dice
Clay in early July. Warner is betting heavily on comedy for
three of its seven films this summer: "Quick Change,"
starring Bill Murray; "My Blue Heaven," with Steve Martin and
Rick Moranis; and "Dive," with Ned Beatty and Robert Vaughan.
Universal, obviously hoping Bill Cosby's next movie will
perform better than his last (the Columbia Pictures flop
"Leonard Part VI") is releasing his movie "Ghost Dad" in
July.
   Some studios that have been poor performers recently, such
as Orion and Fox, look much better positioned this summer,
while other studios -- notably Columbia Pictures and MGM/UA
Entertainment Co., which both recently changed hands, are
barely in the race. New management at Columbia, now a unit of
Sony Corp., says it didn't find much in the larder. Though
Columbia's Tri-Star unit has three films for release --
including "Total Recall" and "Air America" from its
distribution arrangement with Carolco Pictures Inc. -- the
Columbia Pictures unit has just one: "Flatliners," starring
Kiefer Sutherland and Julia Roberts. Hoping to eke out some
kiddie business, the studio is re-releasing last year's "The
Adventures of Milo &amp; Otis."
   ---
                    Box-Office Contenders
                         This Summer
                                                                                                       

                                       Cost       Release
 Movie                   Studio    (In millions)  Date
                                                                                                       

 Gremlins II             Warner        $30        May    18
 Back to the Future III  Universal     $40        May    25
 Another 48 Hours        Paramount     $40        June    8
 Dick Tracy              Disney        $25-30     June   15
 Total Recall            Tri-Star      $50        June   15
 Die Hard II             Fox           $55-60     June   22
 Robocop 2               Orion         $20-25     June   22
 Days of Thunder         Paramount     $30-40     June   27
 Presumed Innocent       Warner        $15-20     July   27
 Ducktales               Disney        $15-20     August  3
                                                                                                       

 Source: Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co., industry estimates
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   We Scrutinize Cars
   With Scientific Care
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Without malicious intent, you erred in describing the
annual survey of Consumer Reports subscribers, upon which our
automobile Frequency-of-Repair records are based, by saying
"it isn't scientific" ("Big Three Boost Car Quality but Still
Lag," March 27). To the contrary, our survey techniques and
data analyses are highly sophisticated and thoroughly
scrutinized by experts inside and outside Consumers Union.
Our data and the published findings are as accurate and
objective as is scientifically possible in representing the
experiences of our 4.5 million subscribers. This is CU's
hallmark, and one we take great pride in.
   You also asserted that CU's data showed that six out of
seven GM owners responding to our survey are unwilling to buy
the same model again. Nothing in our magazine comes even
close to such a conclusion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   R. David Pittle
   Technical Director
   Consumers Union Mount Vernon, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Kyotaru of Japan
   Buys U.S. Restaurants
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KYT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Kyotaru Co., a major Japanese restaurant chain
operator, made its second big thrust into the U.S. market
this year.
   It said it had acquired two restaurant chains and a
portion of a third for $94.4 million as part of its strategy
to internationalize operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kyotaru said its U.S. subsidiary, Kyotaru International
Inc., has purchased all shares of Paragon Steakhouse
Restaurant from its holding company, Paragon Restaurant
Group, for $86 million.
   The chain currently has 54 restaurants, with about half in
California and Arizona, and overall sales of $97.6 million a
year. The acquired chain has overall assets of $53 million
and net assets of $34.7 million.
   Kyotaru International also acquired all the stock of
Love's Enterprise Co., a family restaurant chain with 22
outlets, primarily in California, from BSB Food Enterprise
Co.
   The price of the acquisition was $2.6 million. Love's
Enterprise has overall assets of $1.4 million and net assets
of $1.2 million, with yearly sales of $3.3 million.
   Kyotaru's third acquisition was made through its
subsidiary, KFF Management Inc., which purchased 16 Arby's
roast beef sandwich fast-food restaurants from DGH Food
Service Inc. for $5.8 million.
   The 16 Arby's, located in California's Los Angeles County,
have yearly sales of $9.7 million.
   Earlier this year, Restaurant Associates Industries, which
operates about 120 restaurants, said in New York that Kyotaru
acquired an 85% interest in the company.
   Restaurant Associates, which went private in 1988,
operates Mamma Leone's restaurant in New York, as well as the
Brasserie. It also operates the Acapulco, Charlie Brown's and
The Office restaurant chains.
   Kyotaru has annual sales of about $500 million, with
operations in department stores, railroad stations and
shopping centers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Tsai Sells 85%
   Of His Holding
   In Primerica Inc.
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   PA C KWP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Gerald Tsai Jr., one of the first of the breed
of "star" money managers, has sold 85% of his stake in
Primerica Inc., parent of Smith Barney, Harris Upham Inc.,
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission show.
   All together, he sold one million shares for $26.4 million
in several sales on March 6 and 7, the filings show.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Tsai, 61-year-old chairman of Primerica's executive
committee, rose to fame in the 1960s. He was one of the
decades's new breed of "go-go" fund managers who specialized
in picking speculative glamour stocks and trading in and out
of them at breakneck speed.
   But although Mr. Tsai built his reputation on stock market
timing, he didn't have the knack at this recent sale. The
stock has risen sharply from the average share price he
received of $26.43, closing yesterday at $31, up 75 cents, in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   A portion of the stock's rise, $1.50 of it to be exact,
has come since Monday, when Primerica announced its
first-quarter results. Net rose to 73 cents a share from 53
cents a year earlier. Its Smith Barney unit earned $13.1
million, up about 15%. Smith Barney's results reflected the
acquisition of 16 former offices of Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc.
   Mr. Tsai was unavailable for comment, and Sanford Weill,
the company's chairman, declined to comment.
   Gloria Vogel, analyst at Bear, Stearns Cos., said "the
earnings were very good, and the company has long-term
merits," chief among them Mr. Weill's stewardship and the
diverse businesses that Primerica has put together. Still,
Ms. Vogel said, Primerica isn't on her "buy list." She might
recommend it, she said, "if it got cheaper."
   Mr. Tsai started his career as a mutual-fund manager at
Fidelity Investments, moved on to launch his own Manhattan
Fund and later became chairman of American Can, now
Primerica. In December 1988, he stepped down as chairman in
favor of Mr. Weill.
   ---
   THE POWER OF SUGGESTION: When Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lee
A. Iacocca talks, some people listen.
   Mr. Iacocca has recently been encouraging the No. 3 U.S.
auto maker's 100 top executives to own stock equal to a
certain percentage of their salaries. Now filings with the
SEC show that three executives and two directors bought
Chrysler stock since Feb. 16.
   While their purchases weren't large, each of these
corporate insiders at least doubled his existing holdings,
the SEC filings show. All together, the five bought 21,600
shares, more than Chrysler insiders bought on the open market
in the past five years combined, according to the filings.
   The largest purchase was by Robert A. Lutz, president of
the Chrysler Motors division, who bought 10,000 shares,
bringing his total holdings to 17,128 shares, according to
the filings. Joseph Cappy, vice president of brand
development, bought 4,900 shares, almost tripling his
holdings. Mr. Lutz and Mr. Cappy declined to comment.
   The other purchases, made by two directors and the vice
president of vehicle development, ranged from 600 shares to
4,600 shares. Prices paid by the five insiders averaged
$17.48 a share, slightly above the stock's close yesterday on
the Big Board of $16.875, up 12.5 cents.
   Thomas Houston, a spokesman for Chrysler, said additional
purchases may have been made by Chrysler employees that the
company isn't required to report to the SEC, based on that
agency's definition of who is an "insider."
   Jay Leopold, auto industry analyst at Legg Mason, Wood
Walker in Baltimore, said he still has a "hold" on the stock,
but has recently raised his earnings-per-share estimates for
1990 because a Chrysler cost-cutting program is running ahead
of schedule.
   ---
   FORTUNATE MEN: Three executives at King World Productions
Inc. sold the majority of their company stock in March,
reports filed with the SEC show. The Short Hills, N.J.,
company is the syndicator behind such television game shows
as "Jeopardy and "Wheel of Fortune."
   Sidney Cohen, president of the domestic TV sales division,
sold all of his 40,778 shares for about $1.6 million,
according to the SEC filings. Leonard Spilka, treasurer, sold
8,424 shares, 97% of his holdings, for $362,232, the filings
show. Stephen Palley, general counsel, sold 20,000 shares, or
59% of his stake, for $800,390.
   Mr. Cohen and Mr. Palley couldn't be reached for comment.
Mr. Spilka said he had held his shares since January 1986,
that they had appreciated substantially over the period, and
that he sold them to pay for improvements on his home. He
retains 300 shares, but said he intends to purchase more by
exercising options.
   The three sold at share prices ranging from $39.81 to $43,
according to SEC files. The stock closed yesterday at $41.25,
down 12.5 cents, in Big Board composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citizens Banking Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBCF
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   FLINT, Mich. -- Citizens Banking Corp. said it approved a
stock-repurchase program that permits management to acquire
as many as 200,000 shares of the company's common stock on
the open market. The company said it has 6.7 million shares
outstanding.
   This program is similar to one approved in November 1987,
under which Citizens purchased 191,700 shares at an average
price of $19 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raiders' Deal to Return
   To Oakland Is in Jeopardy
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- A deal to bring the Los Angeles Raiders
football team back to Oakland is in serious trouble due to
mounting public opposition.
   Oakland Mayor Lionel Wilson said he planned to ask the
Oakland city council late yesterday to rescind its approval
of the proposal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The mayor's action followed the delivery late last week of
anti-Raiders petitions bearing 33,000 signatures, about
13,000 more than necessary to place the issue before
Oakland's voters. Opponents had argued that the offer, which
guaranteed the football franchise $428 million in payments
over 15 years, would place an unwarranted burden on Oakland's
treasury.
   Only five weeks ago, Mayor Wilson had euphorically
proclaimed the return of the team. But at a press conference
this week, the mayor -- facing re-election this year -- said
that if the Raiders deal "isn't dead, it's dying." Raiders
officials themselves had said that they would kill the deal
rather than face a ballot initiative.
   However, Mayor Wilson didn't rule out renewed talks with
the Raiders, and some Raiders boosters said there was a slim
chance that a new accord could be struck to eliminate a major
sticking point, that of guarantees by taxpayers. Opponents
have charged that taxpayers would be forced to make up a $200
million deficit even if Raiders games sold out over the next
15 years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Polaroid Profit Rose
   23% in First Quarter,
   Trailing Estimates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   PRD
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Polaroid Corp. reported a
disappointing 23% rise in first-quarter earnings on a sales
decline of 1.4% and again scaled back its own projections for
earnings growth in 1990.
   Citing a "slower than expected" world-wide business
environment, the company said it now expects only "moderate
growth" in 1990, instead of the "substantially higher"
earnings it had projected in November.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Polaroid spokesman declined to be more specific about
the company's outlook for 1990.
   For the first quarter, Polaroid posted earnings of $31.8
million, or 43 cents a share, compared with $25.9 million, or
29 cents a share, in the like 1989 quarter. The year-earlier
figure was after $38.5 million pretax charge representing the
cost of fighting off a hostile takeover bid by Shamrock
Holdings Inc. Sales slipped to $436.2 million from $442.3
million.
   The company's results, which were released shortly before
the stock market closed, were below Wall Street estimates of
about 48 cents a share, according to Prudential-Bache analyst
Alex Henderson. Mr. Henderson had been expecting 52 cents a
share. Polaroid closed at $45.50, down 25 cents, in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Mr. Henderson expressed concern about the timing of
Polaroid's introduction of a new line of film and said he
plans to lower his earnings estimates for 1990 to about $2.50
to $2.55 a share from $2.75 and for 1991 to $3.10 to $3.15 a
share from $3.25.
   "My basic concern is, in order for them to make their
second-half numbers, they need to introduce the new Hybrid IV
instant film early enough to start ramping it up in the third
quarter to be able to fill the shelves at Christmas," Mr.
Henderson said. Instead, he said, the company is suggesting
that the product won't be available in the third quarter and
will only be available in limited volume in the fourth
quarter.
   I. MacAllister Booth, Polaroid's chairman and chief
executive, said the company decided to lower its own
expectations after reviewing general world-wide economic
conditions. "In light of this changing climate, we have
lowered our expectations for the year." He added, however,
that the company expects moderate growth in both sales and
operating profit in 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Windshield Wiper Trial
   Begins Its Penalty Phase
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Maryland inventor Robert W. Kearns, who in
January convinced a federal court jury here that Ford Motor
Co. violated his patents for an electronic, intermittent
windshield wiper system, now wants the same jury to shake
Detroit's tradition of buying ideas on the cheap.
   In arguments that kicked off the penalty phase of the
Kearns trial, Ford lawyer Malcolm Wheeler said a "reasonable"
royalty for Mr. Kearns's wiper system should be no more than
five cents or 10 cents a car, with a maximum of $1.5 million
-- in line with standard auto industry practice. Ford paid no
more to license such critical inventions as the automatic
choke, Mr. Wheeler said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Paul Janicke, lead trial counsel for Mr. Kearns, told
the jury not to follow normal auto industry practice in
deciding his client's award. Auto companies "do things to
inventors, not for inventors," he said. Instead, Mr. Janicke
said Ford should pay Mr. Kearns a percentage of the revenue
it received from sales of the wiper systems.
   Mr. Janicke offered two methods for calculating a royalty
rate. One came to 25%, the other 42%. Spread over the 20.5
million wiper systems Ford sold from 1971 to 1988, the 25%
royalty would yield about $193 million, and the 42% royalty
would produce $325 million.
   The trial is expected to last two weeks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN CANDA FNM MER GM FRE
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, April 17, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/8% high, 8 1/4% low, 8 1/8% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.20% 30 to 59 days; 8.15% 60 to 89 days;
8.125% 90 to 119 days; 8.10% 120 to 149 days; 8.05% 150 to
179 days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.30%
30 days; 8.28% 60 days; 8.25% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.83% two
months; 7.86% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.20% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.30% one month; 8.40% three months;
8.50% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.17% 30 days; 8.15% 60 days; 8.15%
90 days; 8.13% 120 days; 8.12% 150 days; 8.08% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/8% to 8 1/4% one month; 8
7/16% to 8 5/16% two months; 8 1/2% to 8 3/8% three months; 8
9/16% to 8 7/16% four months; 8 5/8% to 8 1/2% five months; 8
5/8% to 8 1/2% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 3/8% one month;
8 7/16% three months; 8 9/16% six months; 8 13/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.25%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11.25%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 16, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.71% 13 weeks; 7.75% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.42%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.31%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable
rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.81%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   His World Bank Isn't the One We Know
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   In what was, in effect, a public letter of resignation
published on your March 30 editorial page, Dr. Michael Irwin,
former director of the World Bank's Health Services
Department, levels numerous charges against the bank,
depicting it as a bloated, wasteful and poorly managed
bureaucracy.
   Like Dr. Irwin, who came to the bank only a year ago from
the U.N. system, I too am a newcomer to the institution. I
joined in 1988 after 20 years in investment banking. The bank
that I have come to know, however, is a very different place
from the one that Dr. Irwin describes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I've found it to be a remarkably efficient institution.
Despite the complexity of its work -- promoting development
and fighting poverty in nearly 100 countries -- the bank's
administrative costs are only 0.5% of its total assets. This
is an enviably low figure -- one that any private financial
institution would be happy to have.
   I have also found bank staff -- whether in the finance
complex, where I work, or in other units -- to be highly
qualified, experienced and dedicated. Like me, most of them
joined the bank after years in other fields of endeavor. This
applies, by the way, to the bank's corps of senior managers,
most of whom were not "cloned" within the institution (as Dr.
Irwin implies), but joined after distinguished careers
elsewhere. A vivid example of this fact is that of the bank
group's top seven officers, six have extensive non-bank
experience. These include its president, Barber Conable, the
senior officers in lending, finance and legal affairs as well
as the executive vice presidents of IFC and MIGA.
   In his piece, Dr. Irwin touches upon salaries. The bank
must be able to attract high-caliber staff members in order
to discharge its mission. But these salaries are hardly
exorbitant, and many staff members, myself included, have had
to take pay cuts when they joined the institution. Moreover,
salaries are reviewed constantly and compared periodically
with remuneration levels at public- and private-sector
institutions in North America and Europe and are adjusted in
line with such salaries.
   Is the bank perfect? Of course not. It has shortcomings
like any other institution. But in my two years here I have
been struck by its efficiency, by the professionalism and
motivation of its staff and by its willingness to examine and
renew itself periodically from within. In these important
regards, I have not found it wanting in comparison with the
private sector.
   Dr. Irwin has a different perception of the bank. He is
certainly entitled to it. I cannot help but believe, however,
that his views would have been more positive if he had worked
at the institution longer and if he had been in closer
contact with those at the bank who are engaged in its
day-to-day work.
   Donald C. Roth
   Vice President and Treasurer
   World Bank
   Washington
   ---
   While Dr. Irwin criticized the World Bank's bureaucracy, I
found refreshing the commitment by its officers and managers
to their work and the alacrity with which they performed it,
especially when compared with the "modus operandi" of the
private sector. And this despite the reorganization in
progress as mentioned by Dr. Irwin. In fact, nowhere in
Washington did I find as much receptivity to ideas as at the
World Bank. My encounter with the bank brought me in contact
with new financial instruments and programs designed to
anticipate changing global economic and political
relationships such as in Eastern Europe and Asia; many of
these efforts were at the cutting edge of environmental,
health, nutrition and human-rights concerns.
   Because the bank's effectiveness rests largely on the
vitality and cooperation of its employees, it is in part a
living testimony to its own purposes: Few institutions whose
makeup comprises as much cultural diversity and intellectual
capacity can boast of as many accomplishments (including the
United Nations, which Dr. Irwin draws upon for comparison).
   Some of Dr. Irwin's points may be well taken, yet they are
devoid of appreciation for the ideals that must have inspired
him to join the bank in the first place. It is unfortunate
his criticism seemed to be sour grapes. One must wonder how
much he tried to overcome frustrations during his tenure. As
W.B. Yeats said: "Joy is the will which labours, Which
overcomes obstacles, Which knows triumph."
   Barry Peters
   Weston, Conn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan to Issue Gold Coins
   For Akihito's Coronation
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan plans to issue new 100,000-yen (US$627)
gold coins in November to commemorate Emperor Akihito's
coronation, taking special measures to prevent
counterfeiting, the Finance Ministry said.
   Japan issued 11 million gold coins four years ago to
commemorate then Emperor Hirohito's 60th year of reign.
Hirohito died in January 1989 after a reign of 62 years.
Authorities have since found 100,000 fake coins based on that
commemorative issue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A ministry official said the content of pure gold in the
new coins would be increased and a special process employed
to put a luster with a complicated design on the surface of
the coins to prevent forgeries.
   The amount of pure gold in the coins would be 30 grams,
compared with 20 grams for coins issued in 1986 and 1987. The
smaller gold content in the earlier coins was one of the
factors behind the counterfeit coins, said the official, who
asked not to be identified.
   The 30 grams of pure gold is valued at about 60,000 yen,
the official said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   In a Snooty Art-vs.-Eyesore Fight,
   Only One Side Aims to Save Face
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Pierre Nadeau complains that Joseph Rana's nose
"is an ugly thing, big, very offensive." Like some of Mr.
Rana's other neighbors, Mr. Nadeau wants the nose removed.
Toronto's city government emphatically agrees.
   The Rana nose is indeed big. It's four feet high and three
feet wide, built for Mr. Rana by an artist friend out of
plaster and canvas. The giant schnoz is mounted on the
building where Mr. Rana lives and operates a restaurant, and
appears to be bursting through the second-story wall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's creative, it's art, it was intended to poke fun at
my own big nose," Mr. Rana says.
   "It's nothing to sneeze at," counters Peter Gordon, city
solicitor, who contends the protuberance is illegal, for one
because it juts out above a restaurant door on a quiet street
where business signs are banned. "We're trying to minimize
commercial use of what is already a very commercial area," he
sniffs.
   But in fighting the first complaint filed by the city, the
restaurateur's lawyer, Michael Caroline, successfully argued
that the nose wasn't designed to have commercial value. The
artist, Jan Walsh, said in an affidavit that to suggest the
sculpture has any commercial intent is "absurd" because it is
inspired by Mr. Rana's nose, "the subject of much amusement."
   So the city then charged Mr. Rana with infringing a bylaw,
allowing a structure to "remain in a city boulevard," because
the nose overhangs city property.
   But before you could say Cyrano de Bergerac, the city
withdrew that charge in favor of a more pointed one: That the
nose violates city bylaw 12519, section 35, by placing "a
structure, to whit replica of a nose structure, which
encroaches upon the street allowance . . . without first
having obtained leave from the Committee on Works and
Council." Mr. Rana, who has spent about 20,000 Canadian
dollars ($17,153) defending his snout, must appear in Ontario
provincial court Friday.
   His attorney concedes that the nose may protrude into city
airspace a foot or so, but says the property in question is
only a parking space.
   "This smacks of a vendetta," Mr. Caroline snorts, adding:
"You can't legislate good taste. It wouldn't be illegal for
Mr. Rana or anyone else to paint their house purple with
orange polka dots, if that's what they want. . . . Surely
there's a better use for taxpayers' money than fighting this
nose."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Del Monte Agrees to Sell
   European Unit to Group
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Del Monte Corp. agreed to sell its European
processed foods division to an investor group consisting of
the unit's management and affiliates of Charterhouse PLC, a
British merchant bank, for $375 million in cash and assumed
debt.
   The unit is part of the Del Monte foods business acquired
last Jan. 9 for $1.48 billion by Del Monte management and an
investor group led by Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In recent months, the investor group has been selling off
parts of Del Monte, partly to pay down the debt incurred in
the acquisition. Hawaiian Punch was sold to Procter &amp; Gamble
Co. for $150 million, and Del Monte's Far East business,
excluding the Philippines, was sold to Kikkoman Corp. for
$110 million.
   In the fiscal year ended last Nov. 30, the European unit
earned $48 million on sales of $351 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   New Magazine Will Offer
   Tips From Soviet Managers
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRAMINGHAM, Mass. -- Conventional wisdom may deem Soviet
management technique an oxymoron. Nevertheless, a U.S.
concern plans a Soviet magazine celebrating Soviet managers'
methods.
   International Data Group, a closely held company that
publishes Computerworld and 135 other magazines and
newspapers around the world, plans to publish 50,000 copies
of the new magazine, Manager, starting next month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The magazine will be produced by Information Computer
Enterprise, a joint venture between International Data and
its Soviet partners that started publishing PC World USSR in
1988. It won't be distributed outside the Soviet Union.
There, circulation will be controlled but those selected will
still have to pay for it.
   Patrick J. McGovern, chairman of International Data, said
"this is the first business magazine published in the
U.S.S.R. to offer case studies and practical advice on
operating a profitable venture in the new competitive
environment." Articles will be written by Soviet managers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   Revived `Standing' Can Make
   Political Plaintiffs Stand Down
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   It's almost Earth Day, but is this any reason to give
trees standing to sue in court?
   Environmentalists are pushing the Supreme Court toward
this choice: (1) Get ready for animal, vegetable and mineral
plaintiffs, or (2) make sure only real people with real cases
can get into court. This is no joke, at least not to legions
of "public-interest" lawyers who, with any luck, could be out
of work.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case of Lujan v. National Wildlife Federation, which
the justices heard on Monday, began in 1985 when the
environmental group filed a brief from its Obstructionist
Lawsuit file. It sued the Interior Department for failing to
dot i's and cross t's in its plan to allow development in
parts of 180 million acres throughout 11 Western states, an
area comprising more than 7% of the country's land mass. The
environmentalists claimed the usual alleged procedural
shortcomings in environmental-impact statements, land-use
planning papers, public hearings, etc.
   Aside from the amount of federal land at stake, what makes
this case unusual is the reason the group gave for being
entitled to sue. It relied chiefly on the complaint by one of
its members, a Peggy Peterson. She said in an affidavit that
Interior's decision to allow development on some of the 180
million acres threatened her use of land "in the vicinity of"
a two-million-acre parcel in Wyoming where 4,455 acres would
be open to mining. Her "recreational use and aesthetic
enjoyment of federal lands" was threatened.
   So the legal issue is whether Peggy Peterson and by
extension the National Wildlife Federation had "standing" to
sue in court. The federal appeals court in Washington said
the suit could go forward even though she referred only to
use of federal land near a huge tract somewhere within which
mining might occur someday. Meanwhile, for several years of
litigation courts had an injunction against Interior plans to
deregulate the 180 million acres.
   At Monday's hearing, at least some of the justices seemed
skeptical that the Peterson affidavit, with its reference to
"in the vicinity of" language, was enough to establish
standing. Justice Antonin Scalia asked the lawyer for the
National Wildlife Federation if the group could sue if the
affidavit complained about "allowing mining in the United
States." After all, this could conceivably interfere with
someone's enjoyment of a federal park somewhere.
   The justices could rule on the narrow question of the
Peterson affidavit. Or they could take on the tough task of
reviewing 20 years' worth of cases on standing. There may be
several justices who agree that the key breach making
possible the activist era in the courts was this lowering of
the test for who can sue whom for what.
   After all, judges eager to decide issues previously left
to the political branches of government first must get the
policy questions before them in a courtroom. By now, it's no
secret that federal courts have become the forum of choice
for many lobbyists, mostly liberals, who haven't found the
give and take of the political system very rewarding.
   Indeed, the justices have so lowered the drawbridge into
court that they may have forgotten how to fill up the moat.
One sign of how hard it will be to re-establish standing as a
barrier to what has become highly political litigation is the
1973 case with the says-it-all title of U.S. v. Students
Challenging Regulatory Agency Procedures (SCRAP).
   The justices gave standing to what essentially was a
law-school project. Five law students in Washington, D.C.,
sued against an Interstate Commerce Commission freight rate
change they said would reduce the incentive to recycle. The
justices said the students had standing because each of
SCRAP's members "breathes the air within the Washington
metropolitan area."
   If this sounds like a trivial requirement to get into
court, at least it required that the plaintiffs have lungs.
The law reviews are full of articles these days criticizing
the "atomistic" idea that only individual human beings with
real problems should be allowed to sue in court. In 1972, the
Southern California Law Review published the classic article
along these lines, entitled "Should Trees Have Standing?
Toward Legal Rights for Natural Objects." It proposed "the
wilderness area itself as the plaintiff."
   Absurd? Not to Justice William Douglas, who in a
dissenting opinion agreed that standing "would be simplified
and also put neatly in focus if we . . . allowed
environmental issues to be litigated . . . in the name of the
inanimate object about to be despoiled, defaced or invaded."
Other courts -- see box -- think the idea of giving trees
standing is all very amusing.
   The big problem with the trees-have-standing approach is
the Constitution. Article III gives courts jurisdiction only
over "Cases" and "Controversies." Until recently, everyone
understood this to mean that only people with direct and
particular harm can sue. One of the best statements of this
view was in a law review article entitled "The Doctrine of
Standing as an Essential Element of the Separation of
Powers." This article criticized the result of the lowered
standing requirement as the "over-judicialization of the
process of self-governance." The author was Antonin Scalia,
then a law professor.
   In its brief, the conservative Mountain States Legal
Foundation raised this larger separation-of-powers problem
with the case. If the National Wildlife Federation has
standing to sue and wins, "A court would have to order the
executive branch to exercise its discretion to prevent mining
in that small area of Wyoming."
   Environmentalists have good reason to worry about
toughened standing requirements. Congress now writes vague
laws, including the new Clean Air bill, demanding "clean air"
and "clean water." Then Congress leaves it to
environmentalists to bring cases before federal judges so
that they can decide what clean means. Judges should no
longer let Congress pass the buck.
   Put another way, who elected Peggy Peterson, the National
Wildlife Federation or for that matter the federal courts?
The Interior Department is the only politically accountable
group in this litigation. Yet hundreds of its decisions about
which land should be used for which purposes may hang in the
balance between questionably interested litigants and
activist judges.
   ---
   Despite a law review article urging that trees should have
standing to sue, a Michigan court once upheld a decision
rejecting a suit for damage to a tree with this poem as the
entire opinion:
                                                                                                       

   We thought that we would never see
   A suit to compensate a tree.
   A suit whose claim in tort is prest
   Upon a mangled tree's behest;
   A tree whose battered trunk was prest
   Against a Chevy's crumpled crest,
   A tree that faces each new day
   With bark and limb in disarray;
   A tree that may forever bear
   A lasting need for tender care.
   Flora lovers though we three
   We must uphold the court's decree.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hooked on Options:
   Compulsive Trading
   Brings Down Lawyer
   Who Used Client Cash
   ---
   In One Year Mr. Thorp Had
   Gain of $10 Million, but He
   Lost All That and More
   ---
   Shock to Pittsburgh's Society
   ----
   By Gregory Stricharchuk
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Charles M. Thorp III, an attorney and
grandson of the founder of one of this city's most
prestigious law firms, lived a life of moderation.
   He never drank, even at parties. His lunch was crackers
and orange juice. He seemed the soul of probity, never
billing clients for more hours than he actually worked. "If
you wanted to know an old-fashioned gentleman of the old
school," says a former associate, "that was Charlie."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Thorp, 49 years old, had a destructive flaw. He
was addicted, his lawyer says, to speculation in put and call
options.
   For a while he did spectacularly well. In his best year,
1985, he made $10 million. An ordinary trader might have
cashed in and retired. But Mr. Thorp, whose muted life style
never hinted at such wealth, couldn't stop trading. His luck
apparently turned against him. His total losses, according to
his attorney: $15 million to $20 million of his money, not
including $3.6 million that he misappropriated from clients'
estates and trusts. Among the victims were two nursing home
residents and a disabled man who depended on Mr. Thorp to
disburse trust payments for their care.
   The story has stunned Pittsburgh's bluebloods and
barristers. Mr. Thorp, who is wiry and soft-spoken, grew a
beard to hide his identity at one point after the disclosures
last year. He has been disbarred. To earn money, friends say,
he has worked as a clerk at a state liquor store and has
distributed newspapers from a 1961 Chevrolet station wagon --
one of his few remaining assets. He and his wife separated
last July, and she is divorcing him. One of their four
children was forced to seek financial aid to continue at
Brown University.
   "This thing is a total horror story," says Mr. Thorp's
lawyer, Lawrence J. O'Toole.
   Similar tales of compulsive trading are surfacing
elsewhere in the country, says Steven Berman, a Seattle
lawyer. Commodities and options trading "are so fast that
they can be addictive, even for people who've only invested a
little," he says. In 1988, Mr. Berman won a civil suit in
federal court in Seattle on behalf of a compulsive and
heavy-losing commodities trader against Refco Inc., a large
Chicago commodities broker. The judge in the case, William L.
Dwyer, ruled that brokers bear a responsibility to stop
compulsive gamblers from trading.
   But the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco
recently reversed the lower court's ruling. "I believe
brokers have a duty to stop people who are out of control,
but with this decision they won't have to warn these people,"
says Mr. Berman. "They can bleed people to death."
   Mr. Thorp's attorney and officials at the Federal Bureau
of Investigation confirm that they are continuing to
investigate Mr. Thorp's activities. Some of his victims have
filed civil suits in county court here in attempts to recover
losses.
   In depositions taken by plaintiffs' attorneys, Mr. Thorp
so far has refused to answer questions dealing with the
misappropriations, citing his Fifth Amendment right against
self-incrimination. Despite repeated requests, Mr. Thorp
declined to be interviewed by a reporter. But in an
extraordinary letter to the Pennsylvania Disciplinary
Counsel, the disciplinary body of the Pennsylvania Supreme
Court, which conducts disbarrment proceedings, Mr. Thorp's
attorney acknowledged his client's wrongdoing and provided
some details about the crimes. "My client in the past several
years has been involved in deceptive practices as a result of
his psychological addiction to gambling," Mr. O'Toole wrote.
   Mr. O'Toole has hoped the admission would spare Mr. Thorp
from criminal prosecution. "Charlie could have hid in the
darkness and waited to be dragged kicking and screaming," Mr.
O'Toole says, "but he chose not to."
   In a sense, Mr. Thorp gagged on a silver spoon. He grew up
among Pittsburgh's well-to-do, descendants of
turn-of-the-century industrial tycoons. His grandfather, in
the 1890s, helped found the law firm now known as Thorp, Reed
&amp; Armstrong and became a millionaire through holdings in
National Steel Corp. here.
   His lawyer father, the late Charles Monroe Thorp II,
worked for half a century at Thorp Reed. A Harvard Law
graduate, editor of the Law Review and an accomplished
pianist and composer, his father was a tough act to follow.
   Mr. Thorp graduated from Cornell University, as did his
father, a former chairman of the school's development
committee. But the younger Mr. Thorp earned his law degree at
Duquesne University Law School here rather than at Harvard.
   There was tragedy, too, in Mr. Thorp's life. His mother, a
heavy drinker, was kept in separate quarters from the rest of
the family and died when he was young. Both his sisters also
died young.
   During summer breaks from college, Mr. Thorp worked as a
clerk or in the mail room at Thorp Reed. In 1964, he married
Claire Zaravich. After earning his degree at Duquesne in
1965, he joined Thorp Reed, which then had fewer than 35
lawyers.
   Like the furniture and Oriental rugs that are passed down
from generation to generation at some law firms, Mr. Thorp
inherited some of firm's wealthiest clients -- largely at his
father's behest. He made few friends among his associates. "I
had no idea what he did," says lawyer Richard Zomnir,
formerly of Thorp Reed.
   Mostly, he wrote wills and kept to himself. Whatever zest
he had in his life seemed to come from outside pursuits. A
nature lover, he vacationed on a 5.5-acre island on the
French River in Canada that his father gave him in 1974. With
two cabins and a boathouse, the island is accessible only by
traveling through an Indian reservation.
   Mr. Thorp is mostly a loner, although he is known as a
fine badminton player. He was captain of the tennis team as a
student in his elite prep school, Shadyside Academy here.
   He also is an avid jogger. On week days, he has been known
to run a six-mile course around Three Rivers Stadium, where
the Pirates and Steelers play, or up Mount Washington, the
big hill that overlooks the city.
   But in the early 1980s he developed his greatest passion
-- riding the stock options roller coaster. "He loved to play
the options, and he tried to teach other people about the
market," says Thelma Morris, a former secretary at Thorp
Reed. He spent hours on the phone buying puts and calls and
often rushed to a broker's office to check prices.
   For some years, he made far more in options than he ever
could have earned at Thorp Reed. There were days in which he
racked up as much as $4 million, his attorney says. In a
deposition filed in county court here, Mr. Thorp said his
specialty was gambling on the OEX 100, a Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp. composite of prices on shares of 100 companies.
   Hardly anyone suspected that Mr. Thorp was making so much
money. Although his family lived in a house now worth around
$1.1 million, there was nothing else ostentatious in his way
of life. "If his name hadn't been Thorp, you'd think he was a
person who didn't have a dime," says Jean McKee, another
former Thorp Reed secretary.
   In January 1986, Mr. Thorp made a bold move, resigning
from Thorp Reed to practice law on his own. Many of his
clients followed him. Some of his friends say he left because
of a dispute over compensation. His lawyer says Thorp Reed
"can't take the position that they forced him out" -- which
might imply that the firm knew of his wrongdoing. A lawyer
representing Thorp Reed said the firm would have no comment
about Mr. Thorp.
   Lawyers involved in suits against Mr. Thorp say they don't
expect to learn exactly how he lost his clients' money unless
criminal charges are filed.
   In a deposition filed in county court here, Mr. Thorp said
he had accounts at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. in New York and at the
Boston office of Bear Stearns &amp; Co. Whitney George, the
former Oppenheimer broker with whom Mr. Thorp did business,
says Mr. Thorp opened his account there in 1981, initially to
invest in technology stocks and later shifting into options
trading. The account was never worth more than $100,000, Mr.
George says, and Mr. Thorp said in his deposition that it was
closed in 1986 or 1987.
   Mr. Thorp's broker at Bear Stearns didn't return a
reporter's telephone calls. The broker's secretary says he is
prevented by company policy from speaking to the press.
   In his deposition, Mr. Thorp also told how he sold or
borrowed against practically every available asset to raise
money for options speculation. For instance, he sold a
$50,000 coin collection, surrendered life insurance policies
for $10,000 in cash, and even cashed in his individual
retirement account.
   In one suit filed here his wife asserts that she opened a
$500,000 bank account solely in her name and that six months
later her husband closed it out. Mrs. Thorp, through her
lawyer, declined to be interviewed.
   According to suits filed against him, Mr. Thorp borrowed
heavily from Pittsburgh National Bank, a subsidiary of PNC
Financial Corp here. In 1987 and 1988 he borrowed about
$500,000 from the bank, including $200,000 ostensibly to pay
college tuition for his children. (Three of the children live
in Providence, R.I., and the youngest, 13, lives with Mrs.
Thorp.)
   He also began dipping into nine estates and trusts he was
handling, according to his lawyer's letter, which was filed
in county court here so a trustee could be appointed to close
out Mr. Thorp's law office.
   According to the letter, Mr. Thorp took about $1.5 million
from the estate of Elizabeth R. Solomon, who died in 1988. He
forged the executor's name on checks to divert $585,000 to
himself from a trust account, and personally cashed an estate
check for $884,000 that was intended for tax obligations.
"All of this money has been lost, and the federal estate
taxes have not been paid," the letter says.
   "How could an old trusted friend do this? It's like being
a rape victim," says H. Alfred Solomon, executor of the
Solomon estate and a friend of Mr. Thorp since their school
days at Shadyside. Embittered, Mr. Solomon says he doesn't
believe that Mr. Thorp was a gambling addict. "No, I don't
believe that the devil made him do it," Mr. Solomon says. He
has filed suit against Mr. Thorp.
   Mr. Thorp also obtained $400,000 in credit from Pittsburgh
National in 1987 by pledging as collateral $600,000 in
securities owned by James K. Hess, a 75-year-old retired
architect who suffered from Parkinson's disease. According to
the letter, Mr. Thorp forged Mr. Hess's name on the loan
documents. Mr. Hess filed suit against the bank, asserting
that it should have verified his signature before authorizing
the loan. The bank, however, claims that the signature wasn't
forged and that Mr. Hess owes the money plus interest.
   According to the letter, Mr. Thorp sold other shares of
Mr. Hess's for $300,000 that he lost in the options market.
Mr. Hess has since died. His heirs, involved in the
litigation, decline to comment.
   Richard D. Barnes, another Shadyside classmate and a
jogging partner of Mr. Thorp's, was another victim. Mr.
Barnes, according to the letter, gave Mr. Thorp a check for
$256,000 in 1989 to cover inheritance taxes. In the letter
Mr. Thorp's lawyer says this money, too, was lost in options.
Mr. Barnes declines to comment.
   W. Howard Swogger, an old Thorp family friend and
well-known figure around Pittsburgh because of his dashing
handlebar mustache, was one of the clients who continued with
Mr. Thorp when he opened his own practice.
   When Mr. Swogger paid a visit to his safe-deposit box at
Mellon Bank here in April 1989, Mr. Thorp's life began to
unravel.
   Mr. Swogger discovered that $334,000 in American Telephone
and Telegraph Co. shares and other securities were missing
from his box at Mellon, a subsidiary of Mellon Bank Corp.
   Mr. Thorp, as it turned out, had purloined the securities
to open a margin account at Dean Witter &amp; Co. here, forged
Mr. Swogger's name on checks, and deposited the proceeds into
one of his own accounts, according to Mr. O'Toole's letter.
   Some friends contend that Mr. Swogger confronted Mr. Thorp
about the missing securities and that as a result Mr. Thorp
began repaying some funds. Mr. Swogger has since died, and
Mr. Thorp still owes his estate $61,000, according to the
letter.
   If any of Mr. Thorp's victims collect any money, it won't
be from him, his lawyer maintains. Some don't even want back
any cash. Bernard Gibson, of Somerset, Pa., who won a $40,000
county court judgment in connection with a loan to Mr. Thorp
that wasn't repaid, says, "I don't like the deed, but I like
the person."
   But not everyone is so forgiving. Pittsburgh National,
hoping to recover the money it lent Mr. Thorp., is attempting
to become a party to Mrs. Thorp's divorce suit. The bank
asserts that Mr. Thorp's Canadian island, now held by Mrs.
Thorp, was fraudulently deeded to her. The island is valued
at $120,000 (Canadian).
   Mr. O'Toole says some people also have threatened to shoot
Mr. Thorp. He says one woman who lost money to Mr. Thorp
asked to search his office drawers for any cash. "What did
she think she'd find?" he asks. "A couple of quarters?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   CONSUMER PRICES ROSE 0.5% in March, pushing the
first-quarter inflation rate to 8.5%, the highest in eight
years. Though economists don't expect that pace to continue,
the figures suggest inflation remains a problem. There also
were signs of continued weakness in the economy.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Treasury bond prices slid following the inflation report,
pushing the yield on the benchmark 30-year issue to 8.72%,
the highest in almost a year. Stocks and the dollar were
mixed.
   ---
   Great American Bank said it needs to raise $350 million in
new capital by year-end because its auditor forced it to
boost loan-loss reserves. The disclosure raises questions
about the future of the nation's eighth-biggest S&amp;L.
   ---
   Employers were dealt a blow by the Supreme Court, which
upheld a federal labor policy that companies can't oust a
striking union by hiring new workers and asserting the
employees don't support the union.
   ---
   Citicorp and NCNB posted lower-than-expected quarterly
earnings as problem commercial loans ballooned.
                                                                                                       

   Three big California thrifts reported robust quarterly
profits, driven by a healthy housing market and widening net
interest margins.
   ---
   Ex-arbitrager Robert Freeman was given a four-month jail
term and ordered to pay $1 million in fines for his role in
an insider-trading case. He agreed in August to a guilty plea
and to resign from Goldman Sachs.
   ---
   Xoma sued rival Centocor for alleged patent infringement,
sparking the latest such fight in biotechnology.
   ---
   The NASD has proposed a long-awaited rule to tighten the
limits on fees charged by mutual funds. But the rule wouldn't
drastically change the way most funds charge investors.
   ---
   Amcor Capital faces more woes. The IRS proposed
disallowing some 1986 deductions by the agricultural
tax-shelter firm. Also, two men with ties to Amcor were
indicted.
   ---
   Deutsche Bank plans to form a venture with East Germany's
central bank, paving the way for the West German bank to take
a lead role in East Germany's finance industry.
   ---
   NCR's stock plunged $5.375, to $65.375, after the computer
maker posted a 15% drop in quarterly profit.
   ---
   Microsoft's profit soared 83% in its latest quarter as the
software maker continued to outperform competitors.
   ---
   Donaldson Lufkin was charged by the SEC with illegally
using customers' stock that was left in the care of the
firm's back-office operations. Donaldson settled the suit for
$5.6 million.
   ---
   General Electric posted a 12% increase in first-quarter
profit, citing strong gains at most major businesses, except
for the NBC unit.
   ---
   Norton's takeover defense against BTR of Britain is
expected to get some help from a new Massachusetts law. But
takeover speculators say the law may only delay a BTR
victory.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 127,990,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2765.77, up 2.71; transportation 1185.63, off 3.03; utilities
213.72, up 0.57.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3296.51, off
24.86.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.76, off 0.02;
spot index 135.41, off 0.27.
   Dollar: 159.68 yen, up 0.38; 1.6768 marks, off 0.0007.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada and U.S.
   Are Negotiating
   New Fishing Pact
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada and the U.S. are negotiating an agreement
to end a string of dangerous clashes between Canadian patrol
boats and U.S. fishermen.
   The clashes have occurred mainly in the Georges Bank area,
a big fishing ground in the Gulf of Maine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed agreement would make it illegal under U.S.
law for U.S. fishermen to fish in Canadian waters. It also
would make it illegal under Canadian law for Canadians to
fish in U.S. waters.
   The poaching problem has become more acute since a 1984
World Court boundary ruling gave Canada some rich fishing
grounds in the Georges Bank region that had been traditional
fishing areas for U.S. vessels.
   Some U.S. fishermen who have been caught in Canadian
waters have tried to outrun Canadian patrol boats. The
severest penalty they currently face in the U.S. is a $10,000
fine for importing illegal goods, which often is less than
the proceeds they obtain from the catch. If Canadian patrol
boats catch them, they can face fines of up to 750,000
Canadian dollars (US$641,700) and a possible jail term.
   U.S. fishermen claim Canadian patrol boats have tried to
cripple their vessels by fouling their propellers with cables
and by shooting water down their smoke stacks. Canadian
patrol boats also have allegedly rammed some fishing boats.
   No one has been seriously injured in a chase yet but the
clashes have been a concern particularly since Canadian
patrol boats were fitted with guns three years ago. Canadians
have fired warning shots near fleeing U.S. fishing boats
twice. On another occasion permission to fire was requested
from Ottawa but denied.
   Last December, a Canadian destroyer fired shots across the
bow of a U.S. scallop dragger. The destroyer chased the
scalloper for eight hours and collided with it three times
before the scalloper managed to escape to a U.S. port.
   "There definitely is the potential for catastrophe," in
Georges Bank said Jeffrey Pike, a spokesman for Rep. Gerry
Studds, the head of the U.S. House of Representatives
subcommittee on fisheries. Mr. Studds believes a reciprocal
enforcement of fisheries laws would enable U.S. fishermen to
"fish without fear of being shot at or rammed or spied on."
   Under the proposed new agreement, U.S. fishermen would
face fines of up to $100,000 and could have their fishing
licences revoked.
   Some Canadians oppose the proposed agreement. The U.S. "is
the enemy," said William Rompkey, a Canadian Member of
Parliament. It isn't "reasonable" to "depend on them to
prosecute their own people," he said.
   Canadian and U.S. officials predict they will reach an
enforcement accord by autumn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Are CDs Recyclable?
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   We see where Rolling Stone magazine has decided to list us
among the people and places it deems insufficiently ardent in
promoting its views of environmental propriety. Also on
Rolling Stone's list are former President of the United
States Ronald Reagan, current American President George Bush,
the entire nation of Japan and Kenny Rogers. We seem to merit
inclusion on this august list for once editorializing that
the California Green movement was made up of "lala
activists."
   Sometime in the coming week, many of the musicians who
have made Rolling Stone magazine succeed will participate in
a TV program to promote Earth Day. Insofar as at least 13
states have been threatening lately to enact legislation
aimed at pornographic rock-music lyrics, it is encouraging to
see that so many musicians have decided to channel their
natural energies into helping the land, the air, the seas,
the animals of the earth and people. It occurs to us, though,
that while these artists and Rolling Stone are condemning
Presidents, nations, corporations and even editorial pages
for not sharing their views, perhaps they should think about
the weeds in their own garden.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now that investment banking has been knocked out of the
box, the music industry is the only place left where people
in their twenties can become millionaires. But look at the
cost of their fortunes. How long will it take for a compact
disc to biodegrade? They advertise the shiny metal discs as
being virtually indestructible. Day after day, music-company
factories are stamping out thousands upon thousands of CDs.
Heaven knows how much land is being pillaged to mine out
metals for these CDs. Are they recyclable; can you use them
as mulch? Compounding the threat, many CDs are sold in
hard-plastic packaging.
   How about cassette tapes? There's something that isn't
going to biodegrade any time soon. And boy is there a lot of
it. Take all the cassette tapes ever made, splice them
together, and you probably could string that little brown
tape out to the Moon, wrap it twice, and tether it to a tree
in the rain forest. The most expensive tapes are coated with
chromium dioxide, which sounds like one of those things
that's going to leak out of landfills and into the ground
water.
   Then there's the biggest music-pollution problem of all --
the world glut of vinyl LPs. Many are being duplicated as
redundant CDs. There must be more non-biodegradable LPs in
America than there are trees in Yellowstone National Park.
Even after the original Earth Day, Rolling Stone magazine
used to advertise them in every single issue. Didn't anyone
wonder what would happen when the fans turned 40 and started
sending their Deep Purple and Jefferson Starship albums to
the nation's landfills? And we're supposed to worry about
McDonald's polystyrene boxes. Did you ever try to melt an LP?
   It will be said many times this week that we are all in
this together. However, the nation's celebrities will say it
more than everyone else. We guess that's because they have
more free time than everyone else. But in the days ahead,
when they are berating the people of America for not doing
enough for the Amazon, global temperatures and trash
recycling, we will wonder about that unending output of metal
CDs and plastic LPs, their own for-profit contribution to the
ecosystem.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wasserstein Perella Forms
   Fund With Banque Paribas
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.CBK N.AMR F.CFP
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Banque Paribas and Wasserstein Perella Group
Inc. formed a $366 million fund to provide "mezzanine
financing" for friendly merchant-banking transactions and
European corporate restructurings.
   The fund, called European Mezzanine Fund, will be jointly
managed by Paribas and Wasserstein Perella; it is in the form
of European Currency Units, or ECUs, totaling 300 million.
Other participants are Commerzbank of West Germany and
Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paribas and Wasserstein Perella said they anticipate a
second closing soon to accommodate additional investors.
Stephen A. Oxman, deputy chairman of Wasserstein Perella, an
investment bank based in New York, said it was possible the
additional investment could add between 50 million ECUs and
100 million ECUs to the fund.
   Banque Paribas is part of Paris-based Paribas Group, an
investment bank and financial services company with assets of
more than $140 billion.
   Mezzanine financing tends to occupy the same place in a
company's capital structure as junk bonds. It generally
consists of subordinated debt and associated equity
securities, such as warrants. Mr. Oxman said there were
several other such funds in Europe, all smaller than the
European Mezzanine Fund.
   He said the fund wouldn't focus on a particular industry
or country.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Brazil's Emergency Plan
   For Economy Cuts Prices
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRASILIA, Brazil -- Prices in Brazil have declined since
President Fernando Collor de Mello launched his emergency
economic plan one month ago, Economic Minister Zelia Cardoso
de Mello said, and the government predicts prices will fall
further this month.
   Ms. Cardoso didn't provide a figure for the decline, but
said, "The deflation is being felt in practice by the
population" of 150 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Collor announced his plan March 16, the day after he
took office as the country's first directly elected president
since 1960. He said his government's priority was to beat
record inflation that reached nearly 5,000% last year. The
heart of the plan was an 18-month freeze on bank savings
accounts valued at more than $1,200 and a limit on money
market withdrawals of $600, or 20% of an account, whichever
is greater.
   The measure took an estimated $115 billion out of
circulation and has the economy teetering toward recession.
   As part of the Collor package, prices and salaries are to
be "pre-fixed" on the 15th day of each month, based on the
government's expectation of future inflation. The minister
said that with the cost of living falling, prices and
salaries won't be readjusted this month. She said the plan
has already resulted in an increase in real wages of between
12% and 18%, as a result of a 73% raise being given workers
two weeks ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England Names Wheeler
   To Run Unit for Troubled Real Estate
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NEB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp., as expected, named
Steven Wheeler as executive vice president with
responsibility for a newly established "collecting bank" to
hold a substantial portion of the company's nonperforming
real estate assets.
   The announcement came as the bank holding company outlined
a strategy for improving its weakened capital base and
returning to profitability over the next 18 to 24 months --
but acknowledged that success of the plan could hinge on
economic conditions in New England.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lawrence Fish, chairman and chief executive officer, said
the collecting bank will be "an organizational concept for
the time being." But he said Bank of New England's aim is to
"define and isolate a portion of" its troubled assets and
"treat them in a fashion that will allow us in time to
finance them off our balance sheet."
   Mr. Fish said as much as $1 billion may be transferred to
the new entity and could be grouped into several portfolios,
such as commercial properties, condominiums, or hotels. "It
will take, I believe, a good three to four months to organize
that," he said. Bank officials said the shape of the plan
will depend, in part, on which assets investors seem most
interested in.
   In addition, Mr. Fish said Bank of New England will seek
to sell within six months its banking subsidiaries in Maine
and Rhode Island, each of which has about $1 billion in
assets. Mr. Fish said the company has had discussions with
several potential buyers of each unit, but hasn't received
formal bids.
   Those and other planned sales would leave Bank of New
England with about $20 billion in assets -- compared with
about $25 billion at March 31 -- and a banking network in
Massachusetts and Connecticut.
   Previously announced plans to slash staffing, along with
other expense reductions, are expected to reduce the
company's overall operating costs by the end of 1990 by 25%
to 30% from the level at the end of 1989, Mr. Fish said.
   Mr. Fish predicted the company will be profitable and will
meet or be close to meeting various regulatory capital
requirements after the strategic plan is completed, over the
next 18 to 24 months. But he acknowledged that the results
will depend "on a stabilized or slightly improving domestic
New England economy" during that period.
   Mr. Fish also said the company will begin to look for "new
sources of equity" and "will consider every option for
bolstering capital," as the company proceeds with its plan.
But he wouldn't discuss specific possibilities.
   In addition to announcing the appointment of Mr. Wheeler,
Mr. Fish said Bank of New England will name "in the next
couple of weeks" a senior credit officer "to be responsible
for rebuilding the quality {of the bank's} credit culture."
Mr. Fish also confirmed that Richard Stover will be in charge
of the controlled loan divisions, which manage problem loans,
at all of the company's subsidiary banks. Mr. Stover, who
joined Bank of New England late last year, previously was a
senior officer at Mellon Bank Corp.'s Grant Street National
Bank unit.
   Mr. Wheeler, former co-head of Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.'s
Morgan Stanley Realty unit, has run a financial consulting
firm here for the past year, specializing in real estate
matters.
   Mr. Fish, a former Bank of Boston Corp. executive who took
over Bank of New England's top job just a month ago,
indicated the company is likely to bring in other new
officers in coming weeks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Eurotunnel May Require
   An Added $815 Million
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.EUR
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Eurotunnel PLC, the Anglo-French cross-channel
tunnel consortium, told its main creditor banks that it may
need about #500 million ($815 million) on top of the #7.2
billion it had previously targeted as its total project
costs, banking sources said.
   Eurotunnel asked the bankers last week if they would
commit to added funding, the sources said. They said the
consortium said the funds would serve as a financial cushion
against rising interest rates and other contingencies,
including cost overruns still technically in dispute with
contractors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A number of project estimates were still under discussion
and negotiations over interim and permanent financing for the
project weren't yet complete, the sources said. They said
that a firm commitment on permanent financing may take months
to hammer out, although an agreement over providing
Eurotunnel with further short-term operating funds was
increasingly likely.
   Eurotunnel said in January when it reached an agreement
with its banks over a short-term credit of #400 million that
it was preparing fresh project estimates. It said those
estimates would be disclosed when it released its 1989 final
results on April 23.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   UJB Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS UJB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   UJB FINANCIAL Corp. (Princeton, N.J.) -- Fred M. Moses was
named president and chief executive officer of United Jersey
Bank, the largest member bank of this $12 billion financial
services company. He succeeds Clifford H. Coyman, 62 years
old, who retired after 25 years with the bank. Mr. Moses, 55,
previously was a senior executive vice president for the
bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Charges Donaldson Lufkin
   Illegally Used Customers' Stock
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission
charged Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. with
illegally using customers' stock that was left in the care of
the firm's back-office operations.
   The firm, one of Wall Street's most respected midsized
houses, agreed to an SEC censure and will pay out $5.6
million, plus interest. "We think this is the largest
disgorgement of any back-office case," said Kathryn Ashbaugh,
an SEC branch chief in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agency said that Donaldson booked $1.9 million as
profit from the transactions and has about $4 million in
reserve for the disgorgement. The firm had already paid out
$300,000 before the settlement.
   Donaldson's Pershing division, its back-office operation,
is the nation's largest "clearing" firm, handling execution
and settlement for more than 500 other brokerage firms and a
million customers.
   Regulatory and Wall Street sources said the problems at
Pershing aren't widespread. However, Charles Schwab &amp; Co. two
years ago repaid $3 million to investors after company
officials discovered a similar situation.
   Donaldson said it already has begun to dispense the funds
to more than 5,000 customers of about 100 other Wall Street
and regional firms that used Pershing's back-office
operations. More than 90% of the recipients will be retail
investors, said Joseph Donnelly, general counsel at Pershing.
Donaldson is owned by Equitable Life Assurance Society of the
U.S.
   In addition, the head of Pershing's equities division,
Michael Dreitlein, agreed to be suspended for 45 days on
charges he "willfully aided and abetted" the firm in the
alleged scheme, the SEC said. He settled the charges without
admitting or denying guilt. Donaldson said he would return to
the firm after the suspension to resume most of his
supervisory duties.
   The SEC said that between 1982 and 1988, Pershing tendered
stock without authorization by customers in partial tender
offers. In those offers, companies seek to buy a percentage
of their shares, but not all the stock. Many such deals took
place in the mid-1980s, when such companies as Unocal Corp.,
trying to fend off corporate raiders such as T. Boone
Pickens, set up partial tender offers as defensive measures.
   Pershing tendered the unauthorized shares, then waited for
the stock price to drop, as it usually does after a partial
tender is completed, the SEC said. Then the firm bought back
the shares and replaced them in the customers' accounts, the
agency said, adding that Pershing generated gains of about
$4.3 million through this practice.
   "This is a statement that firms cannot use customer
securities for the firms' benefit," said Lawrence Iason, who
heads the agency's New York regional office, which brought
the case.
   In other cases, Pershing would conduct similar activities
in cases in which convertible securities were being redeemed
by the issuing company but in which Pershing hadn't heard
from customers, the SEC said. Other similar situations
occurred with stock rights or warrants that were expiring and
the firm hadn't received word on whether to exercise
customers' rights or warrants, the agency said. Pershing
gained about $1.5 million from the two practices, the SEC
said.
   Pershing and Donaldson lawyers said there wasn't any
malice in the firm's actions. "This was not a profit
motivated activity," Mr. Donnelly said. "It was a customer
protection motivated activity."
   Mr. Donnelly explained that Pershing ran a mostly manual
operation in its reorganization department, which handles the
types of transactions cited in the SEC's charges.
Instructions on how to handle partial tenders or other
transactions from Pershing customers at other brokerage firms
"were not always properly directed to the reorganization
department" even though they had been received by the firm,
he said. "The case could be made that {Pershing} was in
receipt of the instructions even though they weren't in a
place they could be acted on." Pershing would then owe the
customers money.
   So, "what evolved was a practice of submitting for tender
more shares than you had instructions for," Mr. Donnelly
said. Extra funds were placed in a reserve fund, he said, and
customers would be paid when they made "valid claims."
   Still, the settlement with the SEC shows that Pershing
paid out only $300,000 in those "valid claims," and kept the
rest of the $5.9 million either in the reserve fund or to pay
the firm's expenses.
   Mr. Donnelly said "the practices discussed in the order
were discontinued even before the SEC inquiry began. We now
have the 100% accuracy of knowing where we stand and who's
giving instructions."
   Theodore Levine, a Washington securities lawyer who
represented Donaldson, said the firm offered the distribution
of proceeds in negotiations with the SEC. "It's a
distribution of funds, not really disgorgement," he said.
"The firm has been standing ready for a long time to
distribute the funds."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Alcoholism
   Is Linked
   To a Gene
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Researchers say that for the first time
they've pinpointed a specific gene that appears to greatly
increase the risk of alcoholism, a condition that afflicts 18
million Americans.
   The researchers at the University of California, Los
Angeles, and University of Texas, San Antonio, caution that
other genes probably predispose people to alcoholism and that
their findings must be repeated in a larger study before
being put to practical use to combat alcoholism.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the findings could lead within five years to the
availability of a blood test to detect the presence of genes
associated with the condition. Such tests, the scientists
say, could help divert children predisposed to alcoholism
from situations that increase the chances of becoming an
alcoholic.
   Within the decade, the research could aid the
administration of drugs, some already available, that would
treat genetically based alcoholism by blocking the gene.
Similar drug therapies have resulted in improvements among
those suffering from schizophrenia. And in 30 to 40 years,
this type of research may help scientists who are now
conducting tests with animals to genetically rework humans,
replacing such degenerative or "bad" genes with healthy, or
"good" ones.
   "Ultimately, the implications of using this information in
treatment are amazing," says Enoch Gordis, director of the
National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Studies
show that alcoholism accounts for about 105,000 deaths each
year, and this year will cost the nation an estimated $136.5
billion in lost employment, reduced productivity and
health-care costs.
   "The chances are very good that other genes and
environmental factors are involved in alcoholism," says
Ernest P. Noble, co-author of the study and director of
UCLA's Alcohol Research Center. "But this gene is obviously
very important."
   In the study, published today in the Journal of the
American Medical Association, researchers report finding a
link between the presence of the receptor gene for dopamine
(a neurotransmitter in the brain associated with
pleasure-seeking behaviors) and alcoholism. In the
constellation of some 100,000 genes in the human body, the
researchers say that of individuals with this gene, 77% were
alcoholics. Only 28% of those without the gene were
alcoholics. The researchers estimate that a quarter of
Americans have the particular receptor gene they linked to
alcoholism.
   Dr. Noble says the research more firmly establishes
alcoholism as a disease, and adds to evidence that genetic
factors are as important as environmental factors in
predisposing people to the disease.
   Dr. Gordis says the federal government's own $25 million
five-year continuing effort to find genes linked to
alcoholism may well buttress the study's findings. The
UCLA-Texas study will also add to the broader genetic
knowledge that is accumulating in the rush to identify genes
that predispose one to cancer, depression, even criminal
activity.
   "We are finding the genetic determinants for many
diseases. With this knowledge, we can prevent the propagation
of disease," says Daniel Flavin, the medical and scientific
director for the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug
Dependence, a nonprofit educational and advocacy group.
   Alcoholism's hereditary ties have long been suspected,
because alcoholism often runs in families. For much of this
century, however, environmental factors have been considered
at least as important in determining the disease, says Donald
W. Goodwin, chair of psychiatry at the University of Kansas
School of Medicine. "Hitler made heredity a tainted word," he
says, citing public revulsion over the genetic research done
on humans in Germany.
   Such environmental factors as the stress of financial or
other personal problems are thought to play a significant
role in the disease, and researchers note that those without
any genetic disposition can become alcoholics. The
environmental argument is bolstered by the few alcohol-abuse
problems experienced among groups, including the Amish and
Mormons, whose upbringing discourages alcohol use. Others
note that alcoholism is five to six times more common in men
than women, which suggests environment-related factors in a
society that has been more tolerant of men drinking.
   In the past 20 years, however, the evidence of heavy
genetic influence in alcoholism has mounted. A Swedish study
of 1,775 adoptees found that children born of alcoholics, but
adopted by nonalcoholics, nonetheless were six times more
likely than the general population to develop the disease.
Similar Danish and U.S. studies using twins and adoptees have
found that children of alcoholics have four times the risk of
developing the disease compared with children of
nonalcoholics.
   Researchers have also shown that members of
alcoholism-prone families exhibit different brain waves. They
have even categorized types of alcoholics -- some in which
genetics, rather than environment, plays a preponderant role
and results in the early onset of the disease and more
anti-social behavior.
   But researchers have had a tougher time demonstrating
specific molecular genetic causes for alcoholism.
   The UCLA-Texas researchers say they focused on one gene
because it has been suspected of playing a role in
schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, drug abuse and cocaine
addiction. Studies culminating in 1988 showed that more rats
with the receptor gene tended to drink heavily. The new study
looked at eight other genes thought to be associated with
alcoholism, but found no significant correlation. The 77%
correlation with the one gene was striking because
alcoholism, like cancer, comes in multiple forms.
   Some genetic experts, nonetheless, greet the findings with
skepticism, cautioning that it's difficult to replicate
studies associating genes with disorders, such as manic
depression and schizophrenia. The UCLA-Texas study, they
note, used only 70 human cadavers.
   David Comings, director of the Department of Medical
Genetics at City of Hope Medical Center in Duarte, Calif.,
says that after a specific type of genetic mutation linked to
cystic fibrosis was found in 70% of subjects, the American
Society of Human Genetics deemed that percentage too low to
establish the mutation as a predictor of that disease. "After
all, a 50-50 chance is random," he says. "There might be
another gene that is much more important than this one." He
notes that researchers trying to block this particular
receptor gene with drugs have seen little effect in treating
alcoholics.
   And scientists say that unlike genetic diseases such as
Huntington's chorea or cystic fibrosis, for which one gene is
thought to be the cause, alcoholism is considered to be tied
to several genes. That means no one genetic marker can tag
all individuals at risk and other genes must still be
identified and studied.
   Still, says Dr. Goodwin of the University of Kansas, "If
this is confirmed, then you have something very important. .
. . You could have a high degree of predictability of who
will become an alcoholic."
   More immediately, the estimated $4 billion-a-year alcohol
treatment industry hopes the study will help convince more
alcoholics that theirs is a disease requiring medical care.
"Most families still don't really believe this is a disease.
They feel ashamed and embarrassed by it," says Frank Picard,
who counsels Portland, Ore., alcoholics on getting treatment.
"This will help them see alcoholism as a health problem. It
will help them get help."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dow Chemical, Huntsman
   Offer Recycling Program
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   DOW
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Two plastics manufacturers will sponsor the
first comprehensive recycling program in four national parks
this year in hopes of preventing bans on plastic by showing
that it is recyclable.
   Dow Chemical Co. has agreed to pay for collecting and
recycling various plastics, glass and aluminum in Acadia
National Park in Maine, Great Smoky Mountain in Tennessee and
North Carolina, Grand Canyon's south rim in Arizona, and
Yosemite in California, said Joseph Gorrell, a National Park
Service official.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Dow spokesman said Salt Lake City-based Huntsman
Holdings Corp., the nation's largest producer of polystyrene
plastic, has agreed to share the program's cost. The
five-year program is to be announced tomorrow in Washington.
   Dow, a major plastics producer based in Midland, Mich.,
proposed the program because many states and local
governments have adopted or are considering laws that would
ban or restrict plastic packaging and products in an effort
to reduce solid waste.
   "We know we have to get the plastic recycling rate at
least as high as aluminum and glass if we are going to
compete with those materials," said the Dow spokesman. Only
about 1% of plastic is currently recycled, compared with
about 55% of aluminum and about 11% of glass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Singing in the Acid Rain
   ----
   By Dave Shiflett
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   The prognosis is well known: Ma Earth is said to have a
fever, and if we don't do something soon, she's going to
croak. What's worse, she won't go to her grave alone. She's
going to take all of us with her]
   Say it ain't so, Ma] Say it ain't so]]
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ma is mum, but her spokespeople will take to the streets
Sunday armed with bullhorns and a rap sheet: global warming,
acid rain, ozone depletion, Reagan's arms buildup, etc., etc.
   Not to dribble on the parade, but plenty of scientists
don't buy the near-death scenario. Just the other day, for
instance, a report on global warming during the 1980s stated,
"The Northern Hemisphere goes up slightly during those 10
years and the Southern Hemisphere goes down slightly. The net
effect for the globe is basically zero."
   Other data suggest many of our pollution problems, though
real, are not worthy of panic. But are we urged by the
experts to quietly collect the facts and then respond
accordingly? Or are we urged to act as if the Death Star had
just entered U.S. airspace? We know the answer. Quiet reason
is out. This is the age of the bogeyman.
   Let us peruse his library.
   "The earth is getting warmer," writes Jon Naar in "Design
for a Livable Planet" (Harper &amp; Row, 338 pages, $12.95).
"Glaciers are melting. Ocean levels are rising. The world's
climates are changing." That's not all, "The land is poisoned
with chemical fertilizers and pesticides. The seas are
cesspools of trash and toxic waste. There is even the danger
that atmospheric air pollution . . . has reached a point of
no return, that the impact of existing pollution will
radically change our climate regardless of what preventative
measures we take."
   There is the additional danger that many of Mr. Naar's
more sensitive readers have just wet their pants. If more
prompting is needed, the author also quotes a "radon
specialist" at the Environmental Defense Fund (the executive
director of which wrote the book's introduction): "From all
the evidence, radon in the home is the most deadly
environmental hazard in America today."
   A feature on radiation seeping quietly into places such as
your baby's crib is entitled "Silent Holocaust," and several
pages later, this quote from author Robert O. Becker jumps
out of the bushes and shouts: "We have evidence that man-made
electronic fields from power lines are far more productive of
serious health effects than cigarette smoking."
   As the government recently reminded us, 59 cigarette
deaths occur every 75 minutes. Are we really being zapped at
an equal rate? And if VDTs really do cause cancer, shouldn't
Joyce Carol Oates be dead by now? (And if she doesn't write
on a computer, is this the time to take up a collection to
buy her one?)
   Another area of concern is air pollution. Will Steger and
Jon Bowermaster have lots to say about it in "Saving The
Earth" (Knopf, 305 pages, $19.95). But wait a minute, fellas.
According to your book, Denver (No. 2 in the "dirty skies"
competition) has a horizon that is "blocked by a dirty brown
haze every other day." Now I know Denver. I work in Denver. I
wear corrective lenses. And I can tell you that the horizon
isn't blocked every other day -- far from it. Are you guys
trying to scare us?
   And what's all this drum-banging for alternative fuels?
You guys know they clean up some types of emissions but
increase others, including formaldehyde -- A KNOWN
CARCINOGEN] Nor is there reason to pant heavily for increased
tailpipe standards. In Denver, for instance, 80% of the
pollution is caused by 20% of the cars. New cars aren't the
problem.
   Besides, you're right about keeping our cars tuned up and
about the need for a change in some people's attitudes. Just
the other day, for instance, a local heavy-equipment operator
spoke these chilling words about her bulldozer: "I really
like that big puff of black smoke. There's such a sense of
control about it."
   Such statements are enough to send your average enviro
around the bend, where there's a good chance he or she will
bump into Gary Null, parts of whose "Clearer, Cleaner, Safer,
Greener" (Villard, 293 pages, $18.95) sound as if they were
written three weeks after the Thorazine bottle went dry.
Because he resembles a substantial portion of the
environmental community, let us put our foot on his throat
and declaim awhile.
   Mr. Null, a radio and television personality, could be
characterized as a fundamentalist tree hugger. For instance,
if you're against nuclear power, as he is, you are "in the
rational camp," while the opposition is "noticeably more
hysterical and reactionary."
   Now Mr. Null is entitled to his opinions, and we certainly
won't classify him with other anti-nuke activists such as the
Berrigan boys, one of whom was arrested for banging on a
nuclear warhead with a hammer. But we all know nuclear
protesters; some of us have fired on them with water cannons.
Committed, they are. Calm and rational? Come now.
   In the same vein, Mr. Null attempts to shake us up about
genetically engineered solutions to the European corn-borer
problem. First he states that "viruses and bacteria are
extremely dangerous organisms with which to be
experimenting," and then adds that "AIDS and many other
serious {]} illnesses are related to microbial infection."
Talk about a smear job. And what's more, Mr. Null is surely
aware that AIDS is not spread by boring corn. Isn't he?
   And while on the subject of food, Mr. Null has more bad
news: "American agriculture is teetering on the brink of
disaster and getting more vulnerable every day." It produces
food that "ceases to have any connection with nature, losing
much of its ability to heal and sustain us."
   This last statement will surprise those of us who have
lived many prosperous years on Velveeta and Big Macs. But
that statement is nothing compared with this howler:
"Notwithstanding the claims of our doctors and health
professionals that Americans are living longer than ever
before, you only have to look around to see that, as a
nation, we have never before been more unhealthy."
   "Claims" that we are living longer? "Death and Dying," an
authoritative source, puts the lie to Mr. Null and the rest
of the doom platoon. The fact is, this planet is more livable
than ever. Neanderthals (original versions) lived an average
of 29 years. Cro-Mags could expect to live 32; ancient Greeks
and Romans, 36 years; 14th-century Englanders, 38; and
20th-century Americans, 72 long ones.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Null wants us to "say `No' to ersatz
food," and promises, in return, a revival of the soul: "For
those of us who do care, food begins to take on an importance
equaling, if not surpassing, that placed on it by Europeans."
Can it really be? Well, one thing's for sure. Mr. Null is
going to be awfully upset when he dies, having spent so much
time making sure his melons were manure-red and otherwise
shopping as if the right purchases could help him evade the
Angel of Death.
   But enough bad news. What is to be done to "heal the
planet"?
   For one thing, bang anyone in the head who suggests that
nuclear power is an alternative for fossil fuels. So far, the
fear campaign has worked, at least according to "The
Greenpeace Book of the Nuclear Age" (Pantheon, 378 pages,
$14.95). "Homo sapiens retains a natural skepticism towards
nuclear matters," we learn, and it is encouraging to note
that radiophobia is one of the fastest growing human
attitudes in the world in all societies.
   That's a fairly questionable proposition, to be sure, but
it did sound scientific the way they started the sentence
with a reference to Homo sapiens, didn't it? This selfsame
creature also should adopt a "green lifestyle," and no green
Homo sapien would be without "The Green Consumer" (Tilden
Press/Penguin, 342 pages, $9.95) by John Elkington and Julia
Hailes and Joel Makower.
   This book isn't dripping with warm spit either, as
exemplified by the section entitled "How the American Way of
Life Is Destroying the Earth." We learn, among other things,
that each person in New York City produces 3.96 pounds of
trash each day, while in Calcutta, each person produces only
1.12 pounds. A role model, to be sure.
   And isn't it time, ask the authors of "Our Earth,
Ourselves" (Bantam, 340 pages, $10.95), that we learned from
"misadventures like South Vietnam, Nicaragua, and Lebanon
that we cannot be the policemen of the world"? Since
Nicaragua seems to have benefited from our policing, do the
authors take it back? Probably not, which brings up another
problem with many of these books. They are written as if to
purposefully alienate the anti-Dukakis community. In light of
this, we must applaud President Bush's decision not to
intervene in the coagulation of Boston Harbor, despite his
campaign rhetoric.
   Is there no levity in the Bogeyman Library? Yes. Michael
W. Fox supplies a couple of chuckles in the "The Green
Lifestyle Handbook" (Henry Holt, 196 pages, $10.95). "Dogs
have been sexually aroused by some hand creams," he reports,
and "Cats have gone berserk after their owners have put on
expensive perfume. One spry Siamese actually cornered his
owner in the bathroom for four hours."
   Mr. Fox really outdoes himself by leading off one chapter,
called "Cruelty-Free Living," with a quotation from Victor
Hugo. Granted, Old Vic may have talked a good game about
living with nature. But according to biographer Samuel
Edwards, every time he ate, the animal population dropped
considerably.
   Lunch, for example, often began with a pate, then fish,
followed by the main course, which usually was a roast of
beef, lamb, pork or veal. A respectful gorging in itself, but
dinner was the big meal. First course, a dozen or two
oysters, then sausages, often followed by lobsters ("and he
usually managed to down two of them," according to Mr.
Edwards, "chewing the shells as well as the lobster meat"). A
roasted chicken also was a mainstay ("Victor ate a young
chicken unaided") and then the main course, Beef Wellington,
likely as not. Perhaps a new poster boy should be recruited.
   In addition to loving the animals, Jeremy Rifkin, in the
introduction to "The Green Lifestyle Handbook," suggests we
learn to nuzzle the entire natural order. The "new,
post-modern view of science is based on empathy with the
environment as opposed to subjugation over it," he says. And
once we "engage nature on an intimate level," Mr. Rifkin
promises, "the relationship grows and deepens and becomes
more secure."
   There are pantheistic elements to some of these books, as
when Dr. Larry Dossey, also a handbook contributor, writes
that "our minds extend beyond ourselves, and are interlocked
in a give-and-take relationship not only with those of other
persons but of the Earth itself." And as my estimable
colleague Vincent Carroll discovered, the radical
environmental group Earth First] publishes its journal eight
times a year on the old pagan European nature holidays.
   While we can poke fun at these books, all of them contain
helpful information. My favorite is Marjorie Lamb's "Two
Minutes a Day for a Greener Planet" (Harper &amp; Row, 243 pages,
$7.95), which is three minutes a day longer than it takes to
flatten your stomach.
   And it is important to do something, if for no other
reason than practical mental health. That syndicated national
den mom Ellen Goodman shone her light on this dark situation
in a recent column:
   "It is an average day on the planet Earth. Acid rain is
falling on the city. The temperature is rising and you don't
know whether it's spring or the greenhouse effect. You drive
home counting the fossil fuels you're devouring . . . You
stop at the supermarket for this week's groceries, which are
next century's landfill . . . This is your life in the era of
eco-worry. The most quantifiable result of the environmental
movement is an anxious powerlessness growing across the
landscape like kudzu."
   Here's one thing Ms. Goodman can do, as suggested in
nearly every book. Instead of using deodorant, substitute a
mixture of baking soda and cornstarch. Sure, by the time you
get home from work you'll be carrying a couple of biscuits in
your armpits, but sacrifices must be made. And besides,
biscuits are biodegradable.
   ---
   Mr. Shiflett is the deputy editorial page editor of the
Rocky Mountain News in Denver.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Soviet Radicals, Conservatives Wage
   Battle for Control of Communist Party
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The fragile unity of the Soviet Communist Party
is rapidly coming apart as radicals and conservatives turn
their long-standing rivalry into an all-out struggle for
power.
   The battle is being fought on two fronts. Within the party
itself, conservatives appear to have gained the upper hand
and are openly demanding a purge of the membership. But
following recent local government elections, radicals have
taken control of city halls in Moscow, Leningrad and
elsewhere, and are promising to make use of their new power
base to push through sweeping change. Party authorities in
these cities, long the sole and undisputed rulers, are
mounting a rear-guard action to block them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   President Mikhail Gorbachev has frequently said he wants
to hold the party together, at least until a key Communist
Congress in early July. For much of his five years in office,
he has successfully played off one side against the other,
all the while strengthening his own power.
   But as the gap grows wider and ever harder to straddle,
the question increasingly is: Whose side is Mr. Gorbachev
really on?
   The answer is far from clear. Under Mr. Gorbachev's
leadership, the Central Committee last week published a
letter sharply attacking the so-called Democratic Platform, a
loose coalition of radicals committed to transforming the
Communist Party into something akin to a Western-style
social-democratic group. The letter blasted the Democratic
Platform's "ideological vacillation and unscrupulousness" and
asked: "How can such people remain party members?"
   At the same time, Mr. Gorbachev is embracing many of the
radicals' proposals, including the establishment of a
multiparty democracy and transition to a market economy. In
his new post as the U.S.S.R.'s elected president, he has
distanced himself from the party's Politburo and other ruling
bodies, preferring to rely on his hand-picked presidential
council of advisers. Last week's decision to step up action
against Lithuania, for example, was taken by the council of
advisers, and not the Politburo.
   Lacking an unambiguous signal from the top, the bickering
between various factions in the party has grown fiercer. Many
believe a formal split isn't far off.
   "I hoped it would come after the party congress, but
following the {Central Committee} letter, I think it will now
take place beforehand," says Maxim Sotnikov, a radical who
heads Moscow University's Young Communist League. In the
event of a split, Mr. Gorbachev "already has a way out," he
says. "He's president."
   Leaders of the Democratic Platform group have so far been
reluctant to leave the Communist Party en masse and set up an
alternative, even though a handful of their supporters have
been expelled in recent days by local party organizations.
Both publicly and privately, the group's leaders are fudging
their next move. Many of them, including Kremlin maverick
Boris Yeltsin, are still hoping to play a role in revamping
the party at the July Congress.
   While they dither, their colleagues elected to city
government have taken up the running. In Moscow, Leningrad
and several cities in the Ukraine, radicals won a clear
majority during the local elections in March and have started
to form governing bodies.
   It is rarely straightforward.
   In both Moscow and Leningrad, the local Communist Party
has taken control of the newspapers it originally shared with
the governing councils and is claiming exclusive use of
dozens of buildings. "They were paid for out of party funds,"
said Moscow's Communist leader, Yuri Prokofiev, explaining
why the party is insisting on its ownership of more than 30
buildings in the Soviet capital.
   In the Western Ukraine, where nationalists won a landslide
victory in the elections, stern warnings seem to be the only
remaining weapon for conservatives. The Ukrainian Communist
Party yesterday slammed the newly elected deputies, many of
whom aren't Communists, accusing them of seeking to "further
their own ambitions." It warned that "resolute measures will
be taken to strictly implement" Soviet law, but didn't
elaborate.
   The battle is fiercest in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital,
where radicals failed to win a clear majority of seats.
Kiev's governing council has been deadlocked for days over
whom to elect as chairman. The local Communist Party leader
is standing for the post, so far without success. But
radicals also lack a handful of votes to push through their
candidates, according to Yuri Shcherbak, a Ukrainian activist
who is a deputy in the Soviet parliament.
   The struggle in Kiev and elsewhere is fierce because "the
party apparat have understood that if they lose, they'll be
without a future," Mr. Shcherbak says.
   Judging by the opening sessions of the Moscow city
council, Soviet politics is entering an extremely turbulent
period. Radicals in the Soviet capital are seeking to have
Gavriil Popov, a leading economist who edits a high-minded
economics journal, elected as mayor. But after two days of
fierce discussions on procedural and other issues, the
council has yet to get beyond preliminary items on the
agenda. They include whether to stop serving sturgeon at the
canteen and whether to remove the huge white bust of Lenin
standing behind the podium. (Neither issue has so far been
conclusively decided.)
   Meanwhile, Mr. Popov, a soft-spoken man with gray hair and
a broad smile, is under fierce attack by the Soviet
conservative press. Two papers, Literaturnaya Rossiya and
Sovietskaya Rossiya, both ran long profiles last week
portraying him an elitist hypocrite and opportunist. Mr.
Popov shrugs off the attacks as reminiscent of old-style
Soviet journalism.
   Arguments erupt at every step. When the radicals approved
a mild declaration on Monday supporting two public
prosecutors who have investigated high-level corruption and
who are currently under government investigation for abuse of
power, conservative Communist deputies in the council walked
out. Some of them walked out again yesterday when the session
sanctioned a rally by the Kremlin walls in support of the
prosecutors, Telman Gdlyan and Nikolai Ivanov.
   The council's conservative executive committee, which
serves as a caretaker administration until a new committee is
elected, suggested holding the rally next week in a Moscow
park, but was overruled. In the end, several thousand people
gathered for the lunchtime demonstration, timed to coincide
with a debate on the two prosecutors in the national
parliament. The crowd, clearly siding with the radicals,
shouted and waved slogans such as "Shame on the Central
Committee" and "Party Mafia-Resign."
   "This is a simple struggle between reactionaries and
democrats," one speaker told the crowd. "For 72 years we have
been governed by criminals."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lowbrows Deserve Artistic Freedom Too
   ----
   By Eric Felten
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The art community, busy denouncing Cincinnati for trying
to shut down an exhibit of Robert Mapplethorpe's photographs,
should be alerted to a bill soon to be introduced in
Congress. If the measure becomes law the federal government
will have the power to seize and destroy artworks that are
not within the act's definition of art. Yet it is unlikely
that many artists will complain about the bill, let alone
scream "Gestapo]" as they have in Ohio. After all, the
legislation is the oeuvre of a group of artists.
   The Plagiarized Art Prohibition Act, which Massachusetts
Democrat Nicholas Mavroules plans to introduce in the House
of Representatives this month, would make it illegal to
import or sell paintings or sculptures that are
"substantially similar to or imitations of another original
painting or sculpture." The bill calls not only for criminal
penalties for merchants of insufficiently original works but
also for the "forfeiture and destruction or other disposition
of all copies that work, and all implements, devices, or
equipment used in the manufacture of such copies." Vessels
and vehicles used to transport the works would be seized as
well and sold to pay, among other things, "the award of
compensation to informers."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The legislation was drawn up by the Rockport Fine Arts
Council, a group of artists who live in that village, a
resort on the north coast of Massachusetts. Cut-rate
galleries in Rockport had been selling slapdash seascapes
painted in Hong Kong for about a tenth of the price local
artists asked for their own work. That put Rockport's artists
at a competitive disadvantage: Most tourists, the artists
say, can't seem to tell the difference between their
paintings and the so-called schlock art.
   The artists say that the Asian paintings are cranked out
on assembly lines, with one person painting the sky over and
over, another repeating the ocean and a third doing the
shore. The last person on the line signs each piece with a
generic American-sounding name. Local artists complain that
the anglicized signature give the fraudulent impression that
the paintings are made in America.
   Members of the arts council also argue that the low-cost
galleries mislead their customers by calling the works
originals. Many of the canvasses look alike, and some
resemble well-known English and American paintings. "Original
should mean more than a trivial variation. Original shouldn't
be something that's copied over and over," says Rockport
artist Dorothy Ramsey. "We call them hand-made copies --
that's what we'd like to have them classified as."
   Rockport passed an ordinance in 1988 requiring "original"
paintings to be "one of a kind," and prohibiting the sale of
works with fictitious signatures. The next year the arts
council lobbied the state capital, and Gov. Michael Dukakis
signed a law requiring a label reading "not an original" on
any painting not "independently created and executed and
signed by the individual artist." Now the arts council wants
to go national.
   The draft legislation they and their lobbyists have
written for Rep. Mavroules is modeled after copyright law.
The measure would extend a kind of copyright protection to
all American works whether or not they have ever been
copyrighted. Under the legislation only original works would
be protected, and so the federal government would have to
define what is and is not an original work of art. And though
this definition is the crux of the bill, the one section left
unfinished in the draft is the article that reads "a work is
`original' if it {----}." Grace Waters, a legislative
assistant to Mr. Mavroules, says the congressman will
probably fill in the blank with the definition used in the
Massachusetts law.
   But that definition is being challenged by owners of
import galleries in Massachusetts court as an
unconstitutional infringement on expression. The Rockport
artists respond that there is no right to copycat expression.
   The Mavroules bill would allow galleries to sell the Asian
paintings only if customers were told of the "identity of the
creator or creators of the work," and "the existence of all
editions of the work." Yet this is information the galleries
don't have, and which would be costly -- maybe impossible --
to get.
   The purpose of the bill, as with that of the Massachusetts
law and the Rockport ordinance, is not to promote art or even
to protect consumers (who haven't been complaining). Rather,
it is to put the cut-rate galleries out of business. But
shutting down galleries that sell schlocky art is no less
offensive than shutting down galleries that display obscene
art. And what makes the Rockport artists' ongoing attempts at
censorship all the less defensible is that they are not even
based on principle. The artists have designed law after law
simply out of their economic self-interest.
   Jack Abady, who owns the Sea Breeze Gallery in Rockport,
thinks the artists would be better off pursuing their
economic interests in another way: "I think if they put more
energy into trying to market their own paintings, they'd be a
hell of a lot more successful businesspeople."
   ---
   Mr. Felten covers Congress for Insight magazine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Horsham Corp. Names
   Munk Chief Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HSM
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Peter Munk, chairman of Horsham Corp. was named
chief executive officer, succeeding Ian Delaney who will
resign as president and chief executive, the investment and
oil and gas concern said.
   Jeremy Garbutt, 40-year-old chief financial officer of
American Barrick Resources Corp., was named president and
chief operating officer of Horsham. American Barrick, a big
gold mining firm, is 22.4% owned by Horsham.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Delaney, 46 years old, said he resigned to set up his
own corporate finance business. He said he will retain his
4.5% stake in Horsham's stock and remain a director of the
company. "I'm not going too far away," he said. Mr. Delaney
said he left his job as a merchant banker to create Horsham
three years ago. "We've been successful beyond our wildest
expectations . . . but {Horsham} doesn't need to be run by a
merchant banker."
   Mr. Munk, 62, is founder of both Horsham and American
Barrick and controlling shareholder of Horsham. Horsham said
he will take "an active role in the management" of the
company.
   American Barrick said it named Gregory Wilkins chief
financial officer, succeeding Mr. Garbutt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citicorp Profit
   Off 56%; NCNB
   Has 85% Rise
   ---
   Loan Problems Affect Both;
   Hibernia Posts a Loss;
   Mellon Net Falls by 16%
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI NCB MEL WFC HIB BT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKS (BNK)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Problem commercial loans continued to balloon, sapping
earnings at two of the nation's biggest banks.
   Both Citicorp and NCNB Corp. of New York and Charlotte,
N.C., respectively, posted lower earnings than analysts had
expected, partly because of greater provisions for problem
loans. Citicorp's earnings plummeted 56%, while NCNB's rose
85%, reflecting in part its recent bank acquisitions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And Hibernia Corp., New Orleans, saw its first quarterly
loss in more than five years.
   Nevertheless, other big banks, Mellon Bank Corp. of
Pittsburgh and Wells Fargo &amp; Co., San Francisco, avoided big
increases in problem loans. Mellon reported earnings fell 16%
because of a year-earlier gain, while Wells's profit climbed
13%.
   Mellon, which a few years ago underwent a restructuring,
has small exposures to commercial real estate and leveraged
buy-outs, the two principal problem areas. And as for Wells
Fargo, the California real estate market hasn't seen the
deterioration that some other parts of the country have.
   Another big lender to leveraged buy-outs, Bankers Trust
New York Corp., also went against the general industry trend,
indicating that it expects higher earnings. Though earnings
won't be out until Friday, Chairman Charles S. Sanford said
results will exceed the $164.3 million, or $2.02 a share, of
a year earlier.
                                                                                                       

   Citicorp
                                                                                                       

   The nation's largest banking company boosted its
charge-offs of bad loans and its provision for future losses
by about 80% as commercial real estate markets in the
Northeast and Southeast, as well as certain leveraged
buy-outs such as Campeau Corp., deteriorated.
   As a result of the provision and intense competitive
pressures, Citicorp saw earnings from its commercial and
investment banking business in Europe, North America and
Japan plummet 77% to $40 million from $173 million a year
earlier.
   The good news in Citicorp's results was that earnings from
its global consumer banking business continued to set
records, rising 26% to $270 million.
   And signaling that the company expects its operations to
remain healthy, the board boosted the quarterly dividend
9.9%, to 44.5 cents a share from 40.5 cents, payable May 10
to stock of record April 27.
   Total charge-offs rose to $679 million from $379 million a
year earlier, and the reported provision climbed to $570
million from $358 million a year earlier. Adjusted for
certain accounting changes, the provision rose to $675
million from $375 million.
   Nevertheless, Citicorp's loan quality didn't slide as
steeply as some securities analysts had expected. Total
nonperforming assets, including its Brazilian and Argentine
loans, rose 11% to $8.2 billion. Of that, non-performing
commercial loans in the U.S. rose $548 million to $3.3
billion.
   Alluding to some relatively larger additions to loan-loss
reserves by other banks, Chairman John S. Reed said in an
interview, "We're being conservative; we're not being crazy."
He added that he expects non-performing real estate loans to
continue to grow. but not as rapidly as in recent quarters.
   Despite the better-than-expected loan-quality picture,
some investors harbor lingering fears that asset quality
could worsen when the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency
conducts its examination of Citicorp in June. Thomas Hanley,
analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc., said, "The eyes of Wall
Street will be on Citicorp's second-quarter results."
   Two other factors also dragged down Citicorp's quarterly
comparison. The year-earlier period included $66 million of
Brazilian interest payments, which have since been suspended.
In addition, Brazil's new anti-inflationary economic plan
kept results in its local banking business there flat by
removing $31 million in deposits from its Brazilian bank.
   The year-earlier period also included a $77 million
after-tax gain on the sale of a building in Tokyo.
   For the first time, Mr. Reed also raised doubts about
whether Citicorp would be able to boost its common equity to
4% of assets from the current 3.6% by year end through asset
sales and retained earnings. "It's going to be tight. I don't
know," Mr. Reed said.
                                                                                                       

   Wells Fargo
                                                                                                       

   Wells Fargo attributed its rise in net income to increased
interest income and a decline in its loan-loss provision. The
San Francisco bank's return on average assets rose to 1.32%
from 1.23% a year earlier, making its return one of the two
or three highest among the nation's major banks.
   First-quarter results benefited from continued robust
California real estate and consumer loan markets. The bank
holding company's net interest income for the quarter rose 3%
to $559.8 million, largely reflecting an increase in new
loans; net interest margin, the difference between what the
bank takes in on loans and what it pays for funds, declined
to 5.09% from 5.23%. Income from sources other than interest
on loans advanced 8% to $199.6 million, partly offsetting a
6% rise in non-interest expense to $411 million. Wells Fargo
attributed the jump in non-interest expense to costs
associated with recent acquisitions, and to an escalation of
bonuses paid to its rank-and-file employees under new salary
incentive programs.
   Wells Fargo's first-period loan-loss provision dropped to
$75 million from $100 million a year earlier. During the
quarter, the company completed the acquisition of two
California banking concerns, Valley National Bank of Glendale
and Central Pacific Corp. of Bakersfield. The banks have
combined assets of about $1.2 billion.
                                                                                                       

   NCNB Corp.
                                                                                                       

   NCNB Corp. reported an 85% rise in profit despite a
larger-than-expected provision to boost its reserve for
problem loans.
   Though the results dwarf those of the year-earlier period,
the latest figures are at the lower end of what many analysts
had expected.
   Indeed, some analysts indicated that the provision for
problem loans, as well as $23.8 million in securities gains
taken from NCNB's huge bond portfolio, may cause them to
review their 1990 estimates for the $64 billion-asset
company. Last month, NCNB officials said the bond portfolio
was sitting on $180 million in unrealized losses.
   "It's of course difficult to argue with these numbers, but
it's also difficult to extrapolate from this the $6 a share
(in earnings) everyone's looking for this year," said Henry
J. Coffey Jr., analyst at J.C. Bradford &amp; Co. Few big banking
companies are meeting expectations this quarter, he added.
   Officials at the Charlotte, N.C., banking company
yesterday reiterated their "comfort" with consensus analyst
estimates of $6-a-share earnings for 1990. That would be a
30% increase from the $4.44 a share posted for 1989.
   For the latest quarter, NCNB reported impressive deposit
and loan growth in a slowing economy, but its net interest
margin was squeezed to 3.22% from 3.96%. This was reflected
in net interest income, which fell slightly to $438.3 million
from $446 million in 1989's first quarter.
   NCNB also reported, as expected, a 25% increase in problem
loans -- in line with most banking-company results for the
quarter. But the period's $88.7 million loan-loss provision,
a 28% increase from the fourth-quarter provision, was about
$20 million more than some analysts had expected. "It's
obvious they could afford the hit and decided not to drag it
out," said John J. Mason, analyst at Interstate/Johnson Lane
Inc.
   NCNB Chairman Hugh L. McColl said the company was
"disappointed by the increase in problem loans," but he added
that the loan-loss provision reflects the company's
"commitment to recognize and build the capacity to deal with
credit problems as they rise."
   Of the $88.7 million, $35 million went to strengthen
NCNB's reserve against future losses to $500.1 million.
Analysts estimated that the rest went to cover $54.1 million
in problem loans charged off in the first quarter.
                                                                                                       

   Mellon Bank Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Mellon's first-quarter earnings dropped largely because of
a year-earlier $24 million gain on early retirement of debt.
   In the latest period, Mellon reported that service-fee
income, including trust and cash management fees, advanced
4.9% to $171 million, while it cut costs 2.5% to $276
million.
   Nonperforming domestic real estate assets increased a
modest $4 million, to $216 million, from year end, and Mellon
slashed its nonperforming loans to less-developed countries
to $27 million from $160 million at year-end. The
first-quarter figure excludes $159 million of Mexican loans
that were restructured as part of a U.S. government-backed
financing plan. Under the plan, Mellon reduced interest
payments on Mexican loans in exchange for bonds
collateralized by zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities.
   Analysts who had been expecting improvements at Mellon
were pleased with the results. "We had very aggressive
earnings estimates, and they hit them," said Mr. Hanley of
Salomon Inc., which recently upgraded its position on Mellon
stock to hold from sell. "Whether measured in credit quality,
earnings or expense management, the quarter appeared to be
strong."
   One disappointment, he said, centered on net interest
revenue, which fell to $199 million from $212 million in the
year-earlier period. Mellon attributed the decline primarily
to a drop in interest receipts on nonperforming Brazilian
loans.
   At Mellon's annual meeting, Frank V. Cahouet, chairman and
chief executive officer, told shareholders that Mellon's
agreement in December to acquire 54 Philadelphia branches of
Meritor Savings Bank marked a turning point for the company.
"It closed one door on a period of restructuring and opened
another to a full decade of promise," Mr. Cahouet said.
                                                                                                       

   Hibernia
                                                                                                       

   Hibernia cited a special loan-loss provision of $50
million for its first-period deficit.
   Hibernia shrugged off the loss as a onetime glitch,
attributable largely to tough new credit-quality standards
that federal bank examiners are applying to spotlight
potential real estate problems early.
   As a result, the company doubled its total of
nonperforming assets to $139.5 million from $65.9 million at
year end. The special loan-loss reserve provision was
intended to maintain the company's level of reserves at 110%
of nonperforming assets, said O.C. Russell, vice chairman of
the Hibernia National Bank subsidiary.
   "Barring unforeseen events, we expect to return to
profitability and to our objectives of a minimum 16% return
on equity and consistent earnings-per-share growth," said
Martin C. Miler, chairman of Hibernia.
   ---
                      1990              1989
                    in     per        in     per       %
                 millions   share  millions   share   chg.
                                                                                                       

                 FIRST-QUARTER NET INCOME
                                                                                                       

 Citicorp ...... $231.0    $0.60   $529.0    $1.52    -56
 Wells Fargo ...  159.8     3.04    141.5     2.56     13
 NCNB ..........  140.1     1.33     75.8     0.82     85
 Mellon ........   65.0     1.25     77.0     1.80    -16
 Hibernia ......  (24.9)   (0.92)    15.2     0.57     ...
                                                                                                       

   Figures in parentheses are losses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Members Approve
   Dual Trading Plan
   At the Chicago Merc
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Chicago Mercantile Exchange said its
members approved a one-year-old proposal to broaden the
number of contracts in which brokers can't trade for their
own and customer accounts.
   The proposal to crack down on the practice known as dual
trading was proposed in April 1989 by an exchange panel after
an undercover investigation of futures trading at the Chicago
Merc and the Chicago Board of Trade surfaced in January 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The practice has been widely scorned for making abuse
harder to detect. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission
wants the exchanges to experiment with prohibiting dual
trading in a few pits entirely.
   The Chicago Merc, which opposes that measure, said
yesterday that it will ask the regulatory agency to instead
approve its member-adopted proposal.
   The way the Chicago Merc proposal differs is that more
pits would be involved, but not all the contracts in those
pits.
   In each pit, traders swap contracts that expire at
different months throughout the year. In the hog pit, for
example, members are currently trading contracts that expire
in eight different months.
   Under the Chicago Merc proposal, dual trading would be
banned in contract months in which at least 10,000 contracts
on average are traded daily over a six-month period.
   Based on that volume, the dual trading prohibition would
probably apply to the contracts that are nearing expiration
in the pits that trade futures contracts for financial and
currency instruments such as the yen and the Swiss franc.
   But the rule probably would mean that dual trading could
continue in some lower-volume futures contracts for
commodities such as livestock.
   The Chicago Merc said 76% of its members who voted
approved the proposal, which was also approved by its Board
of Governors in March.
   In 1987, the Chicago Merc banned dual trading for its
most-active stock-index futures brokers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<LP>
   Crosswords
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The clue was "Johnson,"
   Three spaces to fill.
   No problem, I thought --
   That is, until
   I was reminded
   That time marches on:
   I'd filled in "Van";
   The answer was "Don."
   -- Annie Komorny.
   ---
   Varied Viewpoints
                                                                                                       

   On the subject of hard-driving bosses
   Quite different opinions are given,
   As high marks come from business pundits,
   And lower ones from those being driven.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   From the Podium
                                                                                                       

   Our speaker tonight has risen to every occasion; but at
his age, just not as often.
   -- Robert Orben.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coca-Cola Enterprises Net Fell 40%
   During the First Quarter to $8 Million
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   CCE KO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. said first-quarter
net income fell 40% to $8 million, or three cents a share,
from the year-earlier quarter when a big extraordinary gain
and other items skewed the bottling giant's results.
   The results matched estimates of many Wall Street analysts
who see slow but steady improvement at the company. Coca-Cola
Enterprises, which is 49%-owned by Coca-Cola Co., has had a
dismal earnings record in the 3 1/2 years since it was
created.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Coca-Cola Enterprises climbed 25 cents to $15.625.
   Operating profit climbed 19% to $65 million as operating
cash flow grew 11% to $123.6 million. The latest quarter's
results included a gain of $3.7 million on the sale of the
company's food service vending operations in Memphis, Tenn.,
while the year-ago period included a gain of $11 million from
the sale of Canadian bottling operations. In the 1989 period,
the company had net of $13.5 million, or seven cents a share.
   Volume growth, measured in case sales, was particularly
strong at 5%. Roy Burry, a senior vice president and beverage
analyst at Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., said the figure is probably
twice the total market growth rate in the quarter. A
Coca-Cola spokesman attributed the increase to strong
promotions and a centralization of marketing functions at
company headquarters here.
   That growth, coupled with a moderate pricing increase of
2%, is a good sign that the bottler, which accounts for about
44% of U.S. sales of Coke products in bottles and cans, had
both engines running in the first quarter, beverage analysts
said.
   "The ability to maintain volume increases and pricing
increases at the same time is key," said George Thompson, an
analyst with Prudential-Bache Research. "They are certainly
on the right track. People will want to see the second and
third quarters," which are historically the biggest for the
soft-drink industry.
   The company spokesman noted that "the seven cents a share
last year was entirely from things other than operations,
whereas this year at least two cents was from operations."
   Mr. Burry at Kidder Peabody, who had expected per-share
profit of three cents, without the one-cent gain from the
sale of operations, believes the company can still achieve
his earlier estimate of per-share profit of 45 cents in the
full year.
   The company said the 2% unit pricing increase was nearly
enough to offset the 2.5% increase in related cost of sales
for each unit -- a continuing sanguine sign for an industry
that was pummeled by price wars in the 1980s.
   "Things are gradually getting better," said Emanuel
Goldman, a beverage analyst with PaineWebber Inc. in San
Francisco. "It's just a slow process."
   Revenue grew 5% to $906.4 million from $859.6 million. The
company capped the increase in selling, administrative and
general expenses at 2.2%.
   Several analysts remarked that the latest quarter's tax
rate of 51% was surprisingly high, a result largely of the
tax attributes of selling the vending operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boone-San, Either Put Up or Shut Up
   ----
   By Takao Matsuura
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KOI TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   One year ago this month, T. Boone Pickens issued a
statement declaring that he had acquired 20% of my company's
stock. At first, we at Koito Manufacturing Ltd. were
perplexed. Why would Mr. Pickens be interested in Koito's
stock at a time when it was selling at a price-earnings
multiple of about 170 to 1, as a result of a stock-cornering
scheme by an infamous Japanese greenmailer? Where did he get
this block of shares? What was Mr. Pickens's objective? How
was this related to the greenmail ploy we had been battling
at Koito for months?
   Red flags went up at Koito as soon as we discovered that
Mr. Pickens had obtained his stock from Kitaro Watanabe, the
very man Koito had been battling. Mr. Watanabe, one of
Japan's wealthiest men, has a history of speculation in
stocks and real estate and is renowned for his attempts at
greenmail, in which a company pays a shareholder a premium
price for his stake in an effort to fend off his hostile
offer. He had accumulated his block of Koito stock during an
18-month buying spree that had driven Koito's share price
from about 700 yen to more than 5,000 yen. Mr. Watanabe twice
approached Koito, looking for us to arrange a greenmail
payoff. We refused. And we were aware that Mr. Watanabe was
shopping his shares in an effort to unload his investment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Pickens said it took 10 meetings over four months to
cut the deal to assume Mr. Watanabe's stock. That told us
that the deal between Messrs. Pickens and Watanabe was
probably no simple purchase agreement. It told us nothing,
however, about the nature or terms of the arrangement with
the man who had twice tried to greenmail Koito with the very
shares Mr. Pickens had registered in his name.
   We at Koito knew plenty about Mr. Watanabe, but not too
much about Mr. Pickens. We expected that he would ask for a
seat on our board, so we began to look closely at Mr. Pickens
and his business record in America. What we discovered
alarmed us and made us skeptical of his claims to be a
"long-term shareholder" in our company.
   In 1985 our new "investor" had been labeled by the Supreme
Court of Delaware as "a corporate raider with a national
reputation as a greenmailer." In the same year, the federal
court in Los Angeles had found that he and his colleagues had
engaged in a "studied effort to conceal their true intent" to
put companies "in play" and to obtain greenmail, using
systematic destruction of documents and feigned inability to
recall discussions about their objectives in launching raids.
   We also found out that Mr. Pickens faced jury trials in
cases arising from raids on Unocal and Phillips Petroleum.
Unocal shareholders charged that Mr. Pickens's company, Mesa
Petroleum, had engaged in a stock-parking scheme to enable
Mesa to avoid the rules against short-swing profits under
U.S. securities laws. In the Phillips case, a federal appeals
court found evidence last year that Mr. Pickens "had no
intention from the outset" to honor his repeated statement
that he was not interested in and would not accept greenmail.
   The more we found out about Mr. Pickens, the more it
became clear to us that putting a stockholder whom the
American courts had labeled a greenmailer on our board would
be highly irresponsible. Greenmailers -- Japanese or American
-- are not welcome on Koito's board.
   In this, Koito is no different from the American companies
Mr. Pickens bought into. Not one of Mr. Pickens's American
targets had given him or his representatives a seat on its
board. Gulf reorganized its corporation in order to keep Mr.
Pickens off its board. And KN Energy waged a bitter proxy
fight against his slate of directors. I chuckle now when I
read Mr. Pickens's statements that his other targets would
have put him on their boards if only he had asked. And I
understand now why Gulf and KN Energy went to such lengths to
keep him off their boards.
   Then, there is the question of the value of Mr. Pickens's
investment. As a businessman, I am trained to look first at
the numbers, and the numbers do not look good. Simply put, at
the price Mr. Pickens says he paid for his initial block of
Koito stock, his initial acquisition cost would have been
about $840 million (calculated at the exchange rate then).
That means his interest costs over the past year, if he
actually paid for this stock, would be in excess of $90
million. The annual aggregate dividends on this stock in
prior years were less than $2 million. Even if the company
did the unthinkable and paid out its entire net profits for
the year in dividends, Mr. Pickens would receive an amount
equal only to 0.63% of his supposed acquisition price.
   And, at current price levels, there seems little chance of
stock appreciation. (Koito's stock closed Tuesday at 3,050
yen a share, compared with the 3,395 yen price Mr. Pickens
told the Japanese government he paid for his initial block of
stock.) This "investment" makes no financial sense -- unless
there is a speculative gain to be made by selling the stock
off in a block or unless there was never a real "investment"
at all. (Mr. Pickens subsequently increased his stake in
Koito to 26.4%.)
   A year ago when we asked Mr. Pickens to explain whether he
had some undisclosed arrangement concerning these shares with
Mr. Watanabe, he refused to respond. We have since asked him
several times to disclose the nature of his relationship with
Mr. Watanabe. The American press has asked him as well. He
refuses each time, saying that he is not required by Japanese
law to disclose such arrangements. Under American securities
laws, Mr. Pickens would be compelled to disclose -- as all 5%
shareholders are -- the sources of the funds used to buy the
stock and any arrangements with others to divide profits,
cover losses, or call or put the stock back.
   At the same time, we are looking carefully at proposals
that would eliminate greenmailing schemes against Koito.
Among those proposals is one by Mr. Pickens that, I should
point out, avoids requiring him to make the disclosures we
repeatedly have asked for.
   As Mr. Pickens has escalated his media attack in the past
year, I have heard him tell Koito to "put up or shut up."
This is exactly what I would like to say to Mr. Pickens:
"Either put up or shut up about your financial relationship
with the greenmailer from whom you acquired your shares."
   After reviewing Mr. Pickens's record in the U.S., we at
Koito fully expected to be treated just like any American
company forced to weather a Pickens raid. We were prepared
for attacks on Koito's management, for litigation against us
at every opportunity, for criticisms of the company's
performance, and for the usual Pickens rhetoric of
"shareholders' rights" masking his own personal agenda.
   We were even ready for his persistent misrepresentation of
the facts. In our case he claims that Toyota, which owns 19%
of Koito's stock, has three directors on our board. Toyota
has no representatives on Koito's board, yet Mr. Pickens
refers to me as a "Toyota director" simply because I began my
career as a young employee with that company. I have been
with Koito for 20 years, and the other Koito directors
referred to similarly by Mr. Pickens also have been with our
company for many years.
   We were not, however, prepared for his cynical efforts to
try to depict his raid on Koito as an example of
U.S.-Japanese trade friction. Perhaps Mr. Pickens's legendary
political fund-raising ability opens more doors in Washington
than he otherwise might deserve, but his efforts to use
congressional and public concern over foreign investment to
pursue the personal and private aims of the Watanabe-Pickens
alliance can only impede progress the U.S. and Japan are
making on trade issues.
   A year ago, we at Koito knew next to nothing about Mr.
Pickens. Today I understand what so many American CEOs went
through in the 1980s as their companies struggled to fight
off his greenmail assaults. Someday, perhaps, I will have the
opportunity to compare notes with such American executives as
W.H. Bricker of Diamond Shamrock, Fred Hartley of Unocal, and
James Lee of Gulf Oil on our unpleasant experiences with
their country's most famous corporate raider.
   ---
   Mr. Matsuura is president of Koito Manufacturing Ltd.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CKP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CIRCLE K Corp. (Phoenix, Ariz.) -- Moody's Investors
Service Inc. said it downgraded to Ca from Caa its rating on
about $449 million of subordinated debt issued by this
convenience-store chain. The rating concern said it took the
action after Circle K missed an interest payment earlier this
week on $125 million of senior subordinated debt. Moody's
also said it expects that Circle K interest payments due in
May and June on other subordinated debt issues won't be paid.
In addition, Circle K's pending offer to exchange all of its
subordinated debt for securities that will be significantly
below the par value of the issues outstanding would result in
a permanent impairment of the bonds' value, Moody's said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shearson Shifts
   Several Executives
   In Stock Operations
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. shifted several
executives in its stock-trading operations in the big
securities firm's continuing effort to boost profits.
   The American Express Co. unit, which today is expected to
announce a record first-quarter loss of $897 million to $917
million, set up a new world-wide equity division and
appointed two executives to run it. They are Peter Da Puzzo
and Jack Rivkin, both 49 years old, who will be responsible
for all research, sales and trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, Louis B. Lloyd, 47, who had been head of
institutional sales and trading, is being assigned to a new
post. Shearson said Mr. Lloyd will "work on developing
proprietary-trading products" with Richard S. Fuld Jr., 43,
the head of capital markets who announced all the changes.
Mr. Lloyd's new job isn't considered a promotion.
   The shifts provide big increases in power for Messrs. Da
Puzzo and Rivkin, whose stars have risen at Shearson while a
host of others' have fallen recently.
   American Express has been shaking up Shearson management
-- starting with the ouster of former Chairman Peter A. Cohen
in January -- as it restructures and shrinks the firm. Much
of the first-quarter earnings loss expected to be announced
today is the result of one-time charges to pay for that
restructuring effort. But Shearson has also been losing money
in its traditional businesses of stock trading and investment
banking; it will sustain about $110 million to $130 million
in operating losses in its first-quarter results.
   Mr. Da Puzzo, since 1982, has led Shearson's huge and
successful over-the-counter trading department, for which he
retains responsibility. Mr. Rivkin was head of research since
1987; he will be succeeded by his deputy Fred Fraenkel, 40.
Mr. Fuld said Messrs. Da Puzzo and Rivkin are "two of our
most capable managers" who "have each built terrific
departments."
   With their new posts, Messrs. Da Puzzo and Rivkin will run
all of Shearson's stock operations in the U.S., Europe and
the Far East, which are second in size among U.S. brokerage
firms only to Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Shearson is seeking "a much
more coordinated effort" among its global equity operations
with the new setup.
   More important, Shearson hopes to improve revenue and
profit. Both Shearson and Merrill have been pulling back from
some of the rapid global expansion they undertook in the
1980s, but firms of their size have had difficulty breaking
down internal feifdoms. "The objective is to bring it all
together in one unit," said Mr. Rivkin. "There will be one
profit-and-loss {statement}, as opposed to having individuals
running their separate areas."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Supreme Court Upholds Policy Barring
   Tactic Used to Oust a Striking Union
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR FISNY
</CO>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court, in a blow to employers,
upheld a National Labor Relations Board policy that a company
can't oust a striking union by hiring new workers and
asserting that the new employees don't support the union.
   The decision will make it much more difficult for a
company to refuse to bargain with a striking union by
replacing a majority of the strikers with new workers and
claiming that they oppose the union. This has been an
effective weapon for management because a company isn't
required to recognize a union that isn't supported by a
majority of its employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The high court, by a 5-4 vote, said the NLRB acted within
its legal authority when it decided that employers aren't
legally entitled to presume that workers hired during a
strike are opposed to being represented by the striking
union.
   "This is a major victory for organized labor," said Marvin
Dicker, a New York lawyer who represents management in labor
cases. "This gives the union a very strong hand," he said.
"It doesn't allow the employer to eliminate the union by
replacing the workers."
   This federal labor law issue has been hotly contested. In
the 1960s, the NLRB allowed companies to presume that
replacement workers opposed the union. In 1975, the NLRB
changed course and ruled that replacements should be presumed
to support the union.
   In 1987, the NLRB again changed the policy after three
federal appeals courts ruled that replacement workers must be
presumed to be anti-union. Instead, the NLRB adopted a
neutral approach that the views of workers hired during a
strike can't be presumed to be either anti-union or
supportive of the union and must be determined in each
individual labor dispute.
   Yesterday, in an opinion written by Justice Thurgood
Marshall, the high court said it will defer to the expertise
in labor policy of the NLRB. The court said the NLRB isn't
required to let employers presume that strike replacement
workers oppose the union. The NLRB could change its policy
again, but that doesn't seem imminent.
   The ruling means employers will have to find a way to
prove that newly hired replacement workers oppose union
representation. But that won't be easy for employers to do.
Another NLRB rule bars an employer from polling its employees
about union support until the employer has evidence that the
union has lost majority support.
   Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist joined the majority
yesterday. But he wrote a separate opinion to express
"considerable doubt" about whether the NLRB can require
employers to prove the views of strike replacement workers
yet deny the employers the right to poll those workers.
   That issue is likely to arise in a future case.
"Employers' next recourse is to challenge the no-polling
rule," said Mona Zeiberg of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
National Litigation Center.
   Justices William J. Brennan Jr., Byron R. White and John
Paul Stevens voted in the majority. Justices Harry A.
Blackmun, Antonin Scalia, Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony M.
Kennedy dissented yesterday.
   The high court ruling was a defeat for Curtin Matheson
Scientific Inc., a Fisons PLC unit. The company, which sells
laboratory instruments in Houston, was struck by its union in
1979. The company hired new workers and refused to negotiate
with the union. The NLRB ruled that the company had acted
improperly; but a federal appeals court in New Orleans ruled
in 1988 that the company acted legally in NLRB vs. Curtin
Matheson Scientific Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Attorneys Try to Defuse
   Sympathy in Injury Cases
   ----
   By Wayne E. Green
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lawyers who defend companies against personal injury suits
are working on new ways to deal with an old worry: juries
that are tempted to award big damages because they feel sorry
for critically injured plaintiffs.
   Here's how Chicago attorney Thomas Crisham handled it
recently when a corporate client was sued by a man so
severely hurt that his appearance alone might have swayed the
jury. He got a court order requiring the badly disfigured man
to appear at jury-selection hearings, then asked prospective
jurors whether sympathy would color their judgment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I was trying to reduce the shock effect," asserts Mr.
Crisham, an attorney with Hinshaw &amp; Culbertson.
   He isn't alone. Convinced that sympathy fuels large jury
verdicts in product-liability and medical-malpractice cases,
defense lawyers are stepping up efforts to control it. Some,
such as Mr. Crisham, are mapping strategies aimed at
desensitizing jurors to plaintiffs' injuries. They're also
trying to undercut evidence that plaintiffs' attorneys use to
stir a jury's emotions, such as "day-in-the-life videos"
produced to dramatize the gruesome daily existence of badly
injured clients.
   Contending with sympathy isn't a new idea. But the notion
of confronting it head-on only recently has begun to pick up
steam. Strategy sessions on sympathy can now be found at
meetings of business-lawyer groups such as the Defense
Research Institute. The Federation of Insurance and Corporate
Counsel says it may produce a video that would illustrate how
to handle sympathy in jury trials. And defense lawyers say
clients are beginning to listen, instead of assuming that
most jury cases brought by critically injured plaintiffs must
be settled.
   "It's very much a hot topic," says J. Ric Gass, a defense
lawyer with Kasdorf, Lewis &amp; Swietlik in Milwaukee.
   Many say it's overdue, believing defense lawyers have too
often been upstaged by more creative plaintiffs' attorneys.
Moreover, they contend that sympathy is looming even larger
as damage cases get bigger and more technical. "Sympathy is
something jurors can relate to and focus on," says George
Walker, a defense attorney in Mobile, Ala., with Hand,
Arendall, Bedsole, Greaves &amp; Johnston. "We're constantly
trying to come up with ways to deal with it."
   Plaintiffs' lawyers dismiss the notion that cases turn on
sympathy. As they see it, jurors don't award damages from
sympathy, but for good reasons -- because someone has been
maimed by a careless physician, for example, or by a
dangerously defective company product. "My experience is,
defense attorneys like to talk a lot about sympathy," says
David Perry, a plaintiffs' attorney in Corpus Christi, Texas.
"When they lose, they use that as an excuse."
   The defense bar's current game plan is to tackle the
sympathy issue as early as possible in a case, a departure
from the once-traditional strategy of trying not to call
attention to a plaintiff's injuries. Mr. Crisham's tactic of
bringing a severely injured plaintiff before prospective
jurors may be unusual, but defense lawyers increasingly are
seeking court orders allowing them to show, for example, gory
photographs that they know the plaintiff's attorney plans to
introduce during the trial.
   "Sympathy cannot be swept under the rug," John P. Daniels,
an attorney with Daniels, Baratta &amp; Fine in Los Angeles, told
a meeting of insurance and corporate lawyers last year.
   Among his recommendations: Try to turn the tables on
plaintiffs' lawyers by suggesting in court that they're
deliberately exploiting sympathy to influence the jury; in
cases involving badly injured plaintiffs, such as
quadriplegics, call witnesses who are similarly disabled, to
show that quadriplegics can be rehabilitated and contribute
to society.
   How well such measures work is difficult to measure. But
Mr. Crisham believes his move helped persuade the plaintiff's
lawyer to accept a settlement favorable to the defendant, a
company accused of causing an explosion that injured the
plaintiff. And most defense attorneys contend that tactics
aimed at confronting the emotions of prospective jurors
improve the chances of selecting an impartial panel.
   John R. Woodard III, an attorney in Tulsa, Okla., cites a
medical malpractice case in which he asked prospective jurors
to examine graphic photos illustrating the results of surgery
that had destroyed tissue on the plaintiff's stomach and
required substantial skin grafts. Mr. Woodard, who was
defending the surgeon, says one would-be juror found the
pictures so upsetting she was excused from the case.
   "In the end, I was left with 12 jurors who had seen the
evidence before they were sworn in and had told me they could
set their emotions aside," says Mr. Woodard of Feldman, Hall,
Franden, Woodard &amp; Farris. Moreover, he asserts, the
plaintiff's attorney wasn't able to exploit the photographs
during the trial because the jurors had already been exposed
to them. Ultimately, the jury returned a verdict for the
surgeon.
   But such strategy can't always anticipate a juror's
feelings, acknowledges E. Michael Kelly, one of Mr. Crisham's
law partners. He recalls an attorney who had gotten "all the
perfect answers" from one prospective juror, who was then
selected to serve in a medical malpractice case involving a
seriously injured newborn. Six days into the trial, the woman
asked to see the judge, said she was having nightmares about
the case and refused to continue. "You can cite me {for
contempt} if you want, but I'm not coming back," Mr. Kelly
recalls the juror telling the judge, who agreed to let her
go.
   In another case involving a badly injured child, a juror
was so distressed by the plaintiff's appearance that she
threw up in her handbag during the trial, says Mr. Kelly.
   Besides asking jurors to put aside sympathy, defense
lawyers also are trying to control the kind of evidence that
can arouse it, such as day-in-the-life videos. Because such
videos frequently are sophisticated products that can have a
major emotional impact, defense lawyers often try to bar them
on the grounds that they're biased toward the plaintiff.
   If that fails, and it often does, other moves may be too
late. "By the time such videos are shown to a jury, it's no
longer a question of whether the defendant caused the injury,
it's a question of what can we do for that poor plaintiff,"
according to Mr. Kelly.
   The attorney is trying a new tactic in defending Palos
Community Hospital in a Chicago suburb against a medical
malpractice suit brought by the parents of an infant with
cerebral palsy. He's seeking a court order allowing him to be
present during the production of a video about the baby. He
also wants an unedited copy of the video before trial.
   Mr. Kelly argues that such videos are too often staged, so
he's simply trying to ensure the reliability of highly
prejudicial evidence. But Chicago attorney Barry Goldberg,
who represents the infant, contends such procedures would
intrude on plaintiffs' private lives and invite harassment by
defense lawyers and liability insurers. After 23 years of
malpractice litigation, "I would put nothing past the
insurance industry," he told the trial judge in arguments on
the motion.
   Last December, a state appeals court granted Mr. Kelly's
request for all unedited film, but denied permission to watch
the filming. Mr. Kelly is appealing to the Illinois Supreme
Court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   YOUR MONEY MATTERS COLUMN of April 10 contained incorrect
figures for payments from some immediate annuities purchased
with a $100,000 investment. The figures in the article and
accompanying table were calculated by multiplying payouts on
a $10,000 investment by 10. That was incorrect because the
payouts from some companies were net amounts that had been
reduced by policy fees. Those fees would be the same, not 10
times higher, for policies bought with a $100,000 investment.
Insurance companies listed in the table were correctly ranked
on the basis of payments for a $10,000 investment.
   (See: "Your Money Matters: Shop Around for a Fatter
Annuity Payoff" -- WSJ April 10, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norton Wins a Round Against BTR Bid
   As Massachusetts Lawmakers Clear Bill
   ----
   By Lawrence Ingrassia and David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   NRT U.BTR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- The Massachusetts legislature rushed approval of
a bill designed to bolster Norton Co.'s sagging defense
against a proxy fight by BTR PLC, but takeover speculators
are betting the new law might only delay a BTR victory.
   The law requires Massachusetts companies to have staggered
terms for directors, with one-third elected every year,
effectively blocking BTR's attempt to win majority control of
Norton's board at Norton's April 26 annual meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Passage of the bill, expected to be signed by Gov. Michael
Dukakis this morning, is another sign of states becoming more
active to protect local companies from hostile takeovers.
Pennsylvania is expected soon to adopt the nation's most
stringent anti-takeover bill, which would garnish the profits
of short-term shareholders who sell after a failed attempt to
"control" a company and restrict voting rights of large
holders in proxy fights, among other things.
   "I think it's likely that you'll see other states
following the Massachusetts and Pennsylvania examples,"
predicted Robert A. Kindler, a partner and merger-law
specialist with Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore, New York.
   The new Massachusetts law, introduced in response to the
bid for Norton, an abrasives maker based in Worcester, Mass.,
may not help Norton as much as its supporters hope, however.
Many takeover-stock traders said that even if BTR can only
get one-third of its nominees elected, that minority could
probably force the rest of Norton's board to negotiate with
BTR, a British conglomerate.
   Indeed, although Norton dropped 50 cents a share in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the stock
still closed at $76, above BTR's $75-a-share offer,
indicating that traders think Norton remains vulnerable.
   The new law "doesn't keep Norton independent; it just
gives them a card to play," said one trader. Mr. Kindler
added, "The usual wisdom is that if you are able to take over
even a third of the board of a target company, that puts
extraordinary pressure on the board. The Massachusetts-type
statute should not ultimately dissuade a hostile bidder."
   BTR's chances of winning board seats are considered good
because it has been tendered more than 60% of Norton's stock
in its $1.64 billion bid, currently scheduled to expire April
27. Moreover, if BTR completes its tender offer and buys the
Norton shares, it could replace another one-third of Norton's
board at next year's annual meeting, and thus win control of
the board.
   A Wall Street source said Norton told legislators it
needed action on the staggered-board bill by this week at the
latest. The urgency was prompted by a federal court ruling
last week that Norton couldn't cancel its scheduled annual
meeting and instead hold a special shareholders meeting on
June 26. Norton, which has appealed that ruling, said it
needed additional time to consider alternatives, such as the
sale of a minority stake to a friendly investor.
   The new Massachusetts law mandates staggered boards unless
the board of directors opts out and chooses to have a fixed
board with all members being elected annually. In addition,
an amendment was added permitting a change to a fixed board
by a two-thirds vote of shareholders -- although this clause
will take effect only after Jan. 1, 1992.
   The provision was added because the legislature "had
concerns about completely taking power from shareholders,"
said Laura McCarthy, a legislative aide. Asked why the Jan.
1, 1992, date was selected, she conceded that it was in part
to prevent BTR and its supporters from using their shares to
call a special meeting and then vote to abolish Norton's
staggered-term board.
   Other states are likely to follow suit in adopting
protective laws, several takeover law specialists said, even
though there has been a reaction against the Pennsylvania
bill from institutional investors, some corporations and even
the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Pennsylvania bill is intended to protect Armstrong World
Industries Inc., which is the object of a proxy contest and a
possible takeover bid from the Belzberg family of Canada.
   Ralph Whitworth, director of United Shareholders
Association, a national shareholder-rights group, criticized
the Massachusetts law as "an unprecedented assault on the
most fundamental right of shareholders. . . . The
Massachusetts legislature did the bidding of a few CEO's with
powerful conflicts of interest."
   But Mr. Kindler, the Cravath Swaine attorney, said he
believes the Massachusetts and Pennsylvania proposals are
allowed under the U.S. Constitution. "It is likely that the
Massachusetts and Pennsylvania statutes are constitutional,
since states can properly regulate the internal affairs of
corporations, including the election and terms for
directors," Mr. Kindler said. "In theory, a state could pass
a statute giving directors life tenure," Mr. Kindler said.
   Still, some takeover lawyers believe there eventually will
be a backlash against anti-takeover laws. Meredith Brown, a
partner and merger specialist with Debevoise &amp; Plimpton, New
York, said, "If the states carried the trend too far, there
is going to be some attempt to revive the idea of a federal
pre-emption in that area. But there is a fair amount of
running room because there's not much congressional support
for federal regulation of corporate affairs."
   ---
   Randall Smith contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T, Unions
   Reach Accord
   On Retirement
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   T LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   BASKING RIDGE, N.J. -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.
and its unions tentatively agreed on a nonmanagement
retirement plan that would nearly double the number of
eligible workers to 34,000.
   The early retirement plan, agreed to by the Communications
Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, would add three years of age and three
years of service to the records of all nonmanagement
employees May 1. Unlike under the previous AT&amp;T proposal, the
added years count toward the calculation of the pension as
well as toward eligibility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a rule of thumb, an AT&amp;T employee's age and length of
service must add up to 75 for pension eligibility. Currently,
18,000 nonmanagers are entitled to a pension. AT&amp;T has
165,400 nonmanagers world-wide. The company now estimates it
will trim 13,000 jobs this year, up from 12,000 before this
agreement was reached.
   The voluntary plan also allows individual AT&amp;T units to
offer special incentives to nonmanagement employees where
there are more people than the workload requires -- including
tacking on five years of age and five of service and offering
a 15% "sweetener" that would boost monthly pension payments.
   Last year, a special pension was offered to AT&amp;T managers
that added five years of age and service, plus 15% to pension
checks for up to five years; it was almost identical to the
offer that can be made to nonmanagers in overstaffed AT&amp;T
organizations. Out of 32,121 supervisors eligible last year,
12,535 took it. The program cost AT&amp;T $163 million and
yielded estimated annual savings of $450 million, the company
said. Currently, AT&amp;T has 116,000 managers.
   The company employs 280,400 people world-wide -- about
29,000 fewer than in January 1989.
   The move is part of AT&amp;T's continuing effort to cut costs,
largely through voluntary plans, to meet the competition. The
company said it couldn't assess the financial impact, because
it doesn't know how many workers will take advantage of the
plan.
   CWA President Morton Bahr called the tentative pact "a
very mixed blessing." He said, "It is a sad statement that
workers in their late 40s and early 50s can only look forward
to pension enhancements, when they should have so many years
of productive work ahead of them."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
AT&amp;T closed at $42 a share, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Jonathan Kandell
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST AFRIC EUROP JAPAN FREST TOYOY NSANY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAGHREB MIGRATION
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The creation of a special fund to curb massive North
African emigration to Europe seems to be gaining momentum.
   The idea was raised last month by Tunisia, current
chairman of the Arab Maghreb Union, an economic association
linking Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco and Tunisia. A
European Community commissioner, now in Tunis, has agreed to
discuss the plan with Maghreb representatives.
   The fund, as conceived by the Tunisians, would be financed
in part by debts owed by North African countries to the EC,
and used to promote job creation projects that would keep
more Maghreb workers at home.
   EC sources say there were 1,804,000 emigrant workers from
Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia in Western Europe in 1988. It is
estimated there are also upwards of 600,000 illegal
emigrants.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE AUTOS
                                                                                                       

   Riding their nation's wave of personal consumption, the
two largest Japanese automobile makers, Toyota Motor Corp.
and Nissan Motor Co., reported record domestic sales in the
fiscal year ended March 31. Toyota's domestic sales rose
16.2% from fiscal 1988 to 2,436,000 vehicles, while Nissan
sold 1,385,000 units in Japan, up 18% from the previous year.
                                                                                                       

   KOREAN HANGINGS
                                                                                                       

   Nine prisoners convicted of murder were hanged in South
Korea yesterday as part of an official campaign to stem
rising crime, Justice Ministry officials announced. They said
the action was intended to show the public that the
government is determined to maintain law and order. The
Justice Ministry listed the number of felonies as 7,590 in
1989, up 13.4% from 1988. The last execution was in August
1989, when seven criminals were hanged.
                                                                                                       

   BERLIN MARKET
                                                                                                       

   Since the Polish zloty became convertible in January, more
than a million Poles have journeyed to West Berlin, one of
the few Western European destinations they can visit without
visas. Many head for the so-called "Polish market," a ragtag
bazaar near central Potsdamer Platz where Poles sell whatever
they can bring from home. They cart to West Berlin everything
from caviar smuggled out of the Soviet Union to fresh eggs
and bacon, untaxed cigarettes and Polish vodka. Sales at this
market have become a crucial source of income for Poles, who
have been hard hit by their own country's attempts to scuttle
a centrally planned economy.
                                                                                                       

   STOLEN ANTIQUITIES
                                                                                                       

   Jordanian police posing as art dealers have recovered a
1,200-year-old mosaic floor ripped from one of Jordan's
desert castles. Thieves stole the 315-square-foot Islamic
mosaic from Qasr al-Hallabat on April 1. The spectacular
robbery has focused attention on the vulnerability of some
5,000 ancient sites scattered over Jordan's 38,000 square
miles. "Jordan is an open-air museum," says Tourism Minister
Abdul-Karim Kabariti. "There is a flourishing demand for
antiquities and in our present economic situation people are
tempted to make money by selling them."
                                                                                                       

   INDONESIAN MAIL
                                                                                                       

   France will provide consultants for a planned postal
service mechanization and automation project at the Jakarta
central post office in Indonesia. Paris will also provide a
soft loan to finance the project, but the amount is still
being negotiated, say Indonesian postal officials.
                                                                                                       

   EAST GERMAN PLAN
                                                                                                       

   As more and more West German companies take up strategic
positions in East Germany, the new East Berlin government is
establishing a cartel office to guard against the threat of
monopolies.
   The agency, which is likely to start work today, plans to
spend the next month drafting legislation that will screen
future mergers and joint ventures to ensure they don't stifle
competition in East Germany. The cartel office may also
investigate alliances that have already been formed in recent
months.
   The plan underlines growing concern in East Germany that
newly opened markets in key industrial products and financial
services will be usurped by powerful West German
conglomerates before the country's entrepreneurs have a
chance to set up for business independently.
   "We will do everything not to let the budding market
economy get trampled upon," an East German official told the
ADN news agency.

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   A Norwegian porcelain manufacturer is assembling ramps for
ski jumps made of "snow china" -- polished white tiles dotted
with small studs to reduce friction. This means ski-jumping
competitions will be possible even in tropical climes. "I
think the track is very good. The speed is about the same as
snow," says Per Ove Pedersen, jumping manager of the
Norwegian Ski Federation. . . . Five years ago
Czechoslovakia's Communist leaders refused to allow Pope John
Paul II to visit the village that has inspired the country's
Roman Catholics for eight centuries. Now the tiny religious
center of Velehrad, which sits amid the rolling hills of
southern Moravia, is preparing for an influx of up to one
million pilgrims when the Pope finally arrives April 22.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Bounce Back From Selloff
   To Close Mixed in Light Volume
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stocks recovered from an early sell-off to
finish mixed on the lightest volume in about a week.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 2.71 to 2765.77.
Declining issues outnumbered advancers 844 to 662 on the New
York Stock Exchange. Volume on the Big Board totaled
127,990,000 shares, the lightest since April 9 when 114.9
million shares traded.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Broader averages finished lower: Standard &amp; Poor's
500-stock index fell 0.06 to 344.68, and the New York Stock
Exchange composite index slid 0.03 to 188.91. The American
Stock Exchange Market Value index dropped 2.26 to 354.72.
   Prices initially tumbled with the bond market on the news
that consumer prices increased more sharply than anticipated
last month. The price index rose 0.5% overall and 0.7%,
excluding food and energy prices, the most volatile
components.
   But late stock-index arbitrage buy programs helped boost
blue-chip issues to higher levels in the final hour. (In
stock-index arbitrage, traders buy or sell stock and offset
the trade with futures or options to lock in fleeting price
differences.) Also, traders said a few institutional accounts
began shopping for stocks late in the session.
   "There's not enough selling to kill the market, pure and
simple," said Dudley A. Eppel, head of trading at Donaldson,
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, who noted that would-be sellers "have had
every excuse" to dump stocks recently.
   Today's report on the U.S. trade balance for February will
be scrutinized for signs of stronger U.S. export growth,
especially in capital goods. Many strategists believe the
strong exports will help boost stocks whose fortunes are tied
to economic growth this year.
   NCR plummeted 5 3/8 to 65 3/8 and led the list of most
active NYSE issues, as more than 2.1 million shares changed
hands in composite trading, after the company reported a 15%
decline in first-quarter earnings from a year ago. Its net
income of 73 cents a share fell short of both analysts'
expectations and the year-earlier level.
   Paper and forest-products stocks moved lower after
Louisiana-Pacific and Scott Paper reported first-quarter
earnings that were down from a year earlier and below market
forecasts. Louisiana-Pacific dropped 3/4 to 42 7/8, while
Scott Paper slid 1/4 to 44; Boise Cascade slid 3/4 to 38 1/8,
Champion International declined 7/8 to 27 7/8, Kimberly-Clark
fell 5/8 to 67 3/4 and Weyerhaeuser dropped 3/4 to 25 1/8.
   "People don't want to buy them {paper and forest-products
shares} because they don't know how far the earnings are
going to go down," said George B. Adler, an analyst at Smith
Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co., who added that most sectors of
the industry are likely to come under continued earnings
pressure through next year because of increases in production
capacity.
   General Electric gained 1/8 to 66 7/8 on 1.5 million
shares. The company reported a 12% increase in first-quarter
earnings, which was in line with expectations.
   Citicorp, which reported that first-quarter earnings fell
56% from a year earlier, rose 1/4 to 24 1/2 as 1.5 million
shares were traded. Separately, the company increased its
quarterly dividend by 9.9%, to 44.5 cents a share.
   United Telecommunications dipped 1/4 to 39 7/8 on 1.6
million shares after posting a 40.8% increase in
first-quarter net. Also, the company said it anticipates
completing the planned purchase of the 19.9% of US Sprint it
doesn't already own from GTE by early July, at a price of
about $500 million.
   American Express climbed 5/8 to 29 1/4, extending its
recent gains. This newspaper's "Heard on the Street" column
Tuesday noted that some analysts are hoping the company has
positioned itself for a strong performance next year by
agreeing to bolster Shearson Lehman Hutton's capital.
   L.A. Gear jumped 2 5/8 to 39 5/8. Kidder Peabody repeated
its buy recommendation on the stock, citing evidence of
strong demand for the company's products; its price target
for the next nine to 12 months is $5 a share.
   Columbia Gas System rose 2 7/8 to 48 7/8. Renewed
speculation that Coastal may seek to acquire the company
fueled the rally, traders said. Columbia Gas and Coastal both
declined comment on the rumors.
   Norton fell 1/2 to 76 as a bill mandating staggered terms
for directors, which was drafted in response to the hostile
takeover offer and proxy fight for the company by BTR of
Britain, made its way through the Massachusetts Legislature.
Lawmakers predicted the measure could become law by Thursday.
   Pep Boys-Manny, Moe &amp; Jack advanced 1 1/4 to 13 after
outlining its operating plan for the 1991-1995 period at a
conference in Atlanta for institutional investors. President
Michael G. Leibowitz told Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report the five-year plan calls for Pep Boys "to grow at a
pretty aggressive clip with internally generated funds."
   Vista Chemical gained 1 1/4 to 37. Bear Stearns, which had
forecast earnings of $1.15 a share for the company's fiscal
second quarter ended last month, said it now believes the
results will exceed its forecast.
   Interlake, which had soared 84% between April 5 and
Monday, dropped 1 to 12 5/8. The earlier rise followed a
favorable article on the company in the latest issue of
Personal Finance, a biweekly market newsletter.
   AM International slid 3/8 to 2 1/2. The company said it
expects to post a loss for its fiscal third quarter, ending
this month, and the year because of a charge to be taken as
part of a planned restructuring.
   American Stock Exchange volume totaled 13,510,000 shares.
There were 238 issues advancing and 329 declining.
   Turner Corp. gained 3/8 to 14 7/8. The company said it
expects to report first-quarter earnings of 35 cents a share
and that it had received a construction contract for a $95
million office building in Boston.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Lithuania Braces
   For Cuts in Oil,
   Gas Shipments
   ---
   Breakaway Republic Says
   Moscow Has Sent Notice
   Supplies Will Be Slashed
   ----
   This article was prepared by Laurie Hays in Moscow
   And Walter S. Mossberg and Gerald F. Seib in Washington
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   Lithuanians braced themselves for drastic cuts in supplies
of oil and natural gas after Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev appeared to be following through on his threat of
economic sanctions against the republic.
   Lithuanian officials reported receiving a telegram
yesterday from the general-director of one of the Soviet
Union's gas-supply organizations informing them that the
supply of natural gas is being sharply reduced. They also
reported that the Mazeikiai oil refinery in northwest
Lithuania received a telephone call saying petroleum supplies
would be cut off completely early today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But much confusion remained. Soviet officials in Moscow
made no announcement of a blockade. And the official who sent
the telegram told Reuters news agency that it was intended as
a warning and that gas was still flowing normally to the
republic for the time being.
   "We are waiting to see what will happen tomorrow," said a
spokeswoman for the Lithuanian Supreme Council. "There are
many rumors now." A spokesman for Sajudis, the nationalist
movement that has taken over government in the republic,
said, "There's no panic, but of course people are worried."
He said people have been waiting in line for hours at gas
stations throughout the republic.
   The U.S. is preparing to hold up some dealings with the
Soviet Union, including economic talks, if Soviet officials
actually slash Lithuania's energy supplies.
   But such retaliation against Moscow would be taken
reluctantly and would only affect the least important aspects
of the U.S.-Soviet relationship, at least initially.
   Bush administration officials said the U.S. would respond
only if it determines that the supply cutbacks actually occur
and are significant in scope. They also said the
administration hadn't decided exactly what retaliatory steps
would be taken.
   What's more, the administration expects to launch an
effort, possibly as early as today, to persuade Congress and
the public that some key aspects of warmer U.S.-Soviet
relations are so advantageous to U.S. interests that they
shouldn't be sacrificed to protest Moscow's actions in
Lithuania.
   This campaign will stress the importance of four pending
arms control deals, talks on German unity, and the planned
May 30 U.S.-Soviet summit. It could be unveiled by Secretary
of State James Baker in congressional testimony scheduled for
today.
   U.S. officials privately ruled out any effort to send U.S.
fuel or other supplies to Lithuania, saying it would be
logistically impractical and politically inflammatory.
   Nevertheless, even minor retaliation by the U.S. would be
an important escalation in U.S. policy on the Lithuania
crisis. Up to now, the administration has repeatedly
counseled calm and sought to avoid threatening Moscow.
President Bush personally raised the stakes. Reacting to news
stories and intelligence reports of impending cutoffs of
natural gas and oil, the president said, "Clearly those
announcements are contrary to the approach that we have urged
and that others have urged upon the Soviet Union." He added:
"We are considering appropriate responses if these threats
are implemented."
   Meanwhile, Lithuanian President Vytautas Landsbergis
called on President Bush to take a tougher line to support
Lithuania's drive for independence.
   In Moscow, Mr. Gorbachev was still making
conciliatory-sounding statements to foreign officials about
Lithuania. Italian journalists reported that in talks with
the Italian foreign minister Tuesday, Mr. Gorbachev said he
would find a "political way out without abrupt movements."
   A blockade would seriously affect Lithuania, which buys
all its oil and gas from the Soviet Union. About 80% of
Lithuanian households depend on gas for heat and cooking. The
republic has enough gas to last about one month if supplies
are cut off, the spokeswoman said. The blockade could affect
the other two Baltic republics of Latvia and Estonia, because
the Mazeikiai refinery also supplies them, Lithuanian
officials say.
   Mr. Gorbachev issued his ultimatum of economic sanctions
against the Lithuanians Friday and gave them two days to
repeal several pro-secession laws passed by the republic's
parliament following its March 11 declaration of
independence. The Soviet leader says the laws, including ones
on Lithuanian citizenship and the function of the Red Army in
the republic, violate the Soviet constitution. The Lithuanian
parliament hasn't responded formally yet to Mr. Gorbachev and
adjourned its Tuesday session without a decision.
   But the Lithuanian prime minister, Kazimiera Prunskiene
issued a statement saying there would be no reprisals if the
blockade did take place. "They cut off the supply, we don't,"
she said, adding that Roman Catholic Lithuanians should act
"in a Christian manner."
   Despite several weeks of threats from Mr. Gorbachev, the
Lithuanians have refused to back off from their declaration
of independence, though they have signaled their willingness
to negotiate some of the laws they have passed since then.
They have repeatedly asked for meetings with the Soviet
president, but he has refused to meet with them.
   Economic sanctions could backfire on Moscow because even
though Lithuania is heavily dependent on the Soviet Union for
raw materials, the Soviets also rely on Lithuania for
products in short supply elsewhere, including meat, milk,
televisions and socks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   LEAVE-SHARING BENEFITS in medical crises are taxable, the
IRS rules.
   Recognizing the financial strains of long-term disability,
more employers are letting employees donate leave time to
unfortunate co-workers who exhaust their paid time off; some
concerns even let workers deposit time in leave banks. Now
IRS Revenue Ruling 90-29 spells out the tax effects of a
typical company plan to aid workers who face a substantial
loss of income during prolonged medical emergencies affecting
themselves or members of their families.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the plan, a worker who exhausts paid leave applies
in writing for leave surrendered by co-workers or drawn from
the bank and is paid at his normal rate. That added leave pay
is taxable compensation for the worker's services, the IRS
says, and is subject to tax withholding, the Social Security
tax and the unemployment tax.
   Workers who give up leave don't realize income -- nor do
they incur deductible expenses or losses, even when someone
else uses their leave, the IRS says.
                                                                                                       

   DON'T HANG UP cellular-phone deductions with
record-keeping, lawyers urge.
   As more and more motorists whizzed by with phones glued to
their ears, the 1989 tax act tightened restrictions on
business deductions for cellular phones bought after 1989.
Now users must have records separating business calls from
personal ones. If business use isn't substantiated,
employer-supplied phones turn into taxable income for
employees. Does this call for hanging a logbook from the
rear-view mirror or for combing through monthly bills to
identify deductible conversations? It surely does.
   But two Washington lawyers, Mary B. Hevener and Annette
Guarisco, are asking the IRS for relief from record-keeping;
they suggest a rule like an existing one for
employer-provided cars: If an employer's policy forbade all
but very limited personal use of its cellular phones,
employees wouldn't have to keep records. Tax officials
indicate informally that such a rule seems reasonable, Ms.
Hevener says.
                                                                                                       

   THE IRS BLOCKS a corporate maneuver to use up tax-loss
carry-forwards.
   The 1987 tax act aimed to stop companies with big unused
carry-forwards from buying other companies and selling their
assets to take advantage of built-in value gains that would
offset the carry-forwards. The act provides that those
pre-acquisition losses may not offset built-in gains
recognized in the first five years after acquisition.
Naturally, companies soon saw that they could get around this
by selling assets for installment notes due after the five
years -- when the gain would be recognized.
   Now, notes Robert Willens of Shearson Lehman Hutton, the
IRS has used its rule-writing authority to squelch such
installment plans. Notice 90-27 warns that the IRS will issue
regulations providing that for an installment sale occurring
within the first five years, the disqualifying period will be
extended to include the final installment payment's due date.
   This broadening of the 1987 law to preclude the
installment-sale maneuver took effect March 26.
                                                                                                       

   THE PERSONAL EXEMPTION rises in 1990 to $2,050, adjusted
for inflation, from $2,000 in 1989; indexing rules rounded
the increase down to the nearest $50. So a bill by Rep.
Hastert (R., Ill.) would round off the adjustment to the
nearest $10 -- lifting the 1990 exemption to $2,090.
                                                                                                       

   A MORMON COUPLE'S deduction of gifts to support two
missionary sons was denied by the IRS as a personal expense
and is being reviewed by the Supreme Court. Sen. Symms (R.,
Idaho) has entered a bill to treat gifts to missionaries as
deductible charitable donations to a church.
                                                                                                       

   RETURN CHECK-OFFS designating $1 of tax for the
presidential-election fund have been lagging, the Federal
Election Commission warns. Now three Democratic senators have
proposed a bill that would raise the check-off amount to $3
and require the commission and the IRS to publicize it.
                                                                                                       

   MAIL-ORDER RETAILERS lean on computers to cope with 50,000
sales taxes.
   More states are requiring out-of-state retailers to
collect state and city sales taxes for them. But how can
mail-order companies keep up with rates and requirements of
50,000 jurisdictions? Leased computer software is easing the
compliance burden. Vertex, a Berwyn, Pa., software producer,
says revenue from its system rose over 50% last year because
more retailers "find it cheaper to comply than to fight"
states' demands. Vertex charges $12,000 for the first year
and under $10,000 a year thereafter.
   AVP Systems of Marblehead, Mass., finds orders for
compliance software growing as states intensify their
vigilance and more retailers agree to collect and remit
taxes. AVP says new contracts for its system, which may be
leased for about $7,000 a year, also increased more than 50%
in 1989. Users of compliance software get monthly updates of
sales-tax changes.
   In the last six months, New York says, 179 out-of-state
companies have registered to collect its taxes.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Tomorrow, the House Ways and Means Oversight
Subcommittee is to begin a series of hearings on narrowing
the gap between taxes due and taxes paid. The first
categories on the agenda include sole proprietors and small
and large corporations. . . . Henry H. Philcox fills the new
IRS post of chief information officer, responsible for
information-technology systems. . . . The IRS awarded a
contract to the National Academy of Sciences to review its
critical systems-modernization efforts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Yamaichi Faces Loss
   In Client Bankruptcy
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.YMS
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO (AP) -- Yamaichi Securities Co. of Japan said it
faces a $24 million loss in connection with a bankruptcy
filing last month by one customer, an institutional investor.
   Yamaichi, on orders in February from the customer, a
company that operates coffee shops, bought three million, or
one-seventh, of the shares outstanding of Nippon Seisen, an
Osaka wire maker, for about $44 million for delivery in four
days. Yamaichi was to get a $70,520 commission, but the
customer "failed to settle the transaction and went bankrupt
on March 30," Yamaichi said. Meanwhile, Nippon Seisen shares
dived to $6.54 Tuesday from $14.65 in February, amid the
Tokyo market's plunge.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If negotiations for remedy fail, Yamaichi said, it may go
to court, citing possible manipulation, the illegal
depressing or raising of prices artificially so they don't
represent true value, accomplished by creating an appearance
of active buying or selling, either alone or with others.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ENVIRONMENT
   ----
   By David Stipp
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   WLM
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Towns Come Around
   To Plastic Recycling
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   AFTER YEARS of slow growth, plastics recycling is becoming
a reality.
   In 1988, only about 1% of plastics manufactured in the
U.S. were recycled, compared with 35% of newspapers and 12%
of glass containers. But in five to seven years, 25% of
plastics are expected to be recycled, says Darrell Morrow, a
researcher at Rutgers University's Center for Plastics
Recycling Research. That's important because plastics, which
now make up 7% of U.S. trash by weight, are expected to
account for 14% of America's solid waste by 2000, according
to the Environmental Protection Agency.
   The increase in plastics recycling stems largely from
consumers' growing realization that the stuff can be
recycled, Mr. Morrow says. In 1988, only three New Jersey
towns recycled plastics; now, 300 do.
   Meanwhile, the plastics industry is expanding its
recycling capacity. Wellman Inc., Shrewsbury, N.J., says it
expects within a few months to start up a pilot system to
automatically sort containers by type of plastic. Sorting,
now done by hand, is a major headache for recyclers.
   New uses are emerging for recycled plastic as well.
Recently, Dolco Packaging Corp. of Sherman Oaks, Calif.,
received government approval to use recycled polystyrene in
egg cartons -- the first such go-ahead on recycled plastic in
food packaging.
   Much of the progress, however, is driven by industry
investments in response to concerns about throwaway plastics.
"Ultimately, plastics recycling won't succeed unless it is
economical" without such subsidies, cautions Leslie Legg, a
spokeswoman with the National Solid Wastes Management
Association, a nonprofit group in Washington, D.C.
                                                                                                       

   Studying the Climate,
   Without Sky-High Costs
                                                                                                       

   PILOTLESS PLANES promise to serve as "poor man's
satellites" for studying the climate.
   The glider-like, computer-controlled planes are expected
to cruise at up to 85,000 feet and will have unprecedented
ability to collect data on atmospheric chemistry and
movement, says James Anderson, a Harvard University climate
researcher. Mr. Anderson, a co-developer in the project,
dubbed Perseus, says the aircraft will be able to stay up
longer, go higher and move over larger spaces than any
alternative, such as high-flying balloons.
   One version may be able to go 12,000 miles on a single
jaunt, says the other partner, John Langford, co-founder of
Aurora Flight Sciences Corp. in Alexandria, Va. The planes
will employ wing, propeller and weight-reducing designs from
Daedalus, a human-powered aircraft that shattered distance
records in 1988, says Mr. Langford, who led the Daedalus
project.
   The Perseus aircraft will be towed into the air by a
conventional airplane. Then, a battery-powered, 14-foot
propeller, which would hit the ground if spun before takeoff,
takes over.
   Messrs. Anderson and Langford believe the planes may
provide the fastest, cheapest way to answer urgent questions
about the thinning ozone layer and the greenhouse effect. A
prototype, funded by private and federal grants, will cost
about $500,000 and lift off this year, Mr. Langford projects.
In contrast, the Bush administration has proposed spending
about $50 billion over 25 years for satellites to study the
Earth's climate.
                                                                                                       

   It Sounds Like Rubbish,
   But They Need Trash
                                                                                                       

   IT'S AN ANOMALY in the annals of garbage, but a possible
trash shortage looms in Maine, causing some towns there to
put recycling plans on hold.
   The situation stems from a decision in the early 1980s by
Portland and surrounding towns to jointly build a plant that
would burn trash to generate electricity.
   The plant started up two years ago, but a hitch soon
appeared: When Maine's tourists go south for the winter, the
amount of trash declines more than planners had figured. So
far, that hasn't hurt the plant, which is obligated to
generate a certain amount of power under its financing terms.
But Maine towns are expanding recycling programs under a new
state law, and that could starve the incinerator for fuel.
   So, when Portland and other towns in the Regional Waste
Systems cooperative recently were granted state money to
increase recycling, they decided not to use it, at least for
the time being. "We're not anti-recycling," says Charles
Foshay, Regional Waste's director. "But we put the expansion
{of recycling} on hold until we have a better understanding
of its impact."
   Regional Waste, he adds, probably will ask other Maine
towns to send trash when its garbage runs low. "But," he
adds, "I don't want {garbage} barges from New York."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   SOME conservative think tanks, brought together by the
Competitive Enterprise Institute, Washington, D.C., are
planning Earth Day events to promote "free market" solutions
to environmental problems. One idea: Increase private
ownership of elephants to help fend off poachers. . . . A
different idea comes from Earth Day Wall Street Action, a
left-leaning group that says it plans to block entrances to
the New York Stock Exchange and shut it down on Monday, April
23. The group, whose literature asserts that "Wall Street is
the center of the system responsible for the ecological
crisis," claims that hundreds are planning to participate in
the demonstration. "If they break the law, they'll be
arrested," says a New York Police Department spokesman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NASD Proposes
   Limit on Fees
   Set by Funds
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Association of Securities
Dealers, in a long-awaited move, proposed a rule to tighten
the limits on the fees charged by mutual funds.
   The rule would set those stingier caps by classifying as
sales charges the socalled 12b-1 fees, which allow mutual
funds to pass on to customers sales-related expenses such as
commissions to brokerage firms that maintain a customer
account.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It seems to us that to have a sales charge rule that
applies only to one kind of sales charge doesn't make much
sense," said A. John Taylor, vice president, investment
companies, at the NASD. The NASD has the authority under
congressional mandate to prohibit excessive sales charges on
mutual funds sold through its members.
   Most mutual funds are sold through firms that are members
of the NASD, although some funds are marketed directly to
investors. Mr. Taylor estimated that there are about 1,650
mutual funds that charge 12b-1 fees, although he couldn't
estimate how many of the funds would be bumped into the
excessive category.
   The proposal, if passed, wouldn't drastically change the
way most mutual funds charge investors, said Carl Frischling,
a New York lawyer specializing in mutual funds. The rule
"would leave most 12b-1 plans intact," he said. "It would
only affect the excessive ones." Most of those would be
equity funds, he added.
   Some mutual funds, especially those that charge a fee when
an investor cashes out, levy 12b-1 fees as high as 1.25% a
year. That can eat into an investor's gains under current
rules because there isn't a cap.
   Under the proposal, most mutual funds would have a current
maximum sales charge of 8.5%. But that cap would include the
12b-1 fees. For example, if a fund had a 6% front-end sales
charge, or load, and annual sales expense of 0.5%, the fund
could assess an investor for that expense amount for five
years, until the total reached 8.5%. It would then no longer
be able to charge an investor for 12b-1 expenses.
   Mr. Frischling said he thought the proposal was "very
positive for the industry" because it would cap sales charges
at 8.5%, a rate higher than the level at which most funds are
currently introduced. Most funds unveiled during the past few
years charge fees of 4.5% or less, giving them plenty of
leeway before they would have to stop assessing a typical
annual 12b-1 charge of 0.25%.
   But the new set-up could create accounting headaches for
the funds, as they try to determine how much of a fee they
can still charge each investor as years go by. Mr. Frischling
suggested that could raise the funds' accounting expenses.
   The NASD decided to rethink its salescharge rules in 1988,
after the Securities and Exchange Commission suggested its
own set of 12b-1 rules.
   The SEC agreed to hold off on its rules until the NASD
completed its review. The NASD proposal will be open for
memberfirm comment until May 31, after which it will reviewed
by the NASD board. Then it would be sent to the member firms
for a vote. If they approve the proposal, it will then be
sent to the SEC and for public comment.
   Mr. Taylor said he doesn't think the proposal could be
approved before the end of the year. "This is a very major
change involving the mutual-fund industry and the NASD," he
said. "These kind of things aren't settled overnight."
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   MUTUAL FUNDS with sales-related charges called 12b-1 fees
generally couldn't charge investors more than 7.25% of sales,
under a proposal by the National Association of Securities
Dealers. However, investors who hold their shares for a long
time may be forced to pay more than the 7.25% level.
Yesterday's edition misstated the proposed fee structure.
   (WSJ April 19, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Heat Is on Congress Over Campaign Financing
   But Rising Costs May Derail Drive for Overhaul
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Charles Keating's real clout with Congress
will be put to the test later this month as lawmakers try to
overhaul the scandal-plagued system of financing
congressional campaigns.
   The name of the disgraced Arizona savings-and-loan
executive will be especially resonant in the Senate, where
Mr. Keating's large campaign contributions and self-described
efforts to influence federal regulatory decisions sparked a
pending ethics inquiry of five senators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The moment of truth has arrived," says Fred Wertheimer,
president of Common Cause, a citizens' lobby. "Is the Senate
going to change this money chase system, or is it going to
continue under another name?"
   Common Cause has deluged lawmakers with postcards urging
them to "Take the Keating Test" by completely rewriting
federal campaign-finance laws to cleanse the electoral
process of special-interest money. Public Citizen, another
group active in the campaign-finance overhaul drive, is
spending $1 million on television advertising and other
programs in which the Keating scandal also will figure
prominently.
   In addition to the seeming political windfall that Mr.
Keating has supplied campaign-finance reformers, a barrage of
other congressional ethics flaps, including the imbroglio
over ex-Speaker Jim Wright, also are fresh in the public's
mind. Yet, it's still unclear whether the accumulated weight
of these scandals is enough to force lawmakers to make
changes that are much more than cosmetic in a system that
overwhelmingly returns them to office, election after
election.
   Almost everyone agrees that Congress will pass some form
of campaign-finance legislation this year. But the rising
costs of running political campaigns make lawmakers skittish
about turning off the spigot of special-interest money from
executives such as Mr. Keating and corporate and labor
union-sponsored political-action committees. The debate over
campaign-finance legislation comes as the cost of Senate
races has ballooned to an average of $3.6 million each and
the average cost of a House race is approaching $400,000.
   Moreover, Democrats and Republicans are deeply divided
over core issues such as overall campaign-spending
limitations, restricting the role of political-action
committees, curbing huge "soft money" contributions that are
exempt from current federal election laws, and whether to use
public funds to help subsidize such big-ticket campaign items
as broadcast time.
   Historically, Democrats have demanded that spending caps
be the centerpiece of any campaign-finance overhaul.
Republicans oppose spending limits, arguing that as the
minority party in Congress they must outraise and outspend
Democrats to offset the advantages of incumbency. This
partisan logjam has stalled all previous efforts to change
the campaign-finance system since Congress passed new laws in
1974 following Watergate.
   In 1988, an impasse over spending limits provoked a
record-long filibuster led by Kentucky Republican Mitch
McConnell that killed campaign-finance legislation in the
Senate. The House, where incumbents enjoy a 99% re-election
rate under the current system, has been even more
recalcitrant about making changes.
   This year, leaders in both chambers seem serious about
trying again for a bipartisan breakthrough. One seemed to
come in a report issued last month by an outside panel of
experts appointed by Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell
(D., Maine) and Minority Leader Robert Dole (R., Kan.). The
panel suggested a creative compromise -- an overall
campaign-spending limit based on each state's voting-age
population, with an exemption for small contributions raised
inside a senator's home state. But Democrats and Republicans
are still far apart on how small those exempted contributions
should be.
   Stricter PAC limits are another potential minefield.
Republicans want drastic reductions in the role played by
PACs, while Democrats, many of whom receive a majority of
their contributions from PACs, want more modest changes. How
to deal with restrictions on soft money and what, if any,
level of public funding to propose for congressional
campaigns are issues that have senators on both sides of the
aisle nervous.
   In the House, Speaker Tom Foley (D., Wash.) and Minority
Leader Robert Michel (R., Ill.) are negotiating over the same
issues, but they are reported to be even further apart and
working on a slower track than their Senate counterparts.
   But as Congress returns from its Easter break, the heat is
intensifying. "If they vote against reform, they are going to
be in trouble in their re-election campaigns," vows Joan
Claybrook, the chief lobbyist for Public Citizen, founded by
consumer activist Ralph Nader. Public Citizen retained
Democratic media consultant Frank Greer to create an
advertising campaign to build support for public financing of
congressional campaigns.
   Ms. Claybrook and others say the campaign-finance issue is
a ticking time bomb with voters. Several recent
public-opinion polls disclose a deeply rooted public cynicism
about the political process. One poll, released last month by
Public Citizen, showed that public esteem for members of
Congress dropped to 51% from 61% between April 1989 and
February 1990. Almost a third of voters surveyed said they
believed their own representative is "caught up and corrupted
by the system of money and politics."
   This year the National Republican Congressional Campaign
Committee is counseling GOP challengers to use "the sleaze
issue" in Congress to galvanize anti-incumbent sentiments.
"We're telling our candidates they can run against Congress
if they can point out that their member is part of the
problem," says Gary Koops, a spokesman for the committee.
   GOP candidates in New Jersey, Nebraska and Pennsylvania
already have challenged Democratic incumbents to institute
voluntary spending and PAC limits in their 1990 campaigns.
Republican Audrie Zettick Schaller, a former Reagan
administration official, has challenged her opponent,
Democratic Rep. Peter Kostmayer, to adhere to overall
spending and tight PAC limits in their race in Pennsylvania's
Eighth District. Most of her proposals come right out of
legislation that Rep. Kostmayer himself has co-sponsored.
   But Mr. Kostmayer, who already enjoys a $100,000
fund-raising edge over his lesser-known GOP opponent and who
spent more than $1 million on his re-election campaign in
1988, demurred. Mike Burke, the congressman's campaign
manager, says his boss isn't being a hypocrite on campaign
finance. He claims Ms. Schaller's campaign-spending proposals
contained loopholes that would unfairly benefit the
Republican. He calls an editorial in The Philadelphia
Inquirer that denounced Rep. Kostmayer for refusing to
practice what he preaches "grossly unfair."
   Despite the well-publicized abuses of the current
campaign-finance system, incumbents in the House and Senate
know it still gives them a huge edge at the polls. "That's
why none of these changes are going to come easily," concedes
Ms. Claybrook.
   ---
               The Campaign Spending Spiral
                                                                                                       

   Average spending by Senate and House Winners
   (in thousands)
                                                                                                       

                                      1976    1982     1988
                                                                                                       

   Senate candidates                  $610   $2,066   $3,600
   House candidates                     87      264      359
                                                                                                       

   Source: Federal Election Commission records
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Activist's Plea Terminates
   Attempted-Murder Trial
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   USS
</CO>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. (AP) -- A New York woman's surprise
decision not to contest attempted murder charges abruptly
ended a trial that promised to shed light on the increasingly
bitter and sometimes violent battle between animal-rights
activists and corporations that experiment on animals.
   Fran Trutt, of Queens, N.Y., pleaded no contest in
Superior Court in Stamford Monday to charges of attempted
murder, possession of explosives and bomb manufacturing in
exchange for a one-year prison sentence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. Trutt had been accused of trying to kill Leon C.
Hirsch, chairman and chief executive officer of U.S. Surgical
Corp., by planting a sophisticated pipe bomb near his company
parking space in November 1988. Her arrest threw a spotlight
on the animal-rights movement and the extent to which some
activists would go to protect animals from the corporate lab.
U.S. Surgical, Norwalk, Conn., uses live dogs to demonstrate
its staplers to surgeons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   AT&amp;T Racing
   To Boost Power
   Of Fiber-Optics
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   NIPNY T J.FUT
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   With equipment rivals hot on its trail, American Telephone
&amp; Telegraph Co. is racing to develop optical communications
products that can maximize the potential of fiber-optic
networks and revolutionize communications for home and
office.
   Super high-speed light signals transmitted via fiber-optic
systems can transport vast amounts of voice, data and
television signals through ultrapure glass fibers the
thickness of hair. The industry calls this broadband
transmission.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But these signals must be converted to comparatively
sluggish electronic signals before they can pass through the
matrix of electronic gates that form current computerized
exchanges. The challenge is to develop optical switches to
eliminate that costly and inefficient conversion and unleash
the full power of fiber-optics.
   AT&amp;T Bell Laboratories successfully demonstrated last
January an awkward-looking processor that did numerical
calculations using light beams. Today, AT&amp;T Chairman Robert
E. Allen is to tell the company's shareholders at its annual
meeting in Los Angeles that AT&amp;T will begin shipping
communications products using the new technology in about
five years.
   Several teams of Bell Labs scientists and engineers have
begun designing prototype telecommunications products, using
as their guide the designs of Alan Huang and his team of
researchers who developed the AT&amp;T optical processor.
   "Every big phone company, including all the Bell
companies, is betting on broadband transmission in the future
to handle such things as high-definition TV and fax. And
broadband networks will transmit communications traffic in
terabits, or trillions of bits per second," says H. Scott
Hinton, chief of Bell Labs' photonic switching department.
AT&amp;T's flagship electronic digital switch, the 5ESS,
currently handles five billion bits per second. "We'll need
switches that are three orders of magnitude more powerful
than conventional systems," Mr. Hinton says.
   AT&amp;T itself could benefit from using optical switches to
accommodate heavy traffic. AT&amp;T is the world's largest
carrier of long-distance voice and data traffic. And it is
adding new traffic-intensive services, including network
management for big corporate customers and financial services
for businesses and consumers.
   Mr. Hinton acknowledges that Japanese suppliers present
the biggest long-term threat. NEC Corp. and Mitsubishi
ELECTRIC Co. have already displayed their own prototypes of
optical processors. And Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Corp. is
working hard on the technology, and could license its designs
to its key equipment suppliers, NEC and Fujitsu Ltd.
   AT&amp;T's equipment arm, AT&amp;T Network Systems, has been
struggling to fend off foreign rivals in the market for
highly complex switching systems used to route telephone
traffic. Furthermore, orders for these switching systems are
tapering off and profits from them are razor thin, so AT&amp;T's
rivals -- chiefly Japan's NEC and Fujitsu, Canada's Northern
Telecom Ltd. and France's Alcatel N.V. -- are focusing on the
market for the transmission equipment that pumps phone
traffic.
   In just five years, NEC and Fujitsu have built an
impressive base in the U.S. fiber-optic transmission
equipment market, capturing a combined 16% vs. AT&amp;T's 52%,
Rockwell International Corp.'s 21% and Northern Telecom's 6%,
according to Northern Business Information/Datapro, a market
research firm based in New York.
   A dogfight has already broken out over a new group of
fiber-optic products built to a new industry standard called
Sonet, or Synchronous Optical Network. Developed by Bell
Communications Research and the world's telecommunications
authorities, the Sonet industry standard is expected to
expand the base of transmission equipment suppliers, thus
increasing competition. Sonet should also allow the phone
companies to improve maintenance and boost profits by weeding
out inefficient systems that need a lot of expensive gear to
help them communicate.
   This battle is expected to produce a huge market as phone
companies accelerate their installation plans. From next to
nothing today, the Sonet business will hit $250 million by
1994 and quadruple that by 1997, predicts Michael Miller, an
analyst at Northern Business Information/Datapro. After 2000,
the sky could be the limit as the phone companies begin to
transform all of their networks -- down to the last mile to
home and office -- to Sonet systems.
   "Under the Sonet concept, control is no longer centralized
in the switch, but decentralized so that the user, which
could be the phone company or a big corporate network center,
has more control over their communications transmission,"
says Eli Noam, a commissioner with New York's Public Service
Commission and founding director of Columbia University's
Center for Telecommunications and Information Studies.
   None of these Sonet-based systems will work to full
potential until engineers develop optical exchanges with the
capacity to handle the enormous amounts of traffic generated
by photonic transmission systems.
   AT&amp;T is off to a good start. Bell Labs engineers made two
significant breakthroughs in the last few months on optical
technology. In December, AT&amp;T announced that its scientists
had developed a combined photonic and electronic integrated
circuit to process information. The gallium-arsenide chip
contains 2,048 devices called S-SEEDs, or symmetric self
electro-optic effect devices, and works something like an
electronic transistor. This means that light beams can be
switched on and off -- the manner in which computers
communicate and do calculations -- in less than one billionth
of a second.
   Moreover, on April 11 AT&amp;T announced at a computer
symposium in Kobe, Japan, that its scientists had built a
connecting device for linking integrated circuits in an
optical network. The modules contain surface-emitting lasers,
lenses and mirrors in a sandwich-like quartz chip that is
one-eighth of an inch thick and one inch in diameter. In
effect, these devices should enable Bell labs scientists to
shrink Mr. Huang's crude-looking optical processor and begin
implementing the design in AT&amp;T's future switches.
   The first of these systems will be introduced in 1995, say
individuals familiar with AT&amp;T's plans. The system, called a
digital access cross-connect, or DACCS, is a transmission
system that actually works as a switch to transfer traffic
from one high-speed trunk line to another and convert the
traffic to lower speed electronic signals that can be handled
by the central office switch. With an optical DACCS, phone
companies will be able to switch broadband traffic and send
it to the home or office. After 1995, these individuals say,
AT&amp;T will insert an optical switch into its flagship
electronic exchange, the 5ESS, turning the local switching
office in phone networks into an exchange with several
thousand times the capacity of today's switches.
   Where these optical systems will first find their way into
the nation's phone system is unknown, but AT&amp;T insiders say
AT&amp;T itself will likely test the systems in its own
long-distance network within three years before offering them
to the Bell companies.
   ---
                 Fiber Optic Players
                                                                                                       

   Shares of the fiber optic transmission equipment market
worth $795 million in 1989
                                                                                                       

            AT&amp;T            52.0%
            Rockwell        21.0%
            NEC             12.0%
            No. Telecom      6.0%
            Fujitsu          4.0%
            Telco Systems    4.0%
            Alcatel          0.5%
            Siemens          0.5%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Northern Business Information
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ex-Movie Studio Chief Alan Hirschfield
   Joins Wertheim's Office in Los Angeles
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co. hired Alan
Hirschfield, former head of two Hollywood movie studios, as a
managing director of its Los Angeles office, in a move to
bolster its entertainment-related business.
   "The fact that they've not had a major presence on the
West Coast really opens up an opportunity for me," says Mr.
Hirschfield, 53 years old, who is seen as something of a
rainmaker for the firm's West Coast office. Mr. Hirschfield
formerly headed Columbia Pictures and later Twentieth Century
Fox Film Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Los Angeles office of this midsized New York
securities firm has focused on its brokerage and
institutional financial business, but now it will have a team
of three or four investment bankers to do mergers and
acquisitions and corporate-finance transactions for
entertainment companies and other concerns, Mr. Hirschfield
said.
   The firm's media and entertainment group is headed by
Errol Cook, formerly a senior partner of the accounting firm
Arthur Young (now Ernst &amp; Young), and includes David
Londoner, a media and entertainment analyst often quoted in
the financial press, and Herbert S. Schlosser, formerly
president and chief executive officer of General Electric
Co.'s National Broadcasting Co. Mr. Hirschfield has had a
long association with Mr. Londoner and with James A. Harmon,
Wertheim Schroder's chairman and chief executive officer.
   Wertheim Schroder's recent entertainment work includes its
role as an adviser to the board on composer Andrew Lloyd
Webber's offer to take Really Useful Group PLC private; and
as an adviser to TVS Entertainment PLC in its attempt to sell
as much as 49% of MTM Entertainment Inc., the U.S. television
producer it acquired in 1988.
   "Given my background first as an investment banker and
then in the last 15 to 16 years as an entertainment
executive, and many years as a financier and consultant, I
think it's a very good marriage, particularly given the kind
of commitment they've made to this West Coast office," Mr.
Hirschfield said of his joining Wertheim Schroder.
   Mr. Hirschfield began his career at Allen &amp; Co. in New
York, where he was an investment banker. He later became
president of what was then Columbia Pictures Industries Inc.,
now called Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc., but was
ousted in 1978 amid a bitter power struggle that centered on
the embezzlement of funds by David Begelman, a Columbia
executive.
   In 1979, Mr. Hirschfield joined Twentieth Century Fox as
chief operating officer and vice chairman. He became chairman
in 1981, after Marvin Davis bought the studio in partnership
with commodities trader Marc Rich. Twentieth Century Fox was
later sold to Rupert Murdoch's Australia-based News Corp.
   Mr. Hirschfield resigned from the top posts at Fox in 1984
to form an investment partnership with Mr. Davis, although
that never came to fruition. At the time, he was considered
one of the top candidates for the chairmanship of Walt Disney
Co., which was hunting for new top executives after
management was ousted in the wake of takeover threats. The
post of chairman and chief executive of Disney went to
Michael Eisner, former Paramount Pictures Corp. president.
   In the years since his resignation from Fox, Mr.
Hirschfield has pursued various business ventures, including
an unsuccessful attempt in 1985 to lead a group of investors
in buying a majority stake in Polygram Records Inc. Mr.
Hirschfield is a director of Motown Records, CPP/Belwin
Music, Wolfgang Puck Foods and Live Entertainment Inc.
   Other high-profile additions to the Wertheim Schroder
staff in recent months include former House Democratic Whip
Tony Coelho, who became a managing director last fall. Mr.
Coelho resigned from Congress in July amid questions about a
loan for a junk-bond purchase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Hong Kong Share Prices Reach Highest Level
   Since Beijing's Crushing of Dissent Last June
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hong Kong share prices broke above a key level again
yesterday to reach their highest closing since the Chinese
crackdown on dissent last June.
   Strong overseas interest, following through on the
market's pre-Easter holiday rally, helped the blue-chip Hang
Seng Index gain 24.75 points to close at 3020.44, exceeding
its previous high for the year of 3014.02 recorded on March
26. The broader Hong Kong Index jumped 15.03 points to
1984.64.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Turnover improved to 1.53 billion Hong Kong dollars ($196
million) from 1.31 billion Hong Kong dollars last Thursday,
when the market gained 35.71 points. Trading was closed
Friday through Monday.
   Properties shares posted the day's sharpest gains,
followed by commercial and industrial shares and utilities.
Banking issues were little changed.
   The market opened slightly higher and surged 33 points in
the first half-hour before profit-taking set in. The index
stabilized by midmorning and held within a narrow range over
the remainder of the session, finishing the day eight points
off the intraday high.
   Players said overseas institutions, which have begun to
show increased interest in the local bourse, placed buy
orders over the long Easter weekend, particularly after the
first anniversary of the death of ousted Chinese Communist
Party chief Hu Yaobang passed without incident. Mr. Hu's
death on April 15 sparked last year's pro-democracy movement
in China and there was speculation that new demonstrations
could break out on the date.
   Wall Street's overnight strength also helped the bourse's
initial surge, players added. But the lack of new positive
developments prevented the market from achieving further
gains.
   Percy Au-Young, research manager at DBS Securities Hong
Kong Ltd., noted that overseas buying was aimed exclusively
at selective blue-chip issues. While trading volume figures
for the day were strong, they include the effect of several
large share placements and thus present an exaggerated
indication of market enthusiasm.
   On the other hand, players pointed out that there was no
attempt to push the market lower on the back of the
profit-taking, indicating that sentiment remains reasonably
sanguine.
   Participants expect the market to fluctuate between 3000
and 3050 in the coming sessions in relatively quiet trading,
as players seek to consolidate recent gains without losing
momentum.
   Mr. Au-Young, however, warned that the market could drop
below 3000 in the absence of positive developments in the
next several days. The impact of such a move would likely be
limited, with the index enjoying firm support around 2950.
   Among property shares, Cheung Kong added 10 cents to 11.40
Hong Kong dollars ($1.46), Hang Lung Development edged up
five cents to 5.15, as did Hongkong Land to 7.85.
   Among leading banks, Bank of East Asia rose 10 cents to
13.70, Hang Seng Bank gained 20 cents to 20.40, while
Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Bank lost five cents to 6.30.
   In the utilities sector, Hong Kong Telecom held steady at
5.45, China Light climbed 20 cents to 13.60 and Hongkong
Electric advanced 20 cents to 9.25.
   As for the major trading companies, Hutchison Whampoa
gained 20 cents to 10.40, Jardine Matheson jumped 40 cents to
29.30 and Swire Pacific's Class A shares added 30 cents to
16.30.
   In Tokyo, stocks finished little changed after the weak
yen sent investors to the sidelines in the afternoon and
strong morning advances eroded.
   The Nikkei index, which advanced 350 points by the end of
the morning session, ended the day down 1.58 points from
Monday's closing level, at 28461.60. Prices advanced strongly
in the morning session, as a wide range of issues were bought
following Monday's 750-point plunge.
   In early trading Wednesday, the Nikkei index rose 100
points to 28561.60.
   On Tuesday, large-capitalization stocks such as Hitachi
Ltd., Toshiba Corp. and the "big five" steel makers made
sharp gains during the morning. Prices of most of these
shares nosedived later in the afternoon, pulling the Nikkei
index down with them.
   London share prices closed marginally weaker in stagnant
dealings, as investors found little fresh news to incite
activity after the long holiday weekend.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index was
down 7.6 points at 2214.5, a bit better than its midafternoon
minimum of 2213.8 and well below its opening peak of 2225.7.
   The narrower 30-share index was down 4.7 points at 1736.3.
Volume amounted to a skimpy 254 million shares, compared with
the 324.5 million traded Thursday, the last trading day
before the long weekend. Commentators said trading would
likely remain spiritless until a new direction could be
discerned.
   Shares were largely unchanged throughout most of the
session but then sagged at midafternoon in tandem with a weak
New York opening, brought on by a report that the U.S.
consumer price index rose more sharply than expected in
March.
   Elsewhere in Europe, share prices closed higher in Paris,
Brussels, Amsterdam, Stockholm and Milan, were lower in
Frankfurt, and closed mixed in Zurich.
   In Asian and Pacific markets, shares were higher in Seoul,
little changed in Sydney and Manila, mixed in Wellington and
weaker in Singapore and Taipei.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                % This
                            Apr 16     Apr 13     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ...................  318.4      317.9   -  2.0
   Britain ................  659.9      659.9   -  8.5
   Canada .................  388.7      389.9   - 10.1
   Japan .................. 1212.2     1231.1   - 26.8
   France .................  587.8      587.8   +  3.7
   Germany ................  306.3      306.3   +  7.4
   Hong Kong .............. 2225.6     2225.6   +  6.1
   Switzerland ............  205.0      205.0   -  7.1
   Australia ..............  301.3      301.3   -  9.0
   World index ............  482.8      486.3   - 14.9
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Microsoft Net
   Increased 83%
   In 3rd Quarter
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   REDMOND, Wash. -- Microsoft Corp.'s net income soared 83%
in the fiscal third quarter as the biggest maker of software
for personal computers continued to outperform competitors in
its industry.
   For the quarter ended March 31, Microsoft posted net of
$75.2 million, or 62 cents a share, up from $41.1 million, or
36 cents a share, a year earlier. Year-earlier per-share
earnings have been restated to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split
effective April 13, 1990. Revenue rose 58% to $310.9 million
from $197 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net income was 24.2% of revenue and gross margins were
78.7%.
   Microsoft's performance was slightly better than
expectations, "but it wasn't a blowout quarter," said Rick
Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman Sachs.
   Microsoft's revenue was up only $10 million from the
quarter ended in December. Mr. Sherlund noted that Microsoft
introduced no new products in its March quarter but said he
expects the company to release four new products in the
current quarter ending in June, including a long-awaited new
version of its Windows software package. Windows, which Mr.
Sherlund said will be released on May 22, makes Microsoft's
MS-DOS, the standard software used in most personal
computers, easier to learn and more functional.
   Microsoft cited as factors for its strong quarterly
results continued high demand for its products overseas.
Foreign sales accounted for 58% of total revenue.
   The company also said it was helped by the growing
popularity of its word-processing applications. WordPerfect
Inc., a closely held firm in Orem, Utah, is the leader in
this software category, but "we're gaining market share,"
said a Microsoft spokesman. He declined to endorse
speculation that the company's gains come at WordPerfect's
expense.
   Despite its rosey financial picture, Microsoft continues
to struggle with the dismal showing of a new operating system
designed to replace MS-DOS. Sales of OS/2 are poor, so
Microsoft "is now pushing Windows as the primary software for
the desktop" and not OS/2, said Timothy McCollum, an analyst
at Dean Witter Reynolds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Theater:
   Bolcom and Weinstein's Gambling Gangster
   ----
   By Heidi Waleson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   Philadelphia -- The timing certainly was fortuitous for
the opening of William Bolcom and Arnold Weinstein's new
musical, "Casino Paradise," presented by the American Music
Theater Festival here on Sunday. While fictional gangsters
overran a quiet seaside town with casino gambling on the
stage of the Plays and Players Theatre in Philadelphia,
Donald Trump was opening the Taj Mahal, his latest
contribution to that art, at the other end of Atlantic City
Expressway. But in this case, truth packed more punch than
fiction. Trump's slot machines broke down from overuse and
set off fireworks among would-be gamblers, but "Casino
Paradise," despite a host of terrific songs, was a fizzle.
   Mr. Bolcom, a classically trained composer with a gift for
the popular idiom, and his lyricist collaborator seemed like
an ideal pair to create a musical-theater antidote to all
those shows in which the sets, costumes and special effects
are more important than the music and the words. Their song
cycle, "Cabaret Songs," with its catchy, well-turned tunes
and sophisticated, wicked lyrics, is grateful to singers and
entertaining to audiences. Unfortunately, "Casino Paradise"
is rather like a full evening of "Cabaret Songs." It has all
that clever tunefulness and verbal agility, but little book
or character development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Casino Paradise," set in an unspecified time and era, is
about a gangster-tycoon, J.J. Ferguson (Timothy Nolen), who
buys up a seaside town and brings in gambling, winning over
its inhabitants with blackmail and transparent promises that
as he gets richer, they will too. He is opposed by his
confused, quasi-countercultural son, Stanley (Eddie Korbich),
whose motives stem as much from hatred of his father as from
sympathy for the little guy, and adored by his greedy and
equally confused daughter, Cis (Janet Metz). An ensemble of
weak-willed townspeople/gamblers wavers between J.J. and
Stanley. J.J. gets Stanley sentenced to jail for crimes he
did not commit, so Stanley shoots Dad, and gets put away for
good.
   In Act II, Stanley wakes up from a yearlong coma, during
which he has been tended by a mysterious nurse (Joan Morris)
and undergone a change of heart. Stanley escapes from jail to
fall in love (sort of) with a transvestite prostitute (Keith
Curran). Unaccountably turned even more rapacious than his
father in the interim, Stanley now wants to wrest control of
J.J.'s empire from Cis and her husband (Walter Hudson), who
have been cooking the books while J.J. was out of commission.
J.J., who has ceased to care, dies as the casino -- "this
Club Med of the living dead" -- burns down.
   Lots of promising material here, but alas, not a
"Mahagonny" for the '90s, although its themes recall the
Brecht-Weill opera of 1930. Plot points are told, not acted,
and big chunks of motivation are missing. Why does Stanley do
such a complete about-face? Who is the nurse, besides a part
for Ms. Morris, Mr. Bolcom's gifted wife and duo partner?
Thomas Babe was called in, too late, as play doctor on
"Casino Paradise."
   With a solid frame to hold them together, Messrs. Bolcom
and Weinstein's splendidly inventive songs might have added
up to a terrific show. As it is, there are too many songs
following closely upon each other, and their popular rhythms
(tangos, fox trots, rhumbas, ballads) make them sound alike.
   Mr. Weinstein certainly has a way with words, and you want
to catch every one. Who can resist the love song "I'll Be By"
(sung by Stanley to the transvestite, Sunny), which has the
lyric, "Any bridge you're burning/Any trick you're turning/No
one but me shall lay his head/On your well-traveled thigh."
One was thus doubly grateful for Ms. Morris's crystal-clear
diction: Her shapely ballad "The Nurse's Song" was another
high point.
   Timothy Nolen's frayed upper register and insufficiently
imposing stage presence left J.J. a cipher, and Mr. Korbich
was weak and whiny as Stanley. The evening perked up with the
tall, hairy-chested, bearded Mr. Curran in a
spaghetti-strapped hooker's shift and sequined handbag, and
Ms. Metz as a Daddy's girl turned vicious in her blood-red
wedding gown (Candice Donnelly did the costumes). David
Alden's direction stressed economy of movement and symbolic
gesture over naturalism on the bare-bones set, echoing the
show's depiction of the characters as types, not people.
Michael Barrett led an able instrumental ensemble.
   "Casino Paradise" recalls Mr. Bolcom's gargantuan "Songs
of Innocence and Experience," produced several years ago at
the Brooklyn Academy of Music, in which the composer seemed
too carried away by all his wonderful ideas he had to think
about and how they would hang together. His streamlined,
jazzy violin concerto, on the other hand, like "Cabaret
Songs," successfully represents Mr. Bolcom in a more focused
mood. The next Bolcom/Weinstein production, a full-scale
opera called "McTeague," based on the Frank Norris novel of
1899 about a renegade dentist and his covetous wife, now
being written for a 1992 production at the Chicago Lyric
Opera, already has enlisted a scenario from Robert Altman. Is
Mr. Bolcom beginning to see the light?
   ---
   Ms. Waleson is a free-lance music writer based in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FAA Seeks to Retain
   Civil Fines Program
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Aviation Administration took
steps to respond to a recent court decision barring the
agency from imposing civil fines of $50,000 or less on
airlines for safety violations without first going to court.
   A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit ruled Friday that the FAA
improperly adopted rules to establish the safety enforcement
program that was authorized by Congress as an experiment in
1987. The court said the agency failed to give public notice
of the rules or to allow a period for public comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FAA, in an effort to address the court's concerns,
yesterday reissued the rules as proposals and established a
30-day period for public comment.
   The agency also moved to blunt a major criticism of the
program, under which airlines are often cited for security
violations. The FAA said it intends to change one of the
rules that required a finding of a safety violation before
settlements could be negotiated. Under the new approach, a
finding of a violation won't necessarily be required.
   The program is due to expire April 30, but the FAA wants
Congress to make it permanent.
   For fines of more than $50,000, the FAA still must refer
the cases to a U.S. attorney.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nova Corp. Mulls
   Offering Shares
   Of Husky Affiliate
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   NVA T.CM
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nova Corp. of Alberta said it is weighing a possible
public offering of shares of its affiliate, Husky Oil Ltd., a
large oil and gas producer that analysts value at 1.5 billion
Canadian dollars (US$1.28 billion) or more.
   "That's a matter we're considering," said Robert Blair,
chairman and chief executive officer of Calgary-based Nova,
which owns 43% of Husky. "We've been working on it for
several months, and we'll work on it several more" months
before making a decision.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Husky, one of Canada's largest oil and gas producers, had
1989 earnings of C$24 million, on revenue of C$801 million.
Based on its cash flow-earnings plus depreciation allowances
-- last year of C$285 million and conventional industry
multiples, analysts estimated Husky's current value at
between C$1.5 billion and C$2 billion.
   Nova's earnings have been hurt in the past year by
faltering petrochemical prices and heavy interest costs
associated with its 1988 acquisition of Polysar Energy &amp;
Chemical Corp. Mr. Blair said Nova doesn't believe its
depressed share price reflects the value of its stake in
Husky.
   In Toronto Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Nova shares
closed at C$7.875, about C$1 above its 52-week low and well
off its 52-week high of C$12.125.
   Calgary-based Husky, which had 1989 reserves of about 256
million barrels of crude oil or gas liquids, and 1.6 trillion
cubic feet of natural gas, was taken private in 1986, under a
complex transaction that also left the Hong Kong investor Li
Ka Shing with a 43% stake. The purchase was one of the
largest direct investments in Canada by a Hong Kong investor.
   The balance of Husky is owned by Toronto-based Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, in which Mr. Li has a small
interest, and Mr. Li's son, Victor, a Canadian citizen who
spends much of his time overseeing a big family-owned real
estate project in Vancouver, British Columbia.
   Victor Li declined to comment on whether his family would
go along with a public offering of Husky shares, or whether
it is interested in selling all or part of its stake in
Husky. He also declined to comment on reports that his father
is shifting his focus to U.S. investments.
   Mr. Blair didn't provide details of any possible offering,
including its timing or size, and didn't say when Nova and
its partners expect to make a final decision on whether to
proceed.
   Nova's announcement about Husky follows by less than a
month a decision by Nova to put its rubber division up for
sale. The division has assets of C$1.4 billion, and generated
operating earnings last year of C$61 million on revenue of
C$812 million. Nova said yesterday that purchase and
joint-venture agreements have been proposed so far for its
rubber business, though it didn't offer additional details.
   Nova's willingness to consider taking Husky public didn't
come as a surprise to analysts, who for months have predicted
such a move. Richard Wyman, an analyst at Calgary-based
Peters &amp; Co., said Husky's share price might not command the
multiple accorded other integrated oil and gas producers,
however, in view of the company's C$1.2 billion in debt. "It
would take four or five years' cash flow to retire that debt,
which, in relative terms, would make Husky a relatively
leveraged company," he said.
   Though the Canadian government recently announced plans to
proceed later this year with an initial public offering of
Petro-Canada Inc., the country's biggest domestically owned
oil and gas producer, Mr. Wyman said he believes there would
also be strong investor interest in Husky.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Ends Lower as Bank Stocks Fall;
   Northeast Bancorp Shares Plunge 22%
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   A late-afternoon rally failed to pull over-the-counter
stocks out of a downdraft that began with inflation jitters
sparked by yesterday's monthly consumer price index report.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index closed 1.28 lower, or about
0.3%, at 435.42, an improvement from a 2.72-point drop after
the first hour of trading. Declining issues outpaced
advancers, 1,039 to 855, and volume rose to 136.4 million
shares from 124.7 million Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Traders at several brokerages were encouraged by the late
rally. "There was a nice comeback at the end of the day,"
said Lance Zipper, head of OTC trading for Kidder Peabody,
who attributed the late activity to retail and program
trading. "The market tried its best to come back in the
afternoon. I think it did well, given that the bond market
was down."
   James Volk, manager of equity trading for San
Francisco-based Sutro &amp; Co., also was encouraged by the OTC
market's strength in the face of the weak bond market and the
ongoing volatility of the Japanese market. "The market acts
amazingly well in face of the bond action," Mr. Volk said.
   The day's heaviest trading again was in shares of
companies making news, noted Bob Antolini, head of OTC
trading at Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. Mr. Antolini said
that institutional activity was particularly brisk in
Intergraph, which fell 2 1/4 to 17 on more than eight times
average volume after reporting earnings late Monday.
   Investors bailed out of Northeast Bancorp, which was bid
up sharply late last week on revived hopes that Bank of New
York would complete its longstanding merger agreement with
the Connecticut Bank. Northeast's shares dropped 22%, losing
8 7/8 to 31 5/8 after this newspaper reported yesterday that
the transaction may be in question because Bank of New York
places a much lower valuation on Northeast than Northeast
itself does.
   The most active stock was a new issue, Pool Energy
Services closed at 10 3/4, up from its initial public
offering price of $10.25. More than 4.6 million shares of the
10.5 million share offering changed hands. Shearson Lehman
Hutton led the underwriting of the oil-field services
company.
   Interest rates rose to the highest level in 11 months in
the bond market yesterday, and the OTC market's list of big
losers was crowded with bank and thrift stocks. Peoples
Savings Bank of Brockton lost more than 25%, down 1 1/4 to 3
5/8; Olympic Savings Bank fell nearly 20%, off 3/4 to 3.
   Crestmont Federal Savings &amp; Loan slid more than 22%, down
7/8 to 3 1/8, a new 52-week low. Volume included one block
that represented slightly more than 1% of the S&amp;L's total
outstanding shares. Late yesterday, Crestmont said the office
of the Comptroller of the Currency denied an application by a
third party to acquire Crestmont's Netcong, N.J., branch
office.
   Earnings continued to drive many stocks. Microsoft, which
was one of the most-active issues, closed up 1 1/4 at 62 on
1.5 million shares just prior to the software company's
earnings release after the market closed. Microsoft earned 62
cents in the fiscal third quarter ended March 31, up from 36
cents a year earlier. The per-share figures reflect a
two-for-one stock split paid Friday.
   Applied Biosystems dropped 1 1/4 to 13 1/2 on more than
double average volume after announcing that earnings for
third quarter ended March 30 will be 16 cents a share or
less. That's less than half the year-earlier net income of 39
cents a share and flat with second-quarter earnings. The
Foster, Calif.-based maker of biotechnology instruments said
orders and revenue for the quarter were below expectations.
   Biotechnology analyst Kurt Kruger of Hambrecht &amp; Quist
said that he thinks Applied Biosystems not only has saturated
the biotechnology market with its instruments, but also is
facing increased domestic and overseas competition. With few
new biotech labs emerging, the company is facing little
near-term growth unless it develops a "revolutionary change"
in equipment, Mr. Kruger said.
   Mr. Kruger, who yesterday advised clients yesterday to
"avoid" the company's shares, says he thinks it could be
another year before Applied Biosystems resumes 10% to 15%
growth in revenue.
   Artel Communications plunged 2 1/8 to 5 3/4 on more than
15 times average volume after reporting first-quarter net
income of one cent a share, including $15,000 in tax-loss
carry-forwards. That compared with 15 cents in the
year-earlier quarter, which included a one-time gain from a
technology license fee.
   Canonie Environmental Services slid early in the day after
announcing late Monday that it expects to report of loss of
about 10 to 12 cents a share for the fourth quarter ended
Feb. 28, compared with net income of 13 cents a share in the
year-earlier period. Shares of the Porter, Ind.,
hazardous-waste management concern closed off 1 3/4 at 11 on
more than three times average volume.
   Live Entertainment gained 1 1/2 to 21 1/2 after analysts
with PaineWebber and S.G. Warburg recommended purchase of the
videocassette distributor, citing the success of the film
"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles," according to Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report. Live Entertainment owns the
North American videocassette distribution rights to the film,
the analysts said.
   ---
   Craig S. Smith in New York contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- EAC Industries Inc.:
   Hardware Maker Will Post
   Loss of About $12.5 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EAC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   EAC Industries Inc. said it will report a loss of about
$12.5 million for the fiscal year ended Jan. 31 due to
"significant problems" at the company and its Ideal Security
Hardware subsidiary.
   A year earlier, the Chicago-based maker of hardware and
printing supplies had a loss of $1.7 million on sales of
$31.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the loss resulted mainly from the
write-off of intangible assets, such as $5.5 million in
relocation costs for the recent move of Ideal Security to
Johnson City, Tenn., from St. Paul, Minn., as well as the
write-off of $1.2 million of good will.
   EAC also cited fourth-quarter accounting and audit
adjustments at Ideal Security of $2.3 million.
   It further attributed the loss to disruptions at Ideal
Security resulting from the recent move, legal and consulting
fees related to attempts to sell EAC or its subsidiaries, and
provisions for losses from discontinued operations.
   In spite of the loss, EAC said its other subsidiary,
Goodren Products Corp., continues to generate profits in
excess of expectations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   L.B. Foster President
   Plans to Resign May 8
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FSTRA
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- L.B. Foster Co., a maker and distributor of
construction, rail and tubular products, said Joseph H. Dugan
will resign as president and chief executive officer
following the annual meeting, scheduled for May 8.
   Mr. Dugan, who won't stand for re-election as a director
at the meeting, said L.B. Foster "is in a strong position in
its core business, and I can return to my consulting
practice."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said a successor won't be named until after
the annual meeting.
   Mr. Dugan joined L.B. Foster in 1986 as executive vice
president and chief operating officer, and was elected to his
current posts in October 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Warner-Lambert Co.:
   First-Quarter Net Up 19%
   And Sales Increased 7.9%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WLA
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Warner-Lambert Co. said first-quarter net grew 19% to
$120.3 million, or $1.79 a share, from $101.1 million, or
$1.49 a share. Sales rose 7.9% to $1.1 billion from $1.02
billion.
   Joseph D. Williams, chairman and chief executive officer
of the Morris Plains, N.J.-based drug company, said all the
company's business segments contributed to the quarter's
growth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Warner-Lambert closed at $112.75 a share, up $3.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pulitzer Pointer: Papers Need Old-Style Owners
   ----
   By Craig Ladwig
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   This week's award of the Pulitzer Prize to the Washington,
N.C., Daily News brings honor to a tradition rarely honored
in the newspaper business: family succession. For years,
Ashely Futrell Sr. ran the small-town daily. Then his son
became Daily News publisher, keeping the business in the
family and out of the hands of a media corporation. The
10,000-reader Daily News took a gold medal this year for
public service. "Chain newspapers aren't as dedicated to the
community," Mr. Futrell Sr. will tell you. "They're no
substitute for the real thing."
   That should be news to my generation of journalists, a
generation that has cheered the disappearance of the
owner-publisher from this nation's newsrooms. We saw the
trend only in terms of freedom from what was considered to be
the meddlesome authority of an in-house publisher. It may be
true that the withdrawal of the proprietor-publisher has
sometimes freed up reporters and editors who work on the news
pages at the front of the paper. But the same
proprietor-publisher's absence has also weakened the
newspaper's voice -- the individual identity that finds
expression on the editorial page. Citizen journalists are
becoming mere units in a chain of financial transactions --
McJournalism, if you please.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When old-style owners began selling their papers to big
corporations, a power gap emerged. The old owners liked to
fashion the identity of their papers on their editorial
pages; the new owners were more interested in the bottom line
on the balance sheet. Editors and reporters filled that power
gap. With this new role came new privilege. We became the
founding members of the most special of the special
interests, armed with political clout but often shielded from
individual accountability.
   We have used this good fortune to commit a crime against
the editorial pages of our newspapers. While corporate owners
had nothing against the muckraking of page one, they worried
about the controversial, partisan, content of the opinion
side. The result was what a friend calls the "Gannettization"
of America. By that he means the management formula designed
to make certain the product is utterly inoffensive. If
editorials must be written at all, this formula reads, they
should be confined to spelling out options open to a council
or a legislature. In all cases, though, it should be "left up
to the reader" to decide which option is preferable. Thus the
"reader outreach" hysteria on many corporate editorial pages,
the desperate polling of reader views and the even more
desperate appeals for reader contributions, however crackpot.
The same editors who made news on page one stood by and
allowed this destruction of the editorial page to proceed.
   This isn't journalism, it's market research -- the daily
packaging of one value-neutral position after another. But no
corporate manager dares ask why anyone would want to
subscribe to a paper run by editors who tell readers only
that they must sort things out for themselves. How far we are
from the ideal of William Allen White, the founder of my
hometown paper, the Emporia Gazette, in Emporia, Kan.
   "Chiefly and on the face of it, the editor's business is
to print the news, just as a minister's business is to preach
the gospel," White wrote at the turn of the century. "But
what gospel and what news shall be preached and published --
these are individual questions. The editor must be the judge
of his news, of how it is told, what is recited and what
omitted. He must interpret it. He must take a `side' in
everything."
   There is nothing inherently sinister in corporate
ownership of the modern newspaper. But when the owner is a
corporate entity, not flesh and blood, that corporate owner
almost never has close ties to the local community. Instead,
it must meet a detached set of corporate employment
standards.
   Employment on your community newspaper once reflected, for
better or worse, the very human preferences and political
identities of individual publishers, persons at least
nominally accountable to the community. Now, even on the
smallest chain papers, it involves the application of
detailed templates cut in personnel offices. There they
factor in the "proper" education and the most up-to-date
clerical skills, plus the "correct" mix of race and sexual
preference -- almost anything but representation of those
long-suffering souls who make up the circulation base. It is
this -- not any corporate incompetence or bias -- that leaves
you with the feeling that the headlines in your hometown
paper are being written for somebody else in some other home
town.
   This was the general situation in Atlanta, when the
Atlanta Constitution put in place a crew shipped in from
Washington, D.C., and New York City to show Georgians how to
put out a big-city paper. What made the Atlanta experiment
noteworthy was that it did not succeed. Had the editor been
in the employ of a large chain with owners 1,000 miles away,
he would be sitting in the editor's chair today. As it was,
the owners were local. It was possible for them to sense the
anguish of their community over an invasion of journalists,
one that threatened fragile institutions and traditions. The
editor was sent packing.
   The best managers of chain newspapers know things aren't
working out the way they should be -- or even the way Mr.
Gannett and Mr. Knight and Mr. Copley envisioned. And they
are coming to understand that this problem is systemic, that
there is little they can do about it.
   Readers, though, have made it quite clear to media
researchers that they need papers to have a personal identity
-- that a newspaper is like a guest they invite into their
homes every day. And even though corporate managers have done
their best to give them that identity through "reader
sensitivity" campaigns, signed editorials and celebrity
columnists, the readership surveys continue to show something
critical is missing.
   My guess is "it" is a man or woman on the premises with
controlling interest in the press. It is a person who has an
overwhelming interest in how the newspaper is viewed in the
community. It is a person, however bothersome to the various
political factions about town, who can be counted on to avoid
posture and seek conviction when sorting the issues of the
day.
   In other words, it is the "real thing" -- an Ashely
Futrell, Sr. or Jr., an American publisher. The species is
becoming so rare you have to wonder how the Pulitzer
committee ever managed to find one.
   ---
   Mr. Ladwig, formerly a senior editor with the
Knight-Ridder and Capital Cities organizations, is executive
director of the Indiana Policy Review Foundation, an
education foundation in Indianapolis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Touring Ritzy Mutual Funds on a Budget
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   OI SCH
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Massachusetts Investors Trust, the first mutual fund,
started taking in money in 1924, there was no minimum
investment.
   Those were the good old days. Today, investment minimums
of $1 million and up aren't unknown, which means some
top-performing mutual funds are far beyond the reach of the
small investor. But for the wily piker, there are sometimes
ways to get around the published minimum.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Take the five Pacific Investment Management Institutional
Trust bond mutual funds. Run by William Gross, the Pimit
funds are among the industry's top performers, and Mr. Gross
is among the nation's most respected bond fund managers. "If
you want conservative bond management, he's the best we've
found," says San Francisco fund analyst Kurt Brouwer.
   His clients are largely big institutions, and with good
reason. New investors have to fork over $500,000 to get into
the funds. But, as with other highflying funds that insist on
a steep initial investment, there are ways to sidestep
Pimit's high minimum.
   For investors who want to get into Pimit Total Return, for
instance, there are two alternatives. One way is to buy
Harbor Bond Fund, which is run by Mr. Gross and has the same
objectives as Pimit Total Return. But Harbor's minimum is
just $2,000.
   Harbor Bond is distributed by a subsidiary of
Owens-Illinois Inc., the Toledo, Ohio, maker of glass and
plastic containers. Harbor Bond, and the other five Harbor
funds, were set up by Owens-Illinois to manage its retirement
and deferred-compensation plan money. The company decided the
funds should also be offered to the public, and it launched
its first fund in 1986.
   When Owens-Illinois brought out a bond fund in late 1987,
Pacific Investment Management -- which had managed part of
the company's pension money since 1985 -- agreed to also
manage the bond fund.
   Over the past 12 months, Harbor Bond Fund has returned
10.76%, compared with 11.35% for Pimit Total Return. The 0.59
percentage-point difference in return is due almost entirely
to the difference in expenses at the two funds. Pimit Total
Return has total annual expenses of 0.6%, as against 1.21%
for Harbor Bond.
   Given that difference, those who want to invest with Mr.
Gross should take a close look at the second alternative,
which is to buy Pimit Total Return through San Francisco's
Charles Schwab &amp; Co., the discount brokerage firm.
   If you go through Schwab, you can buy a piece of Pimit
Total Return for as little as $1,000. While Harbor Bond Fund
is sold without a sales commission, Schwab charges a modest
transaction fee.
   But that fee could be worth paying if, say, you were going
to invest $4,000 and planned to hold on for more than two
years. For while Schwab would charge you $46, equal to 1.15%
of your initial investment, over time Pimit's lower annual
expenses would eventually compensate for Schwab's transaction
charge.
   Among the discount brokerage houses, the two biggest
offerors of mutual funds are Schwab and Jack White &amp; Co.
Though neither discount brokerage firm offers all mutual
funds, investors who deal through them can often open an
account for a smaller amount than if they went to a fund
directly.
   Here's why. With most funds, the minimum for subsequent
investments is generally lower than the amount needed to open
an account. At Gabelli Asset, for instance, a new shareholder
has to fork over $25,000 to invest with star fund manager
Mario Gabelli.
   But if an investor goes through San Diego's Jack White,
the minimum drops to zero. That's because Jack White already
has an omnibus account with Gabelli Asset, and the fund
doesn't enforce any minimum on subsequent investment. A new
shareholder going through Jack White is treated as a
subsequent investment.
   Even though Schwab and Jack White allow investors to get
into high-minimum funds for relatively paltry sums, their
services aren't cheap if you only have a tiny amount to
invest.
   On a $1,000 investment, Schwab would take $26 and Jack
White would charge its minimum fee of $33. But as the amount
rises, their fees are less as a percentage of the amount
invested. Jack White's minimum of $33 would still apply to a
$5,000 investment, while at Schwab you would pay $50.
   On a single investment, Jack White's fees are cheaper than
Schwab's if you have more than $1,875 to invest. But if you
switch out of one fund and into another, Schwab charges its
standard transaction fee plus $10, while Jack White charges
its standard fee plus an amount between $33 and $40. As a
result, for switchers of small amounts, it's almost always
cheaper to use Schwab.
   Many high-minimum funds lower the entry barrier when it
comes to individual retirement accounts. First Eagle Fund of
America, for instance, usually insists on a $25,000 initial
investment from new investors, but will lower the minimum to
$2,000 if you are opening an IRA.
   First Eagle has been managed as an offshore fund since
1967. In April 1987, a clone of the offshore fund was offered
to U.S. investors. Since then, First Eagle has returned
47.7%, compared with a total return of 28.7% for the S&amp;P 500.
The Securities and Exchange Commission prohibits the fund's
investment manager from publicizing the performance of First
Eagle's offshore fund, so a longer-term investment record
isn't available.
   ---
                      Paupers' Picks
                                                                                                       

   Some funds have impressive returns, but also prohibitively
high investment minimums. Don't be put off: Sometimes you can
get in for less than the published minimum.
                                                                                                       

                         5-YEAR    MINIMUM
 FUND                    RETURN   INVESTMENT ALTERNATIVE
                                                                                                       

 Clipper Fund            14.3%     $25,000   IRA: $1,000
                                                                                                       

 Federated Growth Trust  19.6       25,000   Jack White:
                                              $100
                                             Charles Schwab:
                                              $250
                                                                                                       

 First Eagle Fund
   of America            N.A.       25,000   IRA: $2,000
                                                                                                       

 Gabelli Asset           21.0       25,000   IRA: $2,000
                                             Jack White:
                                              no minimum
                                                                                                       

 Mutual Beacon           17.2*      50,000   IRA: $2,000
                                             Jack White:
                                              $1,000
                                                                                                       

 Pimit Total Return      12.6      500,000   Charles Schawb:
                                              $1,000
                                             Harbor Bond
                                              Fund: $2,000
                                                                                                       

 Southeastern Asset
  Mgmt Value Trust       17.7**     50,000   IRA: $10,000
                                                                                                       

   N.A.=Not available
   *Funds less than 5 years old; Performance data from CDA
Investment Technologies
   **Includes performance of private accounts for the period
prior to funds' 1987 launch
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IRS Proposes to Disallow
   Amcor Tax-Shelter Losses
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   AMCR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The government appears to be making hay out of its
previously reported probe of troubled Amcor Capital Corp.,
once one of the nation's largest syndicators of agricultural
tax shelters.
   According to company memos and investor newsletters, the
Internal Revenue Service recently proposed disallowing an
estimated $145.9 million in deductions that investors in
Amcor partnerships took during 1986. Investors are bracing
for more such notices for other years, and the disallowances
could eventually run into the hundreds of millions of
dollars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And last week, two men who did significant farming for
Amcor were indicted on charges of running an illegal
farm-based tax shelter of their own. The indictments, by a
federal grand jury in Sacramento, Calif., don't implicate
Amcor directly, but some observers consider them an ominous
sign. For one thing, coincident with the indictments, Amcor's
formerly longtime chief outside accountant agreed to plead
guilty to a felony tax charge and cooperate with the
government's probe of the two men, according to court
documents.
   "This is a key event," said Theodore Heap, a Portland,
Ore., attorney who successfully sued Amcor officials a few
years ago and currently represents an unhappy Amcor investor.
   While other syndicators focused on oil or real estate,
Amcor made a name for itself in the 1980s as arguably the
nation's leading booster of agricultural limited
partnerships, sinking investor money into Texas wheat,
California table grapes and the like. While they lasted, such
ventures were a big hit with wealthy investors, structured to
give tax deductions that were two to three times the amount
of investors' cash.
   Amcor made a name for itself again last year when it was
identified in federal court papers as the target of an IRS
criminal investigation into whether all its crops were ever
actually grown -- or grown for the benefit of Amcor
investors. While no charges have been filed against the
company, one IRS investigator asserted in a court affidavit
last March that Amcor had created an elaborate paper charade
that resulted in fraudulent tax deductions ranging up to $1
billion, allegedly constituting one of the largest tax scams
ever.
   The disclosure of the probe has hastened an unraveling of
the company's operations, which already had been upset by a
crackdown on tax shelters in the 1986 tax-reform act.
Officials of Amcor, currently based in Coachella, Calif.,
have strongly denied liability and blame its farmers for any
crops that weren't grown. Some of the company's Texas farmers
have been cooperating with the government criminal
investigation in exchange for immunity from prosecution.
   The $145.9 million in disputed deductions for 1986, which
could be swollen by interest and penalties, indicate that the
government isn't satisfied with merely a criminal
investigation relating to Amcor -- it's pressing civil
actions to get the money from investors. Last summer, the IRS
created confusion about its plans for Amcor investors by
distributing -- and later rescinding without explanation --
notices to disallow deductions for certain other Amcor
partnerships.
   "If there was previously any doubt as to the IRS intention
to proceed civilly against the limited partners, it has now
been dissipated," according to a March 26 newsletter of the
Amcor Limited Partners IRS Audit Committee, a newly formed
group of Amcor investors. "We expect more (notices) to be
received shortly." The committee has built a $1 million
warchest to battle the IRS and hired Stuart E. Seigel, former
chief counsel of the IRS, to lead the fight.
   Mr. Seigel, based in New York, said the notices "will be
contested one way or another and will be contested
vigorously," but declined comment on the substance of the
case.
   Meanwhile, Ronald L. Dodson and Raymond S. McCoy, farmers
and promoters whose business relationships with Amcor
officials date to the 1970s, were indicted, according to Mr.
Heap, the Portland attorney.
   According to IRS court affidavits, for instance, a company
known as C.H.M. de Mexico, formed by Messrs. Dodson and
McCoy, did farming work for some 10 Amcor partnerships,
generating more than $50 million in what one IRS investigator
asserted were "fraudulent" tax deductions.
   The indictments, however, pertain to other Mexican farming
operations that were not linked with Amcor. Each man was
charged with nine felony counts of tax fraud, carrying
aggregate maximum penalties of 27 years' imprisonment and a
$900,000 fine for each man. The indictment charges the men
with overstating depreciation deductions and other farm
expenses.
   In addition, Barry Jones, identified in court papers as an
accountant for the Dodson-McCoy partnerships, agreed to plead
guilty to one charge of "aiding and assisting in the
preparation and presentation of a false and fraudulent
income-tax return." He also agreed to cooperate with
authorities in the Dodson-McCoy probe in return for a
recommendation that he serve no jail time for his guilty
plea. According to Mr. Heap, Mr. Jones had been Amcor's chief
outside accountant since 1981.
   Amcor officials and lawyers for Messrs. Dodson, McCoy and
Jones couldn't be reached for comment yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Michael Foods Inc.:
   Stock Is Hit by Disclosure
   Of North Star Loan Terms
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   MIKL NSRU
</CO>
<LP>
   Shares of Michael Foods Inc. were hit by a wave of selling
after the disclosure that the company's controlling
shareholder had pledged the stock as loan collateral.
   Michael was formed in 1987 by North Star Universal Inc., a
publicly traded food company that holds 53.9% of Michael's
common shares. North Star recently defaulted on a $31 million
credit line from First National Bank of Minneapolis, and as
part of the line's revised terms, the bank asked for the
Michael stake as security. The bank is asking that the stock
be worth at least twice the value of its loan. Initially,
that would require a share price of about $11.32 for Michael,
a Minneapolis food products concern. Presumably, if the stock
fell below that, the bank could take control of the block.
First Minneapolis declined to comment on the loan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As news of the loan reached Wall Street yesterday, Michael
stock fell 87.5 cents to $12.875, as 562,900 shares changed
hands. North Star dropped 75 cents to $4.25, a 52-week low.
Both stocks trade in the national over-the-counter market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Neutrogena Corp.:
   Skin Care Products Concern
   Expects 50% Earnings Drop
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NGNA
</CO>
<IN>
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Neutrogena Corp., a maker of specialty skin and hair care
products, said it expects net income in the second quarter
ending April 30 to be "in the range of 50% lower" than a year
ago on lower sales.
   In the year-ago quarter, the Los Angeles-based company
earned$6.3 million, or 23 cents a share, on sales of $50.4
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   March sales were "sharply below March 1989," leading to
revised management expectations for the quarter, said Lloyd
E. Cotsen, president and chief executive officer. He said it
is "unlikely that 1990 growth rates will exceed" the 14%
sales growth rate achieved in fiscal 1989 over fiscal 1988.
   Mr. Cotsen attributed the anticipated second-quarter sales
decline to "general softness at the retail level, where tight
inventory controls have had a compounding negative effect."
In fiscal 1990, Mr. Cotsen said he expects sales to top the
$203.2 million achieved a year earlier. "We want shareholders
to recognize that record earnings will be tougher, but still
achievable, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southwestern Bell,
   Ameritech Say Profits
   Edged Up in Quarter
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SBC AIT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Two regional Bell operating companies reported modest
first-quarter earnings growth. Southwestern Bell Corp. said
net income increased 3.8%, reflecting strong growth in access
lines and cellular telephone customers. Ameritech Corp. said
its earnings rose less than 1% because of one-time expenses
related to work force reductions.
   St. Louis-based Southwestern Bell posted net income of
$247.8 million, or 82 cents a share, up from $238.8 million,
or 79 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. Revenue
increased 3.5% to $2.13 billion from $2.06 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Edward E. Whitacre Jr., Southwestern Bell chairman, said
cellular customers increased by 59,000, or 15.4%, and access
lines increased by 114,600, or 1%, during the first quarter.
Operating expenses rose 4.1% to $1.67 billion. Positive rate
adjustments also contributed to higher earnings, Mr. Whitacre
said.
   Ameritech's net income grew 0.9% to $303.5 million, or
$1.13 a share, from $300.8 million, or $1.12 a share, in the
year-ago first quarter. Revenue rose 4.7% to $2.62 billion
from $2.50 billion. Expenses increased 5.6% to $2.18 billion
from $2.06 billion.
   William L. Weiss, Ameritech chairman, said results were
affected by one-time expenses of $54 million related to work
force reductions totalling 1,265 at Illinois Bell and
Michigan Bell. Excluding one-time charges, expenses rose
3.2%. Customer access lines increased by 142,000, or 0.9%,
and cellular customers increased by 15,000, or 6.2% during
the first quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- TRW Inc.:
   First-Period Net Fell 17%
   Higher Interest Costs Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TRW
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TRW Inc. reported a 17% decline in first-quarter profit
mainly because of higher interest expense.
   The automotive parts, defense and space contracting and
information services concern earned $57 million, or 92 cents
a share, down from $69 million, or $1.12 a share, a year
earlier. The Cleveland-based company reports share earnings
on a fully diluted basis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 12% to $1.99 billion from $1.79 billion.
   Operating profit from the three major business groups rose
to $159 million, from $150 million a year earlier, TRW said,
but interest expense climbed to $52 million, from $29 million
in the 1989 quarter. Borrowing for two major acquisitions in
1989, combined with soaring interest rates in Brazil to raise
interest costs.
   Auto and truck-parts operations showed a 7% rise in
operating profit on a 15% sales gain, TRW said. Higher sales
of occupant-restraint systems, in addition to a strong
European market, more than offset the soft North American
market and problems in Brazil.
   Operating profit from space and defense contracting rose
12% on a 4% sales rise. And the information systems and
services business had a 40% operating profit rise.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- MGM/UA Communications Co.:
   Kerkorian Hasn't Decided
   On the Future of His Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MGM PCC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kirk Kerkorian, who holds an 82% stake in MGM/UA
Communications Co. through Tracinda Corp., said in a filing
that he hasn't decided whether to retain an equity interest
in MGM/UA if it is acquired by Pathe Communications Corp.
   The filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission
followed published reports that Mr. Kerkorian intends to
retain a 15% interest in MGM/UA.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "That's not true, but it's an option he has," said a
spokesman for Mr. Kerkorian. MGM/UA is a Beverly Hills,
Calif.-based entertainment concern.
   Pathe Communications, a Los Angeles-based entertainment
concern controlled by Italian financier Giancarlo Parretti,
began a $20-a-share tender offer for MGM/UA last month. Pathe
has said it expects the $1.25 billion offer to be completed
by April 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T J.UDN
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   PAY MOVIE CHANNEL: TVN Entertainment Corp. launched a pay
movie channel aimed at three million owners of home satellite
dishes. Starting this summer, satellite owners will be able
to see hit movies 24 hours a day by subscribing for $19.95 a
month plus $4 per movie viewed. TVN developed the channel in
a joint venture with American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Corp.'s
satellite communications unit and the U.S. unit of Japan's
Uniden Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PaineWebber Posts
   17% Rise in Profit
   For First Quarter
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   PWJ
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- PaineWebber Group Inc.'s first-quarter
earnings rose 17%, but the gain didn't brighten analysts'
outlook for the brokerage industry.
   Despite the improved results reported by PaineWebber --
and on Monday by Primerica Corp.'s Smith Barney, Harris Upham
&amp; Co. unit -- "it's still a poor quarter" for Wall Street,
said Lawrence Eckenfelder, analyst at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc. "You're still talking about very depressed
numbers here."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Donald B. Marron, PaineWebber's chairman, agreed in an
interview that the company's improved results must be viewed
in the context of Wall Street's condition. "Clearly there is
more to do" to improve earnings, Mr. Marron said. "The
business is improved in most of the areas, but that's in a
climate where things are very, very quiet."
   Most big brokerage firms are expected to post flat
results, except for American Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman
Hutton Inc., which today is expected to announce a record
loss reflecting the costs of a restructuring effort.
   PaineWebber said its net income for the first quarter was
$10.8 million, on revenue of $426 million, compared with net
income of $9.2 million on revenue of nearly $397 million in
the year-earlier quarter.
   Alison Deans, an analyst at Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., said
PaineWebber's performance was "actually a little better than
I would have expected in this environment."
   PaineWebber's brokers have improved productivity, analysts
said, and the firm continues to gather customer assets --
increasing to more than $67.1 billion as of March 31 from $54
billion the year earlier. But takeover-speculation losses
sustained by PaineWebber's risk arbitrage department, and the
continued weak investment-banking climate, "adversely
impacted" first-quarter results, PaineWebber said.
   PaineWebber is one of the brokerage firms still holding a
temporary "bridge" loan to Campeau Corp., owner of the
Federated and Allied department-store companies that are in
bankruptcy-law proceedings. PaineWebber in December wrote off
about $20 million of its $90 million loan, analysts and
industry officials say. But it took no additional charge in
the first quarter, apparently indicating that PaineWebber
doesn't think it will face further losses. Mr. Marron
declined to comment, because PaineWebber hasn't publicly
confirmed how much of the loan it has written off.
   Also, PaineWebber denied industry speculation, reported in
the newsletter Securities Week, that it's considering an
acquisition of Stifel Financial Corp.'s Stifel, Nicolaus &amp;
Co., a regional brokerage firm in St. Louis.
   The speculation is "absolutely untrue," a PaineWebber
official said. In St. Louis, a Stifel Nicolaus spokesman said
the speculation is "totally unfounded, and no such
discussions have taken place." However, the spokesman said
his firm had recently negotiated a deal with PaineWebber in
which PaineWebber would execute certain Stifel Nicolaus
trades.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   British Concern
   Plans Asset Sales
   Due to Unit's Woes
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BCO U.ATC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- British &amp; Commonwealth PLC, a financial services
concern, said it will begin a #750 million ($1.22 billion)
asset sale following the discovery of severe troubles at
Atlantic Computers PLC, its computer leasing subsidiary.
   Peter Thompson, non-executive chairman of B&amp;C, said the
sales would leave a core business that is "cash-producing as
opposed to cash-demanding," with money brokering its central
theme.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Thompson made his comments at a news conference
following an announcement that B&amp;C would write off its #550
million investment in Atlantic and put the subsidiary in the
hands of an administrator.
   The executive said B&amp;C will seek buyers for many of its
main subsidiaries, including its merchant banking group. But
he said a decision on which other divisions are to be sold
hasn't been made.
   Mr. Thompson said proceeds from the sales will be used to
reduce the company's debt to about #250 million from #1
billion.
   B&amp;C currently consists of five main divisions, apart from
its computer leasing business: money brokering, merchant
banking, fund management, professional services, and property
and investments.
   Mr. Thompson said Atlantic's problems only became clear
"in the last few days" as a result of three parallel studies
of B&amp;C's businesses. One of the reviews indicated that
Atlantic's assets and profits were "materially overstated,"
B&amp;C said.
   John Gunn, B&amp;C group chief executive, said prior to the
studies Atlantic had been expected to show a 1989 pretax
profit of #20 million to #40 million. It now expects Atlantic
to show a "substantial loss."
   Mr. Thompson said Atlantic was operating in an environment
where its margins were being cut by increasingly severe
competition and technological breakthroughs which rendered
its leased equipment obsolete more rapidly than the company
had anticipated.
   B&amp;C appointed Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm,
administrator to Atlantic. B&amp;C officials said the decision to
appoint an administrator provides the company extra
flexibility in handling Atlantic's removal from B&amp;C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Thomson-CSF S.A.:
   Company's Consolidated Net
   Was Down 13% Last Year
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TCSFY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Thomson-CSF S.A. said its consolidated net profit after
payments to minority interests eased 13% to 2.63 billion
francs ($467 million) in 1989 from 2.97 billion francs a year
earlier.
   The French state-controlled defense and electronics group
said that the widely expected drop reflected weakness at its
Altus Finance unit, formerly Thomson-CSF Finance. This unit,
traditionally one of the group's strong points, saw its net
profit fall to 1.21 billion francs in 1989 from 1.76 billion
a year earlier. The group didn't elaborate on the reasons for
the weaker financial results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thomson-CSF noted, however, that lower profit from
financial activities was offset to a large extent by its
major industrial units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Net Rose
   12%, Revenue
   5.9% in Quarter
   ---
   Most Major Lines Strong;
   Materials Unit and NBC
   Had Declines in Profit
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRFIELD, Conn. -- General Electric Co., citing strong
earnings improvements at most of its major businesses, posted
a 12% gain in first-quarter profit to $950 million, or $1.06
a share, on a 5.9% revenue increase.
   But GE said its National Broadcasting Co. unit had
"somewhat" lower revenue and earnings, and its materials unit
did poorly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-earlier period, GE earned $849 million, or 94
cents a share. Revenue rose to $12.6 billion from $11.9
billion.
   The results, which some analysts said were in line with
their expectations, reflected improved operating margins from
productivity gains. Operating margin was a record for the
first quarter at 11.8% of sales, up from last year's 10.7%.
   Among the businesses with strong earnings improvements, GE
said, were GE Capital; Power Systems and Aircraft Engines;
Lighting; Medical Systems; Electrical Distribution and
Controls; and Transportation Systems.
   The company said that both the Aerospace and Appliances
units' operating profits were about the same as last year.
Operating profit for its materials business, which is mostly
composed of GE Plastics, was "considerably" below a year
earlier because of slowed demand in automotive, appliance and
housing markets.
   GE said that new orders in the first quarter continued the
pattern of 1989 with "substantial strength in bookings for
longer-cycle businesses." New orders for the Power Generation
unit were up 60% from the 1989 first quarter. The Medical
Systems unit's new orders were ahead 25%.
   GE said that orders for its "short-cycle" businesses,
which include GE Lighting, Plastics and Appliances, began to
show improvement in March from their flat levels earlier in
the first quarter. These businesses are affected by auto and
housing markets.
   David Gardner, an analyst who follows GE at Nomura
Research Institute, said GE's plastics business will benefit
in the second quarter from Detroit's planned 20% increase in
auto production this quarter. "But the housing market remains
uncertain, and the appliance business may take (until the)
third or fourth quarter before it starts to show any
strength," he said.
   The company noted that growth in pershare earnings
exceeded the percentage increase in net income because of
shares purchased under a previously announced buy-back plan.
GE bought back 11.6 million common shares at a total cost of
$728 million during the first quarter, bringing the average
number of shares outstanding to 899 million shares. GE said
it has so far bought back 15.3 million shares, at a cost of
$963 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- AM International Inc.:
   Firm Sees Loss for Period;
   Reorganization Charge Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AM
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   AM International Inc. said a "significant charge" in its
fiscal third quarter ending April 30 -- related to a
reorganization of the company -- will result in a loss for
the quarter. The company wouldn't specify the amount of the
charge or projected loss.
   In the year-earlier third quarter, AM earned $8.1 million,
or 12 cents a share, on revenue of $223 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Chicago-based graphics equipment concern said the
charge is the result of its strategic plan to focus on its
core business -- which prints business forms -- by disposing
of non-core business units.
   AM said it has agreed to sell its Digi Electronic Products
unit to Barco N.V., a Belgian-based company, for $8 million.
Last month, AM agreed to sell two other non-core business
units, AM Technologies and its machine tool business of AM
Wohlenberg.
   The company said the revamping also includes the
previously announced consolidation of its Multigraphics and
International divisions; the segmenting of the company's AM
Graphics business into separate units; and further
consolidations of its European operations. AM will also write
down the assets of its computer graphics business.
   The graphics equipment concern also said that while it
expects to post a profit in the fourth quarter, the
"magnitude of the restructuring charge will eliminate that
profit," resulting in a loss for the year. For the year ended
July 31, 1989, AM earned $31 million, or 46 cents a share, on
revenue of $850.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Societe Generale de Belgique S.A.:
   Earnings Posted for 1989,
   After Revised Loss for 1988
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.SGL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boosted by a sharp profit rise from nonferrous metals and
mining, Societe Generale de Belgique S.A. posted consolidated
1989 earnings of 20.1 billion Belgian francs ($578.9
million), compared with a revised year-earlier loss of 872
million francs.
   Operating profit rose to 16.8 billion francs from a
revised 9.1 billion francs. Data for both consolidated and
operating profit exclude earnings from companies in which
Generale holds a noncontrolling minority interest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most of the gain in operating earnings came from the
nonferrous metals and mining unit, ACEC-Union Miniere S.A.,
which benefited from high prices for zinc, nickel, and other
nonferrous metals on world markets in 1989. ACEC's
contribution to profit more than tripled to 9.6 billion
francs.
   The healthy performance also reflected Generale's
emergence from a yearlong restructuring program, which
involved heavy one-time losses. Extraordinary items
contributed 3.3 billion francs to 1989 results, compared with
a revised one-time extraordinary loss of 10 billion francs in
1988, mostly related to restructuring.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Gannett Co.:
   Profit for 1st Quarter Flat;
   Reduced Ad Spending Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gannett Co., citing sharply reduced spending for newspaper
advertisements, posted flat first-quarter net income. The
Arlington, Va., media company's profit was $75 million, or 47
cents a share, compared with $74.9 million, also 47 cents a
share, a year earlier.
   Revenue eased less than 1% to $813.4 million from $817.6
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The year-ago results included a pre-tax gain of $9
million, or three cents a share, on the sale of newspaper
operations.
   Gannett blamed its flat performance on a deteriorating
consumer economy and restructuring in the retail industry,
saying this produced "the poorest advertising environment in
almost 20 years." Gannett, the publisher of 83 daily
newspapers including USA Today, said ad revenue declined 3%,
reflecting a 6% decline in ad volume. Retail ad linage was
off at most of its newspapers and was "particularly soft" at
its eastern newspapers. USA Today's ad pages for the quarter
dropped to 851 from 896 a year earlier. But because of rate
increases, ad revenue rose 8%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Freeman Is Sentenced for Insider Trading
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   ACK LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The legal saga that began with his controversial 1987
arrest on insider-trading charges concluded yesterday when a
federal judge ordered Robert M. Freeman to serve four months
in jail and pay $1 million in fines.
   U.S. District Judge Pierre N. Leval told the former head
of arbitrage at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. that while he believes
Mr. Freeman is "a very much chastened person," jail time was
necessary because of the "need for deterrence in the
marketplace."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Looking tanned and fit in a navy blue suit, Mr. Freeman
sat emotionless between his two attorneys as the judge
sentenced him to one year in prison, with the last eight
months suspended. Mr. Freeman was also sentenced to two years
probation after his prison term and to a total of 300 hours
of community service.
   Once one of the country's most powerful arbitragers, Mr.
Freeman agreed in August to plead guilty to a felony count
and resigned from Goldman Sachs, the firm he had worked at
for 19 years. Mr. Freeman admitted to using inside
information received from Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. takeover
strategist Martin Siegel in connection with the proposed
takeover of Beatrice Cos. by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.
   Mr. Freeman faced a possible sentence of as much as five
years in prison, and the government put his maximum fine at
$1,860,000. He and his lawyers declined to comment on the
sentence issued.
   Many of Mr. Freeman's friends and the lawyers who crowded
the packed courtroom to watch the proceeding said they
believed Mr. Freeman's sentence to be stiff; some said they
believed he wouldn't have to serve any time in prison.
   Indeed, Robert Fiske and Paul Curran, Mr. Freeman's
lawyers, argued that his crime wasn't one that warrants jail
time. They said in a sentencing memo last month, and again
yesterday, that he should be treated with leniency because of
the "suffering that Mr. Freeman has undergone for three years
as a direct consequence of the government's precipitous and
highly publicized arrest of him in February 1987."
   But Assistant U.S. Attorney John McEnany, lead prosecutor
in the case, recommended a prison sentence that "reflects the
magnitude of the crime and the absence of any excuse" for
committing it. Prison, he said, is the "only sanction with
any meaning to wealthy and powerful individuals and which
will provide a deterrent." Judge Leval seemed to agree.
   "The trading of inside information has become a watchword
or standard practice of arbitrage," the judge told Mr.
Freeman. "Arbitragers think themselves authorized to
disregard the law, and these practices seriously undermine
the integrity of the marketplace. It is precisely because of
those facts that the court cannot treat the matter as one of
small importance."
   The government's case against the 48-year-old Mr. Freeman
began with his February 1987 arrest on insider-trading
charges. The subsequent indictment of Mr. Freeman and two
others was dropped in May 1987, and prosecutors promised
another, broader one. But the new indictment never came and
prosecutors last year said they wouldn't charge the two
others charged along with Mr. Freeman.
   Both Mr. Freeman and Goldman had vigorously asserted that
Mr. Freeman was innocent of any wrongdoing until his decision
to plead guilty in August. But Mr. Freeman is understood to
have agreed to plead after prosecutors confronted his lawyers
with the fact that another Goldman Sachs official was
prepared to testify against him.
   Mr. Freeman's sentencing was delayed for months because
his lawyers sought to block prosecutors from presenting to
the court allegations that he committed some 20 other crimes
in addition to the one he pleaded to. Those other crimes, the
government said, should be considered in meting out his
sentence. But Judge Leval said he wouldn't consider any other
allegations of wrongdoing in considering a sentence.
   Mr. Freeman must still settle civil charges brought
against him by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Now
that Mr. Freeman has been sentenced, a date will soon be set
for the sentencing of his accuser, Mr. Siegel.
   Mr. Freeman's lawyers recommended that he serve his time
in a minimum security prison on Pensacola, Fla. Mr. Freeman,
whose primary residence is in Rye, N.Y., has a second home
near Pensacola, according to lawyers in the case.
   ---
   FIDELITY INVESTMENTS, in a reversal, supports Pennsylvania
takeover bill.
   With the Pennsylvania Legislature poised to pass the
nation's toughest anti-takeover legislation this week, one of
the measure's most vocal critics has switched sides -- and
raised a lot of eyebrows.
   Fidelity, a Boston mutual-fund group, had condemned the
bill as harmful to shareholders because of provisions
controlling rights of investors to mount proxy contests. But
the bill is being strongly pushed by Armstrong World
Industries Inc., which is the target of a proxy contest and a
possible takeover attempt by the Belzberg family of Canada.
   A possible reason for the switch, opponents of the bill
say, is that Fidelity is on a short list of applicants being
considered by Armstrong to manage its $180 million
employee-thrift plan.
   "Obviously, the timing of these two developments concerns
me," John C. Bogle, chairman of Vanguard Group, an investment
company, wrote Pennsylvania Gov. Robert P. Casey. Vanguard,
which strongly opposes the anti-takeover measure, was
recently dropped from consideration for Armstrong's account.
   "I trust that your office . . . will carefully review this
matter, to assure there were no improprieties in this
situation," Mr. Bogle wrote.
   Armstrong, of Lancaster, Pa., issued a vigorous denial.
"In the strongest terms it is both preposterous and patently
false for anyone to assert that either Armstrong or Fidelity
Investments has offered or received a `deal,'" John N.
Jordin, Armstrong's vice-president for governmental affairs,
wrote Pennsylvania State Sen. Noah H. Wenger, the original
sponsor of the bill whose district includes Armstrong's
headquarters.
   If the bill passes and is signed into law, as expected, it
will become the first in the nation to garnish profits of
short-term shareholders who sell within 18 months after a
failed attempt to control the company. Among other
controversial provisions, the law would also restrict voting
rights of large shareholders in proxy contests. Fidelity
loudly opposed the bill but changed its mind after amendments
were added stipulating that the restrictions wouldn't apply
to shareholders who mount proxy fights with no intention of
taking over the company.
   The bill has passed overwhelmingly in both chambers of
Pennsylvania's General Assembly and Gov. Casey has indicated
he plans to sign it into law once compromise measures are
ironed out.
   "We fought this very hard," said Robert C. Pozen,
Fidelity's general counsel. "And we also knew how to count
votes." Another provision in the bill would allow company
directors to consider interests other than those of
shareholders when assessing takeover offers. That provision
remains the most objectionable to institutional investors.
   "We believe that given the political reality, we did as
well as we could," said Mr. Pozen. As for Vanguard's
insinuations of a sellout? "We believe that the letter is
slanderous and libelous," said Mr. Pozen, "and we are
consulting our lawyers."
   ---
   BANK ACCOUNTS ARE FROZEN in money-laundering
investigation.
   A federal judge in Atlanta froze 684 U.S. bank accounts
that allegedly once contained hundreds of millions of dollars
in illegal Colombian drug profits.
   The unusual order by Judge William O'Kelley came at the
request of the Justice Department, which said it would take
legal actions to seize whatever money is left the accounts
once it confirms they have been controlled by drug
traffickers. Judge O'Kelley issued the order Monday, and the
Justice Department announced the action yesterday in
Washington.
   The judge ordered banks holding the frozen accounts to
give the government all relevant records so that
investigators can continue to trace illicit drug profits. He
ordered that records on about 70 additional accounts be
turned over as well. The Justice Department said the total of
754 suspect accounts may have received illegal deposits of
nearly $400 million as of early 1989. The accounts are held
in 173 banks in 22 states and the District of Columbia, with
the biggest concentrations in New York and Miami, the
department added.
   The department's actions are the latest phase in the
government's largest-ever money-laundering inquiry, known as
Operation Polar Cap. Prosecutors didn't charge any of the
banks affected by the court order with wrongdoing. But when
pressed on the issue, Peter Djinis, a lead prosecutor on the
case, declined to rule out actions against U.S. banks and
said the investigation would continue.
   The suspect accounts allegedly received illegal proceeds
from the operations of the world's biggest cocaine
traffickers, including Colombians Pablo Escobar-Gaviria and
Jorge Ochoa-Vasquez, leading members of the so-called
Medellin cartel.
   A "certain small percentage" of the targeted accounts may
turn out to be controlled by legitimate businesses and
individuals, and therefore won't be seized, said Wilmer
Parker, another lead prosecutor on the case.
   As a result of Operation Polar Cap, 127 people have been
criminally charged, the Justice Department said. More arrests
are expected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Saztec International:
   Firm Will Post a Deficit;
   Problem at Client Is Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SAZZ
</CO>
<LP>
   Saztec International said it will post a third-quarter
loss of about $450,000 because of a delay in revenue
resulting from a work stoppage by one of the company's major
clients.
   The Kansas City, Mo., information conversion concern also
cited the continued investment in its information conversion
express network and the elimination of its hardware division,
which includes a write-off of inventory of $100,000 and a
write-off of receivables of $70,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-earlier quarter, ended March 31, Saztec earned
$201,657, or six cents a share, on revenue of $5 million.
   Despite the third-quarter loss, Saztec said it expects to
show a profit for the fourth quarter. The company said it
expects multiple new contracts to provide more than $10
million in revenue over the next 18 to 24 months and strong
revenue from its utility division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend Brief -- Charter Federal Savings Bank:
   Firm Increases Its Dividend
   20% to 15 Cents a Share
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CFED
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Charter Federal Savings Bank, citing confidence in future
earnings, increased its quarterly dividend 20% to 15 cents a
share from 12.5 cents.
   The Randolph, N.J., bank also reported that earnings for
the second quarter ended March 31 rose 11% to $855,581, or 62
cents a share, from $770,484, or 55 cents a share, a year
earlier. A bank spokesman cited "improved core earnings," its
large number of adjustable-rate mortgages, and few
nonperforming loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the same period, Charter Federal reported an increase
of 4% in assets and 3.9% in deposits. As of March 31, Charter
Federal had assets of $286 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- AmeriFirst Bank:
   Judge Approves Settlement
   Of 4 Shareholder Lawsuits
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   AMRI
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   AmeriFirst Bank, Miami, said a federal judge approved its
$4.5 million settlement of four shareholder lawsuits against
it.
   The thrift said members of the class action have until
June 1 to submit a claim to share in the settlement, which
results from suits alleging it misled shareholders about its
financial condition in public filings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As previously reported, AmeriFirst agreed to pay its
shareholders $4.5 million, of which $2 million was placed in
escrow in February. The balance is due within 30 months.
   The company said the settlement was an essential first
step toward its objective of raising new capital to meet
regulatory requirements.
   Meanwhile, AmeriFirst said it is continuing to press its
own suit against certain former top managers and outside
auditors, claiming that lending and auditing practices led to
the company's current financial woes. Under the settlement,
the thrift will share part of any funds recovered from the
suit with the shareholder class members who purchased the
bank's stock from November 1986 through December 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amgen Wins Ruling
   In Its Patent Dispute
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   AMGN GENI
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A federal appeals court here granted a
request by Amgen Inc. that stays a lower-court injunction
against Amgen in its battle with Genetics Institute Inc. over
the anti-anemia drug erythropoietin, or EPO.
   "This is a meaningful victory for Amgen," said Peter
Drake, a biotechnology analyst at Vector Securities
International Inc. in Chicago. It is one of a series of
"delay tactics" that has helped Amgen keep Genetic
Institute's version of EPO off the market, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While a victory for Amgen, the appeals-court action
doesn't affect the central issues in the patent dispute. One
of those issues is whether a federal magistrate's ruling last
year on the dispute is valid. The magistrate ruled that both
Amgen and Genetics Institute are infringing on certain parts
of each other's EPO patents. Both sides appealed the ruling.
   Meanwhile, a U.S. District Court in Boston last month
issued an order requiring Genetics Institute, based in
Cambridge, Mass., and Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks, Calif.,
temporarily to cross-license their respective versions of EPO
while the two sides pressed their appeals of the magistrate's
ruling. The order also would have required Amgen to take
certain actions that might have quickened Food and Drug
Administration approval of Genetics Institute's version of
EPO. Amgen's version of EPO was approved by the FDA last year
for marketing in the U.S.
   Amgen, however, appealed the district-court order, which
would have enjoined it from selling EPO in the U.S. unless it
met terms of the order. Yesterday, the Washington appeals
court granted Amgen's request to stay the lower court's
injunction, pending the higher court's review of the
lower-court order, said Eugene Moroz, an attorney for Chugai
Pharmaceutical Co., Japan, which has licensed rights to
Genetics Institute's version of EPO.
   Mr. Moroz added that the higher court also agreed to hold
an "expedited review" of the two sides' appeal of the
magistrate's patent ruling, possibly within 60 days. That
might help speed the dispute's overall resolution; earlier,
the review of conflicting patents held by the two sides
wasn't expected until late this year.
   In Thousand Oaks, Calif., an Amgen spokesman said the
company hasn't seen the appeals-court order.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Rax Restaurants Inc.:
   Fast-Food Chain to Switch
   To P&amp;G's Crisco for Frying
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   RAXR PG MCD U.GME T.IMS
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rax Restaurants Inc., a Columbus, Ohio-based chain of 500
restaurants, said it will switch to an all-vegetable oil for
its fried foods next month.
   Rax will will replace its blend of animal and vegetable
fats for Procter &amp; Gamble Co.'s Crisco oil and promote its
use of cholesterol-free Crisco in its menus and ads. This
marks the first time Cincinnati-based P&amp;G has sold Crisco oil
to a restaurant chain; it was sold only in supermarkets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rax's switch comes amid growing concerns about the types
of fats used in fast-food restaurants. McDonald's Corp. said
this month it will test an all-vegetable oil to replace its
beef tallow and vegetable blend used for french fries.
Pillsbury Co.'s Burger King said it plans within two months
to test french fries made in an all-vegetable oil. Hardees
Food Systems Inc., a unit of Imasco Ltd., has used
all-vegetable oil in its restaurants since 1987.
   Rax said its switch will cost the chain between 30% and
40% more for its oil, but this can be reused more often than
the animal-fat blend. P&amp;G said it will give merchandising
allowances and marketing help to Rax to introduce Crisco oil
use.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Campeau Corp.:
   Two Jordan Marsh Stores
   To Close in New England
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Allied Stores Corp. will close its Jordan Marsh stores in
Lowell, Mass., and Danbury, Conn. The store closings are the
first since Allied and Federated Department Stores Inc. filed
for bankruptcy court protection on Jan. 15.
   Federated and Allied spokeswoman Carol Sanger said the
store closings aren't related to the bankruptcy-court filings
of the two Campeau Corp. units. Robert Gottlieb, Jordan Marsh
senior vice president for marketing, said both closings had
been under consideration before the Chapter 11 proceedings
began. But, he said, the filings may have "sped up the
process a little bit. Certainly cash flow becomes a major
factor."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both stores were poor performers, according to Mr.
Gottlieb. The Lowell store will close June 20, the Danbury
store, around July 15.
   Mr. Gottlieb said Jordan Marsh would try to find jobs at
other stores for the 82 employees of the Lowell store and the
129 employees of the Danbury store.
   A lawyer representing Allied creditors complained that the
company hadn't sought approval from the bankruptcy court
judge. Such approval isn't needed for decisions made in the
ordinary course of business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Xoma Sues Archrival Centocor;
   Patent Violation on Drug Alleged
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   XOMA CNTO
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Xoma Corp., sparking the latest patent fight in
biotechnology, sued archrival Centocor Inc. for infringement
of a newly issued patent covering Xoma's drug to treat
certain potentially fatal bacterial infections.
   Xoma, based in Berkeley, Calif., said the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office issued the patent to the University of
California, which had given Xoma exclusive rights to the
drug, called Xomen-E5. Xoma then filed its
patent-infringement suit in federal court in San Francisco.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Xoma characterized the patent as covering use of
monoclonal antibodies to neutralize the toxins released by
gram-negative bacteria that often infect hospital patients,
such as those recovering from surgery. Xoma and Centocor have
asked the Food and Drug Administration for approval to market
such drugs, widely regarded as having the potential to be the
first big-selling monoclonal antibodies for therapeutic use.
Monoclonal antibodies are proteins such as those produced
naturally in the body to fight disease.
   Xoma's suit essentially asks the court to find that "if
Centocor were to market their product, they would infringe on
our patent," said Steven C. Mendell, Xoma chairman and chief
executive officer.
   James E. Wavle Jr., Centocor president, said of Xoma's
action, "I don't think it's going to stop us one iota. Based
on what we know, we don't believe the patent is valid, and
we're not infringing."
   The dispute threatens to lead to the next round of
prolonged patent litigation to come out of biotechnology.
Patent fights have broken out among other companies over the
anti-anemia drug erythropoietin, or EPO, and the heart drug
TPA.
   Both Centocor, of Malvern, Pa., and Xoma are betting much
of their short-term futures on their drugs to treat
gram-negative infections. According to some estimates, 80,000
people in the U.S. die from such infections every year. The
U.S. market for the drugs is often projected at $300 million
to $400 million.
   The patent issue arose as a surprise to followers of the
Xoma-Centocor race, partly because recent debate has centered
on the companies' claims about their clinical data. "It looks
like a coup for Xoma," said David Webber, a biotechnology
analyst at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
   But Mr. Webber and others agreed that the just-issued
patent won't put the patent issue to rest if a patent with
overlapping claims emerges for Centocor's drug, called
Centoxin.
   Mr. Wavle of Centocor said various patent applications
covering Centoxin were made in 1983, about three years before
similar applications were made for Xomen-E5. Moreover, he
argued, scientific publications related to Centocor's work
were in the public domain before the Xomen-E5 application.
Xoma responded that it brought all prior work in the field to
the patent office's attention.
   Several analysts said the two companies may yet try to
reach some sort of cross-licensing agreement.
   At Vector Securities International Inc., analyst Peter
Drake said Mr. Mendell of Xoma and Hubert J.P. Schoemaker,
Centocor's chief executive, "are deal makers, not terminal
litigators."
   In national over-the-counter trading, Xoma rose $2 to
close at $20.75 a share, and Centocor fell $1.625 to $29.625.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Teledyne Spinoff Set for Friday
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TDY
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Teledyne Inc. said the spinoff of its
insurance and finance subsidiaries into a new public company
named Unitrin Inc. will be completed Friday.
   Teledyne said its shareholders will receive one share of
Unitrin for each share of Teledyne owned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Teledyne, a manufacturing concern, said it was advised by
the New York Stock Exchange that its stock will trade
ex-distribution on Monday. Beginning Monday, Unitrin shares
will be quoted on the Nasdaq national market system using the
symbol UNIT, Teledyne said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Fighting Titans, Such as Credit Bureaus, Can Be Bruising
   ---
   Firm's Effort to `Repair' Consumer
   Records Sparks Moves by TRW and FTC
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TRW EFX
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Michael Jay has made a profitable business
of playing David to the Goliaths of the credit-reporting
industry, pledging to help consumers clean up their credit
records by challenging "the giants that control your credit
future."
   His Michael Jay &amp; Co. is one of hundreds of so-called
credit-repair clinics that have sprung up in recent years. An
inevitable offspring of the buy-now-pay-later mentality of
the 1980s, these small businesses claim they can fix a
client's credit record, but at a cost of several hundred
dollars or more. They achieve this feat by invoking a clause
in the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act requiring credit
bureaus to verify any items on a person's record that he or
she may dispute. If the item can't be verified, it must be
removed from the record.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But now the giants are fighting back. Earlier this month,
TRW Inc. sued Michael Jay &amp; Co. in a Los Angeles state court
for allegedly advising consumers to flood it with "frivolous"
credit disputes and lawsuits, and also for allegedly trying
to tamper with TRW's computer system. Mr. Jay denied both
allegations.
   The next day, the Federal Trade Commission informed Mr.
Jay it had obtained evidence that his company was "engaging
in unfair and deceptive practices," and that it would sue him
unless he entered into negotiations to reach a "voluntary
consent agreement" with the agency.
   To critics, companies like Mr. Jay's show that one way to
start a successful small business is to turn yourself into a
thorn in the side of big business. Mr. Jay insists that he's
performing a necessary function, and that he's just
encountering the perils of any entrepreneur who has taken on
a corporate titan. The ruckus simply indicates that he's
causing discomfort to the credit bureaus, he adds.
   The 39-year-old British native started his company after
moving here from London in 1986. "I had no credit at all
here, and I was very frustrated," Mr. Jay says. "So I bought
every book I could on the subject. These books also discussed
repairing and improving credit."
   What he discovered is that "the credit-reporting bureaus
aren't in the business of helping people attack them. When
you try to dispute an item on your record, the
credit-reporting agencies ignore you. That's why customers
arrive at our door." He says the company serves about 2,500
clients a year, double the number of clients it handled two
years ago.
   Ostensibly, credit-repair clinics are supposed to help
consumers whose credit records contain incorrect or outdated
information. But the clinics also appeal to people with bad
credit histories who are looking to beat the system. That's
what has the credit agencies -- particularly the "Big Three"
of TRW, Trans Union Credit Information Co. and Equifax Inc.
-- fighting mad.
   That's also what has attracted the FTC. According to Ann
Guler, an FTC investigator, "They're promising to do what
simply can't be done." The FTC has sued numerous credit
clinics for deceptive ads. In addition, more than 20 states
have enacted legislation to regulate credit repair. Georgia
outlaws it altogether.
   Although Mr. Jay acknowledges his industry has "a poor
reputation," he insists he isn't deceiving customers into
believing they can remove accurate data from reports, as the
FTC and TRW claim. "The advertising that will attract the
most calls is the kind that promises to `erase bad credit.'
We don't say that," he says. "If they say the data on their
credit report is accurate, we say we can't help them."
   Indeed, in its contracts and correspondence with
customers, Michael Jay &amp; Co. warns consumers not to make
"untrue or misleading" statements to the credit bureaus.
Still, the company makes much of the fact that information on
credit reports can be removed if not verified. Take a recent
newspaper ad that reads: "Lates -- Charge Offs -- Repo's? The
law provides for prompt deletion of inaccurate, outdated or
UNVERIFIED negative information."
   Mr. Jay and his staff of 20 go about getting negative
items removed by writing letters to the credit bureaus, three
letters for each disputed item. The letters are purposely
vague, saying only that the senders dispute certain items. No
specific reasons are given, nor do the letters claim that the
disputed items are incorrect. Mr. Jay says using this format
saves money on computer processing. But more importantly, his
firm isn't liable if a customer lies to him about the
accuracy of a credit report. Each letter must be approved and
sent by the customer, since the law requires consumers to
complain directly to the bureaus rather than through a third
party.
   Mr. Jay claims that in about half the cases, the
customers' records are corrected within four months at a cost
to the consumer of $95 to $195 a month.
   Increasingly, however, credit bureaus have ignored Mr.
Jay's correspondence, arguing that since it comes from a
credit-repair clinic, it's "frivolous." The Fair Credit
Reporting Act requires a bureau to investigate a dispute
"unless there is reasonable grounds to believe that it is
frivolous or irrelevant." Susan Murdy, spokeswoman for TRW's
Credit Data Division in Orange, Calif., says the firm's
policy is to reject disputes generated by credit-repair
clinics. "We do not deal with third parties. Generally, they
use a form letter that we can identify."
   The FTC, in a staff opinion, has said the credit bureaus
can't treat a dispute as irrelevant simply because it comes
from a credit-repair clinic. But "that can be a factor in
determining that a complaint is frivolous," says Ms. Guler,
the FTC investigator. Other factors include "if every item is
disputed, or if no reasons are given for the disputes," she
says.
   With his letters being ignored, Mr. Jay's firm in recent
months has been hauling the credit bureaus into small claims
court on behalf of clients. Mr. Jay says his company has
filed 25 such actions and has gotten upgraded reports for at
least 10 clients. Needless to say, TRW doesn't like this
tactic, either. It alleges in its complaint that it amounts
to "the unauthorized practice of law."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   NCR Profit Fell
   15% in Quarter
   On Flat Sales
   ---
   Price Rivalry, Product Shift
   To Thin Margins Cited;
   Surprise Batters Stock
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   NCR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NCR Corp. surprised investors in posting a 15% decline in
net income for the first quarter on flat sales, driving the
stock down sharply in heavy trading.
   The big computer maker, based in Dayton, Ohio, said profit
slumped to $52 million, or 73 cents a share, from the
year-earlier $61 million, or 77 cents a share, on a much
higher base of shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue edged up just 1.2% to $1.27 billion from $1.25
billion.
   Analysts attributed the poor results to stiff price
competition and a broad shift toward smaller computers, with
razor-thin profit margins. This shift "is a consistent theme
across the industry," Patricia Laupheimer, an analyst at
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., said. She noted that even
International Business Machines Corp., which reported
better-than-expected results Monday, has seen its margins
shrink in the shift toward smaller, more powerful computers.
   The NCR earnings news ignited strong selling of the
company's shares, which had been one of the best-performing
computer stocks during the first quarter. In New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday, NCR shares plunged
$5.375, to close at $65.375, slashing the company's market
value by 7.6%. With volume of more than 2.1 million shares,
NCR was the most active issue on the Big Board.
   "People were looking for a lot more than they got. No one
was ready for a down quarter," Jay P. Stevens, an analyst at
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., said. "It was a real jolt."
   Investors ignored the good news: NCR said it had record
orders during the quarter. Wall Street focused instead on the
falling margins and the company's cautious outlook for the
second quarter.
   NCR said first-quarter orders "showed a substantial gain"
from a year earlier, including higher U.S. orders and sharply
higher international orders, led by Pacific Rim nations.
   NCR's chairman and chief executive officer, Charles E.
Exley, said he was pleased with the strong order performance,
but added, "We continue to be concerned about the competitive
pressure on gross margins."
   "With continuing good order performance, and emphasis on
cost control, we still see the opportunity to achieve
single-digit revenue and earnings growth for the full year,"
Mr. Exley said.
   Also contributing to the lower earnings for the first
quarter was NCR's aggressive stock buy-back program, which
had a positive effect on per-share earnings but hurt net
income because of lower interest income. NCR said it bought
back 1.6 million shares, at an average price of $67.50, in
the first quarter. The company had an average of 70.9 million
shares outstanding in the latest period, compared with 79.7
million a year earlier.
   The poor results prompted many analysts to cut their
earnings estimates for the current quarter and the year. Mr.
Stevens of Dean Witter reduced his 1990 estimate to $5.75 a
share from $6.05, and forecast flat second-quarter net of
$1.42 a share. Steve Milunovich of First Boston Corp. cut his
second-quarter estimate to $1.35 a share from $1.55.
   In the 1989 second quarter, NCR earned $110 million, or
$1.42 a share, and had 1989 profit of $412 million, or $5.38
a share.
   Some analysts suggested that investors were overreacting.
"This is a well-run company with marvelous long-term
prospects," Peter Labe of Labe, Simpson &amp; Co. said. He called
NCR's latest earnings results "a short-term ripple -- buy
into it, and be patient for a few months."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AmeriTrust Earnings Release
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMTR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- AmeriTrust Corp. said it has delayed the
release of its first-quarter earnings while federal bank
examiners review its loan portfolio.
   The bank, which had planned to release earnings tomorrow,
said it wanted to wait until regulators have completed their
review in case loan-loss provisions must be increased.
AmeriTrust said examiners haven't indicated that the firm's
loan-loss reserves will need to be increased.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Amid mounting concerns over asset quality, examiners from
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have been
applying tougher lending criteria to banks throughout the
country, forcing some banks to increase loan-loss provisions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Duncan Cook Sues
   One of Its Founders,
   Who Denies Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- The small but well-respected Texas investment
banking firm of Duncan, Cook &amp; Co. sued one of its founders,
alleging that he diverted millions of dollars for personal
use.
   The company also said it is changing its name to Gulf
Partners Inc., effective immediately.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a lawsuit seeking at least $5 million in damages, the
firm charges former President and Treasurer Stephen C. Cook
with channeling company money into his own bank accounts to
satisfy large personal cash needs. It alleges that he used
the funds to underwrite costs related to a $1.4 million house
in an exclusive neighborhood here, a 2,800-acre recreational
estate in New York, more than a million dollars of
investments and "a high standard of living."
   Mr. Cook, an original shareholder in the firm, denied the
allegations. "Although I will accept responsibility as the
former chief executive officer for certain administrative
problems, the lawsuit seriously distorts the reality and
clouds a number of economic and compensation issues
involved," said Mr. Cook. He declined to elaborate.
   The suit says Mr. Cook, who was responsible for Duncan
Cook's daily operations and maintaining its books and
records, resigned from all his positions at the firm when his
"wrongful acts" were discovered.
   Mr. Cook, however, said he left to start his own
investment banking firm. "I intend to proceed with that," he
said. "I have enough friends in the investment community who
know me well enough that I'm confident they will keep an open
mind until this litigation is finalized."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pirelli Tyre Holding N.V.:
   Dutch Tire Maker Reports
   7.8% Increase in 1989 Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   I.PIR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pirelli Tyre Holding N.V., a Dutch tire maker, said its
1989 profit rose 7.8% to 206 million guilders ($108.9
million) from 191 million guilders a year earlier.
   Sales rose 14% to 6.7 billion guilders from 5.9 billion
guilders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pirelli said it expects a more modest growth rate in sales
this year, foreseeing "marginal growth of the global tire
market and sustained growth in the premium car and all-steel
truck tire segments. Given {Pirelli's} strong and increasing
presence in those segments, the company is confident that a
sales growth of well over 5% can be achieved."
   Pirelli said that because of increased price competition,
it expects its 1990 profit to be about the same as that for
1989.
   The company will propose a cash dividend of two guilders a
share, or a total payout of 93 million guilders, leaving
Pirelli with 113.4 million guilders in profit to be retained.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- MCA Inc.:
   Geffen Records Is Acquired
   With $500 Million in Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   MCA Inc., Universal City, Calif., completed the
acquisition of Geffen Records for stock valued at nearly $500
million.
   The entertainment concern issued to music entrepreneur
David Geffen about 921,900 new Series B convertible preferred
shares, which will pay dividends equal to 10 times the rate
of the common dividend, but will carry only one vote a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Geffen also has signed a long-term employment
agreement with MCA to provide for his exclusive services in
the music industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- BCE Inc.:
   Control of 13.5% of SHL
   Seized From Kinburn Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BCE SHKIF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BCE Inc., a Montreal-based telecommunications,
manufacturing, financial services and energy concern, said it
seized control of about 13.5% of the common shares of SHL
Systemhouse Inc., an Ottawa comuter systems-integration
concern, from Kinburn Technology Corp.
   Kinburn still owns the 5.1 million SHL shares, a BCE
official said, but BCE now holds the right to vote them. BCE
owns an additional 12.4% of SHL common. BCE took control of
the shares after Kinburn's parent, Kinburn Corp., an
Ottawa-based holding company, failed to pay back loans of
about 400 million Canadian dollars (US$342.4 million) made by
BCE to Kinburn. The shares were pledged as collateral against
the loans, which fell due April 9. BCE said it took control
to position itself for maximum value from the loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BCE said shares held by Kinburn in a number of companies,
including an additional 30% of SHL, also are pledged against
the loans. BCE said its rights over this additional
collateral are junior to those of a banking syndicate led by
Royal Bank of Canada, which has about C$350 million in
past-due loans to Kinburn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Bonds Drop
   On Increase
   In Inflation
   ---
   Stocks Rise Slightly
   After Early Decline;
   Dollar Finishes Mixed
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Rising inflation pummeled bond prices, but blue-chip
stocks managed to post modest gains. The dollar was mixed.
   Long-term bond prices lost nearly a full point, or about
$10 for each $1,000 of face amount. The yield on the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year issue climbed to 8.72%, the
highest level in nearly a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 2.71 points to
2765.77 in thin trading. But broader market measures posted
slight declines, and for the second straight day there were
more decliners than gainers on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Bond investors were shaken early in the day by a
government report that showed consumer prices in March rose
0.5%, or more than 6% annually. And if the volatile food and
energy segments are excluded, the so-called core rate of
inflation in March was an even worse 0.7%, or about 8.4%
annually. Economists had expected consumer prices for the
month to rise only about 0.2%, or 2.4% annually.
   Analysts said the report increases the possibility that
the Federal Reserve might soon push short-term interest rates
higher in a bid to choke off worsening inflation. So far this
year consumer prices have risen at an annualized rate of
8.5%, the largest first-quarter increase since a 10.6% rise
in the first three months of 1981.
   But analysts also noted that March's big rise in consumer
prices contrasts with last week's report of a 0.2% decline in
producer prices, a measure of inflation at the wholesale
level. Some analysts suggest that producer prices are a more
accurate gauge of future inflation trends.
   Other government reports yesterday presented a mixed
picture of economic activity that offered little guidance to
investors. Housing starts were off 9.3% in March, reflecting
a deteriorating real estate market in many areas of the
nation. But industrial production and factory utilization
rose in March, signaling that the economy's industrial sector
is stabilizing or even rebounding somewhat.
   The rapid deterioration in the bond market pulled stock
prices sharply lower in early trading. At one point the Dow
Jones Industrial Average was down 21 points. Prices began a
slow but steady recovery in midmorning, and by late afternoon
the industrial average eased into positive territory. But
trading was light, and analysts said prices remain vulnerable
to disappointing earnings reports and a further bond market
retreat.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices tumbled. The 30-year Treasury bond lost nearly
a full point, or about $10 for each $1,000 of face amount.
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed in thin trading. Volume on the Big
Board totaled 128 million shares, as declining issues were
ahead of gainers 844 to 662.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6768 marks and 159.68 yen, compared
with 1.6775 marks and 159.30 yen Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raytheon Unit Gets U.S. Job
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   LEXINGTON, Mass. -- Raytheon Co. said a subsidiary has
been selected by the Department of Energy to provide support
services at the Nevada nuclear weapons test site and a
Pacific operations site.
   Raytheon and the DOE will negotiate a contract for support
services valued at up to $625 million over five years, with
the first-year increment estimated at about $115 million, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Citizens &amp; Southern Corp.:
   Bank Exam Could Require
   Charge Against Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CTZ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Citizens &amp; Southern Corp. indicated that results of a
federal bank examination may cause it to take a charge
against first-quarter earnings to offset possible loan
losses.
   The Atlanta-based banking concern wouldn't specify the
potential increase in its loan-loss reserve or the actual
loan losses for the period. But it said that "because of
weakened conditions within commercial real estate markets
since year-end and comparable actions taken following the
{Office of the Comptroller of the Currency} exam at other
banks, increases in nonperforming loans are expected."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John J. Mason, an analyst at Interstate/Johnson Lane Inc.,
estimated recently that Citizens' problem loans may rise by
about $70 million. The report didn't rule out, however, a
$100 million increase. This would prompt an rise in the
company's loan-loss reserve and subsequently reduce
first-quarter earnings to about 44 cents a share, Mr. Mason
said. In the 1989 first quarter, Citizens had a profit of
$57.8 million, or 90 cents a share.
   Citizens said it will delay release of its first-quarter
earnings results until the special examination of its
commercial real estate portfolio is completed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Honeywell Inc.:
   Board Asks Concern to Plan
   Spinoff of Defense Business
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HON
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Honeywell Inc.'s board asked the company to develop plans
to spin off its billion-dollar Defense and Marine Systems
business, saying the move seems to "offer the best value for
shareholders."
   Separately, Honeywell reported a 43% increase in
first-quarter earnings to $90.1 million, or $2.29 a share, up
from $62.9 million, or $1.46 a share, a year earlier. Sales
gained 6.6% to $1.53 billion from $1.43 billion. The
Minneapolis-based controls maker cited continuing strong
market conditions in its industrial systems and commercial
flight systems business for the strong results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spinoff of the Defense and Marine line could be approved
by the third quarter, the company said. In July, Honeywell
said it was reducing its dependence on weapons sales and that
it planned to shed its Defense and Marine Systems line.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Great American
   Forced to Raise
   $350 Million
   ---
   Thrift Required by Auditor
   To Take Major Reserves
   That Decimate Capital
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   GTA WFC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Great American Bank said it will have to raise $350
million in new capital by year's end after its auditor forced
fourth-quarter loan-loss reserves that gutted much of the big
thrift's remaining tangible capital.
   The capital infusion, required as part of a survival plan
that Great American said yesterday had been endorsed by
federal thrift regulators, raises substantial questions about
the future of the nation's eighth largest thrift, based in
San Diego, Calif.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At best, officials indicated they would have to sell or
merge the company or undertake a dismantling of its prized
Southern California branch network. But even those routes
could be difficult or painful. Outside investors have been
generally loath to buy into the sick industry, and Great
American itself said yesterday that a sale would cause
"substantial dilution" of current shareholder interests. The
company conceded that if its capital-raising efforts don't
bear fruit, it could face further operating restrictions and
possibly even government conservatorship or receivership.
   "Great American has a very slim chance of raising $350
million," said Joe Jolson, a thrift industry analyst with
Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. "What they might be
able to do is sell every asset in all their markets except
San Diego, shrink and raise capital. They have about a 50-50
chance of pulling that off."
   But Mr. Jolson said even such efforts wouldn't ensure the
company's compliance with capital regulations in the long
term, and that they would seriously impair the company's
earnings.
   Nonetheless, the fact that the Office of Thrift
Supervision backed the idea seemed a breath of fresh air for
Great American investors. Like many other capital-shy
thrifts, Great American earlier this year was required to
seek regulatory approval of a business plan to meet a new
series of tough federal capital standards. Great American is
among a distinct minority of undercapitalized thrifts that
have been able to win approval of their plans from the
government. Analysts said that development may have accounted
for Great American stock getting a lift yesterday. Its shares
closed at $4.625, up 87.5 cents, in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.
   Great American has been hurt by real estate woes in the
Southwest -- and by the insistence of its auditor, Deloitte &amp;
Touche, that it provide greater reserves against that real
estate.
   Yesterday, the company reported a revised loss of $198.9
million, or $8.30 a share, for the fourth quarter ended Dec.
31, reflecting provisions for losses on loans and foreclosed
real estate totaling $271.2 million.
   Previously, Great American reported a loss for the period
of $59.3 million, or $2.48 a share, including an $87 million
loan-loss provision, but subsequently said the figures would
be revised at Deloitte's request.
   Great American reported profit of $19.8 million, or 80
cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter.
   For 1989, the company reported a loss of $263.4 million,
or $11 a share, reflecting $405 million in loss provisions,
compared with 1988 net income of $49.3 million, or $1.99 a
share.
   The company declined to immediately provide 1989 year-end
data for loss reserves or troubled loans. At Sept. 30, it
reported nonperforming loans of $584.7 million and reserves
of about $208 million, and some analysts expect the year-end
numbers to jump. It has about $15.9 billion in assets.
   As a result of the losses, Great American said it met none
of three federal capital standards pertinent to thrifts at
year's end. It added that, in the auditors opinion for the
1989 financial statement, Deloitte will express concern over
the possibility of Great American being able to survive as a
going concern because of looming regulatory sanctions if the
company falls short of its capital goals this year.
   A spokesman said the company's investment banker, Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc., had been in contact with "a number of
interested investors," but declined to name them. Analysts
said possible suitors include Wells Fargo &amp; Co., which has
been scouting potential acquisitions in the lucrative
Southern California retail market for years, and the Pritzker
family of Chicago, which recently pulled out of a deal to buy
control of New York-based CrossLand Savings FSB, the largest
thrift outside Califronia.
   Also apparently interested is Wedbush Corp., a Los Angeles
financial services firm, which recently announced plans to
seek permission from federal regulators to boost its 17%
stake in Great American. Wedbush couldn't immediately be
reached for comment.
   ---

article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- AST Research Inc.:
   Earnings Climbed to Record
   In the Fiscal Third Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ASTA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Brisk sales and improved profit margins helped AST
Research Inc. to fiscal third-quarter profit of $9.6 million,
or 78 cents a share. It was a record high for any quarter.
   The Irvine, Calif., personal computer maker posted a loss
of $1.3 million, or 11 cents a share, in the year-earlier
period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales for the quarter ended March 30 surged 21% to a
record $137.2 million from $113.8 million.
   For the nine-month period, AST reported profit of $19.9
million, or $1.65 a share, compared with a loss of $9.9
million, or 86 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales grew 15%
to $382 million from $333.1 million.
   AST said its results were aided by gross profit margins
that surged to 33% in the quarter. The company said the
improved margins were the result of brisk sales of its
high-end computers powered by Intel Corp.'s 386
microprocessor, and by a continued drop in the cost of parts
for those systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TOYOY J.ACI C SDO FNM
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co. -- $100 million of first
mortgage bonds, due April 15, 2020, was won in competitive
bidding by a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group and was
priced with a coupon of 9 5/8% at 98.45 to yield 9.785%. The
bonds, which are non-callable for 10 years, were priced at a
spread of 1.05 percentage points above the Treasury's 30-year
bellwether bond. The winning bid resulted in a net interest
cost to the company of 9.833%. The issue is rated double-A-3
by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and single-A-plus by
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   Santa Clara County Traffic Authority, Calif. -- $274.9
million of sales tax revenue bonds, (limited tax bonds), 1990
Series, due April 1, 1992-1995, were tentatively priced by a
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.20% in 1992 to
6.50% in 1995. There are no term bonds. The bonds are insured
and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Louisiana -- $263 million of gasoline and fuels tax
revenue bonds, 1990 Series A, due Nov. 15, 1993-2000, and
2004, with capital appreciation bonds due Nov. 15, 2001 and
2002, were priced by a Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. group. The bonds
are priced to yield from 6.65% in 1993 to 7.45% in 2004.
Current interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.65%
in 1993 to 7.30% in 2000. There are $63.5 million of 7 1/4%
term bonds priced at 98.24 to yield 7.45% in 2004. Capital
appreciation bonds are priced to yield to maturity to 7.25%
in 2001 and 2002. The bonds are rated single-A by Moody's and
single-A-minus by S&amp;P, excluding bonds due in 1996-1998, 2001
and 2002, which are insured and rated triple-A by both firms.
   Tennessee Housing Development Agency -- $75 million of
home-ownership program revenue bonds, Issue P due July ,
1998-1999 and 2017, with capital appreciation bonds due Jan.
1 and July 1, 2000-2010, and Series Q, due July 1, 2022, were
tentatively priced by a Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
group to yield from 6.90% for Series P bonds due in 1998 to
7.88% for Series Q bonds due in 2022. Current interest serial
bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.90% in 1998 to 7.00%
in 1999. There are $23 million of term bonds priced at par to
yield 7 5/8% in 2017. Capital appreciation bonds are priced
to yield to maturity from 7.10% in 2000 to 7.50% in
2008-2010. Series Q consists of $35 million of term bonds
priced at par to yield 7 7/8% in 2022. Interest on Series Q
bonds will be treated as a preference item in calculating the
federal alternative minimum tax that may be imposed on
certain investors. A single-A rating is expected from
Moody's, and a single-A-plus rating is expected from S&amp;P,
according to an official with the lead underwriter.
                                                                                                       

                      MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
real estate mortgage investment conduit securities is being
offered in 15 classes by PaineWebber Inc. The issue, Fannie
Mae's Series 1990-53, is backed by Fannie Mae 9% securities
with a weighted average remaining term to maturity of 29.4
years. Details on yields weren't immediately available.
                                                                                                       

                         ASSET-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Chrysler Financial Corp. -- $609.3 million of securities
backed by automobile loans with a coupon rate of 9 1/4% at 99
35/64 to yield 9.501% through First Boston Corp. The issue is
being made through Asset-Backed Securities Corp. 7, a company
formed by First Boston for issuing asset securities. The
issue was priced at a yield spread of 0.80 percentage point
above the Treasury two-year note. The securities have an
estimated average life of 1.5 years. The scheduled maturity
date is April 15, 1995. The securities are expected to carry
triple-A ratings from Moody's and S&amp;P based on the quality of
the underlying loans and a letter of credit covering 9% of
the issue from Credit Suisse. Principal and interest payments
will be made monthly.
                                                                                                       

                        EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Deutsche Girozentrale (West Germany) -- 125 million Swiss
francs ($83.9 million) of 7 1/2% public bonds due May 21,
1995, priced at 101 1/2 via Swiss Bank Corp.
   Toyota Motor Credit Corp. (U.S.) -- 100 million Swiss
francs of 8% privately placed notes due May 8, 1993, priced
at 101.13 via Swiss Bank.
   Ascii Corp. (Japan) -- 50 million marks ($29.8 million) of
9 1/8% private placement bonds due April 20, 1994, priced at
101 1/2 to yield 8.67%, via Industriebank von Japan
(Deutschland) AG. Guarenteed by Industrial Bank of Japan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Whitehall Corp.:
   Cambridge Capital Fund Bid
   Rejected by Firm's Directors
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WHT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Whitehall Corp. said its directors rejected a $20-a-share,
or $62 million, offer from Cambridge Capital Fund Limited
Partnership, saying the offer was conditional, inadequate and
not in the best interests of stockholders.
   Whitehall, a Dallas-based aircraft maintenance and defense
concern, said its board believes the offer is "untimely"
relative to its efforts to move into the commercial aircraft
maintenance business and to apply its underwater systems
developed for the oil and gas industry to the U.S. Navy's
needs. It also said it believes the price is too low,
considering its business prospects and its asset value.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cambridge, a New York investment partnership, offered
earlier this month to acquire the 90.4% of Whitehall it
doesn't already own. It also plans to nominate its slate of
five directors at Whitehall's annual meeting April 23.
   In New York, a Cambridge spokesman said the group is
disappointed in Whitehall's refusal to talk about a proposal,
and now will focus its efforts on winning seats on
Whitehall's board.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tenneco Inc. Unit Sells Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   TGT G.DBK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Tenneco Inc. said its JI Case unit sold its 50%
interest in Intertractor, a West German maker of
undercarriage parts for construction equipment, to an
affiliate of Deutsche Bank AG.
   Tenneco, whose interests include farm equipment,
shipbuilding and a natural gas pipeline, wouldn't disclose
the terms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenneco said Intertractor had 1989 sales of about $210
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   High Court Clears
   Filing of Job Bias
   Suits in State Court
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   YELL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court ruled unanimously that
lawsuits alleging employment discrimination in violation of
federal law may be filed in state, as well as federal,
courts.
   The decision, by a 9-0 vote, isn't likely to cause a major
change in the handling of lawsuits under Title VII of the
1964 Civil Rights Act, which prohibits job bias. But it may
prompt plaintiffs to move some Title VII cases to state
courts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year, according to a recent federal courts study,
more than 7,500 Title VII cases were filed in federal courts.
Because the federal courts are devoting a growing percentage
of their time to drug prosecutions, many Title VII cases face
long delays and mounting legal fees. Some state court systems
also experience significant backlogs, but many states are
able to handle civil lawsuits faster than the federal courts.
In those states, filing Title VII complaints in state court
may be an attractive option.
   The decision, written by Justice John Paul Stevens,
resolves conflicting views among five federal appeals courts.
Those in Philadelphia, San Francisco, Denver and Atlanta said
that Title VII cases must be filed in federal court.
   The fifth case was a ruling by the federal appeals court
in Chicago upholding an award of back pay and benefits of
about $27,000 to a Chicago woman who sued Yellow Freight
System Inc. alleging sex discrimination. The lawsuit was
filed in state court; Yellow Freight moved it to federal
court and asked that it be dismissed. The company argued that
while the case was pending improperly in state court, the
legal deadline for filing in federal court had passed.
   But a federal judge, and the appeals court, refused to
dismiss the case, ruling that the filing in state court was
proper and within the deadline. Yesterday, the Supreme Court
affirmed that ruling in Yellow Freight System Inc. vs.
Donnelly.
   The high court ruled that a state may make the drug peyote
illegal in all circumstances, including its use as a
religious sacrament by members of the Native American Church.
   In a 6-3 decision, the high court upheld an Oregon law
that makes peyote, an hallucinogenic drug, illegal. The
court, in an opinion written by Justice Antonin Scalia, said
the First Amendment guarantee of religious freedom doesn't
excuse an individual from complying with a state's valid
criminal laws. The high court noted that some states -- 11 by
one estimate -- have made an exception to their drug laws for
religious use of peyote; but the court said the First
Amendment doesn't require such an exception.
   The Oregon Supreme Court ruled that the First Amendment
rights of two workers at a private drug rehabilitation clinic
were violated. They were fired for religious use of peyote,
and were denied unemployment benefits due to their
misconduct. But the high court yesterday reversed the state
court ruling and said the workers' rights weren't violated in
Employment Division vs. Smith. Justice Harry A. Blackmun
dissented, joined by Justices Thurgood Marshall and William
J. Brennan Jr.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Turner Corp. Wins Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TUR
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Turner Corp. said it was awarded a contract
for Two International Place, a $95 million construction
project in Boston for Chiofaro Co., a Boston developer.
   Construction began last month; completion is scheduled for
early 1992. When the 35-story complex is finished, it will be
one of Boston's largest office projects, at 1.8 million
square feet, Turner Corp. said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   American Express
   Unit Buys Another
   Regional Magazine
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Express Publishing Corp., continuing
to expand its magazine properties, agreed to acquire
Southwest Media Corp., publisher of D Magazine, the city
magazine of Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas.
   American Express Publishing purchased the 15-year-old
magazine, an upscale monthly, from Southwest Media, a closely
held company whose majority owner is Ray L. Hunt. Terms
weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition adds another title to what has become the
country's largest owner of city-regional magazines. American
Express Publishing, a unit of American Express Co., last year
acquired Atlanta magazine, and in recent years added L.A.
Style and New York Woman magazines. The company also
publishes Travel &amp; Leisure, Food &amp; Wine, and Departures
magazines. D Magazine has a paid circulation of more than
100,000.
   In the last decade, a faltering economy has led to the
closing of at least eight upscale magazines across Texas.
Thomas O. Ryder, president of American Express Publishing,
says, however, that the economy of the state has turned a
corner and is improving.
   "The Dallas-Fort Worth area has been seriously depressed
for some years, but there are clear signs the market is on
its way back solidly," said Mr. Ryder. "We want to rebuild
with it." He pointed to a rebound in new-home sales as one
positive economic sign.
   Mr. Hunt said he considered keeping D Magazine "as a
profitable investment." But added, "in order for it to grow,
I felt it needed to become part of a larger publishing
operation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Safeway Stores Inc.:
   First-Quarter Net Rose 71%;
   Improved Margins Are Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   X.SAF
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Safeway Stores Inc. said first-quarter net income surged
71% as a result of improved gross margins and a decline in
interest expense.
   The Oakland, Calif., supermarket chain posted profit of
$15.5 million, or 17 cents a share, up from $8.8 million, or
12 cents a share, a year earlier. Safeway had 88.2 million
shares outstanding in the 1990 quarter ended March 24,
compared with 79.7 million a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Safeway said revenue for the quarter grew about 3% to
$3.34 billion from $3.23 billion. The company said the
increase came despite the fact that the important Easter
shopping period occurred this year after the close of the
quarter.
   Safeway attributed its improved margins to the addition of
profitable speciality departments in numerous stores, an
aggressive merchandising campaign and a streamlining of its
companywide buying practices. Safeway also said its interest
expense fell 6% in the quarter to $83.8 million from $89.2
million a year earlier.
   Safeway has been closely held since 1986, when it was
taken private in a $4.3 billion leveraged buy-out by Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. The company recently announced plans to
go public again by offering 10 million, or 10%, of its shares
later this month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Smith Corona Corp.
   Reports 51% Decline
   In Its 3rd-Period Net
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SCO
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW CANAAN, Conn. -- Smith Corona Corp. reported that
fiscal third-quarter net income fell 51%, as sales of its
pricier typewriters and word processors eased.
   Strong demand for lower-priced portable electronic
typewriters continues, but it's not enough to offset slow
high-end sales, said G. Lee Thompson, chairman and chief
executive officer. He cited a sluggish U.S. economy plus
price competition from Asian manufacturers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the third period ended March 31, net fell to $6.1
million, or 20 cents a share, from pro forma net of $12.4
million, or 41 cents a share, in the year-earlier period.
Smith Corona went public in August 1989. The year-ago figures
also reflect a charge of five cents a share, stemming from
the company's termination of a performance incentive plan.
   Sales dropped 9.1% to $110.6 million from $121.8 million.
   Smith Corona's "U.S. market position continues strong, and
we will remain as price competitive as necessary to retain
our leadership position, even at the expense of short-term
earnings," Mr. Thompson said.
   He said that Smith-Corona's international business,
especially in Europe, "is very promising." He added that the
company has been able to pare costs and inventories.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Smith Corona fell 50 cents to close at $9.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Virginia Executive
   Riles Fellow Gentry
   In Tiff Over House
   ---
   `Lockwood' Was Used by Lee,
   But Stewart Bryan Plans
   To Demolish or Move It
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MEGA
</CO>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- Had J. Stewart Bryan III foreclosed the
mortgage on his parents' home, he might have raised fewer
eyebrows here.
   Historic preservationists are determined to save an
antebellum farmhouse nine miles northeast of Richmond where
Robert E. Lee himself spent four days in 1864 plotting the
battle that saved the city from Union capture. Mr. Bryan
wants to have the house removed -- or else torn down.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An old-line Virginian whose ancestors fought for the
South, Mr. Bryan is vice chairman of Media General Inc.,
whose Richmond Newspapers subsidiary is building a $200
million production plant that happens to stand just a stone's
throw from the old house, known as Lockwood. Media General
bought the property last year and announced its decision in
October in the Richmond Times-Dispatch, one of the two local
dailies it owns.
   "Richmond Newspapers and Media General are not, and cannot
be, in the business of restoring and maintaining historic
buildings," Mr. Bryan wrote preservationists last December.
"We have no use for it," he says in an interview, "and we're
not going to manufacture a use for it."
   The news has hit hard in this genteel and deeply
conservative city still in love -- some say obsessed -- with
its past. Few families have given more to preserve Richmond's
monuments than Mr. Bryan's. But few figures in Richmond are
more monumental then Gen. Lee.
   "This is a paradox," says Robert B. Giles, an investment
broker and passionate preservationist. "Just by being a
citizen in Richmond, Va., you enjoy the benefits of what the
Bryan family has done." But tearing down Lockwood, or even
relocating it, he says, "would be like throwing red paint on
a Van Gogh."
   Mr. Giles has mobilized a preservationist coalition that
includes old and dear friends of the family. They have signed
letters to the Bryans, made discreet appeals and even offered
to help pay the cost of restoring and maintaining the house.
   But Mr. Bryan, whose great-grandparents helped launch
Richmond's preservation efforts at the turn of the century,
has been unyielding. "The only thing we don't need is the
help of these people who call themselves a coalition," he
says. "We didn't ask for it, we don't need it and we don't
want it."
   The preservationists are equally steadfast. "A number of
people are standing by us on this matter, and they have
expressed their dedication to the cause," Mr. Giles says
somberly. "If there is a breach, they will be very
disappointed."
   The house is a two-story white clapboard structure that
has seen better days. Its windows are boarded with plywood.
Termites and beetles have infested floor joists in the
"summer kitchen," connected to the main house by a breezeway
that itself has been poured over with concrete. In the oldest
section, built around 1800, more termites are in the beams.
   "Here is a simple farmhouse hardly worth preserving as it
is, other than for the fact that Gen. Lee stayed there for
two or three or four nights when he was sick," says Mr.
Bryan. Says his father, D. Tennant Bryan, chairman of Media
General: "The house is really not the Taj Mahal."
   Still, Lockwood has been declared eligible for listing on
the National Register of Historic Places. It is the only
surviving structure around Richmond that Gen. Lee used as a
field headquarters, Mr. Giles says.
   Nearly incapacitated from dysentery, Gen. Lee was brought
by carriage to Lockwood, then known as the Clarke house, in
late May 1864. His army of 50,000 dug in nearby. A week
later, in early June, the outnumbered Confederates blocked a
Union advance in the bloody Second Battle of Cold Harbor.
Some 7,000 Union soldiers and 1,500 Confederates fell in less
than half an hour. "It was," wrote a Union captain, "the
greatest and most inexcusable slaughter of the whole war."
But for the South it saved Richmond from capture until after
Appomattox.
   Media General has offered to give Lockwood away and help
pay the cost of moving it, so long as it is put to public
use. But to the preservationists, it is Lockwood's location
near a rail crossing used to resupply the Confederates, as
much as the structure itself, that makes it so important.
   "By moving it to another site," says Hugh Miller, director
of the Virginia Department of Historic Resources, "you really
take it out of context."
   But by leaving it where it is, the Bryans say, Lockwood
will stand in the shadow of a 10-acre, automated printing
plant made of glass and steel. Nothing, they say, could be
more out of place next door than a historic farmhouse. "It's
going to be lost-- dwarfed," says James J. Rhodes, director
of special projects for Media General.
   Preservationists see nothing wrong with leaving the house
where it is. If restored, they say, it would make a fine
visitor or conference center. "We don't envision it being a
museum or a shrine," Mr. Giles says.
   People close to the Bryans are perplexed by Mr. Bryan's
attitude but are guarded in their criticism. "The Bryans have
always done exactly right by Richmond," says Mimi Rose, a
friend of the family. Indeed, Stewart Bryan's
great-grandmother, Isobel Lamont Stewart Bryan, known as
"Belle," was the second president of the Association for the
Preservation of Virginia Antiquities (APVA), Virginia's most
prestigious preservation group. Belle Bryan, who idolized
Gen. Lee, used her family's wealth and influence to save the
White House of the Confederacy in downtown Richmond and turn
it into a Confederate museum.
   "Many true patriots will sooner or later grasp the idea
that it is their duty to help preserve Virginia and her
history," she wrote. "It is almost impossible," her husband,
John Bryan, confided, "to make a Northern man understand how
we Virginians feel about our state."
   So far, the controversy has been played out with
well-mannered Southern civility, but the battle line is
clearly drawn, says Mr. Giles. And Richmond's old-family
society is beginning to feel the strain. "I can not take a
public stand," says Mary Tyler Cheek, a prominent and
outspoken preservationist whose father, Douglas Southall
Freeman (a legendary newspaper editor for the Bryans), wrote
a definitive four-volume biography of Gen. Lee. "I have been
close to the people who run the newspaper for more than 30
years," says Mrs. Cheek. "This is something I can not get in
the middle of."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Baroid Corp.:
   Jury in New Orleans Finds
   Firm Innocent of Conspiracy
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   BRC
</CO>
<IN>
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Baroid Corp. said a New Orleans jury found it, a retired
vice president and other defendants innocent of trying to fix
prices for oil-well completion fluids in 1986 and 1987.
   The Houston oil-field services concern -- controlled by
Dallas investor Harold C. Simmons -- and retired executive
Kenneth D. Tanner were indicted along with two other
companies and an executive of one of those concerns in
August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The indictment charged that Baroid, then a unit of NL
Industries Inc., and the two other companies conspired to
increase their prices for completion fluids by decreasing the
amount they paid customers for fluids that weren't used.
   The company said it was "gratified" that the jury agreed
with its position that it wasn't guilty of any offense.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Home Products Corp.:
   Net Income Increased 12%
   In Quarter; Sales Up 3.8%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AHP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Home Products Corp. said net income rose 12% to
$314.5 million in the first quarter, or $2.01 a share, from
year-earlier net of $280.1 million, or $1.81 a share. Sales
rose 3.8% to $1.81 billion from $1.75 billion.
   The New York drug company said sales at its Health Care
Products unit increased 3% in the quarter, while its Food &amp;
Household Products unit posted an 8% rise in sales from a
year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net was also helped by a lower tax rate resulting from the
company's merger in 1989 with A.H. Robins Co. and use of its
tax-loss carry-forwards related to the funding of the Dalkon
Shield Trusts. In the quarter, federal and foreign taxes fell
20% to $104 million.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
American Home rose 62.5 cents to close at $104 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Boeing Co.:
   Carrier Reaches Tentative
   Settlement in Age-Bias Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BA LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   Boeing Co. said it reached a tentative settlement of an
age-discrimination lawsuit brought on behalf of 29 pilots who
were removed from flight-test status when they turned 60.
   Under the tentative agreement with the Equal Opportunity
Employment Commission on a five-year consent decree, Boeing
agreed to raise the maximum flying age for its pilots to 63
from 60. The Seattle company also will establish a $4.4
million fund to be paid to the 29 pilots, representing "what
the former pilots would have received under the current
Boeing Pilot Early Leave Program."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The commercial-airplane maker and defense contractor added
that in connection with raising its maximum flying age to 63,
it will establish an "enhanced medical protocol to determine
the pilot's fitness to fly after age 60." Boeing's "age 60"
policy, similar to the Federal Aviation Administration
requirement for commercial airline pilots, was instituted in
1980.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   U.S. Government Bond Yields Surge as Reports
   On Economy Fan Investor Fears of Inflation
   ----
   By Tom Herman and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   RT.A KR JAPAN CANDA C
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Interest rates jumped on news of an unexpected
burst of inflation last month.
   U.S. government bond yields surged to their highest levels
in nearly a year. Long-term Treasury bonds now yield about 8
3/4%, up from 8% at the start of the year. Short-term
interest rates also rose, and several analysts fear further
increases soon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I think we're headed toward 9% within the next couple of
months," said Roger A. Froehlich, president of Technical
Dimensions Inc., a Mt. Kisco, N.Y.-based bond market
forecasting company. "There's a bias in the market to shrug
off any favorable news and accentuate all the unfavorable
news. Witness what happened today."
   Traders were especially startled by a government report
yesterday showing a 0.5% surge in March consumer prices. That
was far above the 0.2% increase that most economists had
expected. Investors also were surprised by a 0.7% increase in
industrial production. That was more than three times as big
an increase as had been generally expected, thus fanning
inflation fears even further. Housing starts fell sharply,
but traders ignored it.
   These reports greatly strengthen the case for the Federal
Reserve to begin driving rates slightly higher, especially if
further signs of economic strength emerge, investment
managers said. Some Fed officials already are leaning toward
tighter credit to fight inflation. Others fear the economy
isn't strong enough to withstand significantly higher rates
and thus they have argued for leaving rates where they are
until more economic news is available. But yesterday's
reports, at the very least, dashed what few hopes remained
that the Fed might ease credit soon.
   Reaction was swift. Bond prices, which move in the
opposite direction from interest rates, began tumbling as
soon as headlines of the inflation and economic news appeared
on news wires early in the morning. Treasury bonds took the
biggest hit, falling about a point, or $10 for each $1,000
face amount.
   "This could be a summer of discontent in the bond market,"
said George R. Mateyo, president and chief executive officer
of Carnegie Capital Management Co., Cleveland.
   Many New Yorkers are so caught up in Wall Street's turmoil
and massive layoffs that they are missing the U.S. economy's
overall resilience, Mr. Mateyo said. "I don't know where the
economy is weak," he said. "You go to Boeing in Seattle, or a
grain company in Minneapolis, and they say they're going
great guns."
   Thus, he said, this isn't a good time to rush out and buy
long-term bonds. "We've got a lot of cash," he said, "and are
in a defensive posture."
   Once again, the bond market's sinking spell caught many
bond investors off guard. Just last week, a survey of 52
fixed-income managers by C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell Inc.
showed more than half were bullish on bonds.
   That was the highest bullish reading since the beginning
of this year-providing further evidence of how valuable such
surveys are as contrarian indicators of where bond prices are
heading.
   But inflation fears often have proven to be greatly
exaggerated in recent years, and some people think
yesterday's kneejerk reaction was just another overreaction.
   "I think it's a great time to buy bonds," said William H.
Gross, managing director at Pacific Investment Management
Co., Newport Beach, Calif. "I think the bad news is over.
It's uphill from here on in for bond prices." He predicted
that the inflation news "is bound to get better," while the
economy "is bound to be slower. So we're basically at the end
of the road for this minibear market that we've experienced"
for the past few months.
   "We think the pickup in inflation in the first quarter is
temporary," said Nancy R. Lazar, a senior vice president at
C.J. Lawrence. "There is plenty of anecdotal evidence" that
companies are encountering great difficulties raising prices,
she said. She added: "By year end inflation should be back
down to about 3%."
   Ms. Lazar and others argued that the economy isn't nearly
as strong as the latest figures might indicate. Some also
point to the sinking price of gold, which often is viewed as
a barometer of inflation pressures.
   The March consumer price increase "overstates the
inflation threat," said Philip Braverman, a senior vice
president at DKB Securities Corp. Nevertheless, he expects
higher interest rates soon.
   Besides inflation fears, investors also are worried about
a big wave of Treasury borrowing coming next month. They are
especially concerned because of speculation that Japanese
investors, hurt by Japan's stock-market plunge, won't buy
large amounts of new Treasury debt. Thus, Mr. Braverman
predicted in a report yesterday that Treasury bond yields
"seem likely to reach or slightly exceed 9% before yields top
out and a sustainable rally begins."
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Unexpectedly bad news on inflation drove Treasury bond
yields to their highest levels since May of last year.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bonds were quoted
yesterday afternoon at a yield of 8.72%, up from 8.63%
Monday. The price fell one point to 97 18/32.
   The previous high closing yield this year for a bellwether
30-year Treasury bond was 8.71%, reached March 13.
   The government's 10-year notes yielded 8.73% yesterday
afternoon, up from 8.66% Monday. Their price fell to 98 3/8
from 98 27/32 Monday.
   Rates rose slightly on short-term Treasury bills. For
example, the latest three-month T-bills were quoted late
yesterday at a discount rate of 7.76% to yield 8%. That
compared with an average discount rate of 7.71% set at
Monday's auction, which translated into a bond-equivalent
yield of 7.97%.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate, Junk Issues
                                                                                                       

   The Treasury bond market's woes spilled over into the
corporate market, driving both junk bond and investment-grade
issues lower.
   Overall, high-yield, high-risk bonds -- securities with
low credit ratings or no ratings at all -- fell by about 1/4
point. But the notable exceptions to the general market
decline were junk bonds of Resorts International Inc. They
climbed on news that the Atlantic City casino company has
filed a new reorganization plan that is likely to get
bond-holder approval.
   Among the high-flyers were Resorts International's 11 3/8%
subordinated sinking fund debentures, due in 2013, which
closed up three points at 20 on light volume on the New York
Stock Exchange. The company's 10% subordinated sinking fund
debentures, due in 1998, also advanced, gaining 1 1/4 to end
at 18, again on light trading.
   Elsewhere in the junk bond market, Kroger Co. bonds fell
1/2 point after the company reported that its losses narrowed
in the first quarter. Analysts said they had expected more
improvement.
   In the investment-grade corporate debt market, long-term
corporate issues fell between 3/4 point and a point.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   For a change, Japanese government bond prices rose
slightly even though the yen continued to slump against the
dollar.
   Tokyo traders said the bond market there was strengthened
by speculation that Japan's Finance Ministry will buy
Japanese government bonds to help strengthen the yen. Traders
also pointed to a slowdown in the growth of Japan's money
supply.
   Japan's benchmark bonds due 1999 rose to 85.83 as of the
close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Tuesday, up from 85.79
Monday. The yield fell to 7.39% from 7.405%.
   In other major markets, Canadian bond prices tumbled to
their lowest levels of the year.
   Canada's bellwether 20-year bond dropped 1 1/4 points to
85.75 to yield 11.27%. That is about 1.80 percentage points
above its level at the beginning of the year.
   Analysts said inflation fears as well as the high levels
of Canadian short-term interest rates were contributing to
bearish sentiment. Canadian 91-day Treasury bills yield about
13 3/8%, more than two percentage points higher than 20-year
bonds. This is known in bond market jargon as an "inverted
yield curve."
   "There is no reason to expect the {Canadian} bond market
to improve any time soon," said Ted Carmichael, senior
economist at Burns Fry Ltd. He said Canadian March consumer
price data, to be reported Friday, is likely to send another
bearish signal to the market. He said Burns Fry is expecting
a rise in the consumer price index of about 0.5% compared
with a 0.6% rise in February.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Prospective buyers of municipal securities found the
pickings slim as for the most part investors held onto bonds,
shrugging off the huge downward moves of the U.S. Treasury
market.
   Issues were flat to 3/8 point lower in thin dealings.
   In one of the largest deals of the day, $274.9 million of
Santa Clara County (Calif.) Traffic Authority sales tax
revenue bonds were tentatively priced by a Morgan Stanley
Inc. group to yield from 6.20% in 1992 to 6.50% in 1995.
   Among seasoned dollar bonds, New Jersey Turnpike Authority
7.20% issue of 2018 was off 1/8 at 97 3/8 to 97 1/2 to yield
7.41%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed securities ended 5/32 to 10/32 lower but
fared better than did the Treasury market.
   Traders said there was moderate buying of mortgage issues
from underwriters seeking collateral for new issues of
derivative mortgage securities, and purchases by
institutional investors seeking the 10% yields on some
pass-through issues.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9% securities for
May delivery finished at 95 3/8, down 12/32, after changing
hands between 95 3/32 and 95 26/32.
   In the asset-backed market, Chrysler Financial Corp. sold
$609.28 million of securities backed by automobile loans at a
yield of 9.501%, .80 percentage point above the Treasury
two-year note, through First Boston Corp.
   The issue was made through Asset-Backed Securities Corp.
7, which purchased the auto loans from Chrysler Financial and
repackaged them as securities for sale to investors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rover Group Ltd.,
   Honda Sign Accord
   On Equity Sharing
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   HMC U.RVR U.BA
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Rover Group Ltd. and Honda Motor Co. said they
have signed a cross-shareholding accord.
   The pact, first made public in July, will give Honda a 20%
stake in Rover, a subsidiary of British Aerospace PLC, while
Rover gets a 20% share of Honda's British manufacturing arm,
Honda of the U.K. Manufacturing Ltd. Honda also will pay
Rover #30 million ($49 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two auto companies have long had joint operating
agreements, involving the development of cars in the U.K. and
the marketing of Rover models in Japan.
   Rover's equity participation in Honda U.K. comes as part
of a plan to increase the local Honda unit's capitalization
to #370 million by 1993 from #60 million currently. Rover
will take 20% of the enlarged equity.
   Honda U.K. is scheduled to begin production of 100,000
cars a year at a plant in Swindon by late 1992. The plant is
to produce two versions of the same model to be sold
separately through Honda and Rover dealerships.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE SOVIET UNION ORDERED cuts in natural-gas supplies to
Lithuania.
   Moving to enforce a threatened economic embargo to break
the Baltic republic's independence bid, the Soviet government
said that gas supplies would be "sharply reduced," and that
oil and petroleum shipments may also be cut because of
Lithuania's refusal to rescind secession-related laws.
Lawmakers met in Vilnius to discuss the situation, but there
wasn't any indication that the order had been implemented. In
Washington, the U.S. was preparing to delay some dealings
with Moscow, including economic talks, if Lithuania's energy
supplies were reduced.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   About 10,000 people demonstrated at the Kremlin in defense
of two corruption investigators while Soviet legislators
debated whether the pair violated rules in pursuit of
high-ranking offenders.
   ---
   Researchers have pinpointed a gene that appears to
increase the risk of alcoholism, a condition that afflicts 18
million Americans. The scientists at UCLA and the University
of Texas, San Antonio, caution that other genes probably
predispose people to alcoholism and that the findings must be
repeated in a larger study.
   ---
   Bush called for additional research "to sort out the
science" of global warming. The president was criticized at a
White House-sponsored conference by Europeans who argued for
action. Bush also expressed hope that the parley, attended by
delegates from 17 nations, would inject economic issues into
the debate over the greenhouse effect.
   ---
   A federal judge in Atlanta froze 684 U.S. bank accounts
that allegedly once contained as much as $400 million in
illegal Colombian narcotics profits. The order came at the
request of the Justice Department. The accounts are held in
173 banks in 22 states and the District of Columbia, with the
biggest concentrations in New York and Miami.
   ---
   The Supreme Court ruled that a state may make the
hallucinogenic drug peyote illegal in all circumstances,
including its use in a Native American religious rite. In a
6-3 decision, the justices upheld an Oregon law, saying the
First Amendment guarantee of religious freedom doesn't excuse
an individual from complying with criminal laws.
   ---
   South Africa's de Klerk rejected black majority rule, but
said apartheid must end. Speaking to Parliament in Cape Town,
the president didn't announce any new measures to dismantle
the racial-segregation system, and again insisted that the
African National Congress renounce violence.
   ---
   Street battles swept through Beirut, sparked by separate
power struggles for control of Lebanon's Shiite Moslem and
Maronite Christian communities. Clashes also erupted in the
southern port of Sidon between the Israeli-backed South
Lebanon Army and the leftist Nasserite militia.
   ---
   A court in Jerusalem upheld an order to evict 150 Jewish
settlers who rented buildings owned by the Greek Orthodox
Chuch in the Christian quarter of the walled Old City. The
settlement had prompted protests by Palestinian Christians,
and the Israeli government sent a cabinet minister to the
area in an attempt to calm rising tensions.
   ---
   A delegation of Contra rebels arrived in Managua and
agreed to sign a truce with the Sandinista army as a first
step toward demobilization, according to a senior aide to
President-elect Violeta Chamorro. In Washington, a U.S.
official said it was doubtful that all the rebels will
surrender their arms by the time Ortega steps down April 25.
   ---
   Jury selection began in Boston in the case of a Christian
Science couple charged with manslaughter for praying for
their son instead of seeking medical help. The two-year-old
boy died in 1986 of a bowel obstruction. The case is being
watched by the Christian Science Church, which contends its
doctrine of spiritual healing is under attack.
   ---
   Secretary of State Baker said in a report to Congress that
the U.S. won't renew its membership in Unesco because the
educational, scientific and cultural organization continues
to be mismanaged and shows political bias against Israel. The
U.S. withdrew from the international body in 1984.
   ---
   Died: Ralph David Abernathy, 64, a Baptist minister who
was a top aide to the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. during the
civil-rights movement of the 1960s and president emeritus of
the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, in Atlanta.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Petroleum Declines as Much as 41 Cents a Barrel
   As Ministers Meet to Discuss Weakening Markets
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petroleum prices fell again as much as 41 cents a barrel
even as oil ministers of three major Persian Gulf producers
met to discuss falling prices.
   Crude prices had firmed Monday on news of the meeting in
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and on the kingdom's warning that oil
markets would remain weak if the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries continued to produce above its first-half
ceiling.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joining Hisham Nazer, the Saudi oil minister, were Ali
Khalifa Al-Sabah and Mana Said Otaiba, ministers of Kuwait
and the United Arab Emirates, respectively. All have been
accused of contributing to the oil glut by producing more
than their OPEC quotas.
   In an effort to blunt such criticism, the three ministers
issued a joint statement last night through the Saudi Press
Agency that affirmed their support for OPEC quotas and
expressed "grave concern" about pricing developments. "They
decided that the solution which can guarantee relative
stability in the market is a commitment from OPEC members to
the production ceiling and to the quotas distributed among
the member states," the statement said.
   The ministers said they will continue consultations with
their counterparts elsewhere in an effort to restore
stability to markets. But they didn't promise any production
cuts in their own countries.
   Industry analysts expressed doubt that the statement would
prop up the price of oil. "It's too bland to have any
immediate effect -- considering the caliber of the people who
met," said Antonio M. Szabo, vice president of Bonner &amp; Moore
Market Consultants.
   The meeting began too late to have any impact on
yesterday's oil trading, and crude prices resumed their fall.
In Europe, where oil markets had closed Friday and Monday for
Easter, spot prices of North Sea crudes were down 10 cents to
25 cents a barrel.
   On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the futures price of
West Texas Intermediate for May delivery dropped 41 cents a
barrel to settle at $17.44. Less volatile, the June crude
contract was down 28 cents to $18.39. Outer month crude
contracts were mostly higher.
   Worries that the industry would report higher U.S. crude
oil inventories weighed heavily on the markets yesterday.
But, after trading had closed, the American Petroleum
Institute released its latest U.S. oil statistics showing
that crude inventories were up only 814,000 barrels last
week, much less than expected.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Prices of soybean futures rose amid
reports that heavy rains are delaying the harvest in Brazil
and that cold temperatures would sweep across regions of
Argentina where the soybean crop hasn't yet been harvested.
The weather forecast offset growing worries that the Soviet
Union might sacrifice its chances to win Most Favored Nation
status from the U.S. if tensions escalate over Lithuania's
drive for independence. Yesterday President Bush warned that
the U.S. might respond somehow if the Soviet Union cuts
natural gas supplies to Lithuania. Before the Lithuania
predicament, U.S. grain traders had been speculating that
Soviet purchases of U.S. crops, in particular soybeans, might
increase substantially if the Soviets received the
preferential treatment given to countries granted Most
Favored Nation status by the U.S. Meanwhile, traders are
continuing to shrug off reports that the Soviet Union is
having trouble paying its debts in a timely fashion to U.S.
exporters. Last week, some Japanese trading companies
extended credit to the Soviet Union so that it could continue
to purchase U.S. goods. The Soviet Union has had an excellent
reputation for several years of immediately meeting its
obligations to trading partners. However, the economic
restructuring under way in the country is causing disarray.
The Soviet payment problems should become less of a factor in
the U.S. grain markets because Soviet purchases usually slow
by late June. Prices of corn futures rose yesterday amid
reports that cool wet weather is slowing the early planting
of the crop in the U.S. Prices of most wheat contracts
dropped slightly.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices fell, then partially recovered. The
May contract finished 0.25 cent a pound lower at $1.1625. The
contract had opened off 0.70 cent and sank as low as $1.1450
before rebounding. On Monday after New York's Commodity
Exchange had closed, Southern Peru Copper Corp. announced a
force majeure on April shipments because of a monthlong
strike by production workers. A force majeure allows a
company to stop shipments because of uncontrollable events,
such as a strike. A senior executive at a major wire producer
said, "The reason the force majeure had no effect is because
{two weeks ago} any reasonable observer saw that the company
was essentially in one." Two other potentially price-firming
developments also had no effect yesterday: The London Metals
Exchange announced that its stocks at the end of last week
were down 650 metric tons to 54,575, a 24-month low. Stocks
at the Comex were off 58 tons to 3,504. John Gross, publisher
of the Copper Journal, an industry newsletter, said he is
puzzled. "The fundamentals are bullish and yet the market
seems to move lower for either technical or seasonal
reasons," he said. He noted that the U.S. Mint's purchase of
copper by regular tender yesterday wasn't particularly
encouraging with the price paid, after the usual adjustments,
essentially equal to the Comex spot price. "One news service
said it was constructive, but I don't read it that way," he
said. Mr. Gross was encouraged by copper's closing above
$1.16, which is viewed by market technicians as an important
support level, after sinking below it. However, Mr. Gross
believes that bearish traders were probably encouraged by
auto sales for General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co., which
for the first 10 days of April were down sharply, along with
a 9.3% decline in housing starts last month. The senior
executive at the wire-making company said he has seen some
signs of weakness with rumors of some brass mills selling
copper from inventory. He added that he has spoken with
several water-tube producers who confirm that business isn't
robust.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Prices fell, with the May contract finishing $43 a
metric ton lower at $1,259. According to Harry Schwartz,
senior research analyst for tropical commodities at Cargill
Investors Services Inc. in New York, cocoa's recent price
run-up and subsequent sell-off were spurred by events in
Brazil. "The price drop is probably due to the perception
that cocoa shipments will soon resume and not due to actual
shipments," he said. But Mr. Schwartz noted that the price
decline could also be simply an expected correction. By the
middle of last week, May cocoa had climbed to $1,350 a ton,
up nearly 30% from about $1,050 a month ago. That steep
increase came about, according to Mr. Schwartz, because of
the Draconian economic measures introduced by the newly
elected president of Brazil to curb inflation. Among other
things, the measures that were introduced included freezing
nearly all bank account assets. Even though shipments might
soon resume, Mr. Schwartz thinks that for the next 18 months,
while these strictures are in force, cocoa producers might
not have enough cash to purchase fertilizers and herbicides
for their trees or, perhaps, not even have enough money to
pay for workers for harvesting the crop. "Long-term these
developments have to be bullish for cocoa prices," Mr.
Schwartz said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Warner Bros. Plans an Offensive
   Against Ads in Movie Theaters
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA TWX UAECA IPG
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Warner Bros. said it will prohibit movie theaters from
running commercials when they are showing Warner Bros.
releases.
   The ban makes Warner the second major studio to go on the
offensive against commercials in theaters, a growing but
controversial form of advertising. In February, Walt Disney
Co. introduced a similar ban, citing moviegoers' resentment
of "commercial intrusions" in theaters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Warner, a unit of Time Warner, said the ban will take
effect with its film, "Gremlins 2: The New Batch," which is
to open May 18 on 2,000 screens nationwide.
   "We feel it's an imposition on the film patron," said
Barry Reardon, president of domestic distribution at Warner.
"In justice to our creative people and the people who make
our movies, the movies should be shown" without ads.
   Warner last weekend had its movies -- "Driving Miss
Daisy," "Joe Versus the Volcano" and "Impulse," among others
-- on about 2,500 screens.
   Mr. Reardon said Warner will continue to run some public
service advertisements before its films, but "once the lights
go down, we don't want any commercial advertising."
   Executives at firms that sell and distribute commercials
for movie theaters reacted angrily. "I'm quite dismayed that
Warner would follow this ill-conceived policy of Disney's,"
said Terry Laughren, chairman of Screenvision Cinema Network,
which is based in New York.
   "I don't understand why they're taking an action that will
adversely affect" theater owners, Mr. Laughren said. He added
that Screenvision, which distributes ads for Kodak and
General Motors, among others, sends out checks totaling
"millions of dollars" to theater owners every year for
showing its ads.
   About half of the nation's 23,000 first-run theaters show
advertising.
   Mr. Laughren also discounted a study released by Disney
last week that showed that the vast majority of surveyed
moviegoers don't want commercials to be shown in theaters.
Mr. Laughren disputed that, citing his company's research
that shows almost all moviegoers approving of Screenvision's
ads.
   With two of Hollywood's major studios now banning theater
commercials, some observers believe a trend may be in the
works. "The audience feedback is there -- audiences are
booing and hissing," says A.D. Murphy, who track box-office
results for Variety.
   Officials at other major film studios, including MCA's
Universal and Columbia Pictures, declined to comment.
   Unlike Disney, most of the major studios also have
interests in movie theaters. Warner is a major theater owner
through a joint venture with Paramount, and MCA is the
biggest shareholder in Cineplex Odeon, one of the largest
movie chains, which shows commercials on almost all its 1,300
U.S. screens.
   The largest U.S. theater owner, United Artists
Entertainment Co., shows some onscreen commercials for
Coca-Cola Co., but has increasingly been advertising on video
monitors in the lobbies of its theaters. Of the Warner
restrictions, a spokesman says, "to the extent that it's
required, we'll comply."
   Some movie theater chains already prohibit commercials,
including General Cinema, Loews and National Amusements, a
unit of Viacom. But those theaters are the exception. Other
theater owners have been increasingly willing to accept ads,
following the lead of European theaters, where commercials
have been shown without controversy for years.
   ---
   Saatchi Considers Shift
                                                                                                       

   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi is considering a management shakeup that
would streamline the holding company's staff and move three
executive directors to operating posts, industry executives
said.
   Within the next few months, Saatchi is likely to shift
Jeremy Sinclair, Terry Bannister and Roy Warman into
operating roles within the company's communications business,
an individual familiar with the company said. Mr. Sinclair
currently is Saatchi's deputy chairman, while Messrs.
Bannister and Warman are co-chief executives of Saatchi's ad
business.
   The anticipated changes stem from Saatchi's effort to sell
its troubled consulting businesses, and from the company's
appointment last year of Robert LouisDreyfus as chief
executive and Charles Scott as finance director. As a result,
the need for other senior executives to work on corporate
matters has diminished. Saatchi officials declined to
comment.
   ---
   Ad Note. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: MGM Grand Air, El Segundo, Calif., awarded
its ad account to Lintas:Campbell-Ewald, Warren, Mich., which
is part of Interpublic Group. Billings weren't disclosed. The
account was previously handled at Shalek Agency, Santa
Monica, Calif.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   VIACOM Inc. is approximately 84% owned by National
Amusements Inc. Yesterday's advertising column misstated the
relationship between the two companies.
   (WSJ April 19, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Executive Pay (A Special Report): Salary Scales
   ---
   What Am I Worth?
   A Simple Quiz to Gauge Whether You Earn
   Too Little, Just Enough or Too Much
   ----
   By Gil Schwartz
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R27
</SO>
<LP>
   NEWS OF THE $260 MILLION in bonuses paid out by Drexel
Burnham as it was spiraling into insolvency has cast the
question of executive compensation in a new and refreshing
light. In a year when the firm lost $40 million, senior
executives carted off envelopes engorged with seven- and
eight-figure sums -- all for doing what even dispassionate
observers might call a dramatically terrible job.
   That sounds like a pretty good deal to me.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Payment for performance is a noble concept. But to be
grossly overpaid regardless of the result? That, my friends,
is the American dream]
   If you, too, are inspired by this tale, you're probably in
the process of evaluating your compensation package and
asking yourself: "How much am I worth? And in spite of that,
how can I do better?"
   To get a handle on your market value, please fill in the
following information as truthfully as possible. Remember --
your career path is at stake]
                                                                                                       

   1) It's 7:30 am. You're at your desk, eating a dry muffin.
The phone rings. "Can you have the financial impact of the
Kotzwinkle deal in shape by 11?" asks the controller. You:
                                                                                                       

   a) Say, "Of course, sir" and proceed creatively to crunch
numbers until they appear credible. You format them
attractively, take them to the production shop, print and
bind them by hand, and deliver them to your boss, who is kind
enough to take them to the executive suite.
   b) Call in three subordinates, complete the task quickly,
and take the completed document over to the controller. You
schmooze for a couple of hours, accepting his thanks and
kudos with aplomb.
   c) Say, "Sorry, Irv, I've got a full plate through the
close of business." You then accept his apologies for having
troubled you on such a busy day, and go to lunch.
                                                                                                       

   2) How many people do you manage?
                                                                                                       

   a) None. I listen to a lot of people and do whatever the
greatest number seem to think is advisable. Why do you ask?
   b) I can tell just about anybody around here to do
something, with the exception of my secretary.
   c) I don't know.
                                                                                                       

   3) When discussing your pay, which term do you use?
                                                                                                       

   a) Thousands of dollars.
   b) Hundreds of thousands of dollars.
   c) Lots and lots of millions of dollars.
                                                                                                       

   4) Which of the graphs below represents the way you spend
your average day?
                                                                                                       

   a) Apple
                                                                                                       

   Work                 43%
   Friends &amp; Family     23
   Sleep                22
   Commuting             7
   Recreation            4
                                                                                                       

   b) Meringue
                                                                                                       

   Work                 85%
   Sleep                15
                                                                                                       

   c) Gourmet
                                                                                                       

   Sleep                42%
   Work                 17%
   Charming Associates   8
   Being Conveyed        8
                                                                                                       

   5) How do you feel about your pay?
                                                                                                       

   a) I feel like Babe Ruth -- being paid to play a game I
love].
   b) Through my managerial excellence, this firm is
producing significantly higher revenues and increased
margins. I work hard, and there isn't a company in America
that wouldn't be lucky to have me. As for this one, they
better bump me or trade me.
   c) I need a new boat.
                                                                                                       

   6) Complete the following sentence: I'd like my next raise
to:
                                                                                                       

   a) Pay for the rent increase on my apartment and enough
food to keep my wife and children happy, with perhaps a
little left over for a magazine.
   b) Give me enough to equip my office at home with all the
latest technological miracles so I can keep in touch with my
data base while I sleep.
   c) Buy the new boat, and probably a crew for it, too,
since I hate to sail. Oh, and one of those neat little
yachtsman's caps. I love those.
                                                                                                       

   7) I believe that as a business person I should be
driving:
                                                                                                       

   a) The same Volkswagen Beetle that I first drove to
college back in the 1970s. The mileage those things get is
unbelievable].
   b) A company car with my name embossed on the transmission
and radiator fluid so pristine you could drink it with an
olive.
   c) I'll sit in the back seat of anything with a stereo and
a footrest.
                                                                                                       

   8) Last year, how many vacations did you take, and where
did you take them?
                                                                                                       

   a) I took one very nice week at home, playing with my
children in the parking lot of our condo.
   b) I never get a vacation, thank you, although I was able
to snatch a few long weekends at the company apartment six
blocks from my office.
   c) I take five weeks, although I'm entitled to eight. But
it's so much fun sitting in my office with the door closed.
I'm looking forward to seeing how that hand-made Persian rug
will look on my newly burnished hardwood floors.
                                                                                                       

   9) Which statement is true?
                                                                                                       

   a) I could go on like this forever.
   b) I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore.
   c) I could go on like this forever.
                                                                                                       

   The Scoring
                                                                                                       

   OK, now we're ready to score. Give yourself one point for
every (a); two points for every (b); and three points for
every (c).
   If you scored between nine and 12, congratulations, you
are earning exactly what you deserve. You can look forward to
your next 3% increase and all the good things it will add to
your quite satisfactory life. You possess the one thing that
money can't buy.
   If you scored between 12 and 23, you'd better get busy. No
matter what you're hauling down, you're underpaid and you
know it. You are donating your entire life to the enterprise,
and given your justifiably high opinion of yourself and the
value of your time and talents, any remuneration is barely
worth it.
   If your score tops 23, eat this column. A lot of people
aren't worth what they earn, but you're a master at it]
   We who are about to work salute you]
   ---
   Mr. Schwartz is a writer and business executive in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Executive Pay (A Special Report): Pay Policies
   ---
   Popular Perks:
   Forget the Salaries, the Bonuses, the Stock
   Options; Let's Get to the Good Stuff]
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R25
</SO>
<LP>
   OK, maybe you're not going to jump to some other firm just
because of a country-club membership. Maybe you don't covet
that executive vice president's job simply because het gets
first-class air travel. But they sure help.
   Here's a rundown of the most popular corporate perks --
how many companies give them and how many executives get
them.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                     COMPANIES     EMPLOYEES
                                 OFFERING PERK     ELIGIBLE*
                                                                                                       

   Airline VIP-club membership          34%           1.2%
   Chauffeur service                    40            0.1
   Communications equipment
     (such as car phone)                22            0.2
   Company car                          68            1.1
   Company plane                        63            0.3
   Company WATS line (home use)         11            0.3
   Country-club membership              55            0.5
   Estate planning                      52            0.6
   Executive dining room                30            1.3
   Financial counseling                 64            0.6
   Financial seminars                   11            2.8
   First-class air travel               62            0.7
   Health-club membership               19            0.7
   Home-security system                 25            0.2
   Income-tax preparation               63            0.7
   Legal counseling                      6            0.6
   Loans (low-interest
     or interest-free)                   9            3.2
   Luncheon-club membership             55            0.8
   Personal-liability insurance         50            1.0
   Physical exam                        91            6.5
   Reserved parking                     32            1.0
   Spouse travel                        47            1.0
                                                                                                       

   *Percent of salaried employees at surveyed companies
offering perk
   Source: Hewitt Associates, 1990
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar, Mark Strengthen Against Yen
   Ahead of Today's U.S. Trade Report
   ----
   By Randolph Walerius
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The U.S. currency surged above 160 yen briefly
yesterday before settling to a more modest advance against
the Japanese unit, with dealers going long dollars in
expectation of today's release of a strong U.S. trade number
for February.
   The mark, moving almost in lock step with the dollar, also
marched higher against its Japanese counterpart, advancing to
well above the important 95-yen level.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dollar was little changed against continental European
currencies in trading lightened by participants' anticipation
of the U.S. merchandise trade data.
   The mark and the dollar are running neck-and-neck and the
winner will be determined by the February trade report, said
Albert Soria, first vice president and foreign exchange
manager at Kansallis Osake Pankki in New York.
   If the trade deficit narrows to between $4 billion and $6
billion, the U.S. currency could rally to between 1.6850 and
1.6950 marks, said Mr. Soria, adding that there's little
likelihood that the dollar will move far above 1.70 marks on
strong data.
   But if the trade gap comes in between $7.5 billion and $8
billion, the dollar will slip, possibly testing 1.6650 marks,
he said. Mr. Soria also said that the yen will probably
continue to weaken.
   The U.S. merchandise trade deficit is seen narrowing to a
seasonally adjusted $7.6 billion from January's $9.25 billion
shortfall, according to the average estimates of 15
economists.
   But there is talk in the currency markets, particularly in
Japan, that the figure could be as low as $4.5 billion to $5
billion.
   Susan Babcock, vice president of corporate foreign
exchange at Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp., said such low
estimates represent a Japanese tactic to build expectations
of a very good trade figure and push the U.S. unit higher on
dollar-buying ahead of the report. She noted that Japanese
institutions provided strong interest in buying the dollar
during morning trading in New York.
   When the exaggerated optimism is disappointed by a more
modest improvement in trade, the dollar will slide in a
sell-off, she said.
   The dollar hit an intraday high of 160.15 before drifting
lower. The dollar had previously climbed over 160 yen April 2
in Tokyo, also settling lower that day.
   Ms. Babcock also said the yen is suffering from an
"increasing realization that there is no (Group of Seven
industrial nations) defense for the yen." Before the G-7
meeting April 7, traders had worried about an agreement to
cooperate with intervention to defend the Japanese currency.
   Moreover, Kansallis Osake's Mr. Soria said, a strong U.S.
trade performance in February would show that the dollar is
already competitively valued and would weaken whatever reason
the U.S. might have for joining intervention.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6768 marks, down from 1.6775 marks late Monday, and at
159.68 yen, up from 159.30 yen late Monday. Sterling was
quoted at $1.6385, up from $1.6300 late Monday.
   The mark ended at 95.23 yen in late trading in New York,
up from 94.95 yen late Monday. Sterling rose to 2.7474 marks
from 2.7355 marks late Monday in New York.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the U.S. currency opened for trading
at 160.13 yen, up from Tuesday's Tokyo close of 159.83 yen.
Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.6796 marks.
   The West German currency performed well despite the
announcement by the Soviet Union yesterday that it is
starting to restrict the supply of natural gas to Lithuania
as part of economic sanctions that Moscow had threatened to
enact against the rebellious republic. Such political turmoil
frequently prompts safe-haven dollar buying that buoys the
U.S. unit.
   But Kansallis Osake's Mr. Soria said there isn't any
reluctance to buy the mark.
   The dollar was neither harmed nor helped by a batch of
data that showed conflicting measures of the strength of the
U.S. economy.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $375.20 an ounce, unchanged. Estimated
volume was a light 2.4 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Wednesday, gold opened for trading at $374.25
an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Maxus Energy
   Faces $51.5 Million
   Waste Cleanup
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   MXS
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Maxus Energy Corp. will pay a $2.5 million fine and about
$51.5 million to clean up 26 chromium waste sites in the New
Jersey cities of Kearny and Secaucus, a spokeswoman said.
   The chemical waste resulted from operations by Diamond
Shamrock Chemical Co. many years ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The fine -- the largest ever paid to the state of New
Jersey for environmental violations -- is far less than the
$25 million the state once said it would seek.
   However, the $51.5 million cleanup commitment by Maxus is
substantially larger than previous disclosures by the
company, although the outlays won't affect the company's
public projections of environmental cleanup costs for this
year and next, because most of the money will be provided in
1992 and 1993.
   Diamond Shamrock Chemical was sold to Occidental Petroleum
Corp. in 1986 for about $910 million. Maxus, now an
independent Dallas petroleum producer, indemnified Occidental
at the time of the sale against the costs of environmental
cleanup.
   According to a statement by New Jersey Gov. Jim Florio,
the fine and remedial work were agreed to in a pact between
Occidental's chemicals unit and the state's Department of
Environmental Protection. However, the negotiations were
undertaken by Maxus, which also will fund and oversee the
cleanup. Chromium operations in New Jersey were shuttered by
Diamond Shamrock in 1972 -- long before the sale to
Occidental.
   The cleanup work will be financed by Maxus through a $20
million letter of credit and a $31.5 million working fund
that is to be filled over a four-year period, the company's
spokeswoman said. Payment to the fund will total $4 million
this year, $7.5 million next year, and $10 million in each of
1992 and 1993.
   The outlays for this year and next are already accounted
for in projections by Maxus that it will spend $18.7 million
this year on environmental compliance and $23.1 million next
year.
   However, the total cost of the plan is substantially
higher than Maxus's disclosure in its year-end financial
report that interim remedial measures at sites in Kearny and
Secaucus would cost about $6 million and that certain further
cleanup in Kearny would cost about $8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Executive Pay (A Special Report): Essay
   ---
   A Modest Proposal:
   Do Executive-Pay Scales Seem All Screwed Up?
   Here Are a Few Ways to Fix Them
   ----
   By William E. Blundell
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R31
</SO>
<LP>
   AFTER READING about all the money other people are hauling
home in the Brink's truck, you may be suffering the first
tiny spasms of democratic rage. This is forgivable. It's a
galling thing to know that Lee Iacocca makes more during a
trip to the executive washroom than you do all day.
   So a lot of us are asking the obvious questions: What
makes these topsiders think they deserve so much? And what
about me? Am I chopped liver?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alas, yes -- at least in the so-called free market, which
almost all of us devoutly believe in until we are caught up
in its actual operation.
   This much-worshiped mechanism gives a utility infielder
with a .212 average, a bad back and a good agent $1 million
guaranteed over two years, while a high-school math teacher
has to plan three months ahead to finance a valve job on his
1977 Datsun. It makes double-digit millionaires of people
with interesting hair who, after a labor of some years, have
mastered a few chords on the electric guitar. And it has made
your boss worth his weight in diamonds, even though everyone
suffering through his reign at Amalgamated Everything can see
that he is sending the outfit right down the old sanitary
facility.
   Is this right? Is this fair? God, no.
   The free-market value of top managers has been grossly
inflated by prattle about the rarity of their talents.
Academics, who have succeeded in making management studies as
incomprehensible as molecular physics, are wonderful at this.
PR types -- guess who pays their salaries -- aid and abet. So
does an uncritical press, whose members pride themselves on
aggressiveness but spend a lot of time slobbering at the
shoelaces of people who wear better clothes (almost
everybody) and make much, much more money than they do. The
result: a picture of business as some kind of complicated
primitive religion, its shamans the CEOs. Their secret runes
and rituals, things few can master, bring the rain and make
the cows heavy with calves.
   Smoke and wind. Executive ability is far, far more common
than the talent needed to spear a ground ball hit to the
hole. Anyone who has a fair amount of common sense, energy
and humanity can do a creditable or even exemplary job of
running a business. Parenthood is a lot harder. Look around:
There is no apparent shortage of decently run widget
factories, while that continuous low murmur you hear is the
sound of millions of people telling psychologists about their
crummy childhoods.
   But logic availeth not. As a nation, we remain convinced
that executive talent is as rare as Kirtland's warbler, and
therefore worth a ton of money; the past Decade of Greed,
with its adoration of business and big money, has hammered
this erroneous idea so deeply into the public mind that
dynamite couldn't dislodge it.
   This makes it difficult to sell pay-reform ideas like
inverted regressive compensation, which a few of us recently
made up over a couple of brews. Its rationale: Why give the
moon to 60-year-olds who have already educated the kids, paid
off the mortgage and have a basement full of Montrachet?
   Instead, we raise the starting pay of hot-eyed young
M.B.A. recruits to perhaps a half-million -- let's be
generous -- thus giving more money to those who need it. Then
we cut their pay as they slither up the greasy pole year by
year. At the end their compensation is mostly power, which
they can use with minds unclouded by personal distractions
that plague CEOs now, like worrying about what to do with all
the doubloons piling up in the four-car garage. Given current
CEO pay, this idea probably wouldn't cost much and would
promote efficiency. Employers would be motivated to give a
quick hook to youthful mediocrities instead of letting them
clog up the hallways for the next 30 years, and the more able
youngsters would be induced to give their all.
   A sensible notion but, as noted, politically and
culturally a hard sell. We simply have been too conditioned
to the idea that any big-company chieftain worthy of his
title must be paid the equivalent of the Bolivian GNP. So
have the chieftains. On, then, to a more palatable
alternative, the B&amp;J Reverse Twist. At Ben &amp; Jerry's Homemade
Inc., a Vermont ice-cream producer, the highest-paid employee
cannot make more than five times the salary of the
lowest-paid. In practice, this has limited the pay of Ben
Cohen, chairman and co-founder, to an amount so niggardly
that many less-altruistic CEOs at big outfits wouldn't bother
to pick it up off the sidewalk.
   But what if we flipped the formula, stipulating that the
lowest-paid employee of a company -- Walt Disney Co., say --
couldn't make less than one-fifth of whatever CEO Michael
Eisner makes? His ox wouldn't be gored, while every gofer and
cleaning lady at Disney Studios would be immediately raised
to a hair under $2 million a year. You can't beat that for
across-the-board palatability.
   But a few annoying bugs remain on the economic side. After
a lengthy study that drained the blood out of several small
foundations subsidizing it, researchers at the Harvard
Business School have determined that financing this formula
would require a boost in Disneyland admission prices to
$11,748 a ticket. Focus-group interviews, said the
researchers, indicate that quite a few people might not want
to pay that much to get in. The idea clearly needs a little
work. But perhaps we don't need to bother. Saving the best
for last, we now propose a reform measure that not only meets
but also exceeds every criterion.
   It is this: Pay the CEO the moon and stars if you like --
but if he doesn't do well in the ensuing year, make him give
it all back. Every penny actual and deferred, every stock
option, everything granted that year.
   Is this economically feasible? Currently, the main
difference between a good performance one year and stinking
out the joint the next is that in the first case the boss
gets obscene rewards and in the second only enormous ones. By
reducing the latter to zip, a lot of companies would save a
fortune. As for the CEO, he has amassed more than enough fat
to live on for a year.
   Is this politically and culturally feasible? Fiendishly
so. Working the Cabernet-and-squab circuit, CEOs themselves
are forever thumping the tubs for the risk-and-reward aspect
of free-market capitalism. All our plan would do is at last
balance their own great rewards with a truly matching risk,
which they can hardly object to without looking like
hypocrites.
   Case closed. Now -- which CEO wants to go first? Don't all
raise your hands at once.
   ---
   Mr. Blundell is deputy editor of The Wall Street Journal
Reports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Executive Pay (A Special Report): Salary Scales
   ---
   Caught in the Middle:
   Managers Don't Mind That the CEO Makes a Lot
   Of Money, but They Raise Questions About Fairness
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R9
</SO>
<CO>
   ACY LIZC AVP SAA CHL LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   WHEN IT COMES TO compensation, what makes middle managers
see red?
   It isn't that some chief executive salaries rival those of
ballplayers or rock stars, or that golden parachutes
proliferate. It isn't that stock options can deliver more pay
than a middle manager will earn in a lifetime. And it isn't
simply that their own pay raises seem paltry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What really makes middle managers mad is unfairness.
   Listen to this vice president and financial analyst at a
major bank: "It disturbs me when someone on high dictates
that no matter how hard you work or what you do, you're only
going to get a 6% increase, and if you don't like it, you can
take a hike. Yet whatever they've negotiated for themselves
-- 10% or 20% or 30% -- is a different issue from the rest of
the staff." Adds Joe, a manager at Sterling Drugs Inc.: "It's
creating a gap between those who do and those who have."
   That same bitterness surfaces repeatedly here in a panel
discussion with a group of middle managers. Ask them about
what their CEO makes, and most profess not to even know -- or
care. Ask them about their own pay, and they don't seem
particular bothered by the level. But ask them about how
their pay raises are set or how they compare to the raises of
their bosses, and they start talking about inequities,
sinking morale and the decline of worker loyalty.
   Arranged for The Wall Street Journal by Decision Research
Corp., a marketing-research company, the group consisted of
eight middle managers. Each manager works at a large publicly
traded industrial or service company and has between three
and 40 subordinates. The managers' average tenure is seven
years. Their own compensation ranges from $50,000 to $100,000
a year. And -- not surprisingly -- they agreed to speak on
condition that only their first names or titles be used.
   Their responses are not meant to be scientifically valid.
But the uniformity of their responses is striking. And their
complaints are those that are echoed repeatedly throughout
the ranks of middle management.
   In principle, most don't find chief executive pay
upsetting. "Our CEO is active and involved," says an
information-systems manager at American Cyanamid Co. "I don't
think {millions} is too much. I wouldn't take that job with
all its pressure and stress."
   Indeed, many feel their leaders even deserve to earn a
great deal more than do middle managers: "There's more of me
than there are of them," says a manager at Liz Claiborne Inc.
The senior managers at Claiborne, she says, "work harder than
everybody else, and they're making this company what it is."
Do they really need all that money? "I don't think they need
it," she says. "I think they earned it."
   These middle managers had no problems with CEO pay hitting
even stratospheric levels. Should there be a ceiling put on
top executive pay? they are asked. "Is there a ceiling on
performance?" responds a media supervisor at a Saatchi &amp;
Saatchi advertising agency.
   But for all the talk about pay for performance these days,
most of the group feel they see the opposite only too often.
Many suspect, for instance, that their superiors aren't above
tampering with pay-for-performance formulas when it suits
them -- "bingo bookkeeping," says Joe, the Sterling Drug
manager. "When they don't get the 10% earnings increase, they
say, `OK, it's not my fault we didn't make money, it's
somebody else's fault. Next year maybe we'll do better, but
if we don't, that won't be my fault, either. But if we make
money, I'm the guy that did it.'"
   Indeed, they object even when it benefits them. A
marketing manager at Avon Products Inc., thinks that one
recent year's bonus pool for managers was inflated by special
items "that shouldn't have been included in the profits, so
they're paying for non-performance and they shouldn't do
that. I don't think they are spending their money well."
However, she adds: "Nobody turned their checks back."
   As managers, they also worry about those who report to
them. Caps on raises don't allow for rewarding extraordinary
performance. But somehow these managers have to explain to
their subordinates why the pay of lower-level workers is
allowed only to inch up, while the pay of the boss can
skyrocket.
   "One of the things that really frustrates me and a number
of my peers is that I work for a company that prides itself
in paying and compensating people on an {industry average},"
says the American Cyanamid manager. "That's not something I
necessarily think is great to strive for. But we also had a
chairman and CEO who was {among the highest paid in the
industry} in 1988. So I have people killing themselves --
actually making a difference on the corporate bottom line --
and the best I can do for them is 8%."
   The manager of the Saatchi unit expresses similar
frustration with raising subordinates' pay. "I have
23-year-olds making multimillion-dollar decisions who are
making $17,000 a year," he says. "We have exit interviews
{that show} our company drives people out because they won't
give them decent salaries."
   It's a common problem. A survey by the Hay Group showed
that on the average, satisfactory performers received 4.7%
increases while outstanding performers received 7.7%
increases. For a $40,000-a-year worker, that would work out
to about a $17-a-week after-tax difference. "Hardly enough to
push someone to excel," says Ira Kay, senior vice president
and managing director of compensation consulting at Hay.
   For some middle managers, though, such a compensation
strategy reflects a deeper, more troubling attitude on the
part of companies. That is, that compensation isn't seen as a
motivational tool but rather as just another business
expense.
   "They're looking at it this way," says Sterling Drug's
Joe. "We get a body, put it in this spot, give it some money,
and then when it gets too expensive, get rid of it and get
another body {at a lower cost} and put him in the spot."
Agrees the Saatchi unit manager: "Most of them are treating
people like just a cost of operations."
   The solution these middle managers would prefer: a system
of rewards based on team and individual performance that
allows for extraordinary bonuses. They want to be paid more
directly for their performance in meeting goals -- paid out,
though, over a longer term so that workers don't have an
incentive to inflate short-term results. And they want their
bosses to be paid similarly.
   "I feel pretty good about it," says a customer-service
manager for a large public utility, which has such a system.
"You all have shared goals. There's a different amount at
risk in each package, so you really incent people to do
exceptional work, and not reward people for just hanging on."
   Such a shared system, they believe, would help them work
more effectively. "After working in a company where people do
share the same goals and it is a total team effort, I don't
want to go to work for just anybody else because of a better
package or anything they are going to offer to try to lure
me," says the Claiborne manager. "It has to be the kind of
company I want to work for." Agrees the Avon manager: "I'm
getting back to more traditional values. If you are working
with people that have similar values, it's more likely that
you will be able to work effectively with them."
   It would also assuage another one of their concerns: peers
and immediate supervisors who don't earn their keep. "I see
my boss -- I think I work harder than he does," says a vice
president of Chemical Banking Corp. "He's a regional manager
and all he does is review my work. And I think he works
harder than his boss. I honestly think that compensation
isn't tied to your performance or your effort at all. Really,
it's the rank and file that does all the work, and they're
not compensated accordingly. It stinks."
   That's been particularly true, these managers say, in
recent years, as companies have thinned the ranks of middle
management -- and yet haven't reduced the burden. As the
manager of the Saatchi unit says: "I've noticed that my
workload and responsibilities have increased more than my
salary."
   But most aren't sanguine about solving the problem any
time soon. The bank financial analyst notes that her company
has recently canceled its profit-sharing plan and that only
"deal doers" get bonuses nowadays.
   Many of them, however, report having used a time-honored
method of increasing their own pay. "Three years ago, I was
grossly underpaid, so I quit. A year later I came back with a
50% increase in salary," says the Chemical Bank vice
president. Simply threatening to quit worked for the Liz
Claiborne manager. Adds the manager of the Saatchi unit:
"It's a standard technique." The problem is, he reckons: "You
have to be ready to go."
   ---
   Ms. Bennett, a senior special writer in The Wall Street
Journal's New York bureau, served as contributing editor of
this Wall Street Journal Report.
   ---
                       Keeping Pace
                                                                                                       

   Percentage by which changes in cash compensation for
various occupations exceeded or trailed changes in the
consumer price index
                                                                                                       

                                   Over past    Over past
                                   five years   10 years
                                                                                                       

   Personnel manager                  15%          13%
   Chief executive officer
    (large company)                   12           13
   Board member
    (non-durable goods company)        9            8
   Executive secretary                 7            8
   Computer operator                   7            7
   Systems analyst                     5            5
   Board member
    (durable-goods company)            2            3
   Cost-accounting manager             1            0
   Internal auditor                    1           -1
   Plant manager                       0           -4
   Chief executive officer
    (medium-sized company)             0           -4
   Chief financial officer
    (large company)                   -3           -5
   Market-research manager            -4           -7
   Chief financial officer
    (medium-sized company)            -7           -8
   Customer-service manager          -10          -11
                                                                                                       

   Source: The Wyatt Group, 1989
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Executive Pay (A Special Report): Salary Scales
   ---
   View From the Top:
   Three Former or Current CEOs
   Ponder Pay at the Highest Levels
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R11
</SO>
<LP>
   We all get a kick out of talking about the CEO's pay. Is
he worth it? How did the board arrive at that figure? And how
about that bonus?
   It's all fascinating -- and great fun. Unless, that is,
you're a CEO. Then you refuse to talk about your pay. It's
too personal. It's outside your control. No matter what you
say, employees will resent you.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To get a chief executive's perspective, The Wall Street
Journal asked dozens of current and former chief executives
to discuss the issue. Three agreed: Ward Smith, current chief
executive of Nacco Industries Inc., Donald Frey, former chief
executive of Bell &amp; Howell Co., and Donald Burr, founder and
former chief executive of People Express. What follow are
excerpts from their discussion.
                                                                                                       

   Excesses of the '80s
                                                                                                       

   DONALD BURR: In the 1980s, you had to make $10 million,
and if you didn't make $10 million, you were a sap. Greed
became OK. Look at Malcolm Forbes: Live it to the fullest. It
began to get infectious. You could see it happening year by
year. It became an ethic that if John got it, I'm sort of a
wimp if I didn't get it.
   In the country-club kind of culture of the early '80s, the
rate of compensation for the CEO was one of the things that
people measured themselves by. You've heard money's not
important, but it's the bottom-line comparison. It's how good
am I against the other guy. And you get to be a CEO and you
look around and say, hell, I'm worth it.
                                                                                                       

   WARD SMITH: The numbers got so big in the 1980s that they
became attention-getting events.
   Then there was proxy-statement competition. You are
comparing yourself to others all the time. That's human
nature. What {the CEO says} is that if a marketplace values a
person's contribution to an organization of similar
characteristics at dollars X, why shouldn't I be valued in
pretty much the same way? It may not be a valid way to look
at it, but it is the way people look at it.
                                                                                                       

   How Pay Is Set
                                                                                                       

   DONALD FREY: There's a ratchet effect. The compensation
committee calls in a compensation company to do a study {on
what to pay the chief executive}. It's usually by the size of
the company, and they tell you the range for the competitive
salary. If the range is $450,000 to $650,000, you don't start
the CEO at the junior level and have him work up. It doesn't
work that way. So that tends to set a floor and you ratchet
up from there. Immediately you've biased the sample upwards.
   You don't sit in a board meeting and say to the CEO, "I
don't like what you are doing with this company,"
particularly if he's in the room. That's why you can't find a
correlation with CEO pay and performance.
   It's the dynamic within the meeting. If you are a CEO, you
can co-opt the issues. There are, let's say, 5,000 names of
people in the Fortune 500 boards. It's a club. They either
know each other, or they know of each other, or they are
there because of a friendship or somebody else recommended
them. And you rarely tell the CEO that he is full of it. You
don't rock the boat.
   It's like that on board after board.
                                                                                                       

   BURR: He's describing what I would say is more historical
than what's happening today. I think it's something I saw 20
years ago.
                                                                                                       

   SMITH: There was an ethic that made that the norm. And
believe me, the potential for mischief is still enormous
today, including for compensation committees to behave as if
they are the handmaidens of the CEOS. {When earnings go down}
you can still stick yourself into board meetings and hear the
argument that it was exogenous factors that caused the
decline. The job was harder. The CEO comes in and says, "It
wasn't something I did."
   And the boards are sympathetic. Or some boards. I work for
a family-dominated company, and compensation-committee
meetings aren't rubber stamps. They know it's their money
being delivered.
                                                                                                       

   BURR: How the hell can you ask an engineer to really get
down and save that last penny when he knows you flew in a $20
million corporate jet? It's up to management to set an
example.
                                                                                                       

   SMITH: There was a story of a guy who flew his dog in a G4
corporate jet. That's criminal. It breeds contempt not only
for the company but for the system, up and down the line.
People aren't of strong moral fiber. They can't resist the
pressure. If you create an atmosphere in which the G4 is an
exemplar, you are creating an atmosphere that encourages the
same sort of behavior by others on a different scale. The
point is that the atmosphere at the top will dictate the
atmosphere throughout the institution.
                                                                                                       

   BURR: The exciting thing is that leaders are really
beginning to understand at all levels how tremendously
motivational compensation is. And how it ties into the fiber
of people's lives and how important it is to their sense of
self-esteem. Not in the bad sense, not in the sense of greed.
   When you see a really committed team work, there's just
nothing they can't do. But you can't have, "Oh, yes, I
believe in motherhood, but you have to work for nothing."
   Because work is where they want to be. They don't want to
go home at 3:15. They want to be there until midnight. That's
what they really want. But if you take it out of them, if you
take away their freedom and screw them around, they'll leave
at 3:15.
                                                                                                       

   FREY: There's fear and terror out there. A watershed event
was the two public pension-fund managers who wrote letters to
the GM board {complaining about management performance.} Now
if there's one thing a director hates, it's fear of getting
sued.
   The excesses of the 1980s are passing. I think the norm is
shifting because of the excesses of the LBOS, the spread
sheets and the red suspenders. That's history. What will
replace it is the proxy fight. That's the cutting edge. That
is the retribution. It's the old-fashioned structural
approach: Throw the bastards out.
                                                                                                       

   SMITH: Increasingly the people care. My tummy tells me
that we are sending out three times as many proxies as ever.
   There's been an enormous amount of recent publicity given
to outrageous compensation. One of the components of the
valuation of the company is what are the managers like and
are they being paid reasonably. The Drexel "bye-bye" packages
are staggering -- that someone will get a bonus for helping a
company down the chute. That's outrageous] That will cause a
structural change.
                                                                                                       

   BURR: I think the real constituency is middle management.
They are demanding of their CEOs and their boards of
directors that they put in place performance systems. Under
the Reagan era, the greed culture was OK. But the culture
shut down just that fast. And the underlying culture is the
pay-for-performance culture, the one where very bright people
migrate to companies where they are going to get fair
treatment and where they are going to get ownership. And
we're going to see the CEO being paid exactly what he should
be paid.
   In a democracy the individual people watch the leader like
a hawk. The work force will restrain the natural greed of
CEOs and others. That natural force is more powerful than
ever because in order to compete, we have to attract the very
finest people, and the very finest people won't work for
those kinds of boards.
   There has to be a certain legitimacy to the leader, or
sooner or later he loses credibility, gets cut off, gets
hurt, or cut down.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Canadian Pacific
   Forest Payout Cut
   Due to Poor Results
   ----
   By Robert Melnbardis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   T.PFP CP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Canadian Pacific Forest Products Ltd. cut its
quarterly dividend 69% to 20 Canadian cents (17.2 U.S. cents)
from 65 Canadian cents and reported substantially lower
first-quarter earnings.
   Canadian Pacific reported a first-quarter profit of $4.8
million Canadian dollars (US$4.1 million) or 11 Canadian
cents a share, down from net income of C$65.1 million, or
C$1.48 a share, a year earlier. Sales declined 9.7% to
C$642.1 million from C$711 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While the dividend reduction was expected, analysts who
had been forecasting a 1990 net income of as much as C$3 a
share are revising their earlier estimates.
   "Everyone is a little shell-shocked that we could be off
the mark so much," said one analyst, who added that he
expects that the company will earn more than C$1 a share this
year.
   Canadian Pacific attributed the big earnings drop to lower
net selling prices for newsprint and lower shipment volumes
for market kraft woodpulp. Cecil Flenniken, chairman and
chief executive officer, said after the company's annual
meeting that it cut the dividend because of the poor
first-quarter results.
   "We see how {the dividend} compares with other forest
products companies, and we seem to be completely out of line
with {them}. But because of the earnings drop, we believe we
should be a little bit more conservative with the dividend,"
Mr. Flenniken said.
   Canadian Pacific Forest is 79.7%-owned by Canadian Pacific
Ltd., a transportation, telecommunications and real estate
conglomerate based in Montreal.
   In trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday,
Canadian Pacific closed at C$29, down C$3.50. On the New York
Stock Exchange, Canadian Pacific Ltd. closed at US$20, down
12.5 US cents from Monday.
   Despite the company's weak earnings in the first quarter,
Mr. Flenniken, who declined to make a specific profit
forecast, said he expects that the newsprint and market pulp
markets aren't going to get worse. He said the current list
price for northern bleached softwood kraft pulp is likely to
remain at US$830 a metric ton in North America and US$840 a
metric ton in Europe despite the lower volume of shipments in
the industry. About 90% of Canadian Pacific Forest's market
pulp production consists of that premium fiber, which will
continue to be in high demand, he said. Market pulp is
woodpulp sold on the open market to producers of paper,
sanitary and other products. A metric ton equals 2,204.62
pounds.
   On the newsprint side, Mr. Flenniken said producers don't
appear to be backing down from their previously announced
intention to raise the list price for newsprint on June 1 to
US$685 a metric ton from US$650 a metric ton. Analysts aren't
as optimistic. They don't think the newsprint price increase
will stick, and they're forecasting a drop in market pulp
prices this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Charles Keating Asks Court to Return
   Lincoln S&amp;L to Him Under Supervision
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Charles Keating asked that Lincoln Savings &amp;
Loan Association, which the government seized last year, be
returned to him under judicial supervision.
   Testifying in his court challenge to the government's
takeover, Mr. Keating said "giving Lincoln back to the people
who can run it properly will save the taxpayers from any
losses."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal regulators say Mr. Keating and his managers ran
Lincoln fraudulently and estimate that the cost of bailing
out the Irvine, Calif., thrift will top $2 billion, making it
one of the most expensive thrift failures ever. Mr. Keating
is the chairman of Lincoln's former parent company, American
Continental Corp. of Phoenix, Ariz.
   Mr. Keating said that over several years he could manage
Lincoln's assets so that taxpayers wouldn't be called in to
cover the government-insured deposits at the thrift. But
Judge Stanley Sporkin responded with some skepticism to Mr.
Keating's request, saying regulators, not court-appointed
managers, "have the congressional mandate" to manage thrifts
under the massive S&amp;L bailout enacted this past year.
   Mr. Keating made his plea as he wound up several days of
questioning by his own lawyers in the trial being held in
federal district court here. Earlier yesterday, lawyers for
Mr. Keating continued their assertions that regulators were
incompetent and had a vendetta against Mr. Keating. Mr.
Keating's lawyers disclosed a memo suggesting regulators knew
they had made mistakes in calculating Lincoln's capital
strength but refused to admit them. At the time, regulators
were contending Lincoln was $114 million short of its capital
requirements.
   In the memo, dated Feb. 17, 1989, Federal Home Loan Bank
Board official Alvin Smuzynski wrote to a superior that "it
now appears that the examiners did make a significant -- $60
million -- error in their calculation." But Kevin O'Connell,
another senior regulator, told reporters at the courthouse
that regulators later determined they hadn't made a mistake.
   Mr. Keating charged that other documents show regulators
were intent on denying various proposals he made to sell
Lincoln in the spring of 1989, before the government took it
over in April. Regulators attached 21 conditions to a sale
Mr. Keating proposed, but still refused to approve it even
after Mr. Keating accepted the conditions, he asserted. In a
Bank Board memo dated March 30, 1989, Mr. Smuzynski wrote,
"We sometimes play a game with recommendations-you can deny a
recommendation by conditioning it to death."
   But as cross-examination by lawyers for the government
began yesterday afternoon, other documents pointed to serious
reservations the government had about some aspects of the
sales Mr. Keating had arranged. The government was concerned
that Mr. Keating was financing the sale himself and that
American Continental executives were involved in the buy-out
groups.
   As part of one proposed transaction, government lawyers
said, Mr. Keating's American Continental was to pay $40
million for a subsidiary of Trump Group Inc., a concern
controlled by New York businessmen Jules and Eddie Trump. At
the same time, the Trump brothers, who aren't related to
Donald Trump, would provide about $35 million to finance the
purchase of Lincoln.
   In a letter introduced by lawyers for the government,
Lincoln's own auditor, Touche Ross &amp; Co., suggested that
American Continental was paying $35 million more for the
Trump Group subsidiary than it was worth. Mr. Keating
disputed that Touche Ross had reached that conclusion.
   James Murphy, a lawyer for the government, also said the
proposed sales didn't meet the government's demand that
American Continental agree to pay back to Lincoln $94 million
in controversial tax-sharing payments that Lincoln had paid
to American Continental.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Executive Pay (A Special Report): Looking Abroad
   ---
   The Continental Divide:
   The Gap Between Executive Pay in the U.S.
   And in Europe Is Narrowing, but It May Never Close
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R28
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Not that long ago, executive pay in Europe
lagged so far behind the princely sums handed out in the U.S.
that the gap seemed nearly unbridgeable. To a lot of people
like Robert Horton, it must still look that way.
   In 1988 he was posted from the U.S., where he headed
British Petroleum Co.'s American unit, back to Britain, where
he rejoined the parent's governing board. With this promotion
-- he was widely viewed as a candidate for the top job at BP
and has since become chairman -- he took a pay cut of 60%
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But a lot of other people like Ernest Mario can testify
that executive pay in Europe indeed is beginning to catch up
with that in the U.S., if in an uneven and unequal way. Mr.
Mario, who works for Glaxo Holdings PLC, the U.K.'s top
pharmaceuticals maker, last year moved to Britain as chief
executive from a managing director's spot in the U.S. He got
a 30% salary increase to nearly $1 million, pay that puts him
on a par with the chieftains of similarly sized companies in
the U.S.
   Driven by the increasing globalization of business and the
need to attract scarce managerial talent, executives'
earnings across Europe "are moving ahead much more quickly
than those of their peers in the U.S," says Ron Amy, group
compensation and benefits director at Grand Metropolitan PLC,
the British food and drinks group. "We are seeing a closing
of the gap." Another reason for the upward movement: tax
reforms that allow executives to keep more of their earnings.
   After adjustment to reflect net purchasing power, a
typical European executive now earns 75% as much as a U.S.
counterpart -- up from 70% in 1985, estimates Hay Group Inc.
Performance bonuses and even stock options are becoming far
more common, too, says Hay.
   But does all of this spell true parity with the U.S.
before too long? Don't count on it.
   The gap between U.S.and European executive compensation
may never close completely. In some parts of the European
patchwork quilt, salaries are so far behind American pay that
catching up seems well-nigh impossible. Senior executives in
wealthy Switzerland come closest to Americans in gross salary
and bonus levels, and someday could match them. But those in
less affluent nations such as Portugal and Ireland are far,
far off the pace.
   Also, there are still too many lingering differences in
Old World attitudes, values, tax systems and living
standards. Nonmonetary rewards -- from a deluxe company car
to better job security -- still motivate many European
managers as much as cold cash. And in a part of the world
where socialist tradition still runs deep, those who make a
whopping U.S.-style income risk public scorn as greedy fat
cats. "To a lot of people, {high pay} sounds obscene," says
Noel de Berry, an executive recruiter in London's financial
district.
   Banker Christopher Heath discovered this when his earnings
of 2.5 million, largely profit-related, made him Britain's
highest-paid executive for 1986. The outraged tabloid press
hounded Mr. Heath, forcing him to disappear for a week and
prompting his employer, Baring Brothers &amp; Co., to hire guards
for his home.
   Across the Channel, a satirical French newspaper stirred a
lot of fresh antagonism into a labor dispute last fall when
it reported that Peugeot SA, the French auto maker, had paid
Chairman Jacques Calvet a little more than $340,000 in 1988.
Though Chrysler chief executive Lee Iacocca earned the same
in a little over a month, including stock options, Mr.
Calvet's salary increases -- 24% in 1988 and 17% the year
before -- infuriated striking Peugeot workers. They had
walked out over management's refusal to grant them more than
a 4.4% annual raise.
   This sort of reaction leaves many European companies still
wary about handing out big salaries and performance bonuses.
Two-thirds of major European businesses do offer such bonuses
now, compared with 87% in the U.S., and the number has grown
rapidly -- but the bonuses often are not as lavish, or spread
among as many potential recipients, as they are in the U.S.
   Peugeot, for one, limits them to only a few top
executives. French companies generally would like to extend
performance-based pay to a wider management group, says
Peugeot spokesman Martin Alloiteau. But after 40 years of
government with a wide streak of social welfarism, "it's too
early in France right now," he adds. "It means a deep change
in mentality."
   Similarly, although stock options are gaining ground in
Europe, they may not approach their popularity in the U.S.
for many years, if ever. According to a recent poll by Wyatt
Co., a U.S. consulting firm, they are now offered by at least
25% of the companies in Austria, Denmark, Ireland, the
Netherlands, Norway, Spain and the U.K. But they are still
far less prevalent than in the U.S., and in some European
countries with few publicly held businesses and
less-developed equity markets, rapid growth in their use
seems unlikely.
   Also, where they are offered, such options frequently are
less generous than in the U.S., are limited to a smaller
number of executives, and sometimes are tied to how well the
company performs. In Britain, institutional shareholders
employ guidelines limiting executives' share options to four
times their yearly compensation unless they achieve strict,
stipulated levels of performance. Such restrictions don't
exist in the U.S.
   As much as any single factor, the narrower scope and scale
of stock options leaves Europe still a long way from parity
with the U.S. by the most meaningful yardstick -- total
renumeration. This includes not only salary, bonuses and
benefits but also the value of stock options.
   By this standard the chief executive of an American
company with sales of $250 million a year received an average
of $543,000 as of January 1989, says Towers Perrin, a
U.S.-based benefits consulting firm. A CEO of a similar Swiss
business earned $307,000, but the head of the same-sized
British, German or French company garnered only about half
the U.S. figure.
   However, what European corporations lack in lavish pay
packages they often make up for in generous perks. Among
them: company-subsidized yachts, country estates, gardeners,
chauffeurs, home entertainment and personal phone bills. U.K.
businesses introduced company cars in the mid-1970s and at
one point even paid for business suits.
   The suit perk is gone, but the cars are everywhere. Over
90% of senior British managers now get company cars -- more
than in the U.S. or anywhere else. It's proof of how highly
conscious Britons remain of accent, dress and other marks of
class. Some executives even take pay cuts to join businesses
offering fancier sets of wheels.
   European managers also get longer vacations than their
U.S. counterparts -- six weeks isn't unusual -- and while
Americans brag about how rarely they take time off, Britons
and Continentals make a point of taking their vacations. (Sir
John Egan, then Jaguar PLC's chairman, took a one-week
holiday to Barbados last October right in the middle of talks
with General Motors Corp. about a minority linkup. A source
close to GM says his departure "raised a few eyebrows" among
GM officials left cooling their heels. Ford Motor Co. wound
up buying Jaguar.)
   In addition, European executives usually have more job
security and richer pension benefits than their American
peers, and assign a high value to both. One London investment
banker with a six-figure income rejected a U.S. bank's
higher-paying offer last year because he worried he might be
out of a job in nine months. "People in the U.K.," he notes,
"work for things other than money."
   He might have added that he who stays put also has a
better chance of getting ahead in Europe. Despite all the
executive-suite chatter about meritocracy and pay for
performance, employers in Europe still value long service
more than American bosses do when promotions are made. "A lot
of recruitment is done within the old boys' network," says
Jean Van den Eynde, a Brussels-based executive recruiter.
"Even when they {European companies} don't have the ideal
person around, they will tend to promote from within and hope
that it works out."
   This is one manifestation of a lingering elitism that
still influences who gets ahead in Europe. American and
Japanese competition has diminished the importance of the
right accent, education and family ties -- but it has by no
means eliminated it, particularly in finance.
   Last fall, a French executive quit Caisse des Depots et
Consignations, a big state-owned investment house, after
realizing he would never reach upper management because he
hadn't attended an elite French university. "In the U.S., you
judge people on what they have done, which is not quite true
in Europe," the disillusioned Frenchman says. "Here, they are
more judged on what they look like and what kind of schools
they come from."
   ---
   Ms. Lublin is deputy chief of The Wall Street Journal's
London bureau.
   ---
                    Country by Country
                                                                                                       

   Typical 1989 gross pay for chief operating officers,
including salary, bonuses and other cash payments
   (Based on recent exchange rates)
                                                                                                       

   U.S.                                 $212,640
   Switzerland                           152,000
   Germany                               144,160
   Italy                                 139,360
   Spain                                 135.360
   Austria                               128,480
   France                                125,600
   Denmark                               119,520
   Netherlands                           116,000
   Belgium                               115,520
   Sweden                                113,760
   U.K.                                  101,760
   Norway                                 95,360
   Ireland                                81,920
   Greece                                 51,200
   Portugal                               43,680
                                                                                                       

   Source: P-E Inbucon, U.K. consultants
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Central Fund of Canada Is Viewed by Some
   As Convenient Sudstitute for Owning Bullion
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   CEF
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   After the $23-an-ounce sell-off in gold a couple of weeks
ago, some investors believe that now is the time to buy
precious metals. For these intrepid bottom fishers, an
intriguing choice is Central Fund of Canada.
   Despite its lofty name, Central does little more than buy
silver and gold in chunks and put them away for safekeeping.
The stock closed yesterday on the American Stock Exchange at
4 15/16, a smidgen below the $5-a-share value of the fund's
assets, which are 95% precious metals with a bias toward
silver.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Investors who buy this fund are getting a substitute for
owning bullion," says Ken Gettinger, vice president, precious
metals, at Union Bank of Switzerland in New York. He says the
fund has a high "comfort factor" for small investors, in part
because it can be easily traded by calling a broker.
   Two other common choices of small investors both have
drawbacks. Mining companies aren't pure plays on the metals
they mine as they also reflect mining costs, reserves and
metal inventories. Bullion coins often have sizable gaps
between their buying and selling prices and must be stored
after purchase.
   Central, which handles shareholder inquiries in Ancaster,
Ontario, spends about 1% of its net asset value on storage
and other costs each year. That's just about what an
individual would pay to store bullion or coins.
   The only reason for investors to buy Central, analysts
warn, is if they expect big gains in the price of silver, or
gold, or both. Especially silver. A buyer of Central shares
gets the company's ratio of 49.2 ounces of silver to one
ounce of gold. (In the spot market yesterday gold was at
$375.20 an ounce, about 74 times silver's $5.09.)
   A few investors have recently begun dabbling in silver
stocks, predicting an end to the heavy supply that has driven
the metal close to a 12-year low. In 1985, gold had sunk to
$300 an ounce but as recently as 1988 was more than $500 an
ounce.
   Central, a publicly traded or "closed-end" concern that
became a bullion fund in 1983, owns 116,205 ounces of gold
bullion and certificates for an additional 13,000. It owns
6,138,615 ounces of silver bullion and certificates for
221,750 more. The metal is stored on a segregated basis in
the vaults of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
   Central typically posts annual losses because of operating
costs. Assessing results can be an adventure because of the
different ways U.S. and Canadian accountants view unrealized
appreciation or depreciation of assets. For the three months
ended Jan. 31, under generally accepted Canadian accounting
principles, Central had a loss of $155,014. Under U.S.
principles it had a $5,614,845 profit.
   Robert Kinsman, editor of the "Low-Risk Growth Letter,"
says the stock has other advantages besides convenience. "I
like the idea that it can be shorted for those who are
bearish on the metals," he says. Of course, the stock is
naturally most attractive when it is selling at a discount to
its net asset value. In December 1984 it sold at a 28.5%
discount to net asset value when gold was at $324 an ounce
and silver at $6.82. On the day it reached its maximum
premium to net asset value -- 23.6%in April 1987, the stock
also reached an alltime high of 8 3/8. At that time, gold was
selling for $432 and silver for $6.90 an ounce.
   Jeffrey Nichols, president of American Precious Metals
Advisors in Toronto, says gold's recent price slump was
psychologically and technically damaging. But he predicts
that "before the decade is out, gold will set new historic
highs -- over $800 an ounce," reflecting stagnation in supply
growth and increased demand for gold in jewelry.
   Silver hasn't the admirers in the Middle East and Far East
that gold does, Mr. Nichols says: "I see it as simply a
commodity for short-term speculative players."
   Investors shouldn't buy Central for income because it
doesn't have very many ways to produce it. According to Paul
Gratton, president of Central Group Ltd., the administrator
of Central Fund, the company doesn't sell calls against its
inventory, as this would violate its conservative investment
policy. The fund did sell calls from 1984 through 1986, but
quit when shareholders complained that such a strategy was
inappropriate for long-term bulls on the precious metals.
(The owner of a call option has the right to buy or "call
away" bullion in this case at a specified price for a limited
time.)
   Dennis Suskind, a partner at Goldman Sachs, sees a rough
road ahead this year for gold, with the metal likely to move
lower. He's more optimistic about silver. "No matter what
happens to gold, every time silver gets near $5 an ounce the
selling seems to dry up," he says. And when gold took its
recent hit, silver fell only eight cents an ounce.
   ---
   Central Fund of Canada
                                                                                                       

   (AME; Symbol: CEF)

   Business: Holds precious metal bullion
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Oct. 31, 1989:
     Net Assets: $85.9 million; $5.10 a Cl. A shr.
     Net Loss: $18.9 million; $1.11 a Cl. A shr.
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, Jan. 31, 1990:
     Net Income: 33 cents a Class A share vs. net loss 51
     cents a Class A share
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
     44,920 shares
                                                                                                       

   Class A shares outstanding: 16.8 million
                                                                                                       

   Note: All figures involving profits and losses are
calculated here under U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Figures in U.S. dollars.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Consumer Prices Climbed 0.5% in March
   ---
   First-Quarter Inflation Rate
   Jumped to 8.5%, Highest
   Quarterly Level Since '82
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Consumer prices jumped 0.5% last month, the
same as in February, pushing inflation for the first quarter
to an 8.5% annual rate, the Labor Department reported.
   Although that's the highest quarterly rate since the
spring of 1982, when the country was emerging from prolonged
double-digit inflation, few economists expect the pace to
continue. Much of the steep run-up early this year --
consumer prices rose 1.1% in January -- stemmed from the
bitterly cold December weather that ruined crops and taxed
fuel supplies, leading to higher prices for both food and
energy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The inflation rate for the 12 months ended in March
actually slipped a hair, to 5.2% from 5.3% for the 12 months
ended in February.
   Nevertheless, many analysts said the latest numbers
suggest inflation will continue to be a problem for some
time.
   "When you run down the various categories, the fact of the
matter is that in almost all of them, inflation is getting
worse, not better," said Norman Robertson, chief economist of
Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. "That's disturbing in the overall
context of slow economic growth."
   Other government reports issued yesterday suggest that the
persistence of inflation is occurring despite continued
sluggishness in the economy.
   The Federal Reserve reported that industrial production
shot up 0.7% in March, but it said a weather-related increase
in utility output and a surge in car manufacturing, following
a campaign to trim inventories, accounted for much of the
gain. "Elsewhere production was little changed, on balance,
in March," the report said.
   Reflecting the higher output levels, American factories,
mines and utilities used 83.3% of their production capacity
in March, up from 82.9% in February, the Fed said.
   Analysts said utility output was actually no higher than
normal for March, but because February was unseasonably warm,
a return to regular energy usage with March temperatures
registered as a large increase.
   Also, economists said that while the pickup in auto
production is good news for the industry, it indicates only a
return to more normal levels of output after a severe
campaign to reduce inventories earlier this winter. Many
expect weak consumer demand for autos to continue leading to
soft production.
   "We know that auto sales have been treading water at
best," said Alan Gayle, economist at Crestar Financial Corp.
in Richmond, Va.
   Also during March, housing construction slowed sharply,
according to the Commerce Department. Work began on new homes
and apartments at an annual rate of 1,321,000 during the
month, a 9.3% drop from February, the department reported.
   But again, the weather was partly to blame. Many builders
started projects earlier than they had planned this winter
because temperatures were unseasonably warm in January and
February. As a result, March housing starts looked weak by
comparison.
   Permits for future construction were issued at an annual
rate of 1,206,000 units, down 7.6% from February.
   Mr. Gayle said the building industry should benefit from
the good weather in the long run.
   But for now, he said, the reports suggest "the economy is
still limping along."
   The economy has been sluggish for the past year, the
result of the Fed's efforts to stave off inflation by pushing
up interest rates. Aided in part by the unseasonably warm
weather at the beginning of the year, the economy has shown
signs of picking up a bit in the first quarter.
   But Katsuyoshi Tamura, chief economist at the Bank of
Tokyo New York Group, said after the latest round of economic
reports yesterday: "I think the economy is in so-called
stagflation -- slow economy, persistent inflation."
   Mr. Robertson added: "I think it's now painfully obvious
that a period of subpar economic growth isn't going to bring
about a reduction in the inflation rate. Inflation looks
very, very stubborn, very entrenched."
   The latest inflation report was particularly disappointing
because the government had reported only a few days ago that
prices at the wholesale level declined in March. The drop
stemmed largely from declines in energy and food prices.
   But at the retail level, food prices rose 0.4% in March,
on top of a 0.5% climb in February and a 1.8% surge in
January. Energy prices, however, did fall for the second
consecutive month. They declined 0.8% in March after dropping
0.7% in February and leaping 5.1% in January.
   Clothing prices were another big factor in the latest rise
in inflation. They jumped 1.6% after rocketing 3.3% in
February. Most economists believe those increases are far too
big to be sustained, and predict that clothing prices are
sure to fall in the coming months.
   Medical-care prices continued their relentless ascent.
They grew 0.8% in March, matching February's rise. Housing
prices increased 0.5% after rising 0.2% in February.
Entertainment prices rose 0.4% for the second month in a row.
   In another report, the Labor Department said the weekly
earnings of American workers grew 0.1% in March after
adjusting for inflation. In February, they increased 0.3%.
   Figures in all the reports are adjusted for seasonal
variations.
   ---
   Here are the seasonally adjusted changes in the components
of the Labor Department's consumer price index for March.
                                                                                                       

                                          % change from
                                         Feb.        Mar.
                                         1990        1989
                                                                                                       

   All items .........................   0.5         5.2
   Minus food &amp; energy ...............   0.8         4.9
   Food and beverage .................   0.4         6.4
   Housing ...........................   0.5         4.4
   Apparel ...........................   1.6         5.1
   Transportation ....................  -0.1         4.4
   Medical care ......................   0.8         8.6
   Entertainment .....................   0.4         5.0
   Other .............................   0.6         7.5
                                                                                                       

   March consumer price indexes (1982-1984 equals 100),
unadjusted for seasonal variation, together with the
percentage increases from March 1989 were:
                                                                                                       

   All urban consumers ............... 128.7         5.2
   Urban wage earners &amp; clerical ..... 127.1         5.2
   Chicago ........................... 129.5         5.3
   Los Angeles ....................... 134.5         6.6
   New York .......................... 136.6         6.0
   Philadelphia ...................... 133.6         6.0
   San Francisco ..................... 130.0         3.3
   Baltimore ......................... 129.3         5.3
   Boston ............................ 136.3         5.1
   Cleveland ......................... 127.4         4.9
   Miami ............................. 125.1         4.4
   St. Louis ......................... 127.2         6.5
   Washington, D.C. .................. 133.8         6.1
                                                                                                       

                    INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION
                                                                                                       

   Here is a summary of the Federal Reserve Board's report on
industrial production in March. The figures are seasonally
adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                                         % change from
                                        Feb.       March
                                        1990       1989
                                                                                                       

   Total .............................   0.7        1.0
     Consumer goods ..................   0.8        0.9
     Business equipment ..............   1.0        2.5

                                                                                                       

   Manufacturing only ................   0.3        0.8
     Durable goods ...................   0.9        0.5
     Nondurable goods ................ - 0.4        1.1
                                                                                                       

   Mining ............................   0.6        3.2
                                                                                                       

   Utilities .........................   6.1        1.7
                                                                                                       

   The industrial production index for March stood at 108.8%
of the 1987 average.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Telecom to Acquire GTE Stake
   Of 19.9% in US Sprint for $500 Million
   ----
   By Johnnie L. Roberts
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   UT GTE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   United Telecommunications Inc. said it plans to acquire
GTE Corp.'s remaining 19.9% stake in US Sprint Communications
Co. for $500 million.
   William T. Esrey, United Telecom's chairman, president and
chief executive officer, told shareholders that the Kansas
City, Mo., company will pay book value for the interest, in a
transaction expected to be completed by early July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The purchase was expected, under terms of a 1988 agreement
in which United Telecom and GTE ended their 50-50 partnership
in the long-distance telephone service venture, and United
Telecom boosted its holding to 79.1%. US Sprint is the
third-largest long-distance telephone service, with $1.2
billion of revenue in the first quarter, up 24%.
   Separately, United and GTE, based in Stamford, Conn.,
posted first-quarter profit gains of 41% and 8%,
respectively. United's revenue grew by 24% and GTE's 9%. Both
gains were in line with the expectations of financial
analysts.
   Yesterday, in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, United Telecom closed at $39.875 a share, down 25
cents a share. GTE closed at $66, off 37.5 cents a share.
   At United's annual meeting, as expected, shareholders
approved a measure to rename the company Sprint Corp. after
purchase of the 19.9% stake from GTE. And Mr. Esrey, 50 years
old, assumed the title of chairman, succeeding Paul H.
Henson, 64, who retired but who will continue as a director.
   In an interview, Mr. Esrey said United plans to finance
the transaction with loans and that the acquisition won't
dilute earnings. "We always said we would exercise the
{purchase} option when financial results of Sprint justified
the cost of the buyout," he said.
   Analysts concurred in his optimism about the long-term
outlook. Sprint's "momentum is very strong," said Jack
Grubman of Paine Webber.
   For the first quarter, United had net income of $106.9
million, or 51 cents a share, up from $75.6 million, or 36
cents a share, the year earlier. Revenue jumped to $2.02
billion from $1.77 billion.
   At Sprint, operating profit climbed sharply -- to $85
million from $31 million as revenue jumped 24% to $1.2
billion. Even so, the revenue growth didn't meet internal
expectations largely because, analysts said, one or two
contracts weren't booked in the period by Sprint's Telenet
communications network operation.
   United's local telephone company operations posted
operating earnings of $169 million, up $12 million, or 7.6%,
from a year ago. Revenue rose more than 3% to $662 million
from $641 million the year before.
   At GTE, net totaled $355.2 million, or $1.05 a share, up
from $329.2 million, or 97 cents a share, the year before.
Revenue increased to $4.5 billion from $4.12 billion.
   Despite a $101 million rate reduction, GTE's local
telephone operations posted a 4% rise in operating profit to
$720 million on a 5% revenue increase to $3.2 billion. Among
other things, the results reflect higher foreign revenue, a
4% increase in lines in service and an 11% jump in
minute-of-use of local long-distance calling.
   Telecommunications products and services showed a sharp
increase to $37 million from the year-ago $10 million, which
included a provision for a one-time loss on a government
contract. Revenue swelled 37% to $798 million from $580
million.
   Operating profit in electrical-products operations fell
8.2% to $67 million, reflecting stiff competition, lower
foreign results and the impact of the softening automobile
industry. Sales increased 3% to $567 million from $548
million.
   The mobile communication business, which provides cellular
service, attracted 56,000 new customers for a total of
319,000, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unicorp American
   Reports Wider Losses
   For Quarter and Year
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   UAC UNI.A
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Unicorp American Corp., reporting sharply
wider losses of $53 million and $96 million for the 1989
fourth quarter and full year, respectively, said it was
trying to restructure a loan agreement that is already in
default.
   Even if those talks succeed, the troubled real-estate and
financial-services concern said, it can't continue operations
for the next 12 months without an infusion of $15 million in
new funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The mounting problems will force Price Waterhouse to
express on Unicorp American's year-end financial statements
"substantial doubt about the company's ability to continue as
a going concern," Unicorp said.
   The per-share loss in the fourth quarter was $3.06. A year
earlier, the company had a net loss of $1.7 million, or 10
cents a share. Revenue rose 3% to $64.9 million from $63
million. The 1988 figures were restated, although it was
unclear why. The number on the company's news release has
been disconnected, according to a phone company recording.
   For all of 1989, the loss per share totaled $5.61. A year
earlier, Unicorp had a net loss of $8.7 million, or 57 cents
a share. Revenue increased 9.4% to $263.1 million from $240.5
million.
   In the negotiations with its bank lenders, which Unicorp
didn't name, the company is seeking a waiver of certain
covenants in the loan agreement, it said. It also is trying
to get an extension of the loan's expiration date beyond
August.
   Assuming that the banks extend the loan agreement, Unicorp
said, "the company believes that it will need at least $15
million in additional funds to continue its operations . . .
for the next 12 months." It said it is talking with the
lenders and its Canadian parent about the additional
financial needs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Timken Co. Reports
   31% Decline in Profit
   For the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TKR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANTON, Ohio -- Timken Co. reported a 31% drop in
first-quarter profit, but company officials told the annual
meeting that the outlook is brighter for the rest of the
year.
   The producer of bearings and specialty steels earned $19.1
million, or 63 cents a share, for the quarter, down from
$27.7 million, or 98 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales
declined 6%, to $408.5 million, from $434.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit in the first quarter was reduced by the sluggish
economy and lower steel prices, Chairman W.R. Timken Jr. told
the annual meeting. He said profit was also lessened by
lingering effects of a strike in the 1989 fourth quarter that
caused some customers to temporarily seek alternate
suppliers.
   The company has "good momentum" going into the second
quarter, however, and expects higher profits for the full
year, he said, declining to make a specific projection.
   In 1989, Timken earned $55.3 million, or $1.88 a share,
all in the first half. The business slowdown, combined with
the fourth-quarter strike, resulted in a loss in the final
period that exceeded the modest third period profit.
   Timken's bearings business is strong in most parts of the
world, and prices are higher than a year ago, Joseph F. Toot
Jr., president, said. "Steel demand is reasonable, but
pricing is low, because there's a lot of excess capacity,
particularly in bar steel," a major Timken product.
   The company is on schedule with a $1 billion capital
spending program extending through 1994, Mr. Toot said. Many
of the major additions and plant improvements included in
that plan will be described later this year, he said, after
detailed plans are finished and negotiations with plant-site
communities completed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Young, Sorg Each
   Agree to Sell Parts
   Of Their Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
04/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SRG BNE DEVN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Charles P. Young Co. and Sorg Inc., both
financial printers that are operating under bankruptcy-court
protection, separately agreed to sell parts of their
operations.
   Young will sell certain operations in New York, Atlanta,
Boston and Washington, D.C., to Devon Group Inc., a graphic
arts company based in Stamford, Conn., for $4.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Young will continue to operate its Fidelity Printing Co.
unit in Houston, and will liquidate its printing equipment,
an attorney for the company said. Young was created in
January 1989, when the printing company was bought by CPY
Acquisition Co. from Service Resources Corp.
   Devon Group plans to combine its Aztech Financial Printers
subsidiary with the Young operations, and to call the new
subsidiary Aztech-Chas. P. Young Group. An official of Devon,
which had 1989 revenue of more than $170 million, said adding
the Young operations would make Aztech the fifth-largest
financial printer in the U.S. in terms of revenue, from the
10th largest. Aztech's chairman and chief executive officer,
Andrew I. Cramer, will assume those duties at the merged
operation; Michael F. Weinberg, president of Chas. P. Young
New York, will be president.
   Separately, Sorg, another financial printer operating with
protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code, accepted in principle an offer from New
York-based Bowne &amp; Co., one of the largest financial
printers, to purchase the Sorg name and other assets for $6
million, plus amounts to be determined depending on the
assets sold.
   Sorg, which listed assets of $31 million and liabilities
of $25 million when it filed under Chapter 11 last August,
said the agreement doesn't include its real estate, Chicago
office and various other assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0186
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0186.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   AMD GNG EXBT ROK TIN GDW BIR ALTR AA WJ HCP SPBC BCC REN
ADM NCC NTRS SBK ONE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                (# of analysts)
                       ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME          EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Adv Micro Devices    $ .13  $ .10 (4) $ .12 (15)   30.00
  Golden Nugget          .92    ...       .25  (4)  268.00
  First Fed Michigan     .60    ...       .33  (5)   81.82
  Exabyte Corp.          .32    ...       .26  (4)   23.08
  Rockwell Intl          .70    ...       .60 (11)   16.67
  Temple-Inland         1.12    ...      1.03  (7)    8.74
  Golden West Finan      .75    ...       .70  (9)    7.14
  Birmingham Steel       .45    ...       .42  (5)    7.14
  Altera Corp            .15    ...       .14  (9)    7.14
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Aluminum Co Amer     $1.69  $1.88 (3) $1.84  (8)   10.11
  Watkins-Johnson        .29    ...       .47  (8)   38.30
  Health Care Prop       .50    ...       .66  (3)   24.24
  St Paul Bancorp        .38    ...       .48  (4)   20.83
  Boise Cascade          .79    ...       .97  (9)   18.56
  Rollins Environ        .10    ...       .12  (6)   16.67
  Archer Daniels         .41    ...       .45  (7)    8.89
  Natl City Corp        1.06    ...      1.15  (8)    7.83
  Northern Trust        1.39    ...      1.48  (4)    6.08
  Signet Banking        1.02    ...      1.08  (6)    5.56
  Banc One Corp          .70    ...       .74  (7)    5.41

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900418-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900418-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Shop Around for a Fatter Annuity Payoff
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Getting ready to collect monthly checks from a company
retirement plan, a deferred annuity or a life-insurance
settlement?
   People typically accept without question the monthly
benefit an employer or insurance company offers. But they can
sometimes get a bigger check elsewhere without added risk.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The secret lies in an insurance product called an
"immediate annuity." That's an insurance contract that pays a
fixed sum each month for life or some other period.
   At retirement, for instance, people may be able to beat
the monthly payment their employer promises by opting for a
lump-sum benefit, if one is available, and using the money to
buy an immediate annuity from an insurance company.
   "You check the employer's rates, and you compare that with
the commercial marketplace," says Glenn S. Daily, an
insurance-product analyst in New York.
   People who are ready to start collecting monthly payments
from deferred annuities, which are tax-advantaged retirement
savings plans, may do better by switching to an immediate
annuity at another insurer. The same goes for beneficiaries
of life-insurance policies who want monthly income instead of
a lump sum.
   "You have to make sure your own company is competitive,"
says James H. Hunt, an actuary and director of National
Insurance Consumer Organization, Alexandria, Va. "I think
there is a great opportunity for (insurers) paying sub-market
interest rates on money that is just left, without being
shopped around."
   Indeed, there are wide variations in the monthly payments
that different insurers provide for the same lump sum.
Consider, for instance, a 65-year-old man with $100,000 to
invest in an immediate annuity that would give him a check a
month for life. Monthly benefits ranged all the way from $781
to $1,080 -- a 38% spread -- in a February survey of 124
large insurers by A.M. Best Co., an insurance rating and
research company in Oldwick, N.J.
   A particular company may post attractive payouts one month
but not the next and may be competitive at some ages but
uncompetitive at others, insurance sellers say. They advise
that consumers should get annuity quotes right at the time
they are considering a purchase and specifically for their
own age and sex.
   At the same time, consumers must be sure to look beyond a
juicy payout to evaluate the financial strength of an
insurer. "If you are retiring, and you are going to be
looking for this life income, you don't want to be worrying
about the ability of the company to pay," says James Temple,
a marketing vice president at Prudential Insurance Co. of
America, Newark, N.J.
   The good news is that consumers don't have to take a lousy
payout to go with a solid and established company. Some of
the most highly regarded companies often show up among the
insurers paying very high, although rarely the absolute top,
immediate annuity rates.
   Buyers who want to be superconservative might require the
insurer to pass three tests, suggests Mr. Daily: This year
should be at least the 10th in a row in which the company has
had a top A+ rating from A.M. Best. The insurer should also
have a top rating from at least one of the other three rating
agencies -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and Duff &amp; Phelps. And the insurer shouldn't
have anything below a top rating from any of those three.
   Using the A.M. Best survey of rates as of February, a
65-year-old man could have gotten more than $930 a month for
life from two insurers passing those tests -- $939 from Sun
Life Assurance Co. of Canada, Toronto, and $934 from
Nationwide Life Insurance Co., Columbus, Ohio. Prudential,
which also passes those tests, was offering $906, according
to the Best survey.
   Some insurers offer bigger immediate-annuity payouts for
people who want monthly income from a deferred annuity or a
life-insurance policy at that same company.
   For instance, the lowest payer in the Best survey was
Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. of Newark, which said its
normal payout on a $100,000 immediate annuity for a
65-year-old man would be $781 a month. But the company said
it would pay $830 a month if the man were converting an
existing Mutual Benefit deferred annuity or was buying the
immediate annuity with the death benefit from a Mutual
Benefit life-insurance policy.
   Even at the higher level, however, Mutual Benefit's
monthly payment was below the median of the 124 companies in
the A.M. Best survey.
   The range in annuity quotes often reflects companies'
varying appetites for the immediate-annuity business. The
immediate annuity "is not a key product for us," says a
spokeswoman for Mutual Benefit Life. "It's something we offer
as part of our portfolio, but it's not aggressively sold,"
she said.
   Other companies point to the particular assumptions they
use in setting prices, such as their estimates of how long
people are likely to live. Annuity payments are generally
lower the longer the buyer is likely to live.
   There are some other factors for potential buyers of
immediate annuities to consider. For instance, rejecting the
monthly benefit from a corporate plan could be a bad deal if
the employer has a history of increasing its payouts from
time to time to offset inflation. And some insurers require
annuity buyers to pay upfront policy fees or other charges,
while others don't.
   It's also critical to follow certain procedures in moving
money into an immediate annuity from another insurer's
deferred annuity or from a corporate plan.
   In switching from one insurer to another, a consumer can't
simply surrender one annuity and use the proceeds to buy
another. The right course, to avoid immediate taxation on the
accumulated gains, is to have the new insurer arrange a
tax-free exchange of the contracts.
   Money coming from a corporate plan is usually moved into
an individual retirement account that holds the immediate
annuity, again to avoid immediate taxation. The retiree must
be sure to get a so-called tax-qualified annuity. Money can
be moved through a direct transfer to the insurer or,
alternatively, by taking the lump sum and rolling it over to
the insurer within 60 days.
   ---
           How Immediate Annuity Payments Can Vary
                                                                                                       

   Monthly payments for a man, age 65 investing $100,000 for
lifetime income. These are the top 5 and bottom 5 quotes as
of Feb. 1 from a survey of 124 companies.
                                                                                                       

                                       MONTHLY
          TOP 5                        PAYMENT   RATING
                                                                                                       

          Federated Life
          Owatonna, Minn.              $1,080    A+
                                                                                                       

          Western United Life
          Spokane, Washington            $999    B+
                                                                                                       

          Federated Life
          Riverwoods, Ill.               $983    A
                                                                                                       

          Great American Life
          Los Angeles                    $967    A+
                                                                                                       

          United Companies
          Baton Rouge, La.               $967    A
                                                                                                       

          MEDIAN                         $890
                                                                                                       

          BOTTOM 5
                                                                                                       

          Travelers Insurance
          Hartford, Conn.                $816    A+
                                                                                                       

          MONY Life America
          New York                       $813    A
                                                                                                       

          North Central Life

                                                                                                       

          Woodmen of the World
          Omaha, Neb.                    $803    A+
                                                                                                       

          Mutual Benefit Life
          Newark, N.J.                   $781    A+
                                                                                                       

   Source: A.M. Best Co.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   YOUR MONEY MATTERS COLUMN of April 10 contained incorrect
figures for payments from some immediate annuities purchased
with a $100,000 investment. The figures in the article and
accompanying table were calculated by multiplying payouts on
a $10,000 investment by 10. That was incorrect because the
payouts from some companies were net amounts that had been
reduced by policy fees. Those fees would be the same, not 10
times higher, for policies bought with a $100,000 investment.
Insurance companies listed in the table were correctly ranked
on the basis of payments for a $10,000 investment.
   (WSJ April 18, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
