<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0182
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0182.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greyhound Union
   Seeks to End Strike,
   Structure Buy-Out
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR X.GRE
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- An Amalgamated Transit Union adviser proposed
that Greyhound Lines Inc. appoint a new management team and
allow striking ATU members to return to work under the old
contract while the union structures an employee buy-out of
the GLI Holding Co. unit.
   In a letter to Greyhound Chairman Fred G. Currey,
investment adviser Brian M. Freeman said ATU employees would
work under the terms of the contract that expired March 1
until the end of the year while the ATU structures an
employee stock ownership plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While offering no specifics on financing, Mr. Freeman said
the plan would be "premised on a long-term labor contract
that assures stability and on mutual agreement on terms for
creditors, stockholders and other stakeholders."
   Mr. Freeman also said that the ATU, which represents 9,400
Greyhound employees, had identified "an experienced team" to
run the company during the interim but didn't give any names.
He suggested that the company declare a moratorium on certain
debt payments to obtain working capital, and that both the
union and the company hold in abeyance their claims against
each other.
   Greyhound officials declined to comment, saying they
hadn't yet received a copy of Mr. Freeman's letter.
Previously, officials at Greyhound, whose stock isn't
publicly traded, have said the company isn't for sale and
that they aren't interested in negotiating with Mr. Freeman.
   Greyhound has had huge losses because of the ATU strike.
In addition to certain lease payments, the company missed a
$9.8 million May 15 interest payment on 13% senior notes due
in 1995. Greyhound, which recently made a tender offer to
redeem about $191 million in face amount of debt for about
$86 million in cash, has said it may file for bankruptcy-law
protection if the company can't complete a financial
restructuring.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0181
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0181.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bowne &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   BNE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BOWNE &amp; Co. (New York) -- Jeff Chipman was named president
of this financial-printing firm's Canadian operations in
Toronto. Mr. Chipman, previously vice president of
Abitibi-Price Inc., the Toronto newsprint and paper maker,
succeeds Rudolf Steinmetz, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Heldor Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HDR
</CO>
<LP>
   HELDOR INDUSTRIES Inc. (Morristown, N.J.) -- Charles J.
Patterson, a private investor, was elected to the board of
this maker of swimming-pool equipment, boosting membership to
six. Mr. Patterson was chairman and chief executive officer
and principal stockholder of Arneson Products Inc. until it
was sold in 1988 to Hayward Pool Products of Elizabeth, N.J.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Federal, State Judges Plan to Hold
   Joint Trial to Settle Asbestos Cases
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   XON SC RD MOB UCL TX CHV TWX TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   In a highly unusual move, a federal judge and a state
judge said they will hold a joint trial -- with the two
judges presiding over two juries sitting in one courtroom --
if efforts to settle 571 asbestos cases fail.
   Lawyers working on the cases said they know of no
precedent for simultaneous federal and state trials. U.S.
District Judge Jack Weinstein and New York state Justice
Helen Freedman provided few details as to how such a plan
would be carried out. Earlier this year, the judges appointed
lawyer Kenneth Feinberg to oversee efforts to settle the
federal and state cases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The judges set a Sept. 18 trial date for cases that aren't
settled. The 571 cases involve workers at the Brooklyn, N.Y.,
Navy Yard who were exposed to asbestos, which can cause
respiratory ailments and cancer. More than 40 former asbestos
makers are named as defendants.
   "This is unprecedented," said Mr. Feinberg, a partner at
Kaye Scholer Fierman Hays &amp; Handler. "It is another attempt
by the court to find another way to manage the trials of
these asbestos cases."
   The judges appeared to be using the threat of a massive
dual trial as leverage in encouraging the parties to settle.
"We want you to concentrate on getting the information you
need and settling these cases," Judge Weinstein told defense
lawyers at a hearing Friday.
   Mr. Feinberg said he is still optimistic that the cases
can be settled during the next few weeks. Settlement
proposals have been made to all the defendants, but only half
a dozen have responded, he told the judges. He said he will
spend the next few weeks trying to negotiate a total
settlement offer that can be presented to the plaintiffs'
attorneys.
   Defense attorneys say the possibility of a massive trial
could encourage a settlement. "It certainly is a hammer,"
said Gita Rothschild, co-lead counsel to the defendants in
the Brooklyn Navy Yard cases. She said the combination of so
many different cases makes it difficult to get a fair trial.
"If you are going to try 571 cases fully on each one's merits
you'd be there now until the cows come home," she said. "I
have no reason to doubt that Judge Weinstein means what he
says about having a trial, but there's got to be some
realistic structure established."
   Perry Weitz, co-lead counsel for the asbestos victims,
said he expects some of the cases to go to trial. "Judge
Weinstein is not a man to be toyed with," he said. "Like any
judge, he is using the trial as a tool (to push for a
settlement). But he will not postpone it. He will try these
cases."
   ---
   A SALES TAX on newspapers was ordered by the Florida
Supreme Court.
   Florida's high-court ruled that a state sales-tax law that
levies a 6% tax on magazines but exempts newspapers is
discriminatory and struck down the exemption on newspapers.
   Magazine Publishers of America Inc., Time Warner Inc.,
Hearst Corp. and others had claimed in a suit filed in Leon
County Circuit Court that the sales-tax law violates the
First Amendment and illegally differentiated between
newspapers and magazines.
   The magazine interests were hoping to have the tax on
magazines scrapped, but the suit backfired. The high court
said instead that the proper solution was simply to tax
newspapers as well. The state's high court rejected the
magazine publishers' argument that the tax violates freedom
of the press guarantees.
   The Florida Supreme Court decision reversed the Leon
County Circuit Court's ruling that held that the sales tax on
magazines was indeed a first amendment violation and struck
down the tax.
   William Hyde, a lawyer for the Florida Press Association,
which intervened in the interest of newspapers, said the
association will ask the court to reconsider its unanimous
decision.
   He said newspaper interests may appeal to the U.S. Supreme
Court.
   ---
   A JUDGE REFUSED to step down from an oil-company antitrust
case.
   The federal judge in Los Angeles had been accused of
conflicts of interest by lawyers for the city of Long Beach
and the state of California in an antitrust suit they filed
against six oil companies.
   U.S. District Judge William L. Gray proclaimed his
impartiality in the case, which he has presided over since
the state and city filed their suit against the companies in
June 1975.
   The plaintiffs allege that the concerns conspired to pay
artificially low prices to the state and city for oil
produced from state-owned tidelands. The defendants are
Chevron Corp., Texaco Inc., Unocal Corp., Mobil Corp., Royal
Dutch/Shell Group's Shell Oil Co. unit and Exxon Corp.
   In 1984 and 1985 Judge Gray issued a series of summary
judgments, effectively throwing the case out. But last year
the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed his
findings, reviving the case.
   After a 10-month investigation, the plaintiffs' attorneys
disclosed in their recent motion to disqualify the judge that
Elizabeth Gray, the judge's wife, had signed a lease with
Texaco to drill for oil on property she owns. The lawyers
charged that Mrs. Gray owns 10 shares of stock in Chevron.
The inquiry was first disclosed in the Los Angeles Daily
Journal, a legal trade publication.
   The lawyers also claimed that since the case began, Judge
Gray has attended several seminars in Florida sponsored by
defendants. Experts who lectured were working for the
concerns in connection with the pending case, the lawyers
have said.
   The motion was filed on behalf of state Attorney General
John Van de Kamp and Long Beach City Attorney John R.
Calhoun.
   In an interview last week Judge Gray said, "Neither my
wife nor I has had an equitable interest in any defendants,
except for the Chevron stock which neither she nor I was
aware of until it was distributed from a family partnership
about three months ago and she will be glad to divest herself
of it."
   U.S. District Judge Robert M. Takasugi will decide whether
Judge Gray must step down.
   ---
   THREE LAWYERS were ordered to pay damages to their former
firm.
   The Philadelphia lawyers took client files from their law
firm to start their own partnership and were ordered to pay
compensatory damages to their former firm.
   The case, one of a handful in the country, illustrates
problems that develop when lawyers break away from firms and
lay claim to clients, even clients they represented. In this
case, a Pennsylvania appellate court panel found the three
lawyers interfered with the firm's contracts with the clients
and could be held liable to the firm for compensatory
damages.
   Richard P. Myers, Alan I. Reich and Robert E. Paul worked
as associates for Joseph D. Shein P.C., a law firm
specializing in personal-injury and asbestos cases. They
signed stipulations that Mr. Shein would receive half the
fees from the clients they brought to his firm.
   But in October 1985, the three decided to form their own
practice. After consulting a lawyer they moved 400 of the
firm's case files in a rental truck to new offices, began
calling clients and urged them switch their business to the
new firm.
   Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas Judge Abraham J. Gafni
immediately ordered the files returned and blocked the
lawyers from further contact with the clients. In a
subsequent ruling, he found the three wrongfully interfered
with Mr. Shein's contracts and ordered each of the clients
who switched over to the new partnership to "re-select their
attorney."
   Approximately 290 stayed with the three lawyers, and that,
in turn, prompted Mr. Shein to sue for damages. In May 1989,
Judge Gafni awarded $10,000 in punitive damages for the
removing of the files, but refused to order damages to
compensate Mr. Shein for his lost clients. The judge reasoned
that the "re-selection process" he ordered expunged the three
partners of liability. Those clients who stayed with the new
partnership, the judge reasoned, left Mr. Shein voluntarily.
   But the three-member appeal panel rejected that theory,
saying the lawyer's conduct met the legal test of wrongful
interference with a contract. The panel ordered Judge Gafni
to access damages.
   Philadelphia lawyer Judy F. Berkman, who represented the
three lawyers in the appeal, said the ruling raises
fundamental questions about a client's right to choose a
lawyer and plans to ask the full appeal court to reconsider
the decision.
   Mr. Shein's attorney, Thomas F. Johnson, declined comment.
   ---
   PUBLIC HAZARDS can't be concealed by a court order under
new Florida law.
   The law, which was signed Friday and takes effect July 1,
prohibits courts from sealing records that contain
information about a public hazard. The legislation -- the
first comprehensive law of its type in the nation -- was
vigorously opposed by automobile manufacturers and
pharmaceuticals companies, which are frequent targets of
product-liability suits.
   The Association of Trial Lawyers of American called the
law "a tremendous victory for the public's right to know."
Manufacturers have increasingly insisted that court records
and information related to product-liability litigation be
kept secret as part of settlement agreements.
   Secrecy makes it far more difficult for the public to
ascertain that a hazard exists, the trial lawyers argued.
   ---
   Ann Hagedorn contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Pathe Says Accord
   Is Near on Offer
   For MGM/UA
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PCC MGM TWX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Pathe Communications Corp. expects to
complete its $1.27 billion tender offer for MGM/UA
Communications Co. this week, although analysts cautioned
that unresolved financing issues could still trip up the
deal.
   Theodore Cohen, Pathe executive vice president and
assistant general counsel, said through a spokesman that he
thinks the $20-a-share offer will be wrapped up on schedule.
"At this stage, he is confident it will close Thursday," the
spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for MGM/UA, based in Culver City, Calif., said
late Friday that "everything we have seen indicates that the
deal is still on track."
   That optimistic view was bolstered last week after Pathe
disclosed a few more details of its financing arrangements,
which hinge on Luxembourg-based Comfinance S.A., the closely
held main vehicle for Pathe principal Giancarlo Parretti, and
on Time Warner Inc., the New York entertainment and
publishing company.
   Time Warner had vaguely agreed in April to "arrange for or
provide" $650 million to Pathe "on a bridge loan basis" in
exchange for a lien against the UA film library. Time Warner
later indicated the loan might have a six-year term. But in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission last week,
Pathe spelled out that Time Warner plans to make the loan
directly. A technical revision of the agreement calls for
Time Warner to pay the funds directly to Pathe, rather than
funnel them through MGM/UA.
   However, the Time Warner financing pact was still being
negotiated late last week. One possible snag is that Time
Warner has insisted that the bulk of Pathe's remaining
financing be in the form of equity, not debt. Pathe has said
that Comfinance will provide $450 million from working
capital and available funds.
   Raising a red flag, the filing states that "while {the
Comfinance} arrangement is technically structured as a loan
despite the requirement of the Time Warner agreement that it
be provided as equity, {Pathe} believes that the Comfinance
loan is equity for purposes of the Time Warner agreement
since the Comfinance loan may be repaid" with Pathe common
stock.
   A Time Warner spokesman declined to speculate on how big a
stumbling block this might be, saying only that "we are
evaluating that funding arrangement."
   Some analysts remain unconvinced that Pathe will complete
the acquisition, despite having put up $150 million in
earnest money. "I still have skepticism," said Jeffrey
Logsdon, an analyst at Crowell, Weedon &amp; Co. in Los Angeles.
"It's difficult to obtain comfort that Comfinance has the
capability" to come up with the funds.
   Mr. Logsdon and other analysts have speculated that Kirk
Kerkorian, who holds an 82% stake in MGM/UA, may provide some
of the needed equity. The MGM/UA spokesman reiterated Friday
that Mr. Kerkorian hasn't decided whether he will do that.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Inter Federal Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   IFED WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   INTER FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK (Chattanooga, Tenn.) -- Steve
A. McKenzie resigned from the board of this savings bank,
citing "personal commitments."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Carrington Laboratories Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CARN
</CO>
<LP>
   CARRINGTON LABORATORIES INC. (Irving, Texas) -- Selvi
Vescovi, former president of Upjohn International, was
elected chairman of this pharmaceutical company. Clinton
Howard, president and chief operating officer, was elected to
the additional post of chief executive, succeeding Thomas J.
Marquez, who remains on the board. The position of chief
operating officer was eliminated. Additionally, George
DeMott, former group vice president of American Home Products
Corp., Richard P. Storm, president of Rorer International
Pharmaceuticals, and Karl H. Meister, former president of
Schering-Plough Animal Health, were elected to the board,
succeeding three members whose terms expired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   White House Is Under Pressure to Allow
   More Soviet Jews to Immigrate to U.S.
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Pressure is building on the Bush
administration to permit more Soviet Jews to immigrate to the
U.S.
   Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, who said at
yesterday's post-summit press conference he was being
"bombarded" with criticism from Arab governments about the
flow of Soviet Jews to Israel, has been urging the U.S. to
accept more Russian-Jewish refugees. Arab governments are
asking Washington to take more refugees so that fewer of them
settle in Israel; they say that would reduce tension that has
been building in the Middle East. Some U.S. Jewish and
evangelical-Christian groups warn that the U.S. must be
prepared to absorb more Soviet Jews if there is an outburst
of violence against minorities in the Soviet Union, where
ethnic and religious tensions are also on the rise.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. relations with Israel, already frayed, would worsen
if Washington succumbs to such pressures. Jerusalem is
encouraging Jewish migration because it fulfills Israel's
historic role as the Jewish homeland and because a swelling
Jewish population would counter the country's more rapidly
increasing Arab population. Jerusalem would fight any
Washington effort to divert refugees to the U.S.
   The U.S. quota on Soviet refugees is 50,000 this year; the
great majority of them will be Jewish. The Bush
administration has been saying it doesn't plan to increase
the number. But following Saturday's Camp David session
between Messrs. Bush and Gorbachev, White House spokesman
Marlin Fitzwater said, "We continually want to take more and
are trying to work on those kinds of arrangements."
   Most U.S. Jews support the immigration of Soviet Jews to
Israel, but wouldn't object if Washington accepts more Soviet
refugees out of concern for their safety. "I don't see a
groundswell to change things right now," says Rep. Charles
Schumer (D., N.Y.). "But if things deteriorate in the Soviet
Union, the whole situation would have to be re-examined."
   Some U.S. groups worry about anti-Semitism in the Soviet
Union. "Our perception is the situation in the Soviet Union
is so unstable, the probability of economic collapse and
social turmoil so high, we think it's in our interest to
remove as many Jews as fast as possible," says Sergey Broude,
a member of the executive board of the Union of Councils for
Soviet Jews. Serge Duss of World Relief, an arm of the
National Association of Evangelicals that represents 50,000
U.S. churches, says: "Based on Soviet history, persecution
against Jews and Christians comes in peaks and valleys. The
last five years under Gorbachev has been a valley."
   With more than 10,000 Soviet Jews entering Israel each
month, the mass migraton issue has become the major potential
flashpoint in the Middle East, eclipsing even the Palestinian
uprising in the West Bank and Gaza. Only a small percentage
of these refugees have settled in these territories. But the
anti-Arab rhetoric of right-wing Israelis and Prime Minister
Yitzhak Shamir's remark earlier this year that it will take a
"big" Israel to absorb so many Jews have led Arabs to believe
a mass immigration would mean they would be displaced.
   Last week's Arab summit in Baghdad denounced the
immigration and blamed the U.S. for encouraging it. Recently,
Jordan's King Hussein wrote President Bush a letter saying
the U.S. had an obligation to take in more Soviet Jews.
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak also raised the issue in a
telephone call with Mr. Bush.
   The U.S. took in 3,694 Soviet refugees in 1987, 20,421 in
1988 and 39,553 last year. The list of those wanting to leave
the U.S.S.R. far exceeds this year's U.S. quota of 50,000; a
State Department official says the U.S. has given out 750,000
applications so far this year in Moscow.
   After decades of urging Moscow to let Soviet Jews go,
Washington says it can't afford to take more. Each refugee
costs the U.S. about $7,000 in benefits and expenses. Rep.
Stephen Solarz (D., N.Y.) has introduced legislation to give
certain able-bodied refugees loans rather than payments. Such
a plan could allow 20,000 to 40,000 more refugees to enter
the U.S., a Solarz aide estimates.
   The exodus of Soviet citizens is growing. Moscow is
permitting emigres to leave the Soviet Union by train for
East Europe, and Poland announced last week it will begin
charter flights to transport 500 Soviet Jews each week to
Israel.
   "Will the U.S. be able to respond if the situation
collapses and even more people need to get out of the
country?" asks Mr. Duss of World Relief. "That's the big
question."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nintendo Sues
   Lewis Galoob Toys
   Over `Game Genie'
   ----
   By Susan C. Faludi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9F
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTD GAL
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   REDMOND, Wash. -- Nintendo of America Inc. filed a
copyright infringement suit Thursday against the South San
Francisco-based Lewis Galoob Toys Inc. The dispute is over
"Game Genie," a new video device Galoob will unveil soon that
can turn even the least nimble-fingered Nintendo game player
into a pro.
   Nintendo complains that Game Genie, a "video game
enhancer," makes Nintendo games too easy to play -- by
instilling the games' characters with wizardly powers to
avoid dangers and literally fly over obstacles. Simply by
plugging the Game Genie into a Nintendo home-video hardware
unit, players can make the main characters jump higher, float
over objects and even enjoy "infinite lives." With Game
Genie, the characters in Super Mario Brothers -- Nintendo's
best-selling game -- become truly supermen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier in May, Galoob announced its plan to start
shipping Game Genie. Nintendo, which has also fired off a
round of copyright infringement suits recently against
several other competitors, immediately put Galoob on notice
that it considered the Game Genie a threat to its copyright.
   Galoob responded by filing a suit against Nintendo in U.S.
District Court in San Francisco on May 17, asking for a court
order that declares Game Genie does not infringe on
Nintendo's copyrights.
   "Nintendo is denying game users the right to make the
choices they want to make," says Steven M. Klein, executive
vice president and general counsel of Galoob. "If you're a
seven-year-old kid who plays 24 hours a day, that's one
thing," he says, but non-whiz kids -- himself included -- can
play for months and wind up nowhere. Super Mario Brothers,
for example, has eight levels, or "worlds," but "I've never
been able to get to the end," complains Mr. Klein.
   That's the whole point, says Howard Lincoln, Nintendo's
senior vice president, who also confesses that he's not good
enough at Super Mario to make it to the end either. "It's
supposed to be a challenge," he says. "With Game Genie, I can
get to World 8 in 13 seconds. Where's the fun in that?"
   Nintendo officials fear that, by making it too simple,
players will get bored and quit playing. It's "like giving
candy to a baby," Mr. Lincoln says.
   Nintendo's suit asks for unspecified damages and a court
ruling that the Game Genie infringes on its copyright. But
the complaint doesn't ask to stop shipment of the device. Mr.
Lincoln said he expected that Nintendo would ultimately seek
such an injunction.
   Galoob said that its initial research finds "very strong
interest" in Game Genie. The company plans to ship hundreds
of thousands of the genies to the stores by next month, where
the devices will retail at about $50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Subaru of America Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   SBRU WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SUBARU OF AMERICA Inc. (Cherry Hill, N.J.) -- Masaharu
Masumitsu, previously executive vice president, chief
financial officer and secretary of Subaru-Isuzu Automotive
Inc., a joint venture between Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. and
Isuzu Motors Ltd. of Japan, was named vice chairman of this
auto marketing company, succeeding Sohei Matsukuma, who
became president of Fuji USA.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Is There a Fiberglass Manufacturer
   Out There Looking for Statuary?
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- One man's slang is sometimes another man's
slander.
   Luis Jimenez, a sculptor from New Mexico, was commissioned
to sculpt a statue honoring steelworkers for an annual arts
festival here. He inscribed his 12-foot work with the words
"Hunky Steelworker."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the phrase he thought conveyed pride provoked pique.
City Controller Thomas Flaherty, who noticed the inscription
on one of his routine jogs, held a news conference and,
flanked by two aides of Eastern European descent, decried the
word "hunky" as demeaning to Slavs, Poles and Croatians.
Worse yet, he said, the statue wasn't even made of steel, but
fiberglass.
   Local newspapers carried front page stories and pictures
of the statue. Readers urged a festival boycott. A
representative of the Croatian Fraternal Union of America,
with 90,000 members, called the statue nasty and especially
insulting given that the group was trying to prepare for
"Croatian National Day." A local state representative said he
was considering introducing a resolution that would urge
festival organizers to move the statue off public parkland.
George E. Kelly, a former steelworker, was offended by the
sculpture itself. "Of the thousands I worked with, I never
saw one as ugly as that statue."
   Statue supporters cried First Amendment foul. The
Pittsburgh Post Gazette called Mr. Flaherty this year's
"Politician Who Will Make the Arts Festival Safe for
Society," and suggested he confine his critiques to food
booth offerings. The Pittsburgh Press noted that no one got
upset over a magazine published by steelworkers called the
"Mill Hunk Herald."
   One writer said he didn't understand the flap. Hunky, he
wrote, describes large-muscled, broad-shouldered and ruggedly
handsome men, such as Tom Selleck, Kevin Costner or Mike
Tyson: "Those men are hunks; they are very hunky men."
   Mr. Jimenez said he used the word only after researching
the history of steelworkers. "I even talked with
ex-steelworkers before I used it," he says.
   Worried that everyone was focusing on the inscription
instead of the statue itself, however, he had a Pittsburgh
fiberglass company grind the offensive word off on Friday, in
time for the opening of the festival.
   But why did Mr. Jimenez choose fiberglass for a statue of
a steelworker? "It holds up better than steel."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   News Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEWS Corp. (Sydney, Australia) -- Walter Senior, 46 years
old, was named president of international marketing and
distribution of the Los Angeles-based Twentieth Century Fox
Film unit. Mr. Senior succeeds Jean-Louis Rubin, 50, who
joined Largo Entertainment, a Hollywood entertainment concern
formed last year by producer Larry Gordon. Mr. Senior was
chairman and chief executive officer of Famous Players Inc.,
a Canadian theater chain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Higher Tech
   ---
   Computer Confusion
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R28
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   SURE, COMPUTERS have produced success stories in the
office. But as companies increasingly embrace tomorrow's
technology, they ought to heed yesterday's horror stories as
well.
   There's the company, for instance, that bought more bells
and whistles than it needed, or bought stuff that quickly
became outdated, or never quite figured out how to use what
it bought. For every person who's a virtuoso at Lotus 1-2-3,
there's a guy who miscoded an electronic mash note meant for
his sweetheart and sent it to the whole office instead.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consultants say most of the problems occur because
corporate buyers don't think through all the issues. Most
companies buy systems primarily based on the price of the
hardware, but that turns out to be only about 15% of the
total cost. Training, which gets little attention in budgets,
may actually be the biggest cost.
   Gil Mann, chief executive officer of Learn-PC Video
Systems, a training company in Minneapolis, says a military
client that bought several dozen laptop computers initially
didn't budget anything for training. More than half the
machines, he says, never made it out of their boxes.
   Amy Wohl, a consultant in Bala Cynwyd, Pa., says companies
often try to cut corners on silly things and end up buying
software that lacks crucial features -- such as the ability
to use Postscript typeface technology, which has become
important in desktop publishing.
   "People say, `If I buy that other desktop publishing
package, I'll save $50,'" she says. "I say, `That's the
dumbest thing I ever heard. Would you please buy the standard
package with all the standard features and people who can
train you to use it, people who can answer your questions?'"
   Almost every big company has run into trouble because it
bought its personal computers piecemeal; each department was
allowed to buy whatever it wanted. Now, the biggest trend
among users is to hook all the machines together and share
information, but many of the software packages can't talk
with each other.
   With technology changing so fast, companies have also had
plenty of opportunities to head into blind alleys. Tony
Burdick, manager of computer systems at William Blair &amp; Co.,
a brokerage firm in Chicago, had everyone using MDBS Inc.'s
KnowledgeMan data base. At one time KnowledgeMan was regarded
as a powerful package that had a chance of becoming the
industry standard. It faded, however, because MDBS never did
much to make it easier to use. So Mr. Burdick had to spring
for new software and retrain everyone to use a new data base.
He says it would take him eight weeks to write a program with
KnowledgeMan that he can do in a week with Borland
International Ltd.'s Paradox, the software he now uses.
   Such problems will get worse before they get better; there
is more confusion than at any other time in recent memory
about what software will become the industry standard, and
anyone who makes the wrong move risks becoming a
technological orphan.
   "This is the most confusing time I can remember in the
industry," Mr. Burdick says.
   Even experts are confused or at least exasperated by the
bewildering array of changes. Peter McWilliams, author of
"The Personal Computer Book," acknowledges that he often
can't be bothered with the flood of new software he receives.
   "By the time I get around to opening a software package I
want to use, I may realize there's a new version out," he
says. "So I put it on the shelf. But by the time I get the
new version, I've lost interest. So I put that on the shelf
next to the old version. I've done this several times."
   Consultants say that's a common problem. As companies
upgrade to the latest version of spreadsheets and collect the
older ones, they find that up to half the boxes that
employees turn in may be unopened.
   And it's not just the constant flow of new software; it's
the difficulty of understanding it, many experts say. "I
think software is actually getting harder to use," says
Donald Norman, a professor of cognitive science at the
University of California, San Diego. "Every new release gets
more and more features. And there still is very little
understanding in the software business about what it takes to
make a product usable."
   Few people remember it, but Oliver North was tripped up
partly because he didn't understand a piece of software. When
he tried to wipe out all the messages he had sent about the
Iran-Contra affair, he didn't realize that International
Business Machines Corp.'s PROFs electronic-mail system made
an automatic backup, so he left an easy trail for
investigators to follow.
   Even if companies buy all the right stuff, they could
still blunder. That's because they haven't thought about the
biggest obstacle: people's resistance to change. Eric Vogt,
president of MicroMentor, a computer training firm in
Cambridge, Mass., tells of an executive trying to learn how
to use a spreadsheet. The executive initially impressed Mr.
Vogt with a complicated spreadsheet that seemed to have every
number in the right place. Then he realized that the
executive had done all the work on a hand-held calculator and
had typed all the numbers into the boxes of the spreadsheet.
   The problems can be compounded because mistakes happen so
quickly and irrevocably with computers. Philippe Kahn, chief
executive of Borland, the software company, says he once hit
the wrong key while on a public electronic-mail network and
misaddressed a note that was supposed to go to Borland's head
of product development. As a result, he sent a total stranger
his product plans for the following year and a half.
   Many issues that seem to be simple technological matters
can also end up causing unintended cultural changes.
Electronic mail, for instance, seems to provide a simple way
of improving communication by letting people send notes and
documents to private computer "mailboxes" instantaneously.
One advantage is that people can easily send copies of memos
to anyone who might be interested. The problem is that people
do send copies to everyone who might be interested.
   Mr. Norman, the California professor, says he gets 40,000
to 50,000 pieces of electronic mail a year, far more than he
can handle. Just sorting through it can easily take more than
an hour a day.
   Mr. Kahn says he's always found it intriguing that the
Japanese use far fewer personal computers per person than
Americans and Europeans do -- yet the Japanese economy is
considered to be much more efficient.
   Prof. Norman says that "the good news is that the personal
computer is catching on in Japan, so maybe they'll finally
slow down."
   ---
   Mr. Carroll reports on computers from The Wall Street
Journal's New York bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Morrison Knudson Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MRN CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   BOISE, Idaho -- Morrison Knudsen Corp. and a joint-venture
associate said they have received a $40 million contract to
build a 57-mile underwater natural gas pipeline in British
Columbia.
   Morrison Knudsen's Vancouver-based unit, Northern
Construction Co., and Stena Offshore Ltd., of Aberdeen,
Scotland, will build the pipeline, which will run from the
British Columbia mainland to Vancouver Island. Work will
start immediately and be completed by December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Problems Abroad
   Dwarf U.S. Troubles
   ----
   By Alfred L. Malabre Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN AFRIC EUROP LATAM FREST
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- There is no question that the American economy
faces daunting challenges -- a huge federal budget deficit,
the savings-and-loan debacle, sluggish growth, lackluster
productivity and rechanneling resources from military to
civilian needs. The list goes on and is ample reason for
concern about the U.S. economic outlook. But it appears a
good deal less intimidating when viewed within a global
context. Indeed, many of the larger U.S. worries seem almost
trivial compared to the difficulties besetting many other
nations.
   Consider inflation. High on the American list of worries
is that inflation, which has averaged close to 4.5% in each
of the last three years, may accelerate in coming months to
annual rates of 5% or perhaps 5.5%. Were a 5% rate to
persist, it would cut the dollar's buying power in half in
less than 15 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. inflation picture may seem a good deal less
worrisome, however, when placed within an international
framework. Data compiled by the International Monetary Fund
show that inflation on a worldwide basis reached 18% last
year, roughly four times the U.S. rate. Moreover, while
inflation in the U.S. has shown relatively little change in
the last three years, the global rate has accelerated
sharply. It was 9% in 1987 and more than 13% in 1988.
                                                                                                       

   Much of this global price surge has occurred in countries
that the IMF classifies euphemistically as developing. In
truth, many are desperately poor nations whose living
standards are sinking further and further behind those in the
U.S. and other industrial countries.
                                                                                                       

   In the developing countries as a whole, inflation reached
86% in 1989, up from 60% in 1988 and 35% in 1987. The
acceleration was most pronounced in the poorest developing
areas -- Africa, Asia and Latin America. The Latin American
showing was the most egregious, with inflation at 350% last
year, up from 218% in 1988 and 116% in 1987. The rate in
Latin America continued its swift acceleration in early 1990,
reaching 672% in the first quarter.
   Many industrialized nations also show higher rates of
inflation than the U.S. In a recent six-month period,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, consumer prices rose considerably more slowly in
the U.S. than in the 24 nations surveyed as a whole. Among
those with higher inflation than the U.S. were Italy,
Britain, Sweden and Switzerland. As recently as 1988, Swiss
inflation was less than half the U.S. rate.
   Inflation tends, of course, to erode living standards.
While Americans worry that their living standards may be
beginning to edge down, living standards in many developing
countries have long been falling.
   A recent study by the United Nations Development Programme
shows, for instance, that the per-capita gross national
product of 43 very poor countries that the agency classifies
as low-development areas fell at an average annual rate of 1%
between 1980 and 1987, the latest year available.
                                                                                                       

   Only 11 of the 43 countries registered a GNP gain for the
period and many showed painfully steep rates of decline --
4.9% a year in Niger, 8.2% in Mozambique, 5.2% in Liberia,
5.6% in Zambia. Between 1965 and 1980, in contrast, the GNP
gauge for the same 43 countries rose 1.2% annually. In the
U.S., for perspective, per-capita GNP rose 2% annually in
1980-87, up from a gain of 1.8% in 1965-80. In 1987 alone,
according to the UN study, per-capita income in the poorer
countries amounted to only 6% of that in the more affluent
ones.
                                                                                                       

   A recent IMF report underscores the U.S. position in
perhaps more meaningful terms. It shows that for every 1,000
Americans there are 572 automobiles, 650 telephones and 621
television sets. These numbers exceed the comparable ratios
in all of the other 19 nations surveyed, which include
several other relatively wealthy lands as well as many
considered less than affluent, but not poor.
   After the U.S., the highest ratios are in West Germany,
where for every 1,000 individuals there are 446 cars, 641
telephones and 377 television sets. The comparable numbers
for Japan are 235 automobiles, 535 telephones and 250 TV
sets. Well down the list is the Soviet Union, where for every
1,000 people there are only 42 cars, 115 telephones and 300
televisions. Also well down the list is Mexico, with 65 cars,
90 telephones and 108 televisions.
                                                                                                       

   Military outlays, it should be added, tend to distort
economic activity and depress living standards, as resources
are channeled from consumer-oriented industries to defense.
This distortion should diminish in the U.S. as well as
overseas with the recent easing of East-West tensions.
                                                                                                       

   Even before this easing, however, the U.S. appeared freer
of such distortion than many countries. Accordingly, the U.S.
may encounter fewer difficulties than is widely supposed in
adjusting to a less defense-oriented economy.
   In 1986, according to the UN Development Programme study,
military spending came to 6.7% of GNP in the U.S. This was
far below such comparable rates as 11.5% in the Soviet Union,
19.2% in Israel and 22.7% in Saudi Arabia. The U.S. rate was
also below the average of 7.5% for the 43 countries
classified in the study as very poor. The rate for industrial
nations as a whole, as well as for all 130 nations surveyed,
was 5.4%, not far below the U.S. figure.
   Since 1986, U.S. military outlays have fallen to 5.6% of
GNP. In the same period, despite this decline, it is
encouraging to note that the percentage of working-age
Americans with jobs has risen to a record rate, unemployment
has declined and, of course, the economy has continued to
expand.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                      U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $17.2 billion of three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                    One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Digital Systems International Inc. -- two million common
shares, via Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp.
   Edison Brothers Stores Inc. -- two million common shares,
via Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   Fleer Corp. -- initial 1.7 million common shares, via
Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. Inc.
   Gensia Pharmaceuticals Inc. -- initial 2.5 million common
shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
   Health Equity Properties -- four million common shares,
via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   K-Swiss Inc. -- 1.45 million Class A common shares, via
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   MBIA Inc. -- 5.75 million common shares, via Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. Inc.
   Mycogen Corp. -- 1.7 million common, via Morgan Stanley.
   Phibro Energy Oil Trust -- initial four million units of
beneficial interest, via Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Staples Inc. -- $50 million of convertible subordinated
debentures, via Goldman Sachs.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                         Tuesday

   Monroe County, N.Y. -- $104.16 million of various
anticipation notes, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                        Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Milwaukee, Wis. -- $78.73 million of corporate purpose,
short-term promissory revenue notes, Series B, and short-term
notes, Series A, via competitive bid.
   University of Texas Board of Regents -- $80 million of
permanent, university fund, 25-year variable rate notes, via
competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                        Thursday
                                                                                                       

   Cook County, Ill. -- $130 million of general obligation,
10-month tax anticipation notes, June 1990 Series, via
competitive bid.
   Illinois -- $90 million of general obligation bonds, June
1990 Series, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Allegheny County, Pa. -- $79 million of airport revenue
bonds, Greater Pittsburgh International Airport issue, 1990
Series A, via a Smith Barney group.
   Hawaii -- $100 million of general obligation bonds, via a
Merrill Lynch group.
   Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, Md. -- $88 million of
Maryland wastewater and water project revenue bonds and
refunding revenue bonds, 1990 Water Project A (insured), via
a Kidder Peabody &amp; Co. Inc. group.
   Washington Public Power Supply System -- $600 million of
Nuclear Projects Nos. 2 and 3 refunding revenue bonds, 1990
Series B, via a First Boston Corp. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   German Unity Drive Offers Rest of World
   `Incredible Opportunity' to Export More
   ----
   By William Echikson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- As the two Germanys combine, reshaping the
political and economic maps of Europe, they are also creating
bright trade prospects for nearly everyone.
   With East German needs growing and West Germany's
efficient factories already operating at nearly full speed,
outsiders are beginning to sense some exciting selling
possibilities, as German companies won't be able to satisfy
the big new market by themselves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For some non-German companies, there may even be a chance
of an equity stake in a bigger, booming Germany. Many global
operators say West Germany has nearly as many barriers to
foreign investment as Japan. But by entering joint ventures
with Eastern corporations, a few non-German companies could
establish beachheads from which to spread out in a united
German market.
   But for most, the best strategy will be to try to sell
anything from railroad equipment to foodstuffs in what would
be by far the biggest free-market economy in Europe.
   "Unification is an incredible opportunity for foreign
companies," says Kurt Kaszh, an economist with Deutsche Bank
in Berlin. "If they join East German businesses in a
partnership, they will have immediate access to the entire
German market."
   Paul Feenstra, head of international economics at
Amsterdam Rotterdam Bank, says: "West German producers
already are working at about 90% of their total productive
capacity. Additional demand from East Germany can only be met
by additional imports."
   The European Community predicts that West German economic
growth will jump a full percentage point to 5%, stimulating
European Community growth by half a point. And the rest of
the 12-nation EC will be in a position to reap the benefits
without facing the higher taxes, inflation and interest rates
that West Germany will face in absorbing an impoverished
country of 16 million people.
   West Germany has sought to reassure its partners that its
future remains firmly bound to the European Community. And
officials in Bonn hope that the potential for a European
export boom will ease fears of a Teutonic economic
juggernaut.
   "East Germany's needs are so enormous that the quicker
German unity is realized, the better for our 11 partners in
Europe," West German Foreign Minister Hans Dietrich Genscher
says.
   Countries likely to benefit first from the new market are
those doing the most business with West Germany -- the U.S.,
Japan, Britain, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and, above
all, France. France's perennial trade deficit with West
Germany could even vanish in a few years.
   "I can't help thinking about all those roads, trains,
airports and telephones that the East Germans need," says
Regis Astier of the French Employers' Association. "Those
infrastructure items are our specialty."
   The EC is also phasing out state subsidies on raw
materials such as coal. This offers Electricite de France a
chance to crack the German market. The utility company
already exports electricity from its nuclear power plants to
Italy, Switzerland, Belgium and England.
   "As East Germany is integrated into West Germany, they
will need to import electricity," an Electricite de France
spokesman says. "They no longer will just be able to
subsidize their own coal producers and depend on
coal-generated power."
   Electricite de France is also negotiating to build power
plants in East Germany. Siemens AG dominates the power plant
business in West Germany. But, the Electricite de France
spokesman says: "The East German electrical authorities don't
want to be eaten by Siemens. They want to diversify their
partners."
   As a first step, monetary unification of Germany is due to
take effect next month. Although the 1-for-1 rate at which
most East Germans will be able to convert their currency into
West German marks will raise costs for companies doing
business in East Germany, it promises to increase the East's
buying power while still leaving its industry uncompetitive
against Western producers.
   Meanwhile, expectations that France will capitalize on the
new German market have strengthened France's 10-year
government bonds in the marketplace against West Germany's,
bringing down French interest rates. "The change has been
spectacular," says Christopher Potts, senior economist for
Banque Indosuez. "Alarm about German unity is vanishing as
the French economy strengthens."
   France has benefited as Japanese and U.S. international
investors have moved money out of West Germany and into other
Western European markets. Since the beginning of April, the
CAC 40, the Paris stock market's leading indicator, has risen
more than 7%, driven by foreign investors.
   On a recent trip to France, West German Chancellor Helmut
Kohl invited French entrepreneurs to invest in East Germany.
Such investment "is the best way to transform German unity
into hope for all of Europe," he said. But so far, there have
been few concrete results.
   One reason is the host of obstacles that have long made it
difficult for foreigners to acquire equity stakes in German
companies. Control of these companies often rests with a few
shareholders such as major banks or members of the
corporations' founding families, although their non-voting
stock is traded freely.
   Germans, however, say outside investors must be willing to
take more risks. "There are no barriers here; you have to be
persistent and patient," says Deutsche Bank's Mr. Kaszh. "If
West European companies aren't aggressive enough now, when
every East German industrial entity is searching for a
Western partner, then they are going to lose out."
   A few have already elbowed their way into the German
market. In March, France's Lyonnaise des Eaux S.A. formed a
partnership with West Germany's giant Thyssen AG group to
provide water treatment services for East German
municipalities. Also at that time, French-based Accor S.A.
set up a joint venture between its West German operations and
the East German travel agency Reiseburo DDR to build hotels
in East Germany. Accor agreed to take management control and
an equity stake in the venture, which plans to open its first
hotel by the end of 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Washington Docket:
   Supreme Court's Docket Is Dwindling,
   But No One Seems to Understand Why
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9A
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Perry Mason might have called it "The Case
of the Shrinking Docket."
   The Supreme Court's docket is dwindling in a number of
significant ways, and no one -- not even the justices -- is
quite sure why.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Privately, a number of justices say there is no collective
effort to cut back on their workload. Nor is there agreement
among legal experts about whether the relative lull
represents a profound change in the court's caseload or is
just an aberration.
   But many lawyers who practice regularly at the high court
agree on one thing: The justices are turning down plenty of
good cases.
   For the current term, in which hearings have ended and
decisions will be issued until late June, the justices heard
132 hourlong arguments. That is 19 hours less than they had
allotted and 13 hours less than they heard last year, which
itself was relatively light in volume. Five years ago, they
heard 24 more hours of arguments.
   Moreover, at the justices' present pace of granting review
to cases, their calendar will be even more sparse in the next
term, which will begin Oct. 1.
   In order to give lawyers time to write briefs, cases that
are granted Supreme Court review in the spring typically are
argued in the fall; those granted review in the fall are
typically argued in late winter or the following spring.
   The justices have only four weeks before their summer
recess, and they have 44 hours of argument to fill for
October and November. To date, they are 15 hours short; they
would have to accelerate the granting of cases significantly
to fill the time.
   Even more problematic are the 24 hours allotted for
argument in December. The December calendar usually is filled
with cases granted review the previous spring, but since the
justices appear unlikely to fill even the November argument
calendar, they aren't likely to have enough cases ready to
hear in December. And they probably won't be able to fill the
gap with cases that are granted review in October. The
court's rules allow a total of 82 days for both sides to file
briefs, so cases granted review in October ordinarily
wouldn't be ready for argument in December, unless the
justices speed things up.
   It isn't just granted cases that are down. The court has
two kinds of petitioners: those who must pay the $300 fee to
file, and indigent people -- usually prison inmates -- for
whom the fee is waived. Not surprisingly, as prison
populations rise, the number of unpaid appeals is increasing.
But curiously, as the volume of litigation continues to
mushroom in state and federal courts, the number of paid high
court appeals this term -- 1,851 -- is 80 fewer than last
term and 108 fewer than two years ago.
   Most likely many factors are contributing to the shrinking
docket. One factor is that Congress a couple of years ago
eliminated a certain type of appeal that the court had
relatively little discretion to reject; that gave the court
more control over which cases it will hear.
   In addition, one theory is that Justice Antonin Scalia,
who joined the court in 1986, tends to vote to hear only
cases he considers sufficiently important, while retired
Chief Justice Warren Burger was more inclined to vote to hear
them simply because he disagreed with the appeals court.
   Another theory is that the numerous appeals court judges
appointed by President Reagan are deciding cases on narrower
grounds than before, giving the high court less to examine.
   Whatever the cause, the justices give no indication that
they are worried about the lull; many experts say the court
previously was deciding too many cases.
   But a look at some cases that have been denied review adds
to the mystery; although such judgments are subjective, a
number appeared to offer issues that could have used a high
court solution.
   Recently, the court let stand a federal appeals court
ruling requiring the state of Georgia to defend itself at a
trial against charges it isn't providing enough funds for
criminal defense lawyers who represent indigent defendants.
The ruling deeply divided the judges of the appeals court in
Atlanta, and nine other states backed Georgia's appeal, which
raises constitutional issues.
   Another case the court rejected presented a recurring
question about whether federal labor law pre-empts certain
state employment lawsuits. The appeal was filed by General
Motors Corp. in a dispute with 32 former employees who
accepted layoffs with severance payments and who then sued
the company for refusing even to consider rehiring them. The
justices let stand the ruling of a federal appeals court in
New Orleans that the workers may sue for damages under state
law and aren't required to take their case to the National
Labor Relations Board.
   In still another case, the justices refused to settle an
important dispute over federal copyright law. A ruling by a
federal appeals court in New York severely limited authors'
use of unpublished letters, diaries, and other material. The
ruling sharply split that court's judges and brought cries of
protest from historians, authors and other researchers. But
the high court refused to hear the appeal by publisher Henry
Holt &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   British Gas PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   BRG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BRITISH GAS PLC (London) -- Peter Walker, 58 years old,
was appointed a nonexecutive director of this utility. Mr.
Walker is the Member of Parliament for Worcester and was,
until recently, the Secretary of State for Wales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Sudden Interest
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Folks long ignoring the dollar
   With its up-and-down gyrations,
   Now start praying for a strong one --
   In time for their vacations.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Ticklish Ivories
                                                                                                       

   Does there exist someone who took
   Piano as a pup
   Who now responds to all who ask,
   He's glad he gave it up?
   -- Dick Emmons.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Etiquette columnist: gauche writer.
   -- Rodney Stevens.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Normandy Securities, Two Principals
   Are Fined Total of $141,000 by NASD
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Normandy Securities Inc. and two principals
consented to fines totaling nearly $141,000 to settle charges
by the National Association of Securities Dealers that they
violated certain rules.
   The Normandy settlement, in which the firm and principals
didn't admit or deny any wrongdoing, was among a number of
disciplinary actions announced by the self-regulatory agency
for the over-the-counter market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The NASD alleged that Normandy Securities, through
principal Norman Gottlieb of East Chester, N.Y., bought for
its account shares of a new issue that began trading in the
secondary market at a premium to the offer price. The agency
also charged that Normandy financial and operations principal
Paul Lenok, New Rochelle, N.Y., bought units in the new issue
through an account of a corporation that he and his wife
owned.
   An NASD official explained that a securities firm that
handles such a so-called hot new issue must make a "bona fide
public distribution" of the shares and can't buy them for its
own account or accounts of certain related parties until
after public distribution.
   Mr. Gottlieb said that "I was advised incorrectly by
in-house counsel, whom I've since terminated. . . . The NASD
realized that it was in fact an error and not deliberate."
   Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben of Cleveland and three employees
also settled NASD charges without admitting or denying
wrongdoing.
   The agency charged that principal Andrew Geller, Bayside,
N.Y., and two representatives, Theodore Geller, Bellmore,
N.Y., and Leonard Greenberg, New York, caused the firm to
execute transactions in a security at or near the market's
close for the purpose of affecting the last-sale price at the
close. The transactions were executed at prices higher than
the previously reported trades, the NASD said.
   Prescott was fined $15,000 and ordered to "comply with
certain undertakings." Each of the three individuals was
fined $15,000 and suspended from association with any NASD
member for 10 business days.
   Gerald Baker, senior vice president and compliance
director for Prescott, said, "The charges involved technical
and interpretive violations and were settled to put the
matter behind and to avoid the time and costs associated with
defending them. The transactions involved were legitimate
trades and were fully paid for; there were no losses to
customers as a result of the trades."
   Charles A. Roth, a Denver representative, was fined
$510,038, suspended for six months, and ordered to requalify
by exam as a representative.
   The NASD charged that Mr. Roth conducted business as a
broker-dealer without being properly registered and effected
private securities transactions without properly notifying
his member firm. The agency also found that he received the
above amount in fees and expenses from seven insurance
companies for his participation in securities transactions
involving these companies.
   Mr. Roth has appealed the decision to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
   The following were barred by the NASD. Fines are noted:
   George D. Keaton, Murray, Utah, $125,000; Karol Ann
McKinster, Englewood, Colo., $50,000; Kenneth Roberts Jr.,
Crestwood, Ky., $40,000; Gary Lee Pierce, Lakewood, Colo.,
$35,000; Anthony Hamilton-Smith of Boulder, Colo., John
Robert Petrash of Del Mar, Calif., and Christopher Richard
Prycewood of Desert Hot Springs, Calif., $15,000 each; and
Dale Robert Schneider, Forest Park, Ohio, $5,000.
   The following agreed to be barred without admitting or
denying wrongdoing: Robert Dornfeld, Somerset, N.J., and
Bryan S. Kogut, Orchard Park, N.Y. Each was fined $15,000.
   The NASD disciplined the following individuals.
Suspensions and fines are noted:
   Richard J. Demeree, Tucson, 30 days and $2,000; David M.
Droubay, Denver and Eric George Vincent, Brooklyn, N.Y., each
10 business days and $7,500; Thomas O. Mulkey, Denver, 10
business days, $2,000, must requalify by exam; Paul D.
Enright, Littleton, Colo., 10 business days and $2,500; Wayne
Edward Humphreys, Orlando, Fla., $17,200; Ely Jay Mandell,
Agoura Hills, Calif., $15,000; Curtis Irving Wilson,
Bellevue, Wash., $10,000.
   The following neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing:
   Howard M. Russell, Harahan, La., two years and $15,000;
Kenneth Paul Hahn, East Palo Alto, Calif., six months and
$7,500; Mark Sam Simon, Brooklyn, N.Y., 90 days and $12,000;
William F. Spitzer, St. Joseph, Mo., three months and no
fine; Mark Alan Elsea, La Jolla, Calif., 30 days and $5,000;
Peter Foley, New York, 10 days as a principal and $10,000;
Robert D. Cornelius, Pinson, Ala., one business day and
$5,000.
   The individuals couldn't be reached for comment, except
Mr. Kogut, who declined to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   BHI CCI CROP DD PMI RGEN CNTO RLM VHI
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   BJ Services Co., a unit of Baker Hughes Inc., initial
offering of nine million primary shares of common stock, via
First Boston Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Citicorp, shelf offering of up to $500 million of
preferred stock.
                                                                                                       

   Crop Genetics International Corp., offering of two million
shares of convertible exchangeable preferred stock, via
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and Piper, Jaffray &amp; Hopwood Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Du Pont Co., offering of $300 million of zero coupon
convertible subordinated notes, via First Boston.
                                                                                                       

   IKOS Systems Inc., proposed initial offering of 3.1
million common shares, of which 2.5 million will be sold be
the company, 544,103 by holders, and 55,897 by underwriters,
via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. and Montgomery Securities.
                                                                                                       

   Premark International Inc., shelf offering of up to $200
million of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Repligen Corp., proposed offering of two million common
shares, of which 775,000 will be sold by the company, and
1,225,000 shares will be offered by Centocor Inc., via First
Boston, Shearson Lehman and Hambrecht &amp; Quist Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Reynolds Metals Co., shelf offering of up to $200 million
of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Valhi Inc., offering of $100 million of convertible
subordinated debentures, via Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. and Salomon
Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Wisconsin Pharmacal Co., initial offering of one million
common shares, via Raffensperger, Hughes &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wainoco to Buy Tredegar Sites
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   WOL TG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Wainoco Oil Corp., an oil and gas exploration
and production company, said it agreed to buy all the U.S.
oil and gas properties of Tredegar Industries Inc. of
Richmond, Va., a diversified maker of plastics and aluminum,
for $16.5 million in a transaction to be completed by July.
   Tredegar said it expects to incur an after-tax loss of
about $4 million, or 35 cents a share, on the sale. The
properties are in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas,
and Wainoco said they hold net proved reserves of about 1.6
million barrels of oil and 6.9 billion cubic feet of natural
gas, 97% of which are developed. Wainoco said the purchase
will increase its U.S. oil production by 93% and its U.S. gas
production by 46%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM's Cadillac Rebate
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. said its Cadillac division
has extended the incentives on certain models through June
30. The rebates were originally scheduled to end May 31.
   Cadillac is offering rebates of $1,500 on the De Ville,
Fleetwood and Brougham, and rebates of $2,000 on the Eldorado
and Seville.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Worklace (A Special Report): The New Look
   ---
   Blueprint for Change
   ----
   By Stephen MacDonald
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R30
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   NEARLY 30 YEARS after its introduction, the "open plan"
continues to dominate the office landscape. But open offices,
which use panels to create a maze of work stations, have
never fully lived up to their billing. One advertised
advantage was flexibility, but hardly anyone moves those
panels, especially with today's computerized work stations
that are rooted to the floor. And many workers find the open
plan inhospitable -- naked, noisy and institutional looking.
   So what's next? What will the office look like in 10 to 15
years? The Wall Street Journal put that question to four
design professionals who specialize in the workplace, and
their visions are presented here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although their predictions are by no means identical, a
few themes recur. Flexibility is still a goal, not only so an
office can be rearranged as needs change but also to
accommodate "flextime" workers who write their own schedules.
Work stations will go portable, growing wheels or shrinking
to fit in an attache case. Work will occur in a greater
variety of settings. Teamwork will be more common, and
offices will provide for small groups to work on temporary
projects, then disband. And work spaces will be more homelike
and personal, even allowing workers to control their own
light, heat and air.
   But how much of this is really new? One of the Journal's
authorities suggests, tongue only partly in cheek, that the
office of the future could be found almost two centuries ago,
at Monticello.
                                                                                                       

   Working Together
                                                                                                       

   Perhaps the most striking feature of this busy office is
that workers are on flexible schedules and don't "own" a
designated work space. A worker arrives at the office, checks
out a file pedestal from storage and wheels it to a vacant
post.
   Michael H. Bourque, senior vice president of Earl R.
Flansburgh+Associates, Inc., Boston, says other employee,
operational and technology issues influenced the design. The
offices at the top are private, but with their hublike desks
and big electronic displays they accommodate the kind of
participatory decision making that Mr. Bourque expects to go
along with tomorrow's more decentralized management. Hubs in
the general work area below facilitate teamwork and encourage
quick, informal meetings and spontaneous exchanges between
workers. "The whole layout is focused on the hubs as work
centers," he says, "not on looking out the window."
   One informal meeting place, at the lower right, has a
large marking board, a television screen and a computer
display. "Those people could be holding a meeting with
workers in another part of the world, right out there in the
open," says Mr. Bourque.
   "Some things you can't see in the drawing are the computer
tie-ins to people working at home and the `smart' building
systems, where lighting, temperature and air quality are tied
to sensors that respond to human activity."
                                                                                                       

   Work on Wheels
                                                                                                       

   Flexibility and individual environmental control are the
main features of this work station by the Center for Building
Performance and Diagnostics at Carnegie Mellon University in
Pittsburgh.
   The unit can be docked into a permanent "cave" that
resembles a conventional work station, be wheeled to group
sessions in a "cove," or stand alone, perhaps in a quiet
corner or even outdoors on a patio. The work station has its
own computer, telephone, lights, heat panel and ventilation
filters. To hook up to the building's electricity, air
conditioning and other utilities, it plugs into a port in the
office floor.
   "Most building innovations over the past 80 years, like
central air conditioning and fluorescent lighting, have
tended to centralize environmental control and take it out of
the hands of the individual worker," says Volker Hartkopf,
professor of architecture at Carnegie and director of the
center. "This unit gives control back to the worker. It will
monitor environmental conditions like temperature and light
and display them on the screen. The worker can change them,
or the computer can `learn' what conditions an individual
prefers and adjust automatically."
   Prof. Hartkopf says the center will build its own new
facility next year, incorporating this system and other
innovations.
                                                                                                       

   Attache Office
                                                                                                       

   "The office is an information process not restricted to
place," says Leonard B. Kruk, head of the business education
department at the University of Georgia in Athens and
director of the Office of Syntonics Research at Shaw-Walker
Co., Muskegon, Mich.
   Mr. Kruk calls this concept, which so far exists only on
paper, the Transtechexec 2000+. It allows a worker to
communicate by voice and fax over a cellular network and to
write on a keyboard or tablet.
   When the peripatetic worker finally drops by the office,
the attache case would be plugged into a desk unit. That,
according to Mr. Kruk, would provide larger display screens,
more computer memory, and a direct link to corporate data
bases and video conference facilities.
   William Stumpf, another designer who thinks about the
workplace, believes this kind of portable office makes sense
for "entrepreneurial types, like Steve Jobs. I'm talking
about people who don't make much fuss about their physical
space. They might work in an office or a garage. They're
always working, and their office is wherever they happen to
be."
                                                                                                       

   Back to the Future
                                                                                                       

   Offices of the future will be much more diverse, both
within traditional facilities and in new kinds of facilities,
according to Duncan B. Sutherland Jr., an associate vice
president of Fitch RichardsonSmith, Worthington, Ohio, and a
member of that company's Exploratory Design Lab. And the
spaces will be much more adapted to individual needs. In
fact, he believes many workers will actively participate in
designing their own spaces. The distinction between home and
office, Mr. Sutherland says, is likely to become blurred.
   In that regard, Mr. Sutherland notes that Thomas Jefferson
was ahead of his time. America's third president designed an
integrated office-bedroom at Monticello that apparently fit
his way of working. It also anticipated many features that
have become commonplace in today's offices. Among the
innovations Mr. Sutherland finds are "early ergonomic
seating" (a swivel chair and hassock), task lighting (candles
on the arms of the chair), a data base (a lazy Susan
bookstand that allowed Jefferson to "access" four books at
once) and a personal copying machine (a pantograph on the
table in front of the chair).
   "The office of the future might be right under our noses,
if we simply look for it," says Mr. Sutherland.
   ---
   Mr. MacDonald is a writer in High Falls, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Alan Bond Loses
   Control of TV,
   Radio Empire
   ---
   Kerry Packer Will Regain
   Australia Media Concern
   3 Years After Selling It
   ----
   By S. Karene Witcher and Tony Patrick
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   A.BOM A.BON A.BEL GE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY, Australia -- Alan Bond's ambitions as a media
mogul were dashed during the weekend when the Australian
entrepreneur lost control of his nationwide television and
radio empire.
   Early Saturday, directors of Bond Media Ltd. agreed to
turn over control of the company to Kerry Packer, a publisher
and investor, who is the richest person in Australia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Packer sold the top-rated Channel Nine television
network to Mr. Bond in 1987 for about A$1 billion (US$767.7
million). If Saturday's complex transaction is approved by
regulators, bank lenders and Bond Media shareholders, Mr.
Packer will regain control of the network at a fraction of
the price he sold it for.
   The agreement came two days after two units of General
Electric Co., of Fairfield, Conn., offered to inject funds
into the debt-burdened company in return for a stake of about
15%.
   The GE units -- National Broadcasting Co. and GE Capital
Corp. -- proposed to join Hellman &amp; Friedman, a funds
manager, in investing A$200 million. Bond Media directors
Friday rebuffed the offer, saying it was "highly
conditional." But they said they would consider any revised
version.
   Warren Jones, chairman of Bond Media, said Sunday on
Channel Nine that he will continue talks with the U.S. group,
although the chances "are slim" that a U.S. plan will
supersede Mr. Packer's.
   Mr. Packer's agreement with Bond Media came about because
his closely held Consolidated Press Holdings Ltd. is owed
A$200 million from when Mr. Bond bought Channel Nine. Mr.
Packer demanded repayment of the debt and threatened court
action to liquidate Bond Media.
   Under Saturday's accord, Mr. Packer will convert his debt
-- held in the form of preference shares and overdue interest
-- into ordinary shares of Bond Media. That effectively gives
him nearly 60% of the company, Mr. Jones said.
   Bond Corp. Holdings, Mr. Bond's floundering flagship
company, will see its interest in the media concern diluted
to about 9% from 52%. A Bond family company will hold 3%,
while Bell Resources Ltd. -- run by Mr. Bond until he lost
control of its board in December -- will own as much as 20%.
Minority shareholders will hold the rest.
   The proposal involves a reconstruction of Bond Media's
shares and an issue of rights and options. Mr. Packer
receives control of the board and will become chairman of the
company in August. The operation will chop A$300 million off
Bond Media's debt, which early this year was stated at A$699
million. A sale of radio stations will further lower the
figure.
   Bond Media stock was sold to investors in 1987 at A$1.55 a
share. It closed Friday at 14 Australian cents.
   Mr. Jones said directors didn't have much room to
maneuver. That became especially true when the Australian
government last month limited total foreign ownership in
television stations to 20% and the stake of any one foreign
investor to 15%.
   To ward off Mr. Packer, Bond Media discussed possible
capital infusions with NBC, CBS Inc., Paramount
Communications Inc., and Television New Zealand Ltd. Mr.
Jones said Canberra's decision torpedoed those talks and
dropped Bond Media into Mr. Packer's lap.
   But he conceded that Bond Media's link to Bond Corp.
complicated its efforts to attract funds. If Bond Media had
"a stronger parent company," he said, Mr. Packer likely
wouldn't have gained control.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Toshiba Unit Lost Track
   Of High-Tech Equipment
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   J.TSB J.TOS
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO (AP) -- Toshiba Machine Co., which the U.S. and
Japan penalized in 1988 for exporting sensitive machinery to
the Soviet Union, now says it doesn't know what happened to
an earlier shipment of high-tech equipment that may have made
its way to China.
   A Japanese magazine says the machinery, used for making
computer memory chips, reached China, despite an
international agreement at the time that prohibited the
shipment of such equipment to the communist nation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Toshiba Machine says it sold the equipment in 1985 to a
company in Hong Kong, but that it doesn't know where it went
after that.
   Toshiba Machine suffered U.S. and Japanese sanctions when
it was disclosed it had sidestepped the same agreement, known
as COCOM, in exporting sensitive machinery in 1984 that
allegedly permitted the Soviet Union to make submarines
quieter and more difficult to detect.
   In 1988, Washington barred the parent company, the
electronic-goods company Toshiba Corp., which holds 50% of
Toshiba Machine, from bidding for U.S. government contracts
for one year, and Toshiba Machine was banned from exporting
anything to the U.S. for three years. Japan blocked Toshiba
Machine indefinitely from exports to communist countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Israelis Charge Yair Klein
   In Military-Export Case
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Yair Klein, a lieutenant colonel in the Israeli army
reserve, was charged Thursday in Jerusalem magistrates court
with exporting military know-how without a permit and
violating the obligations of a reserve officer.
   Mr. Klein, 46 years old, is wanted in Colombia for
allegedly training cocaine-cartel hitmen. His name has also
been mentioned in connection with a shipment of arms bound
for Antigua that wound up at the ranch of a major Colombian
drug trafficker. An inquiry into that transaction opened in
Antigua Friday but was adjourned until July 16.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Klein was the subject of a page-one Wall Street
Journal article last month.
   The indictment didn't mention possible links to drug
dealers, which Mr. Klein has denied since the accusations
first surfaced in August. The court heard only that Mr. Klein
agreed with a representative of a group known as the
Organization of Cattle Ranchers to train them in military
combat, and that he made two trips to Colombia to train
members of the Organization of Farmers. Combat training
without a license constitutes an illegal military export.
   Mr. Klein hasn't yet submitted a defense statement to the
court. However, in an April interview with this newspaper he
said he didn't seek a permit because the farmers were private
individuals who weren't part of a military force. He denied
knowing of any links between the farmers and drug cartels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Let America Beware
   Economic Imperialism
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   As a former journalist who covered the semiconductor area
of the electronics industry, I especially appreciated your
May 4 page-one feature "Partnership in Peril" about John
Hall's experiences with Japanese businessmen.
   In the late 1960s a strong consensus concluded that the
Japanese semiconductor capabilities were so comparatively
crude that their best hopes for catch-up (technological
parity and commercial success) rested on acquisition or
theft. After Mr. Hall, the Japanese suddenly possessed strong
capabilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   We underestimated Japan's determination in chips, cars,
consumer appliances and more. Many of us knew the danger of
Soviet political infiltration, but did not see Japan's
economic infiltration.
   We have no evidence that the Japanese have any sense of
business integrity that extends to the rest of the world,
that their "word" in deals or agreements is credible, or that
they practice free enterprise as a two-way street.
   I fear that the opening of Japan's markets will be even
narrower than the opening of Russia's and that we will have
to wake up to the serious risks from a Japan that cannot be
trusted, that is supremist and economically imperialistic.
   Mark B. Leeds
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Executive's Chairman
   To Testify for House Panel
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INSURANCE (INS)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- First Executive Corp.'s chairman and chief
executive, Fred Carr, has agreed to testify before the House
oversight and investigations subcommittee about insurance and
junk bonds.
   The subcommittee also is expected to subpoena attorneys
and accountants whom investigators have connected with Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. partnerships, according to individuals
close to the panel. Those partnerships, made up mostly of
Drexel employees, invested in a number of Drexel deals and
have been the subject of subcommittee investigations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We want to establish how big these partnerships were, how
much money was going through them," said one subcommittee
official. The panel also is eager to learn what investments
were made through the partnerships as well as whether there
were misdeeds involving Drexel offerings and other
investments.
   The subcommittee already plans to offer immunity to former
Drexel junk-bond chief Michael Milken in exchange for his
testimony on the high-yield securities.
   Mr. Carr's testimony, set for June 18, will focus on the
insurance industry, in which First Executive is a sizable
player, as well as practices in the junk-bond industry. First
Executive was a major investor in junk bonds.
   A spokesman for Mr. Carr said the executive "wants to talk
about how he has managed to maintain the strong capital
position in the industry nothwithstanding his junk-bond
holdings." On Mr. Carr's relationship with Mr. Milken, the
spokesman said, "He did business with Milken, but he did
business with a lot of people."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Steel Prices Rise,
   Signaling End
   Of Long Slump
   ---
   Brisk Demand, Higher Costs
   Of Raw Materials Help
   Spark Recent Rebound
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A31
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Steel is on the rebound -- at least for now.
   Following nearly a yearlong freefall, prices for steel
products are on the rise, and so is demand. Some steelmakers
are restarting blast furnaces that only in March were down
because of slack business, and are recalling workers
furloughed since last fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the industry doesn't expect to recapture
immediately the profit or shipment levels of 1987, 1988 and
early 1989, steel executives are more confident about 1990
than they were at the beginning of the year. Barring a strike
in the auto industry -- steel's big customer -- "business
should be reasonably good" this year, says David Hoag,
president of LTV Steel Co.
   About this time last year, steelmakers began nervously
watching prices tumble, signaling the end to a two-year
world-wide recovery in steel. By August, world spot prices
for standard rolled steel had fallen about 10%, and
steelmakers began boosting discounts by $20 a ton on sheet
steel products, marking the first broad-based price drop in
recent years.
   Now the nation's largest steelmakers are effectively
increasing prices. In April, the spot price of steel had
risen to $418 a ton, from $407 a ton in March, according to
AUS Consultants. And the price of hot rolled and cold rolled
steel, used to make everything from appliances to cars, is
slated to rise by $15 a ton and $20 a ton, respectively,
effective with July 1 shipments.
   "I think we've stemmed the erosion," says Thomas Graham,
president of USX Corp.'s USS division. Major steelmakers even
wrested an average 1% increase from General Motors Corp., the
largest steel consumer, even though the tough auto maker, in
the wake of its own disappointing performance, wanted to
slash prices.
   It isn't only the big integrated steelmakers moving to
recapture margins lost over the past nine months. Mini-mills,
which make steel with scrap or recycled steel, increased
prices on rebar and structural products used in construction
between $5 and $20 a ton following a year long decline in
those prices. Stainless sheet and strip prices likewise were
increased between 5% and 8%, marking the first price boost of
those products since July 1988.
   Two factors triggered the recent price increases: brisk
demand and rising costs of raw materials, such as zinc and
nickel. Steel industry analysts, while noting that shipments
won't reach last year's 84-million-ton level, have
confidently boosted their 1990 estimates to more than 80
million tons from earlier estimates of about 78 million tons.
   After watching direct shipments to car makers steadily
drop on a year-ago basis by double digit percentages,
including a 33% drop in January, auto makers are gearing up
for full production. WEFA Group's Christopher Plummer expects
a 20% increase in second-quarter auto production, compared
with the depressed first quarter. And John Tumasoz, an
analyst with Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp.,
expects robust auto production to continue through September
in advance of labor talks with United Auto Workers, in the
event there is a strike.
   But auto makers aren't the only ones driving steel demand.
Oil producers, drilling more wells, need steel pipe. Farm
equipment makers are building more huge steel-plated combines
and tractors. Steel service centers, which spent much of last
year drawing down inventories, are beginning to buy steel
again. The average daily shipping rate for that $24
billion-a-year industry is running nearly even with last
year's record pace. And, notes Mr. Tumasoz, an expected 7% to
8% increase in 1990 capital spending should translate into
more across-the-board business.
   Moreover, there are fewer imports chasing after these
orders. "Imports are down rather significantly," according to
LTV's Mr. Hoag. Imports have dropped to about 15% of the
market from a recent high in October of 20.7%.
   Still, the welcomed upturn is being viewed cautiously by
those who know too well the industry's cyclicality. Some
steel distributors wonder whether car makers will remain
strong past the third quarter, noting that they don't see the
same high levels of overtime that characterized recent years.
   "It's better than it was in the second half of 1989 but
not as good as it was a year or 18 months ago," says Andrew
Sharkey, president of the Steel Service Center Institute, a
trade group that represents 85% of the steel service center
industry. He says members worry that rising interest rates
could slow down the already sluggish construction industry.
Steel service centers account for more than 20% of all direct
purchases from steelmakers.
   And Roger E. Brinner, chief economist for DRI/McGraw-Hill,
expects the average steel prices to drop 3% in 1990 and
imports to rise throughout the rest of the year. Indeed, if
world spot prices continue to drop, and the Europe market is
stuffed with excess steel, foreign steelmakers may
increasingly look to the U.S. to ship their product.
   "That could nip this rally," says Peter Marcus, a steel
analyst with PaineWebber. Still, Mr. Marcus remains confident
that steel will be relatively strong in the U.S. through
1992.
   The fact that major steelmakers posted profits at all
during the past four dismal quarters is impressive, some
note. John Jacobson, an analyst with AUS Consultants, says
the industry has slashed fixed costs by 20% and variable
costs by 10% since 1986. The steel industry, he says, is
"structurally improved."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   A Squalid Little Slab of Pulp
   ----
   By Andrew Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   A few years ago, while doing a story about the spate of
books by and about Mikhail Gorbachev, I phoned the American
publisher of one of these perestroika potboilers. What I
wanted to ask him was: Why did all the photos in his book
show the General Secretary, as he then was known, without the
famous Gorbachevian splotch? In every illustration, the
carapace gleamed unblemished as a baby's bottom.
   The publisher at first denied that this was so but finally
admitted that the photos, which he had obtained from a Soviet
news service, did indeed appear airbrushed. I told him it
seemed a curious thing, in this age of glasnost. Didn't it?
The publisher quickly lost patience and snapped: "Are you
trying to tell me Reagan doesn't dye his hair?"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That swift leap into irrelevance is typical of the Soviet
apologist, or, in the publisher's case, of anyone who wants
to squeeze a buck out of Americans' interest in Soviet
affairs. Vladimir Pozner, whose memoir, "Parting With
Illusions" (Atlantic Monthly Press, 324 pages, $19.95), rides
the best-seller lists these days, is an unwholesome blend of
both: a Soviet apologist intent on making a buck. And the
swift leap into irrelevance is his favored polemical dodge.
   Mr. Pozner, of course, is something of a celebrity in the
U.S., the first Russian under 350 lbs. allowed by Soviet
authorities to appear regularly on U.S. television. He has
faced his daunting mandate -- to convince the American people
of communism's essential docility -- with admirable poise:
His background perfectly suits him to selling the unsalable
to a people who will buy almost anything.
   Young Vlad was raised in Manhattan by a Russian father and
French mother, who later repatriated with their teen-age son
to Moscow. There Mr. Pozner worked as a Soviet journalist,
filing reports of happy Ukrainian milkmaids and handsome
Lithuanian conscripts for Soviet Life, a glossy propaganda
sheet marketed exclusively in the West. Later, in the early
'70s, Radio Moscow asked him to broadcast a daily talk to
America called, with typical Soviet elegance, "Vladimir
Pozner's Daily Talk."
   When American television discovered him in the dicey early
Reagan years, he was ready. Phil Donahue, Ted Koppel and
others quickly embraced him, for despite his somewhat oily
looks he spoke American English better than most Americans
and was even, on occasion, moved to admit the unwisdom of a
few notorious Soviet boo-boos -- the Stalinist purges, for
example, and the hyperactive collectivization of agriculture.
Faced with boners of more recent vintage, such as the downing
of KAL 007, Mr. Pozner clung to the Motherland; but by the
(shall we say?) less-than-hardnosed standard of network news
departments, he was a revelation, a goldmine of good copy.
   Alas, that gift fails him in his memoir. He admits in
"Parting With Illusions" that he didn't want to write a
memoir at all -- and sure enough, he hasn't. A floss of
narrative passes from chapter to chapter, adorned with the
obligatory maudlin confessions ("There have been times of
intense pain, of loneliness, of insecurity . . . "); the
crackerbarrel chin-pulling ("Isn't it amazing that death
shocks us? Birth doesn't yet death is as natural as birth");
and the lame humor (I'll spare you) familiar to readers of
the celebrity memoir.
   But the book differs from, say, the late Sammy Davis Jr.'s
"Yes I Can" in that its bulk is given over to communist
apologetics, of the sort that never fails to floor Phil
Donahue when Vlad appears on his show. Only here they last
much longer. (One puts down the book with renewed affection
for the soundbite.) Again, the quick change of subject, the
sudden leap, is his metier. Certain facts of Soviet history
-- such as its unmitigated moral horror -- are hard to avoid,
so Mr. Pozner gives a nod in their direction and then quickly
goes on the offensive.
   Sure, says Mr. Pozner, Stalin killed millions, but what
about the Hollywood Ten? Yes, there has been some censorship;
but what about those high-school libraries that ban "Catcher
in the Rye"? Andrei Vishinsky? A lot like Mitchell Palmer,
no? You think the KGB goes overboard? Tell it to the CIA] And
so on.
   This is pretty sordid stuff, but I suspect it works on a
certain kind of weak-minded American -- Larry King is a big
Pozner fan. And to be fair, the book affords a few small
pleasures. Only the most hardhearted reader could fail to
feel a frisson of delight when Mr. Pozner writes, "By 1947, I
was getting beaten up at Stuyvesant High for being
pro-Soviet." And there are moments when his vaunted command
of the American idiom fails him, as when he refers to some
capitalist as "Mr. Rich Bitch."
   But these are not enough to redeem what is -- not to put
too fine a point on it -- a squalid little slab of pulp. A
best-selling squalid little slab of pulp, to be sure, but
even Vlad admits that "my popularity in the United States
came as a great surprise to me." As we say in the USA, join
the club.
   ---
   Mr. Ferguson is an editorial writer for the Scripps Howard
News Service.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Douglas
   Gets Air Force Job
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MD UTX NRES TRW
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- McDonnell Douglas Corp. received a $47
million Air Force contract for C-17 aircraft support
equipment.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   United Technologies Corp. was awarded a $29 million Navy
contract for helicopter and aircraft parts.
                                                                                                       

   Chamberlain Manufacturing Corp. got a $25.1 million Army
contract for projectile parts.
                                                                                                       

   Nichols Research Corp. received an $18.2 million Army
contract for threat simulator reports.
                                                                                                       

   TRW Inc. was awarded an $11.4 million Air Force job for
management information systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   How the Stealth Fighter Got Off the Ground
   ----
   By Ben R. Rich
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LK
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Lockheed's Advanced Development Projects (commonly known
as the "Skunk Works") has produced a series of top-secret,
highly advanced aircraft for the U.S. armed forces and
intelligence agencies since World War II. The P-80, U-2,
F-104, and SR-71 have been widely recognized as among the
most significant achievements of the aerospace industry.
Those aircraft were produced in an atmosphere of creativity
by engineers under the leadership of Clarence L. "Kelly"
Johnson.
   Mr. Johnson devised 14 basic operating rules for handling
small, sensitive projects. Many are applicable to other
business situations, both inside and outside the aerospace
industry. Mr. Johnson didn't base his rules on any formal
statistical data or on scientific observations, yet they are
more than just gut feelings. They worked for Mr. Johnson for
over 30 years, and they continue to work today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A few of Mr. Johnson's rules have been modified to
accommodate new technologies, concepts of operation and the
effects of government regulations. Yet these rules and the
management philosophy they fostered continue to guide today's
operations at the Skunk Works.
   But a Skunk Works is not a panacea. It does not usually
work on large programs. A true Skunk Works encourages
mavericks -- men and women who go off on tangents and devise
highly creative solutions to seemingly insurmountable
problems. But in large organizations, mavericks are
surrounded by regulations and stifled by layers of
management. Try as hard as they can, mavericks cannot
bushwack the bureaucracy that is endemic in any large
business or governmental entity.
   A Skunk Works performs best with small programs, such as
building prototypes, or for short production runs. In small
programs people get to know one another. They are not so hung
up with titles. They speak comfortably with one another. They
trade information freely.
   The success of the F-117 "Stealth Fighter" program is the
most recent example of how a Skunk Works operation can
perform. Lockheed and U.S. Air Force team members followed
Mr. Johnson's basic principles on this program. A small
military project office and small Lockheed project office
diligently managed all elements of the program. There was
proper accountability as well as mutual trust every step of
the way. The cost and schedule performance on the program was
outstanding. Compared with similar non-Skunk Works
operations, the F-117 program achieved significantly lower
overhead costs and better overall communications.
   The secret of the Skunk Works' success is that its
management style is no secret, but a unique culture within
the larger Lockheed Corp. that has been nurtured and
encouraged since its inception. The basic operating rules are
in black and white for anyone to read and to apply.
   Is the Skunk Works a national asset? Perhaps. But the true
national asset are those leaders who are willing to embrace
Kelly Johnson's principles of management, efficiency,
accountability, integrity . . . and make them work. Such
leaders will help America realize the dreams made possible by
the end of the Cold War and the decline of communism. That
would provide a real peace dividend.
   ---
   Mr. Rich is executive vice president and general manager
of Lockheed's Advanced Development Projects.
   ---
      Basic Operating Rules Of Lockheed's `Skunk Works'
                                                                                                       

  1. The Skunk Works manager must be delegated practically
complete control of his program in all aspects. He should
report to a division president or higher.
                                                                                                       

  2. Strong but small project offices must be provided both
by the military and industry.
                                                                                                       

  3. The number of people having any connection with the
project must be restricted in an almost vicious manner. Use a
small number of good people.
                                                                                                       

  4. A very simple drawing and drawing release system with
great flexibility for making changes must be provided.
                                                                                                       

  5. There must be a minimum number of reports required, but
important work must be recorded thoroughly.
                                                                                                       

  6. There must be a monthly cost review covering not only
what has been spent and committed but also projected costs to
the conclusion of the program. Don't surprise the customer
with sudden overruns.
                                                                                                       

  7. The contractor must be delegated and must assume more
than normal responsibility to get good vendor bids for
subcontract work on the project.
                                                                                                       

  8. The inspection system as currently used by Advanced
Development Projects (ADP), which has been approved by both
the Air Force and Navy, meets the intent of existing military
requirements and should be used on new projects. Push more
basic inspection.
                                                                                                       

  9. The contractor must be delegated the authority to test
his final product in flight. He can and must test it in the
initial stages. If he doesn't, he rapidly loses his
competency to design other vehicles.
                                                                                                       

 10. The specifications applying to the hardware must be
agreed to in advance of contracting.
                                                                                                       

 11. Funding a program must be timely so that the contractor
doesn't have to keep running to the bank to support
government projects.
                                                                                                       

 12. There must be mutual trust between the military project
organization and the contractor, with very close cooperation
and liaison on a day-to-day basis. This cuts down
misunderstanding and correspondence to an absolute minimum.
                                                                                                       

 13. Access by outsiders to the project and its personnel
must be strictly controlled by appropriate security measures.
                                                                                                       

 14. Because only a few people will be used in engineering
and most other areas, ways must be provided to reward good
performance by pay not based on the number of personnel
supervised.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ...But Meantime, Hong Kong Braces for a Fall
   ----
   By Lee Yee
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- How does Hong Kong feel about China a year
after the Beijing government brutally crushed the democracy
movement and slaughtered hundreds, perhaps thousands, of
citizens?
   One sentence sums it up: Even Xu Jiatun has run away.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Xu was China's highest-ranking representative here
from 1983 until early this year. In late April, after his
"retirement," he secretly made his way back to Hong Kong,
obtained an American visa and went to California. He went
without the consent of Beijing.
   As China's top representative here, Mr. Xu had one
all-important duty: Persuade the people of Hong Kong to
accept the "one country, two systems" blueprint for the
future. It was an uphill battle, but Mr. Xu was convincing.
He appealed to people to remain in Hong Kong and called on
those who chose emigration to return after they had obtained
permanent residency overseas. He insisted that after 1997
there would be no change to their freedoms, laws or human
rights. To bolster his assurances, Mr. Xu declared that China
itself was now learning from capitalism.
   Prior to June 1989, Hong Kong people believed Britain had
negotiated the colony's return to a China that was opening to
the outside world and undergoing reform, a country that would
enjoy increasing political and economic liberalization. June
4 changed all that; it revealed that Britain had made a pact
with a vicious communist power.
   Although China's general policy toward Hong Kong has not
changed in the past year, there has been a disturbing amount
of fine-tuning. Take the promise, "Hong Kong people ruling
Hong Kong." In both the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration
and the Basic Law (Hong Kong's post-1997 mini-constitution),
"Hong Kong people" are defined as those with permanent
residency here. Recently, however, Zhou Nan, Mr. Xu's
successor, added five prescriptive elements to this
definition. Hong Kong people must be patriotic, love Hong
Kong, support national reunification, support the Basic Law,
and not possess foreign residency status. On another
occasion, Chinese officials defined "patriotic" as being
loyal to the present rulers in China.
   Mr. Xu used to say that he hoped people with foreign
passports would return to work in Hong Kong. Now, Chinese
officials say that Hong Kong people with full British
citizenship, if they reside in Hong Kong after 1997, will be
regarded as citizens of China. As such, their right to
British consular protection will not be recognized.
Naturally, this leaves all Hong Kong Chinese with passports
from any foreign country with little choice but to quit the
territory before 1997.
   Some British parliamentarians have concocted a bill
whereby 220,000 Hong Kong people have been granted full
rights of residency in Britain. A Bill of Rights that
theoretically would override other local laws even after 1997
has been mooted. Some people even want to accelerate the pace
of democratization and establish a democratic system before
1997. But none of these gestures has done much to boost
confidence here.
   Hong Kong people are convinced things will get worse; but
if they could only get some idea of just how much worse, many
would still decide to remain after 1997. If they knew, for
example, that there would be no free press, no free speech
and no democracy, but that other freedoms -- such as basic
human rights and the rule of law -- would be preserved, I
believe many still would prefer to stay.
   Many who aren't in a position to emigrate now are
desperately trying to make as much money as they can so they
can qualify as investment immigrants. In such an atmosphere,
extreme greed has become an overriding motivation.
   But the greed pales in comparison to personal tales of
people who fear for the future and are trying to flee in any
way they can. Lovers in long-term relationships break up,
each searching for a partner who can assure a foreign
passport. Families pack aged parents off to old people's
homes, making it easier for them to emigrate. Parents abandon
mentally and physically handicapped children, barred by many
countries from immigrating. Far more common are cases of
couples who have been separated for some time -- one living
and working in Hong Kong while the other waits for permanent
residence status overseas -- finally splitting up.
   Hong Kong society is renowned for being law-abiding and
stable. Hong Kong business people and professionals are
enterprising, daring, inventive and adaptable. Hong Kong
workers are famed for their industriousness, professionalism
and level of education. But all of these outstanding
qualities have begun to lose their luster now that we live in
the grisly shadow of June 4 and await with fear the prospects
of 1997. The genius of Hong Kong society has nosedived.
   One could compare Hong Kong to a seaworthy vessel. After
the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration, this ship set course
for a volcanic island. The volcano was known to be active,
but as it had remained dormant for years, many people thought
it unlikely it would ever erupt again. Those who were less
confident slipped away silently on small boats, paddling off
with all their might. Then along came the murderous eruption
of June 4. The passengers on the ship no longer have any
confidence. Disorder is breaking out below decks, and the
passengers are scared that there won't be any lifeboats. They
fear that long before they reach their destination, the ship
will have been scuttled by its own hands.
   ---
   Mr. Lee is editor of "The Nineties," a Hong Kong news
magazine.
   (See related story: "China Will Rise Again..." -- WSJ June
4, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LSI Logic Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LSI HWP T.LSC
</CO>
<LP>
   MILPITAS, Calif. -- LSI Logic Corp. said its Headland
Technology affiliate has signed an agreement valued at as
much as $20 million to supply Hewlett-Packard (Canada) Ltd.
with advanced video graphics boards for use in
Hewlett-Packard's Vectra personal computers.
   LSI Logic Corp of Canada Inc. will manufacture the boards
in Canada. The high-performance graphic cards reduce wait
times to "virtually zero," the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Airbus Gets Firm A-321 Order
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.ABI E.ILA F.ASP G.MES U.BA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Airbus Industrie said Iberia Air Lines of Spain
placed a firm order for eight of the European aircraft
manufacturing consortium's A-321 passenger jets, following
through on a memorandum of understanding announced in July.
Financial details weren't disclosed, though people in the
industry estimate the price of an A-321 is slightly less than
$50 million.
   The planes will be delivered beginning in mid-1994. The
A-321 is a stretched version of the A-320, a short-haul to
medium-haul aircraft that is scheduled to enter service in
1994. Airbus said Iberia took an undetermined amount of new
options on additional aircraft.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Airbus consortium, based in Toulouse, France, is made
up of Aerospatiale of France, Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm
G.m.b.H. of West Germany, British Aerospace PLC and
Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A. of Spain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   China Will Rise Again...
   ----
   By Claudia Rosett
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   BEIJING -- Travelers to this orderly city are welcome this
season to visit the Gate of Heavenly Peace, from which
Tiananmen Square takes its name. From the front of the gate
hangs the usual portrait of Mao Tse-tung, commanding the
square. All around are public security agents to ensure there
will be no democratic turmoil to interfere with your climb to
the Tiananmen balcony above. There, the grandeur of China is
on show. Under Tiananmen's imperial yellow roof, looking
south across the huge square, you can stand where Mao stood
in 1949 when he founded his communist People's Republic and
declared, "The Chinese people have stood up."
   Then you can descend to the street where last June 4 the
Chinese people were shot down.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This first anniversary of the Tiananmen uprising, Beijing
wears a tidy facade that makes it easy to forget the heroic
events of last year. There's a big official effort on to
spruce up the city for the Asian Games, to be held here in
September. Pictures of the panda mascot decorate shops and
billboards. Where tanks rolled toward Tiananmen Square the
roads have been mostly repaved, the sidewalks relaid, the
shops replastered.
   Where protesters shouted and waved banners for democracy,
it's now hard to strike up even a casual conversation. The
Chinese know that anyone seen speaking with foreigners can
expect to be questioned by security agents. With the public
held hostage, the government is slathering on a cosmetic
smile. The Public Security Bureau, last year besieged by
angry workers, now keeps its gates wide open and adorns its
steps with red, purple and yellow potted flowers. Hotels have
been ordered to fly red banners that say "Greeting guests
with smiles and hospitality." They have also been supplied
with computers that tie in to the Public Security Bureau --
to better keep track of the guests. Tiananmen Square has been
closed for this anniversary. But mostly the square is open
again, even after dark, to anyone who cares to share it with
armed police guards.
   Coming up from Hong Kong this past week, I thought it
important to avoid harking back too much to last year's
revolt. The big question is what might lie ahead. But
revisiting this tightly controlled city, I see that last
year's uprising offered the best clue to China's future. It
was only during those few weeks that the Chinese were able to
sidestep their government, talk openly with each other, and
tell the world what they wanted for their country.
   The details of mass revolts are rarely simple, and there
has been much debate outside China this past year over
precisely what the demonstrators hoped to achieve. But one
thing is clear: Just as Mao in the 1920s had a vision that
eventually led to his 1949 victory, these people also had a
dream. The flag that flew from a building near the square
said "democracy." And the white statue that for five days
faced off against the portrait of Mao, and came to symbolize
the movement, stood for liberty.
   This is crucial to remember. It tells us what the people
of Beijing were willing to die for. I have often heard it
argued this past year that all the demonstrators really
wanted were honest officials and greater freedom of speech --
not the overthrow of the Communist Party. Yes, they demanded
an end to corruption and lies. But an end to corruption and
lies means the end of the Communist Party's
self-justification for existence. No one knows this better
than the Chinese people, whose insistent cry last spring was
"Tell the truth."
   The prime truth in China today is that communism has
proved itself a costly fraud. The Chinese people rank among
the poorest in the world, as well as among the most
repressed. The vaunted stability conferred by the party is
also an illusion. There is no provision for orderly
succession, there are no independent institutions of law. No
one knows what might happen when 85-year-old Deng Xiaoping
dies or fades away. Nor is it clear what post his successor
might occupy, since Mr. Deng resigned his last official post
earlier this year. China's government is one of the least
stable on earth.
   It is also one of the most hated. The wide avenues of
Beijing offer a reminder that last year's movement --
accompanied by demonstrations in scores of cities across
China -- was no simple student protest. It was a mass revolt.
To block the army from entering Beijing required citizens
ready to occupy the streets for miles in every direction --
for two solid weeks. When they rushed out at virtually every
major intersection to face gunfire and armored personnel
carriers during the final showdown, they were not protecting
their homes. They were protecting what they knew was the
soldiers' target -- Tiananmen Square, and the goal of freedom
that it stood for.
   For now, China is back to communism as usual, with Party
Secretary Jiang Zemin grinning in a Barbara Walters interview
and dismissing the Tiananmen revolt as "much ado about
nothing." Deng Xiaoping, dictator to one-fifth of humanity,
makes his erratic appearances to scotch rumors that he is
dead. Premier Li Peng hates bourgeois liberal ways, but
welcomes President Bush's decision to renew
most-favored-nation trading status with China. President Yang
Shangkun takes time away from overseeing the ideological
purification of the People's Liberation Army to tour South
America and announce that he's found lots of friends there.
   None of these party leaders speaks for the people of
China. Nor do they offer any grand plan that might lure
people their way. Thanks to its infiltration of the army and
the local work units, the 47 million member party creaks on,
resurrecting its absurd model heroes and cookbook slogans.
"Better Red than expert" is one of the latest mottoes of the
army, where professional soldiering officially ranks second
to politically correct thinking. But Mao's vision of a nation
striving to build the New Socialist Man stirs almost no one.
It had shriveled long before the Chinese army fired on
China's people last year.
   To build socialism, the Chinese endured the horrors of the
Great Leap Forward in the late 1950s and the Cultural
Revolution from 1966 to 1976, in which tens of millions died
and hundreds of millions suffered. They emerged from this
hell in the late 1970s to see their noncommunist neighbors
enjoying the Asian economic miracle. And that was what they
wanted. "Take your Diogenes lamp and go wandering around
looking for a true communist. It will be hard to find one
under 50 years old," says one Western diplomat based here.
   The government has no coherent plan to reform the
faltering system. Late last year the party spat forth old
Stalinist cant about replacing market reforms with strict
central planning. Farm enterprises, where freer markets had
served as the main force for development this past decade,
were to be rubbed out. Credit and raw materials were to be
rechanneled mainly to unprofitable state enterprises.
   Now, after almost a year of no economic growth, the party
has backed off and is again making noises about a "managed"
private economy. But the two vital steps of freeing prices
and institutionalizing property rights have been scratched
from this leg of the long march. China's economic policies
are adrift. The main think tanks, where some of the country's
brightest people were planning the moves toward a market
economy, have been broken up. And political reform is dead in
the water.
   This is a vacuum that cannot last. It may be that the fuse
of the next revolt is burning far from Tiananmen Square,
where the regime will not lightly allow people to gather
again. The next firestorm may begin in the richer, coastal
provinces of Guangdong or Fujian, which trade heavily with
the outside world and want nothing to do with China's central
government. It could begin with the Moslems in the western
province of Xinjiang, where at least 22 people died last
month in a separatist revolt and the Beijing government has
stepped up its "security measures." It could start in the
southwestern city of Chengdu, where unemployment combined
with anger over the Beijing massacre ignited riots last June.
Or in Shanghai, where protesters last spring built their own
Statue of Liberty, and backed down only under serious threat
of martial law.
   How long before China rises again is hard to say. But it
must come soon. Tiananmen disclosed publicly what most people
knew: that China's communists have outlived their time. They
have nothing left to offer a country that has been struggling
since the start of this century to join the modern world. And
though China's people lack a detailed agenda, they have
already replaced Mao's communist vision with their call in
Tiananmen Square for democracy.
   This is a country whose long history dwarfs many of the
world's great events. But the world outside is moving faster
than ever before. Observing the prosperity of the West,
following the overthrow of communism in Eastern Europe, the
upheavals in the Soviet Union, and even Burma's vote a week
ago for democracy, the Chinese people know how badly they are
falling behind. They need not reinvent the institutions of
democracy; they need only seize the chance to adopt them.
   The tragedy of June 4 went far beyond the killing in the
streets. The tragedy is that such movements do not always
succeed the first time, and every day lost means further
waste of the great nation that China could be. When I
returned from Beijing last June, after watching that fierce
struggle for freedom, a friend up there sent down a poem,
entitled "Spring Dawn," by an eighth-century Chinese poet,
Meng Haoran. It speaks today not only for a people silently
mourning its loss at Tiananmen, but also for a nation
struggling to awake:
                                                                                                       

   Oversleeping in spring I missed the dawn,
   Now everywhere the cries of birds are heard.
   Tumult of wind and rain had filled the night --
   How many blossoms fell during the storm?
   ---
   Miss Rosett is editorial page editor of The Asian Wall
Street Journal.
   (See related story: "...But Meantime, Hong Kong Braces for
a Fall" -- WSJ June 4, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   ABC's Ad-Rate Plan Spurs Rivals
   To Reassess Audience Guarantees
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB GE CBS G.BAY T IPG IBM LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Capital Cities/ABC's plan to slash the audience-size
guarantees it usually promises advertisers is prompting the
other two major networks to come up with similar plans --
despite ferocious resistance from advertisers.
   National Broadcasting Co. said in a statement Friday that
ABC's plan, which virtually factors out recent declines in
audience ratings, is "both actionable and equitable." It
added that it is "taking a closer look at their approach,
along with some others." David Niles, vice president of re-
search at the No. 1 network, said the General Electric unit
hoped to put together its own plan discounting TV's shrinking
audience by the end of this week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CBS, too, is accelerating efforts to slice guarantees made
to advertisers regarding audience size. "We're looking at the
ABC proposal and exploring other ideas of our own as well,"
said Jerry Dominus, a CBS senior vice president. He said CBS
hoped to come up with its own plan "within a week or so."
Added David Poltrack, a senior vice president, "At this
point, we feel the current system isn't a reliable guide and
not one that we can recommend."
   Ad executives and analysts continue to insist that ABC's
plan and others like it are doomed to failure. The plans came
about because A.C. Nielsen ratings have shown a steep decline
in audience levels, with viewers apparently deserting the
tube in droves during the first quarter. All three major
networks insist that the Nielsen data are flawed, and the
plans they're fashioning for setting ad rates are meant to
factor out the declines. But advertisers claim the Nielsen
data are perfectly accurate.
   "I don't think {the ABC plan} can possibly fly," says
James Dougherty, an advertising analyst with County NatWest
Securities. The networks have complained about Nielsen's
figures before, he notes, yet the numbers "have never been
confirmed wrong. I can't see any responsible agency or
advertiser allowing ABC to do that."
   As reported, ABC last week shattered tradition by coming
up with its new plan to sell ad time. ABC and its fellow
networks have a pile of cash at stake: Typically, they
guarantee advertisers that their programs will reach a
certain number of viewers. If ratings fall below the
guaranteed level, the networks must make up the difference
with additional free commercial time, called "makegoods." The
ratings slide this year was so severe that in the first half
of this year alone, the estimated value of their makegoods
reached $150 million to $200 million.
   ABC's plan would slash the amount of free time it must
give advertisers if audience levels fall. The plan compares
current ratings with an average of the three previous years;
a particular program's ratings would have to fall more than
the average audience fell over those three years in order for
the advertiser to be entitled to makegoods.
   While NBC and CBS are looking at ABC's new system, they
also are examining other alternatives to the traditional
audience-guarantee system. The result is likely to be a
mishmash of approaches that will cause chaos during the
coming "up-front" buying spree, when advertisers buy network
time for the fall season.
   In making its announcement last week, ABC said it was
opening the up-front season. But industry executives said
that if anything, ABC's plans and those under consideration
by its competitors would slow down the process as advertisers
attempt to interpret the new plans. At CBS, Mr. Poltrack
figures the up-front market won't start until the latter part
of this month, and adds, "certainly this kind of wrinkle
would make that slower than what has traditionally been the
case."
   Executives at both CBS and NBC were scrambling late last
week to evaluate ABC's plan and to compare it to those they
already had under consideration. NBC, for example, said that
one plan it is considering would take into account data other
than the national Nielsen ratings, such as local Nielsen and
Arbitron figures. The local data showed that the number of
female viewers in the 18-to-49 age group was flat to down
slightly in the first quarter. By contrast, the Nielsen
ratings showed that group plummeted by 6% to 10%, depending
on the time of day.
   "We're exploring ways of calibrating or looking at trends
in local markets and somehow relating that to the national
numbers," Mr. Niles said.
   CBS initially hoped Nielsen would devise an alternative
ratings system itself. The Committee on Nationwide Television
Audience Measurement, a coalition of the three networks and
the National Association of Broadcasters, had asked Nielsen
to introduce an alternative system that could be used in
conjunction with the current people meter system. But Nielsen
last week told the networks it couldn't provide any
experimental system until next March at the earliest, CBS's
Mr. Poltrack said, adding, "That whole idea is going up in
smoke. Now we're looking at the ABC proposal and exploring
other ideas."
   Advertisers say they will resist any new ad-rate plans. If
the networks insist on slashing guarantees, the advertisers
say, they'll demand compensation. For example, they might try
to negotiate lower than normal ad rates or better placement
in programs, media executives suggested.
   Says Rich Hamilton, a senior vice president at ad agency
D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp; Bowles, "ABC is going to have to be
willing -- and I think ABC knows that it will need -- to
negotiate on the particulars of the announcement. Whether
they go back to the same kind of guarantee system that
existed in the past is going to be negotiated individually by
agencies and advertisers."
   ---
   McCann Wins 3 Accounts
                                                                                                       

   McCann-Erickson picked up three new accounts -- including
a big assignment from American Telephone &amp; Telegraph -- that
together add about $30 million to the agency's billings.
   The AT&amp;T assignment, a consolidation of the company's
facsimile machine business, will bill about $15 million to
$20 million. McCann beat three other shops to win the
account, which will include advertising AT&amp;T's fax services
and products.
   McCann also picked up the film account from Agfa Corp.'s
photo division. Billings haven't been determined.
   And the agency was named to handle Nordica S.p.A.'s $10
million ski boot and apparel account. The multinational
account will be serviced out of McCann's New York and Milan
offices. McCann is an Interpublic Group agency.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   IBM: International Business Machines Europe said it added
Lintas:Europe to its European ad-agency roster. IBM said
Lintas, through its Paris office, would handle a special
assignment that it declined to identify. It said, however,
that its agreement with Lintas doesn't affect its
relationship with GGK, which handles IBM accounts in Europe.
Billings weren't disclosed. Lintas is an Interpublic unit.
                                                                                                       

   VIRGIN ISLANDS: The U.S. Virgin Islands this week will
announce a marketing program positioning the islands as the
"first environmental destination." A new ad campaign, created
by Greengage Associates, features the theme line: "Save the
Planet]"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Illinois Power May Have to Suspend
   Dividends on Preferred, Official Says
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<CO>
   IPC
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   DECATUR, Ill. -- Illinois Power Co. may have to suspend
payment of dividends to holders of its preferred stock.
   "I cannot say with certainty whether we will able to pay
the preferred dividend," Larry Haab, president and chief
financial officer of the electricity and natural gas concern,
conceded in an interview. "There is the potential for a legal
interpretation that when retained earnings are negative, we
cannot pay a dividend."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Illinois Power, which already has eliminated common stock
dividends, is awaiting the outcome of a rate case pending
before the Illinois Commerce Commission. The regulator's
ruling, viewed as critical to the utility's short-term
financial health, is expected Wednesday. The company had
about $474 million face value of preferred stock outstanding,
as of May 23, according to Moody's Investors Service Inc.
   On May 23, Moody's changed the direction of its review of
its rating on Illinois Power's preferred stock to "down" from
"uncertain." The rating concern cited an unfavorable
preliminary rate-order proposal from a hearing examiner in
the state commerce agency's case, a delay in a pending court
case on a previous agency order, and lower-than-anticipated
corporate earnings.
   The pivotal issue in the current commerce commission case
is whether the regulators will declare Illinois Power's
Clinton nuclear power plant 100% "used and useful," Mr. Haab
said. State regulations restrict utilities to billing
customers for only as much of a plant's cost as is necessary
to meet the overall demand for power.
   The seven-member commission ruled in March 1989 that only
27% of the plant was needed. Four members of the commission
have been replaced since then; how they intend to vote on the
Clinton issue isn't clear.
   "It is vital to us to get it (the Clinton plant) declared
`used and useful,' even if it's not incorporated into rates
in one shot," Mr. Haab said. "There is a possibility of
having to write off that portion of Clinton which is not
declared `used and useful.'"
   As of March 31, Illinois Power's retained earnings were
listed at $120.7 million. If retained earnings become
negative through a write-off, both the Federal Power Act and
the Illinois Public Utility Act stipulate interruption of
preferred stock dividends.
   In November, the state commerce commission's staff
recommended that the Clinton plant be declared 100% "used and
useful," and that Illinois Power be granted $147 million of
its $215 million rate-increase request. The agency's hearing
examiner, who acts as a judge, later recommended that Clinton
be declared 42% "used and useful," and proposed a far smaller
rate increase of $27 million.
   "My prediction is that what they'll get will be somewhere
between the staff's recommendation and the hearing
examiner's," Barry Abramson, an analyst at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc., said.
   Illinois Power's problems trace back to the commerce
commission's March 1989 refusal to allow the utility to use
100% of the Clinton plant. In the order, the commission also
said Illinois Power imprudently spent $666 million too much
on the plant. Following the 1989 order, the company took a
$346 million write-off.
   At the time, analysts said, the commission's membership
was strongly consumer-oriented. With four new members on the
commission this year, Mr. Haab hopes for a ruling more
favorable for the utility.
   Meanwhile, Illinois Power is awaiting the result of the
lawsuit it filed, challenging the 1989 order. The case is in
Illinois's Third District Appellate Court, and a ruling is
expected this fall.
   "The critical thing is that the appellate ruling be in our
favor," Mr. Haab said. "If we get a favorable decision from
the appellate court, there will be no write-off this year."
   Such an outcome is unlikely, Mr. Abramson, the
Prudential-Bache analyst, said.
   The court is expected to rule both on whether the utility
can use all of the Clinton plant and on whether it spent too
much money to build it.
   "I don't see any scenario under which they're not going to
have to write off $248 million, after tax, for imprudent
spending," Mr. Abramson said. "Based on that assumption,
they'd have a negative retained income, which would preclude
them from paying preferred dividends for a time."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wal-Mart's Walton Predicts Company
   Could Quintuple Sales by the Year 2000
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9C
</SO>
<CO>
   WMT
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. -- Saying he views his
multibillion-dollar retail empire as "just a small regional
company," Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Chairman Sam M. Walton said he
thought the company could quintuple sales to about $125
billion by the year 2000.
   Last year, Wal-Mart's earnings increased 29% to $1 billion
on sales of $25.8 billion. If achieved, Mr. Walton's goals
for the end of the decade would boost the discount retailer
into the same league with corporate giants like General
Motors Corp., whose 1989 revenue was $126.9 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I really believe it's possible," Wal-Mart's 72-year-old
founder said at the annual meeting as he stood at the end of
a lighted walkway that extended into the middle of a
University of Arkansas sports arena. Though treated for a
form of cancer of the blood and bones earlier in the year,
the Arkansas billionaire had the fire and vigor of a revival
preacher as he led more than 8,000 shareholders and employees
in a series of call-and-response cheers.
   "Can we do it?" he shouted.
   "Yes we can," they roared back.
   Mr. Walton predicted the company would double the number
of Wal-Mart and Sam's Wholesale Club stores, increase both
their average size and annual sales and continue to expand
outside the company's traditional base in the South and
Midwest.
   By the end of the decade, he said he expects the number of
Wal-Mart stores to climb to about 3,000 from about 1,400 now
and their average size increase to about 80,000 square feet
from about 66,400 square feet. He predicted that Wal-Mart
store total sales would climb to about $96 billion annually
from about $21 billion last year and that per-square foot
sales would jump to $400 annually from about $250 last year.
   While talking little about the disappointing results at
the corporation's four huge Hypermart U.S.A. outlets, Mr.
Walton said he hoped that Sam's Wholesale Club outlets would
increase in number to about 300 from 127 and that Sam's
annual revenue would increase to about $30 billion from about
$4.8 billion last year.
   "It all rides on our people," said Mr. Walton, who added
that although Wal-Mart is "getting to be a large company, we
have to act small and move quickly."
   William W. Whyte, an analyst with Stephens Inc. in Little
Rock, Ark., said WalMart, which concentrates its operations
in small towns, could probably double its number of outlets
just by moving into new markets in the 28 states where it
already has operations.
   Noting innovations such as the company's recent efforts to
add discount grocery operations to some of its Wal-Mart
outlets, Mr. Whyte added that he would not be surprised if
Wal-Mart achieved the lofty goals laid out by its chairman
and founder. "They never cease to amaze me," he said. "With
them, we just take it one quarter at a time."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Wal-Mart jumped $2 to $58.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Fall Slightly on Profit-Taking,
   While London Gains on Takeover Speculation
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices finished lower in moderate trading
Friday after posting gains in the two previous days.
   Meanwhile, London share prices peaked at the close of
moderate trading, tracking Wall Street's firming and scoring
late-day gains on unconfirmed rumors of a takeover bid in the
brewery sector.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Investors in Japan took profits ahead of the weekend on
domestic demand-related shares, many of which advanced
strongly earlier last week, traders said. Construction
companies were broadly lower. Shipbuilding and steel issues
also declined, while some electrical and mining shares
firmed.
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues closed down 239.68
points at 32891.12. The index advanced 204.54 points
Thursday.
   At mid-morning in Tokyo Monday, the Nikkei index was up
85.88 points to 32977.
   Friday's volume on the first section was estimated at 700
million shares, down from 805 million shares Thursday.
   Declining issues Friday outnumbered advancing issues 541
to 426, while 152 issues remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section, which gained 18.65 points Thursday, was down
9.19 points, or 0.38%, at 2426.55.
   The second section index, which advanced 35.96 points
Thursday, was up 36.34 points, or 0.91%, to close at 3974.62.
Volume in the second section was estimated at 29 million
shares, up from 18 million shares Thursday.
   Stock prices moved lower in the afternoon. Traders said
investors decided to secure profits on stocks that advanced
in the past few days ahead of the announcement of U.S.
employment data later Friday. The figures, along with the
U.S.-Soviet summit talks in Washington over the weekend, were
expected to affect the direction of exchange rates.
   While they took profits on construction and shipbuilding
shares, investors actively hunted for speculative shares as
well as individual stocks with strong earnings outlooks,
traders said.
   "The market mood was bullish. Investors showed strong
interest searching for stocks with high potential to
advance," said Masami Okuma, a senior trader at UBS Phillips
&amp; Drew International.
   Main buyers last week were individuals and corporate
investors, while most institutional investors took profits on
the recovery in stock prices, said Atsushi Koishihara,
general manager of stock trading at Taiheiyo Securities.
   Active selling by institutional investors in previous
weeks helped reduce selling pressure and made stock prices
resistant to sharp falls, Mr. Okuma of UBS Phillips said.
   The market is expected to firm this week because brokerage
houses are planning to trade actively as they usually do in
the first part of a month, according to some traders.
   In London, the rumors of a brewery takeover bid
precipitated heavy buying in the sector, particularly for
Allied-Lyons shares, as speculation mounted that it was the
focus of a predator. The rumors were unsubstantiated.
   In addition, strong stock futures trading lent support to
shares, as did the continued shortage of stock in the hands
of marketmakers and rumors of a cut in U.S. prime lending
rates.
   The combined effect of these factors sent dealers home
convinced that this week will see robust trading.
   "We'll break through 2400 {on the Financial Times-Stock
Exchange 100 Share Index}" early this week, predicted one
trader.
   At the close of Friday trading, the 100 Share Index was up
26.3 points at 2371.4. Its low of the day was reached early
in the session, when the index fell 12.4 points.
   The narrower Financial Times 30 Share Index was up 27.4
points at 1882.4. Volume was 499.3 million shares, above the
466.2 million issues that changed hands Thursday.
   In the futures markets, the June FT-SE 100 index contract
ended trading at 2411.0, up from its close of 2379.0
Thursday. Similarly, dealers expected Wall Street to perform
strongly this week.
   Allied-Lyons rose 26 pence to 500 ($8.42) on the rumors.
However, company spokesmen couldn't be reached to comment.
   The entire brewery sector profited from the speculation,
particularly as marketmakers were short of stock in the
sector, following Thursday's brisk buy activity in Guinness
shares. Bass gained 20 pence to #11.04. Guinness gained a
further seven pence to 776.
   Other shares performing well Friday included Rothmans,
which said it was considering the acquisition of the
Theodorus Niemeyer BV group of companies from Gallaher Ltd.,
a wholly owned subsidiary of American Brands Inc.
   One trader said the market took the news well and assumed
that this would signal Rothmans' exit from South African
markets. Rothmans gained 39 pence to 732.
   Shares that fell included Rank, which fell 15 pence to 803
on news that it had bid #512 million ($860.7 million) for
Mecca Leisure.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Frankfurt,
Zurich, Brussels, Amsterdam, Stockholm and Milan. Shares were
lower in Paris, and South African gold stocks closed down.
   Prices closed higher in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore,
Seoul and Taipei. They were mixed in Wellington and Manila.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                              May 31     May 30     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .....................  333.0      332.8    +  2.5
   Britain ..................  697.0      697.6    -  3.3
   Canada ...................  394.4      392.4    -  8.8
   Japan .................... 1375.8     1363.7    - 16.9
   France ...................  589.9      592.7    +  4.1
   Germany ..................  295.5      296.5    +  3.6
   Hong Kong ................ 2346.0     2308.1    + 11.9
   Switzerland ..............  224.4      225.4    +  1.6
   Australia ................  306.5      303.9    -  7.5
   World index ..............  525.1      526.4    -  7.4
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GOP Senate Group
   Pushes Plan to Cut
   Capital Gains Tax
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A growing group of conservative Republican
senators is pushing a capital gains tax plan that would cut
the rate on the sale of assets more deeply than President
Bush's proposal.
   The effort, which is being backed by business lobbyists,
is designed to put pressure on budget negotiators, not only
to include a capital gains tax cut in any deficit-reduction
plan, but to be sure the cut is deep and significant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposal, sponsored by Sens. Robert Kasten (R., Wis.)
and Connie Mack (R., Fla.), also is a measure of the
confidence of the forces behind a capital gains tax cut that
the levy will be reduced this year.
   "The problem is not one of ultimately getting such a cut,"
the senators said in a letter to their colleagues, "but to
make certain that the reduction is the best possible under
the circumstances." So far, 13 senators, all Republicans,
have agreed to sponsor the legislation. They include Sen.
Phil Gramm (R., Texas), who is a negotiator in the budget
summit.
   The Kasten-Mack plan would cut the capital gains tax rate
to 15% for both individuals and corporations on assets held
for more than one year. The more complicated Bush plan would
give a 19.6% top rate to individuals only on assets held for
longer than three years. The current top capital gains rate
for individuals is as high as 33%.
   Both Republicans and Democrats say a capital gains tax
reduction is likely to be part of any budget-summit agreement
this year that also includes a major tax increase. Budget
talks are continuing, but moving slowly, and haven't yet
seriously broached the question of taxes.
   Supporters of a capital gains tax cut have been concerned
that President Bush might weaken his own capital gains plan
in order to obtain a budget compromise, and are using the
Kasten-Mack package to make their point. The details of the
plan probably won't become law.
   "The capital gains bill out of the summit might be weak
tea," said Mark Bloomfield, president of the American Council
for Capital Formation. "The Kasten-Mack proposal is a healthy
development to try to insure that it is stronger than that."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Votrax Inc. Dismisses
   Finance Chief, 6 Others
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   VOTX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   FARMINGTON HILLS, Mich. -- Votrax Inc. said it dismissed
its vice president and chief financial officer, Karen
Greenfield, and six other employees as part of a cost-cutting
effort.
   Since March, 58 employees have either quit or been
dismissed, the company said. Votrax, which has 22 employees,
said it does not anticipate further staff reductions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "These releases reflect the final step in the company's
efforts to refocus on its core business," said Larry W.
Jernigan, president and chief executive officer.
   Votrax designs and makes interactive telephone response
systems, such as those that allow a customer to call a bank
and perform transactions using a touch-tone phone.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   VOTRAX Inc. said 58 employees have either quit or been
dismissed since March 1989 as part of the company's
cost-cutting effort. In Monday's edition, the timing of these
departures was misstated.
   (WSJ June 6, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Music Man
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Somebody in San Francisco ought to give Mikhail Gorbachev
a videocassette of "The Music Man" to watch on the flight
home. He'd get a big kick out of Professor Harold Hill, a man
of dynamism and charisma.
   Professor Harold Hill, you recall, showed up in River City
with a winning smile, a twinkle in his eye, and the promise
of perestroika in his satchel. "My friends you've got
trouble, right here in River City, with a capital T]"
Corruption will be rooted out. "A pool hall is the devil's
playground." As salvation, Professor Hill plans to give River
City a boys' band -- "not just any old band, but a boys'
band" -- with 76 trombones, 110 cornets and big bassoons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All that the people of River City have to do is sacrifice:
Pay handsome Harold Hill dearly for all these shiny brass
instruments, which will soon arrive by train from some
faraway place. Marian the Librarian was the town's wisest
person, and at first she resisted Professor Hill's
blandishments. But by the time the cold tide of reality began
to turn against the complex con man, she became his biggest
defender. They had developed good personal chemistry.
   The people of River City, as well other American citizens,
have just been offered a trade bill (with most-favored nation
status tossed in as a possible bonus), an unverifiable
chemical arms agreement, a promise to agree on a cut in
strategic arms and so on. But Professor Gorbachev has yielded
nothing on Germany, on Lithuania, and has offered only a
promise to buy American grain he most likely will badly need.
Mr. Gorbachev in his press conference yesterday morning said
he discovered this weekend that he can do business with Mr.
Bush. He'd like Marian too.
   We don't doubt that purely at the level of domestic U.S.
politics, Mr. Bush probably made gains in terms of public
popularity. There even may be something to be said for Mr.
Bush's disposition to let the role of bad cop fall to
Congress; it is, we suppose, one way of building consensus.
Much of the game remains to be played, and Mr. Bush is a
notably patient man. Still, the evolution of the Soviet Union
is at a crucial juncture, and it's disconcerting to see Mr.
Bush boosting Mikhail Gorbachev's baloney.
   A great deal is being swept under the rug of
Bush-Gorbachev "chemistry." While President Bush did
carefully restate the historic U.S. policy of not recognizing
incorporation of the Baltic nations into the Soviet Union, he
gave Mr. Gorbachev his trade agreement despite his trade
blockade of Lithuania. There is no way to verify the chemical
arms treaty, and "framework" agreements are intrinsically bad
negotiating.
   The more serious problem is that "chemistry" wraps U.S.
policy around one man, not around a set of principles or
objectives in U.S. Soviet relations. In fact, Mr. Gorbachev
has been running a balancing act between Soviet hardliners
and the reform forces he helped set loose. Lately the
reformers have been gaining, and Mr. Gorbachev has had to
boost the hardliners. For every Yeltsin or Lithuania that
appears, Mr. Gorbachev feels compelled to appoint a Pamyat
leader to his personal counsel or send us a gaggle of
anti-Semites who have demonstrated no ability to win popular
elections in their own country.
   It is getting way past time for the West's leaders to look
past Mr. Gorbachev's surface political sheen and recognize
that he is no longer producing forward movement. Instead, Mr.
Gorbachev is sounding more than ever like a traditional
Soviet politician. On Sunday, his rambling answers on German
reunification, Lithuanian independence and the emigration of
Soviet Jews were laden with caveats and threats ("what about
Vienna?"; "Israel should heed"; the Lithuanians are
besmirching his constitution). It all recalls the glacial
time-frame of a Leonid Brezhnev. History, however, is on a
tighter schedule.
   While Mr. Gorbachev demands more time at home for his
"radical" economic reforms (doing the right thing would
obviously destabilize the Communist Party, his only political
constituency), the nation is being driven to civil
insurrection by the predictable failure of those reforms.
Soon, events are probably going to force people such as
George Bush to choose between Mr. Gorbachev and the
democratic, free-market radicals who have been winning
elections.
   At the end of "The Music Man," the local population has
become discontented and increasingly furious at the
realization that Professor Hill won't be able to deliver on
his promise of a boys' band. The most radical among them want
to tar and feather him. Panicked, the endlessly resourceful
Professor Hill gathers the boys together and in one lesson
teaches them to play broomsticks, shovels, and pots and pans.
As they march into the street, Professor Hill tosses his
baton into the air, the camera frames it against the sky, and
it descends to display a boys' band in dazzling marching-band
uniforms, playing a rousing version of "76 Trombones."
Another happy ending.
   Professor Gorbachev hopes to assemble his own pick-up band
from various elements: the tatters of the Soviet economy, the
wish for a "regulated market economy," the nationalities
restive under Soviet rule, the enormous cost of his bloated
military machine and support of places like Cuba, and the
ambitions of the best of the Russian people to join the
world. We doubt that chemistry with George Bush is likely to
provide him a Hollywood ending.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Signs That U.S. Economy Is Losing Kick
   Aren't Likely to Undercut Dollar for Now
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Signs that the U.S. economy is losing its kick
won't undercut the resilient dollar any time soon.
   So say a number of currency analysts who point to the
dollar-boosting potential of economic and political
uncertainty in West Germany and elsewhere.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I really wouldn't be looking to throw in the towel on the
dollar," says Victor Polce, head of corporate dealings at
Algemene Bank Nederland N.V. in New York.
   Few traders gave up on the dollar Friday despite an
ominous sign in the government's employment report. The data
show that although the May unemployment rate fell to 5.3%
from 5.4% in April, non-farm payrolls increased by only
164,000 jobs, compared with the 253,000 economists expected.
Economic weakness can lead to lower interest rates, reducing
the dollar's appeal compared with other currencies.
   Friday's data sparked only a short-lived setback for the
dollar, however.
   Shortly after the report was announced, the dollar sank to
intraday lows of 1.6815 marks and 150.80 yen. But then the
currency strengthened.
   In late dealings here, the dollar changed hands at 1.6980
marks and 151.85 yen, compared with 1.6965 marks and 152.10
yen at Thursday's close.
   In Tokyo Monday, the dollar was trading soon after the
opening at 152.50 yen, up a bit from Friday's Tokyo close of
152.17 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about
1.7010 marks.
   Although economists warn against reading too much into any
single report, the financial markets often move sharply on
the jobs figures. That's because they give hints about the
health of a number of sectors and sometimes encourage
adjustments in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy.
   And even though the economy is still giving warning
signals of weak growth and there is persistent speculation
that Fed easing may be down the road, many traders believe
there will be continued demand for the dollar in the near
term.
   "They're still looking to buy. People are skeptically
playing long dollar positions," says David Lapin, national
foreign exchange sales manager at Bank of America, Los
Angeles.
   The dollar stumbled against a number of foreign currencies
recently, but the declines didn't last.
   In dollar-yen dealings, buyers have been backing the
dollar even though sales by Japanese institutional investors
pounded it recently.
   And in dollar-Swiss franc trading, the dollar has
weathered the selling that occurred because of the market's
enthusiasm about Switzerland's higher interest rates. High
rates generally boost a currency because they draw buyers to
investments denominated in the unit.
   Despite the softness in the U.S. economy, investors still
have confidence in the dollar at a time when uncertainty
surrounds international politics and economics, currency
specialists say.
   "What other currency are investors going to buy?" asks
Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics
Ltd., an international consulting company in New York.
   Mr. Weinberg rattled off a number of reasons dollar buying
is likely to continue: The mark is being held back by
concerns about German monetary union. The yen isn't seen as a
safe bet because the condition of Japan's economy and
financial markets is unclear. Canadian dollars are being
shunned because of Canada's constitutional impasse. Pound
buying is on hold because of uncertainties about the course
of British interest rates.
   The dollar is "the first choice," he says, adding that it
is "pretty comfortable" in long-range trading bands of 1.65
to 1.75 marks and 150 to 160 yen.
   Mr. Polce of Bank Algemene Nederland says the dollar has
the potential to hit 1.72 marks and 153.50 yen pretty soon.
   Traders say the dollar probably won't have much trouble
building momentum against the mark because of the rocky road
to the monetary linkup between East Germany and West Germany,
which is scheduled to go into effect July 1.
   Still unknown is how West Germany's powerful economy will
fare after its mark becomes the official currency of East
Germany. Furthermore, the military allegiances involved in
German reunification have yet to be sorted out.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery dropped $5.10 to $359.20 an ounce. The close
was the lowest since Sept. 9. Estimated volume was a moderate
3.8 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at $359.35 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Where We'll Be
   ----
   By Cynthia Crossen
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R6
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   IMAGINE THE WORKPLACE of the future. Imagine an office
that's easy to reach, and not on the far side of a commute
that leaves your mind numb, your body shaken. Imagine an
office in which you feel totally at ease -- a place tailored
to your individual needs and tastes. Imagine an environment
where you feel free, and not like a prisoner enslaved by a
rigid schedule.
   Imagine your own home.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   More than nine million Americans already have a taste of
this workplace of the future, working at least part of the
week at home. But this number is likely to grow steadily in
the coming decade. And while few experts predict the demise
of the traditional office, most agree that in the future,
people's homes will play a larger role in the transaction of
America's business.
   The implications of such a shift are profound,
dramatically affecting the way people work -- and live. Some
of the changes are obvious: the absence of commuting hassles,
for instance, or the added time available for families. But
in many ways, the more significant changes are the subtle
ones, the little things that make up the stuff of daily life.
What happens to office gossip or office politics? Where will
people assess Kim Basinger's Oscar couture and Donald Trump's
nuptials? How will managers take their employees' measure?
Where will people make friends? What about chance encounters
at the coffee cart that inspire big ideas?
   None of this will disappear completely because most people
will go to an office periodically. But much will change. More
gossip and friendships will be conducted electronically. Work
hours will become more fluid, and managers will have to
rethink the traditional "eyeball" style of management. Chance
encounters will become more calculated. The refrigerator will
replace the cafeteria; living rooms will become lobbies. To
work at home, say those who do it, people are going to have
to retool their attitudes about status, privacy, trust and
the traditionally distinct border between home and office.
   People who work at home successfully -- either as
telecommuters, independent contractors or entrepreneurs --
describe themselves as a self-disciplined breed who genuinely
enjoy work. "It's a myth that the best telecommuters are
anti-social hermits," says Gil Gordon, a consultant on
telecommuters, the name given to salaried employees who work
at home. "It's people who have social contact with friends
and neighbors, who have the self-discipline to stay away from
the refrigerator and who can negotiate some new rules with
the rest of the family."
   For people like this, the motivating structure of an
office is not only irrelevant but also counterproductive. "I
don't like the petty politics of the office -- if I can avoid
it, I will," says Mark Brownstein, the Los Angeles bureau
chief of InfoWorld magazine, who works from home. "I'm a
little bit of a loner. I like what I'm doing so I can get out
of bed in the morning, grab a Diet Coke and go right into the
office. The only thing that distracts me from work is other
work."
   Many people who work at home do so because of special
circumstances that might otherwise force them to quit their
jobs, especially a long commute. "The traffic problems we
used to think were only in L.A. and New York are virtually
everywhere," says Mr. Gordon. "It's becoming clear that we
can no longer move everyone to work without paving over the
whole country."
   Many telecommuting arrangements are informal and
unofficial, a handshake between worker and supervisor. But a
growing number of companies and local governments are
beginning to experiment with telecommuting on a larger scale,
viewing it as an inexpensive way to recruit and retain valued
workers.
   Many managers have to be convinced that allowing workers
to stay home isn't giving them permission to loll around in
their bathrobes watching "People's Court." Most managers say
the reverse is true: Home workers are more likely to show
compulsive tendencies than slothful ones. "Work bleeds into
suppertime," says Thomas E. Miller, a telecommuter and vice
president of Link Resources, which studies the
communications-technology market. "My kids begged me to
change jobs so they could see more of me."
   Mr. Gordon says he knew of one worker who became so
engrossed doing computer programming at home that he would
work three, four, even five hours without interruption,
resulting in splitting headaches. The problem was solved with
a $19 clock radio set to go off every two hours, a signal for
him to take a break.
   Even managers who approach the arrangement with enthusiasm
concede that it changes things. Claudia Cohl, editor in chief
of Home Office Computing magazine, manages several
telecommuters, including one who lives 400 miles from the
magazine's New York offices. "I see him less, but he's the
most productive person working for me," says Ms. Cohl.
"Projects that need concentrated effort I can give to him,
and they'll be great." Another plus: "He's not in my hair,
not appearing at my door every 10 minutes asking if he should
blow his nose. If he's having a neurotic fit, I don't have to
deal with it."
   Crucial to a happy home worker is that the arrangement be
voluntary rather than forced. In fact, that's the norm now.
"There seems to be some Machiavellian notion that companies
are going to force people to work at home," says Kathleen
Christensen, director of the National Project on Home-Based
Work and an associate professor at City University of New
York. "In fact, companies are the major resisters of this.
American business figures if it ain't broke, don't fix it.
But if it's broke -- a valued employee needs flexibility -- a
manager may give it a try."
   Experts in telecommuting say workers and managers need
special training in handling the new relationship. "We tell
the managers they have to change from being administrators to
being leaders," says Jack Nilles, a consultant on
telecommuting. "We tell them your job isn't to act as a cop
but as a goal setter and motivator. We force the manager and
the telecommuter to figure out what each expects of the
other. We get them to agree on goals and set a detailed
schedule." Mr. Nilles concedes that managers of telecommuters
feel "a slight increase" in their workload, but he says these
managers also report feeling that their own performance has
risen.
   Managers agree that some jobs are more conducive to
telecommuting than others. "The suitable ones have clearly
defined tasks," says Steve Coulter, an area vice president
for Pacific Bell, who telecommutes and also manages other
telecommuters. Furthermore, Mr. Coulter and other managers
say such arrangements should only be offered to proven
performers who communicate well with their colleagues.
   Echoing other managers, Mr. Coulter says it's crucial for
telecommuters to spend some time each week in the office.
"It's difficult to build a relationship, a sense of identity
and camaraderie on-line," he says, "and people don't want to
be forgotten at promotion time. Once people have an identity
as a work group, I don't think it makes any difference where
they work. But they have to come together sometimes."
   Home workers, their managers and consultants say it's yet
not clear whether raises and promotions will be handed out as
freely to invisible workers as they are to the visible ones.
"If upward mobility is their No. 1 priority in life, I can't
guarantee that telecommuting won't affect that," says Mr.
Gordon.
   Ms. Cohl says she suspects that even for the most
enlightened managers, telecommuting will affect employees'
chances for advancement. "I can't put someone who works at
home in a management job," she says. "But you make a decision
that's how you want to live. The manager has to keep in mind
what the employee is doing and is it exceptional. The
relationship is much more task-oriented."
   Telecommuters know they have to beware of falling off the
radar screen. Some managers say that to compensate for their
absence, telecommuters are more aggressive about keeping in
touch with office politics than other employees. "You have to
remind people of what you want to do," says Nick Sullivan,
who telecommutes to Home Office Computing magazine. "You
can't expect the bosses to sit there with some opportunity
and think, oh yeah, how about that guy sitting up in the
woods. I try to keep my foot in the door and my two cents
floating around."
   One of the hardest adjustments for many home workers is
the absence of a clear boundary between work and home, a
function traditionally served by catching a train or hitting
the freeway. In extreme cases, home workers get in their
cars, drive around the block and enter their homes through a
different door to convince themselves that now they're at
work. Mr. Miller says he occasionally drives to a diner, eats
breakfast, reads the newspaper and drives home. Mr. Miller
doesn't dress up for work, but, like most other home workers,
he can't take himself seriously in pajamas.
   Once in the home office, the salutations and small talk
traditionally exchanged over partitions now flash across
computer screens or telephone lines. Many home workers begin
their days by checking their electronic mail, or e-mail, and
voice mail. Some of it involves business, but much of it is
social chatter. "I talk sports on voice mail," says Mr.
Miller. "There's an office betting pool on football on voice
mail. And every Monday morning, I call a friend on voice mail
and talk about some of the games."
   Mr. Sullivan says his water cooler is the nationwide
personal-computer network called CompuServe. "I sign on to
CompuServe, the working-from-home forum, which is like
listening to talk radio while commuting to work," says Mr.
Sullivan. "It's like seeing people I know even though I've
never met them. I do it every day, it serves as a way of
getting me into the workday. It's the break between breakfast
and real work."
   All day long, home workers communicate with friends and
colleagues by writing or reading something on a computer
screen. Without the visual and tactile cues of a raised
eyebrow or a forgiving pat on the shoulder, words on the
computer screen become more intense, more susceptible to
misinterpretation. So some visual signals have been assigned
symbols. For example, ;-) means a wink, and :-) means a grin.
The use of capital letters is discouraged: IT LOOKS AS THOUGH
SOMEONE'S SHOUTING.
   "You use language differently," says Stephen Jenks, a
management consultant with the Portsmouth Consulting Group,
who works at home. "I tell everyone if you sense in the word
or tone that someone's angry, ask. They'll probably say I'm
not angry, I'm just excited. But it's not as easy to tell
when you can't look them in the eye."
   Mr. Jenks is intimately familiar with the art of computer
interaction. Nine years ago, when he decided to start his
consulting venture, Mr. Jenks chose 16 people to join him.
Unfortunately, his choices were scattered across the country,
and Mr. Jenks knew that few, if any, would be willing to
relocate. So he formed a company without a central office. He
and his colleagues, one of whom lives in a touring motor
home, physically gather only three times a year. The rest of
the time they communicate on a computer conferencing system.
   Like other home workers, Mr. Jenks initially grappled with
the problem of having a secretary work in his home with him.
"I hated it," Mr. Jenks says. "I said, `I can't stand having
you underfoot.' And she felt she was invading my house." So
Mr. Jenks found two other people who needed similar
secretarial services, and the woman set herself up in her own
home as a telecommuting secretary.
   Ken Greenberg, now a senior account manager for Bohle Co.
in Los Angeles and formerly a telecommuter, says he found it
unsettling to have people with whom he was doing business
come to his home. "It was extremely awkward," he says. "I had
senior executives walking around my living room, and I would
be dressed schlumpily."
   In general, Mr. Greenberg found the whole experience of
telecommuting disagreeable. "You want to keep the same pace,
the same relationships with your colleagues and bosses, but
you can't do it," says Mr. Greenberg. "Many motivated people
would tend to overcompensate by taking the 8 p.m. phone
call."
   Indeed, the timing of phone calls is a thorny issue,
reflecting the ingrained doubt and guilt of each party. "One
of the first barriers I had to get over was, Could I bother
him at home?" says Ms. Cohl about Mr. Sullivan. "If I called
him at night, I thought it was terrible. And what if I called
him during the day and he wasn't there?"
   Mr. Sullivan felt a similar anxiety. "If I had to go out
to do errands, I would feel I had to leave an excuse on the
answering machine, accounting for my time," he says. "Then
you go to the office, and people are off getting their hair
done."
   People who mingle home and work under one roof say it can
become almost impossible to keep them apart. "There's that
sense that it's always here," says Peggy Hatch, who, with her
husband, runs a small business from their Stamford, Conn.,
home. "To not feel guilty is hard. It's hard to relax. For us
to relax, we have to leave the house." One weekend the
Hatches, determined to do other things, declared their
basement office off-limits and managed to stay out of it. "We
were only able to exercise that self-restraint once," Ms.
Hatch says.
   Many home workers say they have invented elaborate rules
and methods for keeping home and work apart. "I don't make a
few phone calls and then put a load of laundry in," says
Linda Ragle, a regional sales manager who telecommutes for
Oriflame International, a skin-care company. "I keep regular
hours, and I'm either home with my family or I'm in
business."
   Ms. Ragle, who couldn't think of a single nice thing to
say about working in an office, says an additional benefit of
working at home is that her children learned to value and
respect Mom's work. But first, Ms. Ragle, like other home
workers, had to tame her family's impulse to think they could
barge into her office at will. "We had a joke that they could
only interrupt me in case of an emergency," Ms. Ragle says.
"That was defined as something involving blood or smoke --
and a lot of it."
   ---
   Ms. Crossen is a deputy news editor in The Wall Street
Journal's New York bureau.
   ---
                     Who Works at Home?
                                                                                                       

   There are roughly 9.2 million workers -- company
employees, self-employed workers, free-lancers and contract
workers -- who work at least part of the week at home. Here's
a profile, based on a recent survey by Link Resources.
                                                                                                       

                        What They Do
                                                                                                       

   Of the total home workers, a breakdown by occupation:
                                                                                                       

   Construction trades .............................. 15.7%
   Executive, manager ...............................  9.2
   Sales ............................................  8.7
   Engineer, scientist ..............................  8.0
   Business consultant ..............................  6.4
   Technician, computer programmer ..................  6.0
   Government, public sector ........................  5.0
   Arts, music ......................................  5.0
   Health-care professional .........................  4.0
   Precision production .............................  3.0
   Lawyer, accountant ...............................  2.9
   Clerical .........................................  2.7
   Teacher ..........................................  2.0
   Other manual and skilled occupations ............. 21.4
                                                                                                       

                         Time Spent
                                                                                                       

   Hours per week working at home, Monday through Friday
                                                                                                       

   Eight hours or more .............................. 73%
   35 hours or more ................................. 13
   Other (time varies or no response) ............... 14
                                                                                                       

                        Company Size
                                                                                                       

   Home workers, broken down by size of company
                                                                                                       

   Fewer than five employees ........................ 47
   5 to 19 .......................................... 20
   20-99 ............................................ 15
   100-999 .......................................... 12
   1,000 or more ....................................  7
                                                                                                       

                         Why Do It?
                                                                                                       

   Reasons corporate employees give for working at home
during the day
                                                                                                       

   Do extra work, catch up .......................... 26%
   Necessary for job ................................ 21
   Convenience ...................................... 15
   Earn more money .................................. 12
   More time for family .............................  8
   Other ............................................ 18
                                                                                                       

                       Better Workers
                                                                                                       

   Corporate employees, when asked how working at home
affects productivity, said:
                                                                                                       


   About the same or varies ......................... 27
   Less done at home ................................ 21
                                                                                                       

                         Complaints
                                                                                                       

   Corporate employees, when asked how working at home
affects productivity, said:
                                                                                                       

   Hard to separate personal and work life .......... 27%
   Less time for yourself ........................... 26
   Work too much .................................... 24
   Lack interaction with co-workers ................. 24
   Lack work equipment .............................. 12
   Lack clerical support ............................ 10
   Less sense of belonging to company ...............  7
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Jobless Rate Fell
   To 5.3% in May
   Due to Census
   ---
   But Private Sector Hiring
   Is Stagnant, Data Show,
   As Economy Stays Weak
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Growth in private employment has nearly come
to a halt in the past three months, suggesting widespread
stagnation in the U.S. economy.
   The Labor Department's latest job statistics paint
virtually the weakest private employment picture since the
economy began expanding in December 1982.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Payrolls in private industry barely grew in May, after
shrinking by 125,000 workers in April and staying essentially
flat in March, the department said. But because the
government hired 145,000 temporary census workers in May, the
nation's civilian unemployment rate declined a notch, to 5.3%
of the work force from 5.4% in April. Including the military,
the unemployment rate held steady at 5.3% last month.
   "I believe that labor market developments over recent
months are now fairly clear," the commissioner of labor
statistics, Janet Norwood, told Congress after the report's
release. "Employment growth has been very slow, and what
growth there has been was concentrated in a very few
industries. The job market has been bolstered only by census
hiring."
   The job figures, which provided the government's first
reading of the country's economic strength in May, signaled
continued frailty in the U.S. economy, economists said. But
whether the stagnation in private employment will persist
remains in question, and few economists yet believe the
country is on the verge of a recession.
   "The economy, though not in danger of a recession, is very
flat," said Lynn Reaser, senior economist at First Interstate
Bancorp in Los Angeles.
   Most economists view employment as a lagging indicator of
economic strength because many companies are loath to trim
their work forces until they are certain that conditions
require it.
   An index compiled by a private group, the National
Association of Purchasing Managers, suggested that
manufacturing, the weakest spot in the U.S. economy for some
time, could be headed up.
   While the purchasing managers, like the government,
reported that manufacturing employment declined in May, the
group's index of overall manufacturing health rose to 50.7%
during the month, the highest reading since April 1989.
   The association says a reading above 50% signals the
manufacturing economy is generally growing. In April the
index increased to 50.2%, the first time it had crossed the
50% threshold since May 1989.
   Despite the further improvement last month, Robert J.
Bretz of Pitney Bowes Inc., the association's chairman, said
the reading "does not necessarily say we're going to race off
into another overheated economy." He concluded, "It's still
very modest growth."
   Though the purchasing managers' index is merely based on
survey responses from purchasing executives in about 300
companies, the financial markets watch it closely because it
is one of the first measures of economic activity for any
month.
   The new employment report also contained a few hints of
vim in manufacturing. The average factory employee worked 0.4
hour a week longer than in the month before. "It's surprising
to see that big of an increase," said Alan Levenson, director
of financial services at the WEFA Group, an economic
forecasting firm in Bala Cynwyd, Pa. "To me it's a signal
that we've still got some reasonable order backlogs, so we're
still going to get some decent output growth in current
quarter."
   On the other hand the employment statistics indicated that
softness is seeping into many areas of the economy, after
being concentrated in heavy manufacturing for much of last
year.
   In manufacturing, the textile, apparel and food-processing
industries all saw job losses in May, Mrs. Norwood told
Congress. The auto industry, which has been one of the
country's weakest in the past year, saw payrolls dwindle
further, though the loss was slimmer than the previous month.
   Construction employment failed to meet seasonal
expectations. In the service sector, job levels were
virtually flat in transportation, finance and insurance.
Retail trade employment shrank.
   "In the service-producing sector, only health services has
had steady and strong growth so far this year," Mrs. Norwood
said. "In contrast, retail trade has been experiencing by far
its most sluggish employment period of this long economic
expansion, with no net job gains since January."
   After slowing sharply last year, the economy appeared to
pick up a bit at the start of this year, aided partly by
unseasonably warm weather. But the government reported
declines in industrial production, factory orders, and
housing construction and sales in April. With the May
employment report, Stephen Morrell, chief economist at
Southeast Bank in Miami, said, "It's clear now that some of
the increases we had {at the beginning of the year} were just
temporary, due to seasonal factors and warm weather, but not
sustainable."
   As further evidence of economic softness, the Commerce
Department also reported that spending on construction
projects declined 0.7% in April, to $432.4 billion, after
falling 0.7% in March as well. Spending on residential
building dipped 0.3%, while spending on office, industrial
and other types of non-residential construction grew 0.6%.
   The numbers in all the reports were adjusted for normal
seasonal fluctuations.
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Commerce Department's figures for
construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally
adjusted annual rates.
                                                                                                       

                               April      March     April
                                1990       1990      1989
                                                                                                       

 Total new construction .....  432.4      435.6     411.9
   Residential ..............  202.7      203.3     200.7
   Nonresidential ...........  104.2      103.6      96.0
   Public ...................   87.6       90.8      79.4
                                                                                                       

   Here are excerpts from the Labor Department's employment
report. The figures are seasonally adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                                        May        April
                                       1990         1990
                                     (millions of persons)
                                                                                                       

   Total labor force ...............   126.6       126.5
     Total employment ..............   120.0       119.8
   Civilian labor force ............   125.0       124.9
     Civilian employment ...........   118.4       118.1
     Unemployment ..................     6.7         6.7
   Payroll employment ..............   110.6       110.4
                                                                                                       

   Unemployment: (percent of labor force)
                                                                                                       

   All workers .....................     5.3         5.3
   All civilian workers ............     5.3         5.4
     Adult men .....................     4.7         4.8
     Adult women ...................     4.6         4.8
     Teen-agers ....................    15.5        14.7
     White .........................     4.6         4.8
     Black .........................    10.4        10.4
     Black teen-agers ..............    33.3        23.3
     Hispanic ......................     7.7         8.0
                                                                                                       

  Average weekly hours: (hours of work)
                                                                                                       

   Total private nonfarm ...........    34.6        34.6
     Manufacturing .................    41.4        40.7

</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Puerto Rico Banks
   Get Merger Approval
   But With Conditions
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   BDEP BPOP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -- Banco Popular de Puerto Rico and
BanPonce Corp. said the commissioner of financial
institutions of Puerto Rico issued conditional approval of
the two institutions' proposed merger.
   The banks -- Puerto Rico's two largest -- said they filed
a motion for reconsideration with the commissioner, because
the approval contains restrictions they consider "highly
burdensome."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Banco Popular spokesman said the major conditions
imposed on the merger include an 18-month period of oversight
by the commissioner's office; no charges for transactions at
automatic teller machines; no increases in interest rates and
finance charges on loans to small companies with $500,000 or
less in debt; and a requirement that two-thirds of local
deposits be used to finance local loans.
   Banco Popular and BanPonce have agreed to the merger in a
transaction valued at $324 million. Under their agreement,
which has been approved by stockholders of both companies,
BanPonce holders will be able to exchange each of their
shares either for shares in the new entity or for cash. In
each case, the exchange is valued at $56.25 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SIS Corp. Withdraws
   Reorganization Plan
   Over Lack of Financing
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   SISBQ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCKY RIVER, Ohio -- SIS Corp. said it withdrew its plan
of reorganization from U.S. bankruptcy court because the
financing needed to fund the plan couldn't be obtained.
   SIS said its next plan will propose the sale of the
company's assets and won't provide any payments to company
shareholders. The court has instructed the company to file a
new plan within 45 days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until the sale of assets occurs, the company said it will
continue to operate its chain of Sisters Chicken &amp; Biscuits
restaurants.
   The company has been under bankruptcy-law protection since
February 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baton Broadcasting
   Expects Fiscal '90 Net
   To Decrease Sharply
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   T.BNB
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Canada's largest publicly traded television
broadcasting company, Baton Broadcasting Inc., said it
expects earnings to drop more than two-thirds from last year
as a result of higher production costs and
lower-than-expected gains in advertising revenue.
   Douglas Bassett, president and chief executive of Baton,
said he expects the company to report net income of between
20 Canadian cents and 25 Canadian cents (17 and 21.3 U.S.
cents) in the fiscal year ending Aug. 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A year earlier, net was 20.4 million Canadian dollars
($17.3 million), or 74 cents a share.
   "This has been an absolutely lousy year, financially," Mr.
Bassett said.
   He said "significant" increases in programming costs
helped push the company's net down to C$4.2 million, or 15
cents a share, for the first six months, compared to C$14.3
million, or 52 cents, in the previous year's first half.
   In the first eight months of the company's fiscal year, he
said Baton's flagship Toronto television station increased
spending on new programming by about 79.2% over the previous
year.
   He said a 1.6% increase in advertising revenue in the same
period is less than expected, and won't be sufficient to
cover heavy spending on programming. Nor will programming
expenses be cut, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aerovox Inc. Stake
   Of 6.7% Is Acquired
   By Texas Art Group
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7F
</SO>
<CO>
   ARVX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A group including Houston-based Texas Art
Supply Co. said it acquired a 6.7% stake in Aerovox Inc., New
Bedford, Mass., for investment purposes.
   The group, in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing,
said it holds a total of 340,234 Aerovox common shares, all
but 134 shares of which were bought in the open market
between April 12 and June 1 at $3.50 to $4.50 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group also includes members of the Adler family and
the Adler Foundation of Houston. Louis K. Adler is president
of Texas Art Supply.
   The group said it acquired its Aerovox stock as an
investment and doesn't currently plan to seek control of the
company or to acquire a substantial amount of shares. Mr.
Adler, however, may seek board representation, the filing
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Higher Tech
   ---
   Putting It All Together:
   Computer-Integrated Factories Are Said to Be the
   Savior of Industry; But Can Anyone Make the System Work?
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R24
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   THE ROBOT'S GLORY days are over.
   Forget that old vision of the factory of the future with
automatons humming away in eerie, unmanned buildings while
they churn out world-beating widgets. U.S. companies have a
new script for the future factory, and robots, while still
having a supporting part in the drama, have lost the lead
role.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The secret to competitive manufacturing, the new scenario
goes, lies less in heavy automation and more in using
computers to gather information from the factory floor and
swap it with information from every other aspect of a
business -- from the sales department to product engineering
to the shipping docks.
   Consider how Motorola Inc. makes and sells its Bravo
pocket pagers. On May 5, a salesman in Foster City, Calif.,
types an order into his Macintosh computer for 150 black
Bravo pagers, specifies the unique code that will cause each
pager to beep and asks for delivery in two weeks. The order
zips over phone lines to a mainframe computer in a new
factory in Boynton Beach, Fla. The computer automatically
schedules the 150 pagers for production May 15, orders the
proper components, and, on the day after assembly, informs
the shipping docks to express-mail them to Pacific Telesis
Group in California.
   Motorola's two-year-old operation is, in manufacturing
parlance, "computer integrated." Simply put, the factory's
machines and computers speak the same language as the
computers in sales and shipping. The payback: Using mostly
the same type of machines that populate the company's older
factory floors, the Florida facility makes pagers at the same
cost as does Motorola's Singapore plant, which has cheaper
labor but isn't computer integrated. And the domestic plant
can deliver, overnight, custom-built pagers that used to take
nearly six weeks to supply.
   Computer-integrated manufacturing, or CIM, is increasingly
the U.S. manufacturer's mantra. Most manufacturers have
appointed CIM managers. A $35 billion-a-year industry has
sprung up to supply CIM equipment and software, according to
Advanced Manufacturing Research, a Cambridge, Mass., research
firm.
   No wonder. CIM dangles the promise of a comeback for
American manufacturers, who for a decade have been criticized
as being inept. And it does so at a relatively small cost.
CIM demands innovations that are heavy on software and
networking technology, where the U.S. is strong, and light on
robots and machines, where Japan is stronger. "If we get our
act together," says Jerry McCracken, manager of industrial
programs at San Francisco's Bechtel Group Inc., "this is one
of the few areas left where we can get our competitive
advantage."
   But getting it together may be a tall order. More a
philosophy than a technology, CIM (pronounced sim) requires a
company to break down barriers between departments, to
streamline with quality control and just-in-time
manufacturing, and to give every machine and employee the
ability to talk with each other and "watch" a product as it
moves through the entire corporate pipeline. "CIM is a
cultural change: People that over the years have learned to
work separately need to find ways to work together again,"
says Rody Salas, senior vice president of Allen-Bradley Co.
"The computer is being used as a tool that allows you to
integrate these functions that have been separated over the
years."
   The academics, manufacturing executives, vendors and
consultants who support CIM dissociate themselves from
America's automation fetish in the 1970s and 1980s, when
doomsayers warned of a robot gap with Japan and companies
spent billions of dollars to replace humans with machines.
Those robots were meant to cut labor costs; CIM's main goal
is to improve competitiveness by cutting the time it takes to
turn ideas into products and to get existing products to
market. "The idea is to cut cycle time so you can catch the
crest of the wave" of demand, says CIM-systems manager Keith
Turner of Levi Strauss &amp; Co., "rather than following behind
and picking up the pieces."
   One trouble with robots is that although they are great in
factories that churn out masses of a single product, they are
of less use in today's "flexible manufacturing" facilities.
Such a flexible factory is Apple Computer Inc.'s new
Macintosh plant in Fremont, Calif., which uses little
automation equipment but can assemble four different Mac
models at one time. By using CIM to tie the factory's
computers into sales and delivery systems, Apple plans to
switch to what it calls "build to order," which allows the
company to make only what customers have requested and
eliminate the need for large inventories.
   Another problem with robots was that they often merely
took over the same inefficient tasks that humans had
previously performed on poorly run assembly lines. What's
more, companies tended to create "islands of automation" that
affected only specific tasks. That meant a design computer
here, an assembly robot or testing machine there, maybe a
bar-code reader at the shipping bay. But these "islands"
didn't share information about where a product was in the
pipeline.
   That's what Federal-Mogul Corp. found last year when it
took a hard look at its oilseal factories. The Southfield,
Mich., autoparts company was getting battered by U.S. and
foreign rivals that could develop new seals in under 10
weeks; it took Federal nearly 18. In April 1989, Federal
hired Ernst &amp; Young, the consulting firm, to find out why.
   The firm found chaos under a veneer of automation. Federal
had invested heavily in automation, but departments were run
as fiefdoms whose employees barely communicated and whose
machines didn't understand each other's data. After a
salesman sent in an order for a new seal, the paper work
typically spent weeks unnoticed on an engineer's desk.
Blueprints sat for weeks more in manufacturing. And salesmen,
ill informed of the factories' capabilities, often would
agree to sell a part that was impossible to make, causing
costly delays. Federal "was a traditional hierarchical
manufacturing organization," says Lawrence Smith, Federal's
manager for technical services. "We saw that if it continued,
the seal group would be out of business."
   Ernst &amp; Young prescribed a heavy dose of CIM that stripped
divisions of their autonomy and reorganized them into
"business-unit teams." The teams -- comprising salesmen,
distribution experts, and engineers from manufacturing,
testing and product design -- had to see a product through
from order to delivery. Federal bought software to connect
its islands of automation, tying together its work stations,
personal computers and milling machines.
   Now a salesman taps into a computer that will quickly tell
him whether the part can be built and how much a new seal
will cost. The system schedules the part for manufacture or
sends new-part dimensions to a design computer, which
generates electronic blueprints that flow directly into
factory machines. Without introducing a single new robot,
Federal trimmed to 20 days the average time it takes to turn
around a new product; in urgent cases it can do it in three
days. And the cost was only "several million dollars,"
Federal says, because relatively little capital investment
was involved.
   Military spending cuts and fierce competition for fewer
defense contracts were what spurred McDonnell Douglas Corp.
to spend $10 million to begin introducing CIM to a Florida
missile factory in 1989. Tomahawk missiles once traveled
through the plant accompanied by a two-inch-thick manual. The
company installed computer systems that automatically
schedule manufacturing tasks, keep track of labor, and send
instructions to computer screens at work stations along the
assembly line, thus doing away with paper. Workers have time
to do 30% more work now that they don't shuffle paper, says
Walter Kurgas, deputy director of the Tomahawk operation.
   Results like these are spurring a broad range of
industries to consider CIM. Bechtel, for instance, has helped
introduce CIM in a British potato-chip company, in Egypt's
state petroleum works and in a California jail, where
automated carts deliver food and laundry. Early CIM converts
-- McDonnell Douglas, Hewlett-Packard Co., Digital Equipment
Corp. and Allen-Bradley, to name a few -- are doing a brisk
business selling the know-how they've acquired to CIM
neophytes.
   Still, CIM is tall on talk but short on reality. On close
inspection, most companies are implementing only pieces of
CIM. Motorola's pager plant, for example, hasn't yet tied
information from the factory into an accounting system. Only
11% of the manufacturers in a recent Ernst &amp; Young survey
rated themselves as "high-level users" of CIM.
   And technological roadblocks sometimes remain. Levi's,
which wants to integrate most aspects of its business by
1992, has found gaps that defy integration by computers.
Fashion designers can use computers to create new fashions,
but pattern makers must still take those concepts and
manually cut patterns that are then converted to computer
code and sent to cutting machines on the factory floor.
   Technology, however, isn't the real problem. In a survey
of Fortune 500 manufacturers by Advanced Manufacturing
Research, 70% of the respondents said that people were the
main stumbling block to integrating manufacturing; only 9%
cited technological snafus.
   At McDonnell's missile plant, for instance, the accounting
department has been reluctant to accept computer-generated
accounts of how much labor was spent making a missile, says
Mr. Kurgas. Under the current system, a worker fills out a
time card by hand and mails it to labor accounting, where
someone checks it for errors and then punches the data into
that department's computer. Under the proposed system, a
computer would read a code on a worker's employee badge,
record the worker's time and send it directly to the
labor-accounting computer. Accounting-department employees
"are reluctant to change what they currently have until you
systematically prove to them it does at least as well," Mr.
Kurgas says. "There develops a consistent and considerable
roadblock until you prove what you set out to do."
   Another people problem for CIM companies: Suppliers must
be let into the integration game so they can automatically
keep tabs on what parts the manufacturer needs when. Although
fraternal ties with vendors have been common for decades in
Japan, U.S. companies "tend to regard the supplier as their
enemy," says Terry Ozan, national director of manufacturing
services at Ernst &amp; Young.
   Changing that view is tough, as DEC found last year when
it began a program of sharing its CIM expertise with its
suppliers. Its aim was to help them refine quality and create
more reliable delivery schedules to match DEC's demand for
just-in-time deliveries at its disk-drive plan. For decades,
executives have been told to keep suppliers at arm's length,
the better to squeeze them for lower prices and to keep them
from leaking secrets. But, says Walter Bonin, a DEC planning
manager, suddenly the company is supposed to do a turnabout
and condone sharing of production information and technology
with suppliers. "Flags have been raised in the legal
department" and in the purchasing department, he says.
   For defense contractors, the Pentagon is a party to be
reckoned with. It is pressing McDonnell and other contractors
to develop CIM systems that allow the Defense Department to
"watch" a missile go through the entire manufacturing process
to ensure that contractual requirements are being met. The
department "also wants to look through us to our major
contractors with same visibility," says Mr. Kurgas.
   Making these and other changes is wrenching for many
companies, and CIM believers concede that theirs is a
yearslong pilgrimage. Their ultimate goal is an elusive
nirvana called computer-integrated enterprise, or CIE. That
means that a company must reach beyond manufacturing to hook
together sales, factories, shipping, procurement, accounting
and even outside suppliers into one gregarious computerized
family. "We talk about the CIM journey," says Keith Glick,
manager of engineering at DEC's disk-drive factory in
Colorado Springs, Colo. "It's the journey to enterprise
integration."
   Can most companies successfully reach that destination?
Mr. Turner, Levi's CIM manager, acknowledges that problems
lie ahead. "The biggest drawback to CIM," he says, "is that
you're searching for the Holy Grail. You may never find it."
   ---
   Mr. Yoder is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's
San Francisco bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Circus Circus Reports
   1st-Quarter Profit Rose
   1.1% to $19.2 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   CIR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAS VEGAS, Nev. -- Circus Circus Enterprises Inc., a
hotel-casino company, reported net income for its first
quarter ended April 30 rose 1.1% to $19.2 million, or 70
cents a share, from $19 million, or 64 cents a share, a year
earlier.
   Average shares outstanding in the latest quarter declined
to 27.5 million from 29.9 million a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue climbed 4.6% to $133.3 million from $127.5
million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Circus Circus shares fell $1.625, to close at $61.125.
   The company said operating results at its Circus
Circus-Reno location in Nevada "rose markedly" from the
year-earlier period, when performance was soft because of bad
weather. The company's two properties in Laughlin, Nev., also
posted increases in operating results.
   But the company's three Las Vegas properties had
"moderately lower" results in the quarter, reflecting a drop
of "several percentage points" in casino revenue, the company
said. Walk-in traffic at Circus Circus-Las Vegas was hurt by
competition from Golden Nugget Inc.'s new Mirage resort on
the Las Vegas Strip, Circus Circus said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Soviets Deposit Gold in Western Banks
   As Collateral for Easing Cash Squeeze
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The Soviet Union, caught in a cash squeeze and
hounded by trade creditors around the world who are owed
hundreds of millions of dollars, is depositing large amounts
of gold with Western banks as collateral for loans, London
and Swiss bullion dealers say.
   Delays in payments to West German, Japanese, Scandinavian,
Australian, New Zealand and other suppliers have discouraged
foreign bankers from lending to the Soviet Union, bankers
say. So Moscow is raising dollars through a series of gold
swaps and commodity sales to repay its creditors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   State organizations will sell "goods out of our stocks" to
raise 1.5 billion rubles ($2.5 billion), said Viktor
Gerashchenko, chairman of Gosbank, the Soviet state bank,
according to a Reuters report from Moscow. He added that the
U.S.S.R. would continue to offer gold swaps to Western banks.
   "The Russians already have around 200 to 300 metric tons
of gold tied up in swap deals," says Edwin Arnold, metals
analyst at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. in London.
   The gold, which is from Moscow's monetary reserves,
bullion dealers say, is deposited in the lender's vaults in
return for a foreign-exchange credit. The transaction is
normally pegged at 25% below the market value of gold for
periods of six to 12 months. Meanwhile, the Soviet Union is
actively selling its current gold production, estimated at
250 to 300 tons a year, dealers say.
   There will be more swaps in coming months, bullion
analysts say, and the gold is likely to be supplied from the
Soviet Union's gold reserves, estimated at 2,000 metric tons.
   "Huge quantities of Soviet gold were shipped to Zurich and
London during the past few weeks," says Philip Klapwijk, an
analyst at Gold Fields Mineral Services Ltd., a London
consultant that specializes in gold. Included in these
shipments are deliveries of 100 to 150 metric tons of
"`substandard gold" to a British precious metals refinery,
Mr. Arnold says. This gold, which is being purified to
acceptable international market standards, was obviously
produced years ago, he says.
   Moscow's inability to pay in a timely fashion for such key
imports as steel pipe from Japanese foundries, wool from
Australia and New Zealand, and more than $1 billion of grain
from the U.S. and other nations, has focused bankers'
attention on the U.S.S.R.'s large net international debt of
$36.5 billion, analysts say. So it has little alternative but
to use its gold reserves to bolster its tarnished credit
rating, they say.
   Moscow's unpaid trade bills began piling up after Soviet
authorities allowed individual companies and other state
entities to import directly from abroad without having to go
through the official importing organizations. Many of the
enterprises apparently ordered more than they could pay for
in hard cash, and Moscow has refused to guarantee payment as
it did in the past. Soviet officials said last month that
they were setting up an internal collection agency and had
begun drawing on Moscow's hard currency reserves to help
cover overdue bills abroad, as the slowdown in payments was
affecting the country's credit rating.
   Most of the Soviet gold swaps already in place were
negotiated in the first quarter, bullion dealers say, partly
because of a slump in the nation's oil production and
exports, a major source of Moscow's hard-currency earnings.
Problems at a major Siberian oil field and shortages of
equipment and pipelines contributed to a decline in Soviet
oil output to about 11.8 million barrels a day in the past
few months from about 12.4 million barrels in the first
quarter of last year, estimates Mari Buglass, an oil analyst
at Shearson Lehman Hutton Ltd. in London.
   Gold swaps normally don't have any impact on the price of
gold, dealers say. Yet some of the Soviet swaps were
negotiated at prices of more than $400 an ounce, according to
Mr. Arnold, the Merrill Lynch metals analyst. If the Soviets
can't raise funds to repay the loan, the gold collateral
might have to be sold on the open market, he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Independent Holdings,
   And Group Raise Stake
   In Landsing Pacific
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   LPF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A group that includes Independent Holdings
Inc. of San Francisco said it raised its stake in Landsing
Pacific Fund to 6.25% of the outstanding common stock.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the group said it bought 71,000 shares, from March 28 to May
29, for $7.75 to $8.06 each, raising its holdings to 380,700
shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In March, the group said it held a 5.1% stake in Landsing
Pacific as an investment. In the filing, the group said it
may seek to discuss the company's direction with management.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shearson Hopes Lehman Name
   Will Revive More Than Memories
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Lehman Brothers has been dead for six years,
its partners scattered throughout Wall Street. But the Lehman
mystique lives on.
   Now Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. plans to
resurrect the 140-year-old Lehman Brothers name, and hopes to
bring more life to Shearson in the process.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even to cynical Wall Streeters, the idea has some charm.
Many still talk about the House of Lehman and its famous
headquarters, once decorated with family portraits, at 1
William St. in lower Manhattan. The Lehman Brothers name
hasn't been used since Shearson bought the Lehman Brothers
Kuhn Loeb Inc. investment bank in 1984 and folded it into
what was then called Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.
   Shearson, a unit of marketing-minded American Express Co.,
is expected as early as this week to announce a
reorganization of its businesses that will combine Shearson's
investment banking and trading divisions under the Lehman
Brothers name. Shearson's stock-brokerage and
money-management businesses, meanwhile, would retain the
Shearson name.
   But will the move by the country's second-biggest
securities firm work? Some people on Wall Street have their
doubts.
   Says Lewis L. Glucksman, a Lehman partner for 25 years and
its last chairman: "Lehman stood for excellence, and we were
on the cutting edge of everything that was going on in
investment banking for 50 years." But Mr. Glucksman, now a
vice chairman of Primerica Corp.'s Smith Barney, Harris Upham
&amp; Co. unit, adds: "Shearson will have its work cut out to be
able to assume that mantle. And they're not there now."
   Lehman Brothers "was once a great name; to the people of
my generation it really stood for something," says Roy C.
Smith, a finance professor at New York University and limited
partner at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., an investment bank that was
closely aligned with Lehman in the early 1900s before a
bitter breakup. "But the people who made Lehman Brothers what
it was are no longer there," cautions Mr. Smith. "Therefore,
going back to the name is nothing more than a marketing
device, and the real success of the firm will depend on what
the firm does."
   The Lehman Brothers name symbolizes cockiness and success
at a time when Shearson investment bankers and traders are
smarting, several Shearson bankers say. They have weathered
months of management and financial problems that forced
American Express to pump more than $1 billion into Shearson
and pull it closer by buying back the Shearson common stock
it doesn't already own. Change is needed, even if it's
cosmetic to outsiders, say the bankers.
   Although Shearson has a whole family of old names it could
choose from -- remnants of the array of brokerage firms it
bought in the 1980s -- Lehman Brothers is the premier one,
with the most history.
   Founded by the Lehman brothers, immigrants from Bavaria,
in 1850, Lehman started as a Montgomery, Ala., commodities
house. To understand how long the Lehman Brothers name has
been around, the Lehman bank is on record as buying at least
one slave, a 14-year-old black woman named Martha, for $900
in 1854. About 30 years later, Lehman Brothers bought its
first New York Stock Exchange seat and became famous as one
of the Street's most aggressive investment banks.
   Early in this century, the alliance of Lehman Brothers and
Goldman Sachs dominated Wall Street's new-issue market. From
1906 to 1924, the two houses co-managed a then-astounding 114
securities issues, beginning with the first public stock
offering by Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.
   At the height of its influence after World War II, Lehman
was growing faster than any other investment bank. Lehman was
admired for its "integrity, philosophy, aggressiveness and,
above all, for its methods," wrote Joseph Wechsberg in his
book "The Merchant Bankers."
   In the early 1980s, a civil war between Lehman's
investment bankers and its traders led to the 1984 sale of
the firm to Shearson for about $360 million. In making the
name switch, Shearson is reversing Wall Street convention.
Usually, brokerage firms kill off old names as they merge and
break up over the years.
   But Shearson -- which retains about 1,000 Lehman veterans,
mostly brokers and administrative workers rather than former
Lehman partners -- thinks the Lehman name hasn't lost its
luster.
   About the only top Lehman manager still at Shearson is
Richard S. Fuld Jr., Shearson's head of capital markets. He
is expected to be named co-head of the reorganized Lehman
Brothers operation. (Commodities head Jack Lehman III, the
only person at the firm who's named Lehman, isn't a family
member.) However, there are perhaps three dozen mostly
lower-ranked Lehman veterans who now have top jobs at
Shearson, including co-head of investment banking J. Tomilson
Hill; the head of merchant banking, James Stern; and the
heads of mergers and acquisitions, risk arbitrage, global
finance, fixed income, new products and international
operations.
   Still, Samuel Hayes, a professor of investment banking at
Harvard Business School, says, "I think the reality is that
the Lehman Brothers investment bank that was such a
powerhouse in corporate finance has now been dispersed."
Fostering a separate identity for Shearson's investment
bankers "could be a morale-booster, but you don't have to
announce a reconstitution of Lehman Brothers to do that," the
professor says.
   Shearson obviously doesn't agree.
   While Shearson's top officials decline to comment about
the reorganization until after the announcement, industry
executives say Shearson did extensive research on the value
of the Lehman name, interviewing chief executives, financial
executives and competitors in the U.S. and Europe. They
apparently found high recognition and respect for the name.
   The only U.S. brokerage firm bigger than Shearson, Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co., already is organized into separate brokerage and
investment banking units. But Merrill now appears to be
taking the opposite approach from Shearson as far as
establishing identities; it is considering dropping the name
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets for its investment banking half
to de-emphasize, rather than emphasize, a separate identity
for its bankers.
   Asked about Shearson's current plans, Jerome Kenney, head
of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, is skeptical. The brokerage
and investment banking sides of securities firms must work
with each other, says Mr. Kenney. And "once you put different
names on it," he says, "it can result in less coordination if
not done right."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Higher Tech
   ---
   Seat of Power:
   The Most Important Piece of Equipment
   In the Office Remains Steadfastly Low-Tech
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R21
</SO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   STODGY OR STATELY, lacquered or leather-bound, the office
chair has always been much more than a place to sit. It
projects power. It reflects the technological revolution of
the workplace. And it's there when you need it.
   "Everything in the office seems to distance you from human
contact, like the panels, phones and computers, so the chair
becomes an island, something personal," says Scott Star,
group product director at Knoll International, a furniture
maker. "My secretary took my chair when I was on vacation,
and when I came back I felt invaded."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Today's agile office chair -- tilting and twisting like a
Texas two-stepper -- is a far cry from the bulky executive
armchairs used in the mid-19th century. These creations, with
high stiff backs and embroidered cushions, looked impressive
but were soon unsuitable for the changing workplace. By the
end of the century, the typewriter had moved into the office,
and that required a new kind of chair. Primarily for women
who worked as secretaries, the "task chair" was armless,
mounted on wheels and had a low, adjustable back.
   Thus began a caste system that held sway for many years.
Underlings who toiled all day on typewriters, on adding
machines and at telephone switchboards sat in smaller,
functional chairs; bigwigs who made decisions but never
dirtied their fingernails got the overstuffed, leatherbound
thrones.
   "The large executive chair elevates the sitter," Emilio
Ambasz, a New York architect and industrial designer, once
said. "It distances him. It protects the body. There is a
tall back to rest {his head}, and it is covered with the skin
of some animal, preferably your predecessor."
   Designers say that nothing is more difficult than making a
chair, it being so small and people being so long. Sitting,
according to this theory, is an unnatural position because it
applies pressure on the spine. Humans, it seems, are much
better off lying down or standing up.
   The chair, though, has not lacked innovation. In the 1920s
and '30s, the German Bauhaus design movement inspired all
sorts of spare, no-nonsense tubular-steel office chairs whose
emphasis was on style and mass production. After World War
II, sitting improved with Charles Eames's molded plywood and
fiberglass chairs, whose contoured and shell-shaped chairs
conformed more naturally to the body.
   By the 1970s, the two-tier chair system began to crumble
as a new movement emerged called "ergonomics." The word
simply means the relationship between people and work.
Applied to chairs, it refers to seats that adjust, bend or
pivot in ways that are both functional and comfortable.
   Giving high-quality chairs to all levels of workers
highlights how technology has transformed the workplace and
how the desk has been replaced by the work station. No longer
is "machine work" consigned to secretaries. Now middle- and
top-level managers, as well as their subordinates, write on
video display terminals, process data, punch Quotron machines
and work with high-tech gadgets. That means almost everyone
needs a nimble, high-performance chair, a task chair for the
information age.
   Thronelike executive chairs are also going by the wayside
as women move up the ranks. "They don't like the fat-cat
look," says John Berry, a spokesman for Herman Miller Inc.,
an office-furniture maker in Zeeland, Mich.
   The top brass, however, still want chairs with status, so
furniture makers are rolling out lines of chairs similar in
style but tailored differently for staff workers, middle
managers and executives. The big shots, for example, love to
recline, so they get chairs with added back support.
   Some designers suspect that future office chairs will look
more like living-room furniture, which would create a better
office social environment, while others look for chairs that
will move more harmoniously with the natural movements of the
body.
   But there will never be a perfect chair. William Stumpf,
an office-furniture designer, notes that the body's ideal
position is to be floating in water, which is good news for
scuba divers and mermaids but cold comfort for the sedentary
office masses.
   ---
   Mr. Hirsch is a staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's Pittsburgh bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sid and Lee Bass,
   Airlie Group Sue
   Kidder Peabody
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC GE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Interests linked to Texas investors Sid and Lee Bass have
sued Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., alleging that the securities firm
defrauded them of more than $52 million in an October 1989
rights offering by First Executive Corp.
   The litigation, filed early last month in Fort Worth
federal court, surfaced publicly only recently. It seeks
unspecified actual and punitive damages as well as recision
of the purchase of First Executive securities. At March 31,
Airlie Group held an 8.9% stake in First Executive, which
isn't named as a defendant in the suit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Kidder Peabody spokesman disputed the suit's allegations
and said "we don't think the complaint is well grounded and
expect that our view of the matter will prevail."
   The plaintiffs include two personal holding companies
bearing the brothers' names -- Sid R. Bass Inc., Lee M. Bass
Inc.; Airlie Group L.P., a limited partnership based in
Greenwich, Conn., whose general partners are investor Dort A.
Cameron III and a holding company operated by Fort Worth
investor Thomas Taylor; and Mr. Cameron individually.
   The action by the Bass brothers' interests and Airlie is
the latest of a number of suits relating to the rights
offering of First Executive, a Los Angeles-based insurance
holding company. Much of the earlier litigation has been
consolidated as a purported class action in federal court in
Los Angeles.
   The Bass brothers and Airlie allege that Kidder, a General
Electric Corp. unit described in the suit as in financial
straits last year and badly in need of the estimated $5
million in fees that would result, underwrote a $284 million
"exotic securities package" for First Executive. The package
consisted of rights units which entitled holders to buy a
package of convertible preferred stock and warrants to buy
common stock.
   The suit alleges that the prospectus related to the issue
omitted key information about First Executive. Not long after
the successful securities sale, First Executive disclosed
that its junk bond holdings were overvalued by hundreds of
millions of dollars. Insurance regulators rejected a
complicated securities transaction intended to boost legally
required reserves. And an anticipated $460 million sale of
First Executive's New York unit fell through.
   First Executive's stock price plummeted from about $12.25
a share when the rights offering was completed to as low as
$2.25 a share earlier this year.
   First Executive stock closed Friday at $2.50 a share in
over-the-counter trading. The company, noting that it isn't
named as a defendant in the latest lawsuit, declined comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Ratings on Xerox's
   Debt, Preferred Stock
   Are Under Review
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it will consider
lowering its ratings on debt and preferred stock of Xerox
Corp. and several of its subsidiaries.
   About $2 billion of the parent company's debt is affected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S&amp;P said its review is a result of the possible effect of
problems at the company's Crum &amp; Forster insurance unit.
Separately, S&amp;P said it will consider lowering its rating on
Crum &amp; Forster's claims-paying ability, citing uncertainty
about the quality of the company's reinsurance arrangements
and continuing weakness in the property-casualty market.
   S&amp;P said it was concerned about Crum &amp; Forster's potential
for producing charges against Xerox's earnings, and its
possible need for capital infusions from the parent. It also
said it will review Crum &amp; Forster's ability to contribute to
dividends to Xerox, a business equipment and financial
services concern based in Stamford, Conn.
   Aside from the Crum &amp; Forster rating, which is double-A,
S&amp;P placed on its CreditWatch list: Xerox's senior debt,
rated single-A-plus; its subordinated debt, rated single-A;
its preferred stock, rated single-A-plus; Xerox Credit
Corp.'s senior debt, rated single-A-plus; and Xerox Credit
Overseas Finance NV's senior debt, rated single-A-plus.
   In a statement, Xerox said: "We are obviously disappointed
at this announcement and will meet with representatives of
Standard &amp; Poor's in the near future. Our balance sheet is
healthy and we have sound strategies in place to improve
financial performance and shareholder value."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Regulators Say Rescue of Western S&amp;L
   At $1.7 Billion Is the Costliest to Date
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   WSL BAC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Federal regulators said the failure of Phoenix,
Ariz.-based Western Savings &amp; Loan Association will add $1.7
billion to the bill for cleaning up the S&amp;L mess, the single
costliest government rescue of a troubled thrift to date.
   Western's $3.5 billion in deposits, 61 branches and
certain assets were acquired last week by BankAmerica Corp.
for $81 million. Western reported negative shareholder equity
of $1.4 billion at year end, but on Friday the Resolution
Trust Corp. said the total cost of the collapse, including
paying off insured depositors and creditors, selling troubled
assets and resolving lawsuits, would approximate $1.7
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Only Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan Association, Irvine, Calif.,
and Miami-based CenTrust Bank are expected to cost more, at
least $2 billion each. Those cases haven't been finally
resolved.
   The estimate for Western points up the depth of the
Arizona thrift problem, and its role in the overall bailout.
The state's boom-turned-bust real-estate business of the last
few years has claimed nearly every major thrift in the state
for government regulators. According to Miami thrift
consultant Kenneth Thomas, some 82% of the deposits of the
state's thrifts were in government hands at year-end 1989 by
virtue of seizures, far exceeding the rate in any other
state, including Texas, where a number of private rescues
were arranged a few years ago.
   The Western sale to San Francisco-based BankAmerica, Mr.
Thomas said, "signals the start of the denationalization of
the thrift industry in Arizona."
   Western had one of the largest portfolios of repossessed
real estate of any thrift in the country, an estimated $637
million at year end, and an additional $295 million in what
are considered highly speculative loans for land development
and acquisition, according to Mr. Thomas. Before it was taken
over by federal regulators last June, Western also held some
$46 million in junk bonds.
   Western also took advantage of an Arizona state law that
permitted thrifts to own stock in other companies, although
that didn't turn out too well, either, according to Allan
Bortel, an investment banker specializing in thrifts for
Sutro &amp; Co. in San Francisco. Among its ill-starred equity
ventures was an investment in a Washington state campground
operator, according to Mr. Bortel.
   Meanwhile, a new study published by the Stanford Law and
Policy Review suggested that even sharply higher government
estimates made recently for bailing out the industry are far
too low. The journal, published by Stanford University, cited
a computerized financial model of the thrift debacle's total
costs, compiled by Sheshunoff Information Services Inc.,
Austin, Texas. The model includes costs often excluded by
administration officials, such as lost tax revenue and
interest on Treasury debt. It puts the cost of the bailout at
roughly $456 billion over 10 years, compared with a General
Accounting Office estimate of $325 billion to $500 billion
over 30 years. The Sheshunoff study asserted that total costs
will certainly exceed $1 trillion, including the interest due
on long-term Treasury bonds financing the bailout.
   On Friday, when asked at a conference in Washington, D.C.,
how the government was proceeding in its effort to unload its
huge inventory of troubled institutions, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Chairman William Seidman said: "Better than
you think and worse than you would like."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Domtar Inc. Names
   Campeau Chairman
   And Desjardins Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   DTC WNEWS T.LBT
</CO>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Domtar Inc., as expected, named Jean Campeau
chairman and Pierre Desjardins president and chief executive
officer, succeeding James H. Smith, who held all three posts
and is retiring from the paper and building products concern.
   The appointment of Mr. Desjardins, 48-year-old president
of Labatt Breweries of Canada, Toronto, a unit of John Labatt
Ltd., is effective Sept. 1, when Mr. Smith, 58, will remain
chairman until Mr. Campeau's arrival Nov. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Campeau, also 58, is stepping down as chairman and
general manager of Caisse de Depot et Placement, the Quebec
government's pension-fund agency. Mr. Campeau (who isn't
related to the Toronto businessman Robert Campeau) will leave
Caisse de Depot on June 30, after 10 eventful years at the
agency.
   Mr. Campeau is already intimately familiar with Domtar,
because Caisse de Depot and another Quebec government agency
hold a controlling 44% stake in Domtar.
   Mr. Campeau, who has been a hands-on manager at Caisse de
Depot, is expected to take an active role at Domtar. There is
considerable speculation here that Mr. Campeau will take
advantage of a consolidation of the Canadian forest products
industry in the next few years to add to Domtar's businesses.
   Mr. Campeau said in a prepared statement that he is
"honored to be chosen to preside over the development of this
Quebec multinational {company}." He declined to elaborate.
   At Labatt, a spokeswoman said a successor to Mr.
Desjardins won't be named for at least three weeks.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Domtar shares closed at $10.875, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Gorbachev, While Still a Hit Here,
   Is Dogged by Crises in Soviet Union
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   ST. PAUL, Minn. -- He alighted from his Ilyushin 62 jet to
the strains of "Stars and Stripes Forever." He gestured bulky
cameramen out of his way to greet a mob of Americans,
including protesters. He charmed politicians, artists and
industrial leaders over corn cakes, Canadian walleye and
Wisconsin veal.
   Though Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev luxuriates in
his image as the pathfinder of perestroika, his trip here
yesterday to the soggy Midwestern plains and today to the
Pacific Coast and California's Silicon Valley fits
comfortably into a traditional political and diplomatic
pattern. He is only the latest in a long string of
politicians to seek political support at home through the
cheers of crowds abroad.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And so when Mr. Gorbachev strode across fortuitously named
Summit Avenue into the governor's mansion, tooled through the
streets of the Twin Cities, and met with Midwestern farm and
business leaders in a gleaming, modern hotel, he was
following a path established when Peter the Great first
traveled West nearly three centuries ago.
   But like Peter the Great's voyages, Mr. Gorbachev's trip
is a working vacation from his troubles, with reminders every
time he passed a St. Paul supermarket -- boneless sirloins,
ready for the grill, are on sale for $2.99 a pound at
Knowlan's Market here this week -- of the food,
manufacturing, political and cultural crises that await him
when he returns tomorrow. Last week alone, he faced a
challenge from his rival Boris Yeltsin, the new president of
the Russian republic, and the threat that several regions
would refuse to send food to Moscow.
   The result is that, for all his public triumphs
barnstorming the U.S. this week, there were hints here in
Minnesota that Mr. Gorbachev is under siege in Moscow.
   "The act is getting a little bit old this time," says
Michael Sheehan, who does speech coaching and provides poise
instruction for Democratic politicians. "It's like going to a
Broadway show with the first replacement cast: It's still
being done very well, but it doesn't have the surprise and
freshness it did the first time."
   It did have bluntness, however. Mr. Gorbachev complained
about his own "military-industrial complex" and, almost
sheepishly, asked for U.S. investment, telling American
businessmen, "You won't lose your money in the Soviet Union."
The Soviet leader admitted to a roomful of committed
capitalists that "our old system became weak," adding that
"there has been some damage done to our economy."
   Mr. Gorbachev's itinerary underlined his struggles. Peter
the Great traveled West in 1697 to learn shipbuilding -- he
actually helped lay the hull of a ship -- to help imperial
Russia build a navy and boost its flagging war against the
Turks in the Crimea. Mr. Gorbachev traveled West to learn
about computers and corn yields to help boost his country's
economic base as it creates the foundation of a more
market-oriented society.
   But unlike Peter the Great, who traveled incognito, Mr.
Gorbachev and his handlers choreographed every step, even
going so far as to build in room for the spontaneity that has
become his trademark. When he abandoned his motorcade and
took to the streets outside the black iron spikes of the
governor's mansion, he defused the anger of Baltic
demonstrators who were calling for the freedom of Lithuania.
One of the protest leaders pronounced herself "excited" by
Mr. Gorbachev's gesture.
   Not least among his entourage was Oleg Uralov, who holds
the remarkable title of deputy minister of cinematography of
the U.S.S.R. and also is the chief executive officer of a
Soviet firm called Videofilm.
   "The primary goal here is to portray Gorbachev as a man,
as a human being," says Mr. Uralov, whose language is studded
with the cheerful catechism of perestroika. "Landscapes were
not the decisive factor in the intinerary."
   But the Gorbachev visit was far from that innocent. It
wasn't a coincidence, for example, that Mr. Gorbachev's aides
specifically requested that Raisa Gorbachev visit a family
with four children, a dog and working parents. Thus did
Steven and Karen Watson and their home at 4841 Garfield Ave.,
South Minneapolis, gain their shimmery moment in the
spotlight.
   The Soviets know, moreover, that the most enduring moments
of Nikita Khrushchev's visit to the U.S. in 1959 were the
glimpse of the general secretary munching a hot dog and the
sight of him picking up silage (and smelling it) on Roswell
Garst's farm in Coon Rapids, Iowa.
   "Gorbachev's people are as concerned about the `visuals'
as American advance people," says David Van Note of North
Conway, N.H., who was pressed into service here because of
his work in the Democratic presidential candidacies of John
Glenn in 1984 and Bruce Babbitt in 1988. "They know the
pictures have to convey the theme Gorbachev wants to convey
at home. He wanted the business meeting to look like a
business meeting. We're not talking about people who don't
know the value of media coverage to convey an idea."
   That doesn't mean that the campaign-style trip Mr.
Gorbachev is completing today will play in the Politburo or
even in Pinsk.
   National leaders who seek political boosts outside their
borders seldom win more than temporary blips in their
support. When Benjamin Disraeli -- his star fading, his
country beset with economic problems and his party threatened
by a rejuvenated William Gladstone -- traveled to the
Congress of Berlin in 1878, he patched up Europe for a
generation and returned home to be the first to use the
gilded phrase "peace with honor." It didn't help much.
   Richard Nixon didn't find the solace or salvation he
sought when he traveled to Egypt in June 1974, drawing huge
crowds in Cairo and Alexandria as the House Judiciary
Committee girded to vote on the articles of impeachment and
as the Supreme Court prepared to hand down an 8-0 decision
forcing the president to hand over taped conversations to the
Watergate special prosecutor. "He wanted to show he was still
respected and honored abroad," says Stephen Ambrose, a
University of New Orleans biographer of Mr. Nixon. "The trip
was designed to let it soak in that if Nixon left, we'd be
stuck with Jerry Ford."
   But Mr. Gorbachev did provide a bravura performance, at
least for domestic consumption in the U.S.
   "He's not like most of the Democrats -- he's willing to
take on Bush now and then on issues," says Frank Mankiewicz,
a former campaign adviser to the late Robert Kennedy, and
former Sens. George McGovern and Gary Hart. "And while an
American politician would have tried to hide that birthmark,
he makes a thing of it. His instincts are great."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Movies:
   Hollywood Turns to Russia, With Love
   ----
   By Kathleen A. Hughes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CRC TBSA FREST PCC FE
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hollywood producers are turning Red Square into their
latest back lot, and they have the blessing of the Soviet
Union's top mogul.
   In fact, when Mikhail Gorbachev chatted with entertainment
magnate Ted Turner, actress Jane Fonda and physician Robert
Gale during a lunch at the Soviet Embassy in Washington last
week, they talked a bit about movies made in the U.S.S.R.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It was a timely subject. Last Wednesday in Moscow, Carolco
Pictures Inc. and Turner Network Television began filming
"The Final Warning," a television movie about Dr. Gale
(played by John Voight), who treated radiation victims after
the nuclear accident at Chernobyl.
   "I told Gorbachev the film was going very well," Dr. Gale
says. "Jane told him what it was like to make the first
co-production with the Soviet Union in 1976 {`The Blue
Bird'}. It's light-years of difference now. We're proceeding
without interference."
   The Soviet movie industry is changing rapidly in the wake
of glasnost and perestroika. In a bid for hard currency,
Soviet film companies have been aggressively trying to lure
more big-spending Hollywood film crews inside Soviet borders
for co-productions and other types of service agreements. And
more producers are starting to take the bait.
   Soyuzkinoservice, a Soviet film finance, production and
distribution company also known as SKS, even opened a new
office in Hollywood last year, the USSR Film Service Corp.,
as a joint venture. To make its presence known, it held gala
parties in October and February. More than 800 movie types,
including Mr. Voight and producer Paul Maslansky, went to the
latest party and were courted with vodka, caviar and blinis.
   Progress has been somewhat slow. After a year, the USSR
Film Service, headed by Soviet-born Yuri Spilny, has
negotiated or is in the process of negotiating 10 co-ventures
or service agreements for movie projects. There are two
projects on Chernobyl in the works, a TV miniseries about
Leon Trotsky, a contemporary version of "Crime and
Punishment," a movie about the Nazi siege of Leningrad and a
science-fiction project, among others.
   What are the Soviets offering? Locations such as Red
Square and the Winter Palace, a lot of extras at very low
prices, military equipment, period costumes, translators,
hard-to-get hotel reservations, Soviet production teams.
   In exchange, they typically request hard currency and
distribution rights in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
In some cases, a cut of the profit. They are also upgrading
their rental equipment, and they want to train their own film
makers in special effects.
   For "The Final Warning," SKS is providing the use of a
nuclear power plant 500 miles east of Moscow, Soviet army
troops, helicopters, equipment and crew for around $1
million. The Soviet Union will also get the distribution
rights in the U.S.S.R. and Eastern Europe.
   Co-productions between the Soviets and U.S. film makers
aren't entirely new. The Soviets set up SKS 20 years ago, and
several U.S. movies, such as "Blue Bird" and "Red Heat," have
been filmed in Russia. But before glasnost, the Soviet
bureaucracy made it difficult to get movies made. There are
legendary stories in Hollywood about films brought to a
screeching halt by KGB agents and customs officials.
   In the past two years, the largest of the Soviet Union's
39 movie studios have been decentralized and are now allowed
to negotiate deals on their own to earn some profits. So a
few are now competing with SKS to provide film services.
   "The Soviet Union is starting to look a lot like
Hollywood," says Ilmar Taska, director of Soviet projects for
Fries Entertainment. "New companies are growing like
mushrooms in the rain."
   The mostly independent producers who are starting
negotiations are wary of the uncharted territory. "It's a
whole new world with the Soviets. The rules are changing
literally as we speak," says Bob O'Connor, who is talking to
USSR Film Service about making a contemporary version of
"Crime and Punishment" in Leningrad. "You're a babe in the
woods."
   Some recent veterans say negotiating a contract in the
Soviet Union can be slow going. The Soviets also lack much of
the equipment that Hollywood producers take for granted, such
as a large number of portable toilets, dressing rooms and big
hotel suites. Just making a phone call from the Soviet Union
to the U.S. or Europe often requires a reservation and may
take hours.
   Dr. Gale says that in working on "Final Warning," he
suggested actors use an ophthalmoscope, the flashlight device
doctors use to examine eyes. "In Los Angeles we would have
had one in two seconds, but there it became a major
undertaking," he says. A number of doctors contacted didn't
have one, and when the crew found a doctor who did, he wasn't
eager to part with it for a day.
   One recently completed film, "The Russia House," a Soviet
love/spy story starring Sean Connery and Michelle Pfeiffer,
is scheduled for release by Pathe Communications Co. later
this year. Mr. Maslansky, producer of the $20 million movie,
says he negotiated the film services he needed through Corona
Film, a private company that worked with Mosfilm Studios, one
of the main Soviet studios. Mr. Maslansky says it took about
4 1/2 weeks to iron out the details of what the Soviets would
provide, and the process was "arduous and rather complex."
   He finally agreed to pay about 2.8 million rubles (in
dollars at a rate he won't disclose) in exchange for Soviet
production services, including hotel reservations,
transportation, technical personnel and some equipment. But
most of the movie equipment he needed just wasn't available
in the Soviet Union. So Mr. Maslansky brought in about 40
vehicles, including portable dressing rooms and toilets,
along with trucks for electrical equipment.
   The producer also flew in a caterer from England to survey
food supplies. The caterer concluded that "we better bring
everything in," the producer says. So Mr. Maslansky brought
in four catering trucks with enough beef, frozen vegetables
and fruit to feed 120 crew members breakfast and lunch for
about two weeks.
   Despite the physical obstacles, Mr. Maslansky describes
the Russian production team as "first rate." And he says the
filming "rates as one of the best film experiences I have
had." He also notes: "You go to the Soviet Union for the
locations. You don't go to save money. . . . It's terribly
difficult to get a movie done, but everything is possible."
   For others, negotiations within the Soviet studio system
can become confusing. Fries Entertainment agreed to make a
movie called "In Siberian Captivity" with a Soviet director;
Fries later found that the director had moved the project
from one studio to another, requiring renegotiation of
services. In addition, the director kept asking for "more and
more money." At one point, "It wasn't clear who had the
rights to the project," says Fries's Mr. Taska. Fries finally
dropped the project at the end of last year. "It wasn't a
workable situation," says Mr. Taska. Fries still plans to
produce two other movies in the Soviet Union, and Mr. Taska
says: "Generally those talks have been satisfactory. It's not
always such a problem."
   The Soviets have a more active role in actual
co-productions, such as "900 Days: The Siege of Leningrad," a
movie about the Nazi effort to take the city. Alberto
Grimaldi, a producer who negotiated through USSR Film Service
and SKS, says the Soviets are going to provide "everything
necessary to film the movie," including tanks, armies and
crowds. In exchange, the Soviets will get 40% of the net
income, plus distribution rights in Eastern Europe, India and
the U.S.S.R.
   Producers have been pleasantly surprised by the Soviet
willingness to participate in projects that might seem
controversial. Producer Josef Shaftel says he met with USSR
Film Service about making a four-hour miniseries on Trotsky.
"They flipped out over the idea," he says. Mr. Shaftel, who
made an earlier movie on Trotsky, says the Soviets agreed to
provide a Russian writer who is translating previously
undisclosed material from historical archives on Stalin,
Lenin and Trotsky.
   The Soviets are also paying for living expenses in the
Soviet Union for more than a week for a research trip for Mr.
Shaftel, his wife and a writer. "With the opening of the
archives, they are being very honest and open. It's
extraordinary," says Mr. Shaftel. "Now I have access to
material I didn't have 20 years ago."
   As Hollywood interest grows, some film executives expect
that the Soviets may become less generous in their
negotiations. "The dollar has a lot of value right now, and
the terms are affordable and interesting for Americans," says
Mr. Taska. "But as the Soviets enter the world market, their
prices may catch up. They know how much films cost in
Hollywood and France."
   ---
                  On Location In the U.S.S.R.
                                                                                                       

 MOVIES IN THE WORKS                  COMPANY OR
 USING SOVIET LOCATIONS               PRODUCER
                                                                                                       

 "The Russia House"                   Pathe Communications
                                                                                                       

 "The Final Warning"*                 Carolco Pictures
                                                                                                       

 "Cowboy and the Cossack"             Larry Mortorff
                                                                                                       

 "900 Days: The Siege
 of Leningrad:                        Alberto Grimaldi
                                                                                                       

 "Trotsky"**                          Josef Shaftel
                                                                                                       

 "Until the End of the World"         Jonathan Taplin and
                                      Anatole Dauman
                                                                                                       

 "The Stars My Destination"           Jack Schwartzman
                                                                                                       

 "Crime and Punishment:*              Bob O'Connor and
                                      Michael Apted
                                                                                                       

   *TV movie
   **TV miniseries
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Korean Inflation Rises,
   Trade Deficit Widens
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea reported its highest
monthly inflation rate and widest monthly trade deficit in
nine years.
   Consumer prices rose 1.9% in May from the previous month,
the largest monthly gain since June 1981, according to the
Economic Planning Board. In addition, the nation registered a
trade deficit of $810 million in May, the widest since
December 1981, when the trade balance showed a gap of $894
million, according to the Ministry of Trade and Industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Economic Planning Board also reported that wholesale
prices rose by 1.1% in May from the previous month.
   As a result of the monthly gain, consumer prices surged
6.7% during the first five months of this year, exceeding
last year's inflation rate of 5.7% and this year's yearly
target of 5% to 7%.
   Wholesale prices rose 3.1% during the first five months.
   The Ministry of Trade and Industry said exports in May
rose 5.6% from a year earlier to $5.22 billion, while imports
surged 20% to $6.03 billion, leaving a deficit of $810
million, on a customs clearance basis.
   As a result, the trade balance during the first five
months of this year showed a gap of $3.1 billion, exceeding
government projections of $2 billion for the year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Glaverbel Stake in AFG
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.GLA AFG J.AHG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Belgian glass maker Glaverbel said it raised
its stake in U.S. flat-glass producer AFG Industries Inc. to
26.6% from 19.7%.
   Glaverbel owns all the preferred shares of AFG, which it
acquired as part of a management buy-out of the U.S. concern
in 1988. It has said it wants to acquire a controlling stake.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Glaverbel is 72%-owned by Asahi Glass Co. of Japan.
   AFG, the second largest flat-glass producer in the U.S.,
has 4,465 employees. It had sales of $648 million in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MARKETING
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   WLA MKC BUD CQB
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ire Over Allergy Drug Ads
   Is Nothing to Sneeze At
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   THE COMPETITION is having a severe reaction to a new
marketing ploy for a popular allergy remedy.
   Warner-Lambert Co. is fuming over a new public-service TV
ad campaign co-sponsored indirectly by archrival Marion
Merrell Dow Inc. The ads dramatize the possible danger of
driving under the influence of over-the-counter
antihistamines, some of which cause drowsiness. The ads make
a none-too-veiled comparison to drunken driving.
   For Marion Merrell, the payoff is obvious: Its Seldane
prescription drug, touted as a non-sedating allergy medicine,
awaits Food and Drug Administration approval to become an OTC
drug.
   Marion Merrell formed a group called the Allergy Council
of America that is the official co-sponsor of the campaign,
along with the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration. The company says the federal agency knew it
was involved. The ads don't mention Seldane.
   But Warner-Lambert sees the campaign as a direct attack on
OTC medications like its Benadryl product, which causes
drowsiness in some consumers.
   "This is a scare tactic," says Cathy Segal, senior
products manager at Warner-Lambert. "Consumers recognize and
read labels and understand that products have certain side
effects." Warner-Lambert also charges that Marion Merrell's
public-relations firm planted articles bad-mouthing such OTC
antihistamines in consumer and trade magazines.
   Marion Merrell says it hired the PR firm "to help raise
awareness of the fact that people should read labels and
follow the instructions on packaging."
   Still, the spokesman doesn't dispute that the campaign is
running concurrently with print advertisements touting
prescription Seldane. "There may be some indirect connection
made in consumers' minds between the two ads," he concedes.

   Soccer Sponsorships
   In U.S. Need a Kick
                                                                                                       

   THE U.S. TEAM will play in the finals of the World Cup
soccer championship this year for the first time since 1950
-- but only three companies have signed up to cheer them on
with sponsorships.
   The U.S. Soccer Federation, which directs activities of
the U.S. team, says it isn't disappointed with the paltry
showing of support. With the 1994 World Cup to be held in the
U.S., the group says corporate interest in soccer should
balloon in coming years.
   Sports-marketing specialists aren't so sure. "Soccer by
now should have taken off. . . . It's had every opportunity,"
says David Burns, president of Burns Sports Celebrity Service
in Chicago, which helps clients find athletes to endorse
their products. "But it's at a standstill, and I don't see
any encouragement."
   As a spectator sport, soccer hasn't attracted many U.S.
fans. The North American Soccer League collapsed in 1985. The
Major Indoor Soccer League still exists, but only six teams
play in the league. This year's World Cup, which will be
played in Italy, begins June 8.
   Federation executives point to the big audience soccer can
reach. For example, last December's draw of World Cup
match-ups attracted a world-wide TV audience of more than 600
million, the federation says. (The draw was seen in the U.S.
in limited markets on a cable network.)
   The corporations signed up as sponsors -- Anheuser-Busch
Cos., Chiquita Brands Inc. and Adidas USA, which paid a total
of about $1 million among them -- aren't concerned that
soccer isn't a big hit in the U.S. "Soccer still has a long
way to go," admits Ken Chartier, national manager of
promotions at Adidas, a unit of Adidas Germany. "But we're
interested in staying with it."
                                                                                                       

   Pitches on Value Stick
   In Consumers' Minds
                                                                                                       

   AD CAMPAIGNS promising low prices and value catapulted
three major retailers into the top 10 for print campaigns of
1989, according to a new survey of consumers by Video
Storyboard Tests Inc.
   Calvin Klein Industries Inc.'s sensual ads promoting its
fragrances and underwear, among other things, again took top
honors as the most outstanding print campaign. But consumers
polled by the ad-tracking firm put a high price on value
advertising by naming as their favorites the campaigns of
Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., K mart Corp. and J.C. Penney Co. The
three made the top 10 for the first time.
   Many of those retailers' campaigns featured ads promoting
products with prices specified. J.C. Penney, for example,
featured Stafford men's suits with their price tags. Sears
ran ads with the theme "Your money's worth and a whole lot
more."
   Other campaigns making the top 10 included ads for Camel
cigarettes, Nike, Marlboro, Ford, Estee Lauder and Revlon.
   Many other campaigns that ranked in the top 50 also tapped
the value theme. Auto ads with cash-back offers, airline ads
for low fares and cosmetics ads with free samples were named
by many of the 24,000 consumers polled.
   "Value" was the most compelling reason consumers recalled
ads in 1989, says Dave Vadehra of Video Storyboard.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   GOING UPSCALE: Parker Pen USA, known mainly for its
inexpensive gift-set pens, this month will introduce a line
of luxury pens costing up to $325. . . . Wheeler Inc., which
uses pickup trucks to display larger-than-life versions of
such products as Absolut vodka, is expanding from its New
York base. Trucks recently started rolling in Boston, Los
Angeles and San Francisco, and later this year will hit
Chicago and Miami.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Forecasts for the Second-Quarter GNP
   Trimmed, Given Soft Data on May Jobs
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Economists are pruning second-quarter gross
national product forecasts, in light of flat May payrolls.
   Data jockeys are particularly concerned about slowing in
the service sector, which so far has managed to buoy the
economy, while manufacturing, construction and business
spending flagged. The outlook for GNP, or the value of the
total output of the nation's goods and services, wasn't very
hearty before the jobs report appeared: The consensus called
for annual growth of about 2% in the current quarter. MMS
International Inc., a unit of McGraw-Hill Inc., said it
lowered its own GNP estimate to 1.8% from 2.3%, in the wake
of last Friday's weaker-than-expected employment numbers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The economy looks increasingly unbalanced," Donald
Straszheim, chief economist at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., said.
"Trade's the only thing holding it up." Mr. Straszheim had
been predicting an annual growth rate of 2.7% for
second-quarter GNP. "That looks too high {now}. We'll have to
mark it down," he said, declining to pinpoint the markdown
yet. "It's going to be more than a haircut, but {GNP} will
still be a positive number." He is sticking to his
weak-but-no-recession outlook, but noted that some other
economists may cross over into the negative-GNP range this
quarter, on the basis of recent soft data. Economists in the
positive camp said that, in addition to decent export levels,
consumer spending appears to be besting its first-quarter
average, at least so far this period.
   But David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities
Ltd., New York, questioned whether softness in May service
jobs presages softness in consumer spending. "Consumers may
be cutting back on discretionary services," he said. "If they
stop spending, the economy is in deep trouble."
   Analysts get little help in foretelling spending patterns
from this week's thin calendar: May auto sales and April
consumer credit. Car sales are believed to have been weak
again, and consumer credit is expected to have increased by
about $2.3 billion, following March's $2.6 billion gain.
   Through April at least, consumers were besting the average
they spent in the first quarter, Nomura's Mr. Resler said.
But he added, "Consumer spending and trade hold the key for
keeping the economy out of recession." Mr. Resler, who had
been predicting a 2% growth rate for GNP in the current
quarter, said he "will notch it down, maybe a half a
percentage point or so."
   Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. economist Stephen S. Roach also
lowered his GNP outlook, in the wake of May's employment
data. "Real GNP growth in the current quarter now seems
likely to be closer to the 1.5% to 2% range, rather than the
3% figure we had been carrying," he said in his weekly
newsletter.
   "Trends in the service sector are particularly
disturbing," Mr. Roach said. He noted that that during the
first five months of this year, job growth in private,
service-producing industries has averaged only 118,000 --
about 25% below the average pace for the second half of last
year. Economists noted that while the jobs report was soft,
they expect slightly higher May industrial production,
largely owing to overtime worked in the auto industry.
   The weaker employment data last Friday all but swamped any
positive reaction to a stronger report from the nation's
purchasers. In fact, Mr. Straszheim of Merrill Lynch found
something most discouraging in the purchasing managers'
report: lower inventories in May. The decline may indicate
that manufacturers are operating with tighter and tighter
inventory these days, through better control methods. If so,
the building-for-inventory boost that many economists expect
to help second-quarter GNP isn't realistic.
   The National Association of Purchasing Management said the
May inventories index fell "significantly" to its lowest
level since January 1983.
   ---
                   CLOSELY WATCHED REPORTS
                                                                                                       

        Statistics Released in the Week Ended June 1
                                                                                                       

                                             CHANGE
                                          (from prior
                              TOTAL          period)
                                                                                                       

   Money Supply
                                                                                                       

     M1 -- Week ended
     May 21 (in billions)     $807.1          + $4.0
                                                                                                       

     M2 -- Week ended
     May 21 (in billions)   $3,266.1          - $0.3
                                                                                                       

     M3 -- Week ended
     May 21 (in billions)   $4,062.9          - $1.0
                                                                                                       

   Unemployment rate
   May, change in
   percentage points            5.3%           - 0.1

   Employment, payroll
   May (in millions)         110.568          + 1.5%
                                                                                                       

   Purchasing managers'
   index
   May, change in
   percentage points           50.7%           + 0.5
                                                                                                       

   Farm prices
   May, index                    154          + 2.0%
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturers' orders
   April, (in billions)      $235.60          - 2.3%
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturers'
   shipments
   April (in billions)       $234.35          - 1.2%
                                                                                                       

   Leading indicators
   April (index)               144.9          - 0.2%
                                                                                                       

   Construction spending
   April, annual rate
   (in billions)             $432.40            0.7%
                                                                                                       

   New homes sold
   April, annual rate        546,000          - 1.6%
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
   Week ended May 19         343,000          - 2.8%
                                                                                                       

              Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales (Tues.)
   May
                                                                                                       

   Consumer credit (Thurs.)
   April
                                                                                                       

   Money supply
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Employees Battle Firms
   For Pension-Plan Surpluses
   ----
   By Wayne E. Green
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR MEA CHV
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   These should be good times for companies that view their
employee pension plans as a source of ready cash.
   After years of bitter litigation, they've pretty much won
the right to tap into those plans and grab any accumulated
surplus -- that is, any money beyond what is needed to pay
pensions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If a company jumps through the right hoops, it can take
it," says Robert Nagle, a pension benefits lawyer in
Washington. The payoff can be worth millions.
   Companies, though, don't always jump through the right
hoops. So workers now are pressing lawsuits designed to show
on a case-by-case basis that a company can't take the surplus
because it hasn't met all the requirements for doing so.
   Last year, for example, a federal court in Milwaukee
rejected Wisconsin Porcelain Co.'s bid to siphon off its
pension surplus, concluding that it hadn't complied with some
of the plan's prerequisites. Other potentially important
cases are pending in Richmond, Va., against Mead Corp., and
in Houston against Chevron Corp. Meanwhile, Congress, which
previously has taken steps to limit employer access to
pension money, is considering whether it should impose
additional restrictions.
   "I guess you could say employers won the war, but the
battles are still raging," says Norman P. Stein, a University
of Alabama law professor who has represented employees in
several pension-fund suits.
   At issue are so-called private-sector defined-benefit
pension plans, under which an employer promises a worker
specified annual retirement income. The plans are funded
through employer contributions, projected to cover the
company's liabilities. When the stock market soared in the
1980s, the value of many pension funds, which invest in the
market, also rose, often creating huge surpluses.
   Federal pension law requires that as long as a plan is in
effect, its funds must be used only to benefit participating
workers and retirees. But the law also lets companies
terminate a plan any time as long as they meet existing
pension obligations.
   In some cases, companies take the surplus, then simply
start a new pension plan to cover future obligations. But
without any cushion, employees complain, a pension plan is
vulnerable to downturns in the stock market and can't provide
periodic cost-of-living increases for retirees.
   In other situations, employers don't restart the pension
fund, but instead offer workers lump-sum payments, or buy
annuities that pay fixed yearly amounts in retirement. In
effect, employees stop accumulating pension benefits.
   But employers say the surpluses exist because they have
successfully managed their pensions, so they should have
access to the spoils. And the spoils have been huge. In the
1980s, some 2,000 companies grabbed an estimated $20 billion
in surpluses. Thousands of plans still haven't been
terminated -- and some analysts say 80% of those are
overfunded, by a total estimated at up to $600 billion.
   "It's like a magnet," says Michael S. Gordon, a Washington
lawyer who has handled pension-fund cases. "The surplus is
sticking out there like a big neon sign, saying, `Someone
come and get me.'"
   Courts generally have said employers own the extra money
so long as certain conditions are met. The pension plan must
specify, for example, that the employer can take the surplus.
Most employers are careful to include such language in their
plans, but any uncertainty in the wording usually draws a
legal challenge from employee groups.
   Mr. Stein of the University of Alabama says he is involved
in a case where the formal pension plan gives the employer a
right to take the surplus but in an accompanying summary
description of the plan the employer promises not to do so.
"We're arguing that the employer should be bound by
representations made in the summary," says Mr. Stein.
   Conflicting language also lies at the heart of the
Wisconsin Porcelain case. The company decided in 1988 to end
its pension plan and recapture a $4.2 million surplus. It
relied on an amendment to its plan, approved by six "managing
partners," that authorized it to take any excess money.
   But an employee group said the amendment was invalid
because a clause in the plan required all partners to approve
big changes, and 91 "general partners" didn't sign. U.S.
District Judge John Shabaz agreed. The company is appealing.
   Employees in the Chevron case are attacking still another
problem, growing out of Chevron's 1984 acquisition of Gulf
Oil Corp. Gulf's pension plan clearly didn't contain language
authorizing the company to claim any surplus. But Chevron's
plan did. In 1986, Chevron merged the two plans. It then laid
off thousands of employees, giving them severance pay from
funds in the merged plan, including an estimated $200 million
of surplus from the Gulf plan, former Gulf workers allege.
Chevron also used the Gulf surplus to pay supplemental
benefits to Chevron retirees, the suit says.
   Plaintiffs argue that under federal tax laws, Chevron's
actions amounted to a termination of the Gulf pension plan.
And since the plan didn't authorize the company to take the
surplus, they say, it reverts to Gulf's employees. The
class-action suit, brought on behalf of 40,000 former Gulf
employees, seeks to recover the surplus, which it estimates
at several hundred million dollars.
   Chevron says it didn't terminate the Gulf plan, so the
surplus isn't up for grabs. The case is scheduled to go to
trial next month in U.S. District Court in Houston.
   "There probably will be some law made in this case
concerning a company's obligation in these mergers," says H.
Lee Godfrey, a lawyer with Susman Godfrey in Houston, counsel
for the plaintiffs.
   Employees in the Mead case aren't focusing on the
employer's legal right to claim a surplus. Instead, they say
Mead first must pay additional benefits, which would reduce
the size of the surplus left for the company. In 1983, Mead
sold its Lynchburg Foundry Co. subsidiary, terminated the
unit's pension plan and claimed an $11 million surplus. The
employees contend the sale and termination unfairly kept them
from later qualifying for full early-retirement pay provided
for in the pension plan.
   They had argued that full pay should be awarded anyway,
because it's the kind of "benefit" that pension law requires
employers to satisfy before claiming any surplus. Last June,
the U.S. Supreme Court rejected that argument, but it
remanded the case to the federal appeals court in Richmond to
decide if certain other pension-law requirements -- covering
contingent "liabilities," for instance -- obligate Mead to
pay full early-retirement benefits.
   Despite such cases, some experts contend employees are
fighting a losing cause in the courts. They say workers stand
a better chance in Congress, where legislative committees
have been considering proposals that would tighten the
circumstances under which employers could recoup pension
surpluses. But the litigation isn't likely to end soon, says
Evelyn Jo Wilson, another Susman Godfrey lawyer involved in
the Chevron case.
   "It would be astonishing to me if people just stopped
bringing cases," she says. "There's too much money at stake
-- and too much pain involved."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Burlington Resources
   Unit Completes Tests
   Of Texas Wild Cat Well
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9D
</SO>
<CO>
   BR
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Meridian Oil Inc., a unit of Burlington
Resources Inc., said it completed tests of a large wildcat
discovery well in the Austin Chalk Trend in south central
Texas.
   Meridian said the well flowed at average daily rates of
12,254 barrels of oil, 4.9 million cubic feet of gas and
3,032 barrels of water through two 2 1/16-inch chokes at a
flowing tubing pressure of 300 pounds per square inch during
a four-hour test period. The well was drilled as a medium
radius, extended reach horizontal drainhole to a measured
depth of 11,368 feet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meridian noted that although the results were favorable,
the Austin Chalk Trend has historically had a significant
production decline in certain areas. Meridian said it will
continue to evaluate the potential of its well.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Las Vegas Newspaper Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Attorney General Dick Thornburgh authorized
two Las Vegas newspapers to combine their business
operations, the Justice Department said.
   The Las Vegas Sun and Las Vegas Review Journal will
combine business operations but maintain separate editorial
and reporting staffs. Such joint operating arrangements are
allowed under the Newspaper Preservation Act, which provides
for exceptions to federal antitrust restrictions in the
interest of preserving struggling newspapers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In applying for the antitrust exemption, the two
newspapers asserted that the Sun is a "failing newspaper" and
thus deserves special treatment. The Justice Department's
antitrust division had recommended that the attorney general
approve the joint operating arrangement without holding an
evidentiary hearing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Lawsuit Is Filed
   In Shearson Account's
   Securing SBA Loans
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEWARK, N.J. -- The federal government filed suit in U.S.
District Court here, charging that a predecessor of the New
York-based securities firm Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings
Inc. improperly disbursed the proceeds of an account.
   The government claims that the account was put up as
security for two loans, totaling $602,000, that the Small
Business Administration made to Connecticut Aerosols Inc.,
Milford, Conn. Terms of the loans, which were made to the
company in 1975 and 1978, required that at least $275,882 be
left in the account until the loans were paid, the complaint
states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Connecticut Aerosols and its president, John J. Franchini,
defaulted on the loans, the civil action alleges. The SBA
sought the account's proceeds, the complaint charges, but
Shearson or its predecessor, E.F. Hutton &amp; Co., "liquidated
the account and paid" the proceeds to Mr. Franchini "or
otherwise disbursed" them.
   Shearson has refused to make any payment to the
government, the complaint states. The suit demands that
Shearson pay the remaining principal and accrued interest on
the loans as of Feb. 1 -- a total $405,006 -- plus the
interest accrued since then.
   A spokesman for Shearson said the firm, a subsidiary of
American Express Co., New York, hadn't seen the complaint and
couldn't comment. Mr. Franchini couldn't be reached for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Essay
   ---
   Words to Live By
   ----
   By Gil Schwartz
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R42
</SO>
<LP>
   IN BUSINESS, getting ahead means knowing how to appear
bright, savvy and ready to contribute something essential --
even when you are not. The key, of course, is knowing the hot
slogans, ersatz verbs and technical jargon of the day.
   Think about it. Imagine you were the executive who first
used the word "synergy" and saw it flower throughout memos,
meetings, speeches and exchanges in the wash and board rooms.
That's power. Of course, maybe you're not into synergy.
Perhaps you interface instead. Or impact as a verb all day
long in a way that helps you achieve superbity. Whatever.
Just be assured: As we barrel down the road to the office of
the future, you're going to need an arsenal of argot. Here,
for a minimal charge, are some of the power words to come.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ERGATROIDS (n.): These successful executives of the future
will be people who work a lot, work smart, work fast, work
all the time. Work work work. Not an erg will be wasted.
                                                                                                       

   FRITZED (v.): By the year 2000, every human being will
have a computer in his face. And most will have a color
monitor capable of producing 126,987,651 colors, thanks to a
technically suspect process called interlacing.
Unfortunately, interlacing may also produce -- in some
cheaper models -- a vicious flicker. Workers who are forced
to watch this rapidly pulsating image for more than six hours
straight find themselves hypnotized, staring at the screen
and thinking about the nature of existence until their brains
are literally sucked into the operating system of the
machine. After this they are unfit for anything but
participation in focus groups. This process becomes known as
fritzing, since people who have been fritzed seem to answer
to nothing but "Hey, Fritz]"
                                                                                                       

   SPHINXES (n.): Derived from the Greek mythical beast,
which killed any guy who came up with the wrong answer to a
question so cryptic that it didn't really have an answer to
begin with. In the future, the most dreaded executives will
be the sphinxes -- financial types in charge of shrinking
budgets in a shrinking economy. Funding will be tight, and so
will they. Ask why you can't get that new hardware approved,
and they'll just cock an eyebrowand eat your budget line.
                                                                                                       

   POWER TROUGH (n.): By the turn of the century, people will
be so sick of the traditional business lunch that
alternatives will develop. Originating in a Los Angeles deli,
the hot dining trend will involve the sharing of meals at
foot-deep communal food reservoirs running the length of the
eating establishment. Diners will merely pull up a chair and
bib and "hit the trough." When superagent Morton Janklow is
seen "troughing it" with a group that includes Henry
Kissinger and Boris Yeltsin, the power trough becomes a
national institution, supplanted in 2014, when the
food-pellet craze reaches its apogee.
                                                                                                       

   TWEENER (n.): Tweening is the process by which a computer
transforms one geometric form into another. Tweeners will be
individuals who become whatever seems advisable, people who
are willing to eat the end of an octopus's tentacle simply
because they are dining with others who do. Common usage
includes: "Let's get Chuck to OK this. He's such a tweener."
                                                                                                       

   COTTAGEHEADS (n.): Throughout the 1990s, increasing
numbers of people will be forced off the corporate rolls and
condemned to work in their basements, attics and breakfast
nooks, without benefits. Many of these will claim they enjoy
it, and perhaps they will. But extended isolation from the
lunching, munching and grindstone-nosing will take their
toll. Those who can't hack it will be known as cottageheads
-- hairless, querulous, bug-eyed eccentrics, pale from lack
of sunlight, poorly dressed in last decade's outfits, ever
searching for a human being willing to talk for more than the
length of a phone call.
                                                                                                       

   RETROGONZO (n.): RG for short. A derogatory term referring
to older Americans in their 40s who listen to lite rock in
their offices, wear what hair they possess horizontally, and
use expressions like "man," "babe" and "giving something
back" in polite conversation. This quaint evocation of prior
decades makes them the butt of young, hungry snipers in their
20s whose idea of long-term thinking extends all the way to
supper.
                                                                                                       

   PFAFFNERED (v.): The job of tomorrow will be a cluster of
duties that once belonged to up to 23.4 managers with three
support staffs. People who lose focus and get confused will
find themselves pfaffnered by these awesome obligations.
                                                                                                       

   NUNs (n.): This will be the name for the growing number of
ergatroids who shun the use of one of the most powerful
former business tools: social drinking. Instead, they will
adopt a rigid policy of taking Nothing Until Nightfall. Those
who are unable to live by these strict standards flock to
careers in sales and public relations, where they belong.
                                                                                                       

   HEARTHLINGS (n.): Good news] There will the rare
enlightened companies who move into the future with a whole
new outlook. They will grant generous maternity and paternity
leaves, offer lucrative profit-sharing schemes, and implement
other inventive and humane improvements. If you are among the
lucky hearthlings ensconced in these new age lifecorps, you
will enjoy greater security and have more fun than people
were meant to have while making money, not spending it. Won't
that be nice?
   ---
   Mr. Schwartz is a writer and business executive in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Orient-Express Hotels
   Posts 1st-Period Profit
   Vs. Year-Earlier Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<CO>
   OEH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Orient-Express Hotels Inc. reported profit of
$14.4 million, or $1.48 a share, in the fiscal first quarter,
vs. a loss of $3.1 million, or 32 cents a share, in the
year-ago quarter.
   But the quarter's results included a onetime gain of $19.4
million on the sale of a hotel and golf course in England. On
an operating basis, the hotel and travel company's loss
widened to $4.9 million from $4.4 million. Orient-Express
attributed the wider loss to the fact that the Easter
vacation period fell in the second quarter this year, while
it fell in the first quarter in 1989. Revenue rose 5.4%, to
$9.9 million from $9.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Orient-Express also said it agreed in principle to sell a
beach resort in the Bahamas to a private investor for $4.2
million. The deal is subject to approval by the Bahamian
government, and isn't expected to close until Aug. 31, the
company said.
   Orient-Express also owns or operates cruise ships and
tourist trains, including the London-to-Venice Orient
Express.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hotel Investors Picks
   Morrissey, a Director,
   As Its New President
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   HOT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Hotel Investors Trust elected director John
D. Morrissey, 53 years old, president and chief executive
officer, filling the posts vacated by John F. Rothman, 55,
who resigned in March.
   Shares of Hotel Investors Trust, a real estate investment
trust, and Hotel Investors Corp., a hotel-management concern,
are paired for trading. In New York Stock Exchange composite
trading Friday, Hotel Investors shares closed at $3.50,
unchanged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Mr. Rothman resigned, the companies had said they
didn't plan to elect a replacement, since they are selling
most of their assets in order to pursue other business
interests. But a spokeswoman said Friday that the companies
will still retain about a third of their assets, and that
"the board therefore thought it was necessary to have a
president and CEO." Hotel Investors has been in negotiations
for the asset sales in recent months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southland Approaches 2 Crucial Dates
   In Plan to Rearrange $1.8 Billion in Debt
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   SLCPC IYCOY
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southland Corp., the troubled 7-Eleven retailer,
is rapidly approaching two crucial dates in its efforts to
restructure $1.8 billion in publicly traded debt and avoid
bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   In March, the company agreed to sell 75% of its equity for
$400 million to its Japanese partners, contingent on it
restructuring its debentures and preferred stock outstanding.
Its proposed debt exchange offer, however, has drawn vigorous
opposition from bondholders and has yet to clear the
Securities and Exchange Commission so that it can be put to a
vote.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, beginning June 14, either Southland or its
Japanese investors, Ito Yokado Ltd. and Seven-Eleven Japan
can cancel the agreement at any time, although neither has
indicated it plans to do so. And on June 15, Southland must
decide whether to pay $69 million in cash interest due on two
of its debt issues and additional pay-in-kind interest due on
another issue. If it chooses to forgo the interest payments
while it tries to restructure the debt, it will have a 30-day
grace period before bondholders can try to force it into
bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   Southland hasn't yet said whether it will pay the interest
on the debt. But Friday it said that as part of its agreement
with the Japanese, it won't issue a pay-in-kind stock
dividend on its 15% cumulative exchangeable preferred stock
while it tries to swap that stock for new preferred and
common stock. Failure to pay those dividends for six quarters
would allow preferred stockholders to elect as many as two
directors to Southland's board.
   The company issued that preferred stock to its common
shareholders when it went private in a $4.9 billion leveraged
buy-out in 1987. That heavy debt load and disappointing sales
and earnings have strained the company's liquidity, making a
debt restructuring and capital infusion necessary.
   Southland said that it is in negotiations with bondholders
and their advisers, including Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., to
restructure its debt but it wouldn't elaborate on those
discussions.
   Bondholders, however, who have opposed Southland's planned
swap since the day the company described its plans, believe
that Southland's current proposal "is totally unacceptable,"
said John Gordon of Deltec Securities Corp. who is leading a
bondholders' group representing a majority of Southland's
debtholders.
   Mr. Gordon said that a steering committee of about six
institutions made a counterproposal to Southland last week,
although he wouldn't provide any details. "The bondholders as
a group are willing to agree to a restructuring that restores
this company to full financial health as long as it is a fair
one," Mr. Gordon said. But, he said, "I would be hard pressed
to think of an initial exchange offer that could be more
offensive" than Southland's current offer, which was filed
with the SEC in April.
   Among other issues, bondholders are enraged that Southland
plans to replace its current debt, much of which pays cash
interest, with zero-coupon debt that doesn't pay cash
interest and matures at later dates. In addition, under the
plan, the founding Thompson family and companies they control
would continue to own 15% of Southland's equity, giving them
a higher value for every dollar they invested in Southland
stock than many bondholders will receive. Bondholders would
own 10% of the restructured company under the plan.
   Mr. Gordon said he doesn't yet know how willing Southland
is to bend on its offer, but he said that if Southland wants
to defer its June 15 interest payment, it needs to win the
favor of bondholders soon. "I frankly think the next week is
the time when we will know whether we have any real basis for
a consentual restructuring," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comfed Bancorp
   Discloses Big Loss;
   Chairman to Quit
   ----
   By John R. Wilke and Diane Tracy
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   CFK WNEWS HNCP BBNK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Comfed Bancorp Inc. of Lowell, Mass., disclosed a huge
loss, announced that its chairman would resign and said its
auditors are expected to question its ability to continue as
a going concern.
   Separately, Home National Bank, the main unit of Milford,
Mass.-based Home National Corp., became the third
Massachusetts financial institution to be taken over by
regulators in the past five weeks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Comfed, with assets of $1.4 billion, reported a net loss
of $38.2 million, or $4.57 a share, for the fourth quarter
ended March 31, compared with a loss of $3.5 million, or 42
cents a share, a year ago.
   In a statement, Comfed said that "as is customary with
banks with negative tangible capital," it expects to receive
a report from its auditors expressing doubt about its ability
to continue as a going concern. The company said it is
subject to a range of potential regulatory actions that may
be imposed by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including
conservatorship or receivership, which "would likely cause a
total loss of stockholders' investment."
   Comfed attributed the losses to "the continued
deterioration of residential construction, income property
and mortgage loan portfolios," and a substantial provision
for estimated losses on loans. Because the declining
real-estate market has further eroded the bank's ability to
recover its assets, provisions for estimated losses of $42.6
million were added during the most recent quarter.
   The company also announced that Jefferson F. Allen,
chairman, director and chief executive officer of the company
and its subsidiary, Comfed Savings Bank, would resign,
effective June 30. The company named Jack Zoeller, president
of Comfed Savings and Comfed Mortgage Co., to succeed Mr.
Allen as president and chief executive of Comfed.
   For the full year, Comfed's net loss was $47.9 million, or
$5.73 a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $3.5
million, or 42 cents a share.
   The Home National Bank was declared insolvent Friday by
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, with the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. as receiver. The failed
bank's 10 branch offices will reopen today as branches of
BayBanks Inc.'s BayBank Middlesex subsidiary, which will
assume Home National's $440 million in deposits.
   The BayBanks unit has agreed to pay the FDIC a purchase
premium of $2 million. The unit will also purchase Home
National's cash and securities and will have options to buy
other assets later.
   To facilitate the transaction, the FDIC said it will
advance the BayBanks unit $350 million and the FDIC will
retain Home National assets with a book value of about $380
million.
   Two weeks ago, Merchants Capital Corp.'s main unit,
MerchantsBank of Boston, was declared insolvent and its $340
million in deposits assumed by Bank of Boston Corp. And in
late April, federal thrift regulators took control of Home
Owners Savings Bank in Burlington, Mass.
   Scores of New England financial institutions have been
wounded by the region's slumping real-estate market, and more
failures are expected.
   In a statement regarding Home National, the comptroller's
office said it noted a "substantial deterioration" in the
bank's loan portfolio in 1987, "due to liberal lending
practices and weak supervision by both the board of directors
and management."
   The statement said, "The OCC obtained a formal commitment
of the board to address the bank's problems. The board
subsequently replaced management, but a downturn in the local
economy exacerbated the problems in the bank's loan
portfolio."
   The agency said the bank's board attempted to raise
capital as losses mounted, but was unsuccessful. "Losses
finally exhausted the bank's capital, resulting in
insolvency," the comptroller's office said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Borden to Realign Japan Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9E
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MMP BN
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Borden Inc. said it will restructure its food
businesses in Japan over the next 18 months, moving toward
full ownership and control of its product lines.
   The producer of food, packaging and consumer and
industrial products said it makes and distributes Borden
brand ice cream, cheese and margarine in Japan. The company
until now has licensed Borden's margarine and ice cream to
Meiji Milk Products, a Japanese company. Borden also had a
joint venture manufacturing operation for cheese, which was
distributed by Meiji.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Tech Rebound
   Could Bolster
   Small Stocks
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ORCL SUNW CHPS QNTM VITA MENT OCER ATWD CLDR AMGN BGEN
APBI WMRK BNHI FSCO USBC FCOM BKLY CINF
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The technology stock rebound is no fluke, say
a number of analysts who argue that the rally will persist
and perhaps reawaken the broader small-stock market from a
seven-year stupor.
   "My guess is that the technology sector will be the bait"
to lure fund managers back to the shares of smaller
companies, says Elliott L. Schlang, a vice president of
Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben, Cleveland.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For May alone, the Nasdaq 100 index of diverse
over-the-counter stocks rose 15.6%. The index includes some
of the large computer and other technology stocks.
   "I think by fall, we'll have enough evidence to say
whether the small-stock rally is for real," adds Preston
Athey of T. Rowe Price Associates' $1 billion New Horizons
Fund. If technology stocks survive the summer without
collapsing, "you could see some real fireworks" by late
autumn.
   Skeptics say they have heard such wishful thinking before,
pointing to rallies in exchange-listed stocks that repeatedly
eluded smaller issues. But market professionals point to some
signs that 1990 may be different.
   "I think there's a very high probability that tech stocks
will continue to outperform the market," says Roger B.
McNamee, manager of the T. Rowe Price Associates Science &amp;
Technology Fund.
   This year's initial quarter was the first quarter since
1983 that the technology group has outperformed the market,
Mr. McNamee says. While he expects the surge to slow in the
typically lethargic summer season, he remains decidedly
upbeat about the group's prospects.
   Over-the-counter technology issues lately have
outperformed not only larger stocks as a group, but also
other OTC stocks. Mr. Athey notes that the Pacific Stock
Exchange index of high-technology issues is up 18.1% this
year. The Nasdaq Industrial Index of 2,789 issues is up
9.86%.
   Technology stocks still look cheap. On average, valuations
of technology issues relative to the S&amp;P 500 are the lowest
in 20 years, according to Mr. McNamee.
   His favorite stocks are leaders in their markets, among
them: Oracle Systems, a maker of regional database software;
Sun Microsystems, a technical workstations maker; Chips &
Technologies, a vendor of chips used in making IBM-compatible
microcomputers; Quantum, a disk-drive manufacturer; Vitalink
Communications, a vendor of networking equipment; and Mentor
Graphics, a maker of engineering and design software systems.
   With normal growth rates of 20% a year or more, technology
companies are much more attractive during periods of sluggish
earnings for larger companies, Mr. McNamee says. He doesn't
expect a significant rebound in the earnings of larger
companies until next year.
   Typically financed more with stock than with debt,
technology companies are less vulnerable to credit squeezes.
That's attractive when many larger companies are facing debt
headaches and uncertain economy.
   "Investors have an incredibly difficult time telling the
difference between which companies have skinned their knees
and those that have shot themselves in the head," Mr. McNamee
says. Investors who can tell the difference can take
advantage of quick sell-offs in stocks with disappointing
news. For instance, Mr. McNamee bought "a ton" of Adobe
Systems shares after that stock dropped 15 1/4 in one day
following bad news. Mr. McNamee says that Adobe is a leader
in its market although its revenue occasionally is
unpredictable.
   Mr. McNamee cautions that with the typical summer slowdown
and normal volatility, technology issues may lose as much as
20% as they ratchet their way higher. But he's optimistic
they will end the year ahead of the market.
   Managers of small-stock funds such as Mr. Athey and Alan
Radlo, manager of the $750 million Fidelity OTC Fund, are
looking for opportunities among companies with steady
earnings growth.
   Mr. Radlo says he's finding opportunities in the oil
service, health care and medical technology fields. He says
he looks for companies with 15% to 20% annual average growth
in earnings, but adds that he's willing to pay 15 times his
estimated 1991 earnings for companies with a 20% to 30%
growth outlook. With independent and major oil companies
spending more money for oil and natural gas exploration,
there's opportunity among oil service companies, he notes. He
likes Oceaneering International, Atwood Oceanics and Cliffs
Drilling, among others.
   Health care stocks are relatively safe in eras of economic
uncertainty, Mr. Radlo adds. He prospects not only among
companies developing products that may be revolutionary, but
also among service-oriented concerns. Among biotechnology
companies, he likes Amgen and Biogen. Applied Bioscience
provides critical drug testing services. Westmark
International makes non-invasive monitoring devices, such as
ultrasound systems.
   As a group, the financial sector isn't as tempting but Mr.
Radlo says he has found attractive banks with increasing
returns on assets and steady or shrinking nonperforming
loans. He likes Bancorp Hawaii, First Security, which
operates in Utah, Idaho and Wyoming, U.S. Bancorp in Oregon
and First Commerce in Louisiana. Among insurance companies,
he finds W.R. Berkley of Greenwich, Conn., and Cincinnati
Financial attractive.
   Mr. Schlang of Prescott Ball says investors are finally
recognizing the value he has found all along among smaller
companies with dependable earnings growth.
   The 22 over-the-counter stocks recommended by Mr. Schlang
in his Great Lakes Review newsletter rose an average 30.2%
last year, he says-proof that there's value to be found in
overlooked, smaller companies with steady earnings growth.
Those include Arbor Drugs, Bob Evans Farms, Calgon Carbon,
Chempower, Drug Emporium, Gibson Greetings, Jacobson Stores,
Kimball International, Juno Lighting, Lawson Products, LDI
Corp., Lilly Industrial Coatings, Medstat Systems, Oil Dri
America, Roto-Rooter, RPM Inc., Sanford Corp., Schulman,
Stryker and Tuscarora Plastics.
   Mr. Schlang says he thinks those shares can move even
higher. "The gap between the Dow {Jones Industrial Average}
and the companies I focus on is too broad," he says. "Either
the Dow has to give in," he adds, or the medium-sized
companies have to climb higher.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks rallied Friday in brisk trading.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 3.16 to 462.13, or 0.7%.
Advancing shares led declining shares by a wide margin, 1,132
to 737, as volume picked up to 168.1 million shares from
157.3 million Thursday.
   Technology stocks remained active.
   Sensormatic Electronics added 1/8 to 14 1/4 and was the
day's most active issue. Seagate rose 1/4 to 15 7/8, Conner
Peripherals advanced 7/8 to 25 5/8, Quantum gained 1/2 to 20
7/8 and Tandon edged up 1/16 to 2 3/4.
   Nike slid 5/8 to 77 7/8, dropping in sympathy with L.A.
Gear, which plunged on the New York Stock Exchange after the
footwear maker released a disappointing earnings outlook.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   More Limits Planned
   By EPA on Gasoline
   Evaporation Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Environmental Protection Agency, in an
effort to curb smog, plans to require further reductions in
the evaporation rate of gasoline sold during the summer.
   The agency estimates that the changes, which won't take
effect until 1992, will cost the nation's oil refiners about
$464 million a year and increase retail gasoline prices about
a penny a gallon. Partly offsetting this cost, the agency
figures, will be about $234 million a year in benefits to
consumers through increased fuel economy and reduced loss of
gasoline through evaporation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The delay is designed to give the industry time to convert
refineries to produce adequate supplies of the new fuel.
   The regulations set limits that will require oil refiners
to reduce the volatility, or tendency to evaporate, of fuel
to be sold from May 1 to Sept. 15. Gasoline vapors form smog
when they react with other chemicals in sunlight.
   Cars contain canisters to catch fumes, but these devices
have become inadequate as gasoline volatility has increased
in recent years. The EPA addressed the problem last year with
its first set of warm-weather standards, which the agency
says has reduced smog-forming emissions as much as 6%
nationwide.
   The latest rules are expected to cut smog-forming
emissions an additional 7%. They will require gasoline
volatility ranging from 7.8 to 9 pounds of pressure per
square inch of evaporating gasoline, with the lower limit
required in warmer states. States can request higher or lower
standards, within a range of seven to nine pounds, if local
economic or environmental conditions warrant it. Currently,
summer volatility is required to range from nine to 10.5
pounds a square inch.
   EPA administrator William Reilly said, "Gasoline
volatility control will achieve the largest emissions benefit
of any remaining control strategy EPA has identified to
reduce emissions of the volatile organic compounds that
produce smog."
   Pending clean-air legislation also would require auto
makers to enlarge or change the canisters to catch vapors
that escape during refueling. The legislation would require a
Transportation Department study of safety issues before these
changes could be required, however.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- GenCorp Inc.:
   Sale of Auto-Vinyls Plant
   To Its Employees Is Set
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GY LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   GenCorp Inc., a Fairlawn, Ohio, aerospace and automotive
parts company, said it agreed to sell its Toledo automotive
vinyls plant to employees.
   The sale was financed in part by the employee stock
ownership plan. Terms weren't disclosed. The new
employee-owned company, Textileather Corp., expects to have
annual sales of $43 million. Workers voted to take a pay cut
averaging 70 cents an hour in exchange for stock in the new
company. The plant has 280 hourly and salaried employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Optimism on Earnings, Rates Boosts Markets
   ---
   Abreast of the Market:
   Profit Forecasts
   For '90, '91 Rise
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Here's one big reason why stock prices climbed
to record levels last week: Earnings expectations for this
year and next are rising.
   After studying first-quarter earnings reports, many
analysts are starting to make much higher 1990 and 1991
corporate earnings forecasts. This trend is especially
evident in three sectors of the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index, according to Zacks Investment Research-technology,
basic materials and noncyclical consumer goods.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Something had to cause this eruption in stock prices. It
wasn't just excess cash; analysts turned more optimistic on
earnings," says Benjamin Zacks, executive vice president of
Chicago-based Zacks.
   As for other sectors, profit expectations for energy
companies are flat, while the outlook for utilities is
significantly lower, Zacks says. The profit outlook for
financial companies is improving from a low point, and
forecasts for industrial and cyclical consumer companies are
rising moderately.
   "First-quarter earnings were not as disappointing as the
prior several quarters," Mr. Zacks says. "That provided some
room for optimism for analysts looking at the remainder of
the year and into 1991."
   Analysts say that although their estimates are based
partly on the details of each company's situation, some broad
trends could be discerned in the first-quarter reports: Many
companies are seeing strong earnings in foreign markets where
economic growth is robust; and companies with strong
franchises such as Philip Morris, whose brands include
Marlboro cigarettes and Miller beer, were able to hold the
line on prices despite increased competition.
   Mr. Zacks says analysts don't expect a big jump in
second-quarter earnings but are looking to the third and
fourth quarters and particularly to 1991.
   Strong earnings give stocks a lift both because they mean
dividends may climb and because they raise the value of a
company's assets.
   John Bogle Jr., a vice president at State Street Bank &amp;
Trust Co., Boston, helps manage about $1.5 billion with a
strategy partly based on earnings expectations. "We are
seeing more upward revisions than we did a few months ago,"
he says.
   As an example, he says average 1990 earnings expectations
for Storage Technology have risen to $2.26 a share from about
$1.97 a month ago, based on an analysis of forecasts
submitted to the Institutional Brokers Estimate System.
   The percentage of analysts raising their earnings
forecasts on technology companies rose to 45% in the week
ended May 25 from 35% in the week ended April 13, according
to Zacks. In the stock market, meanwhile, the Dow Jones
Technology Sector Index rose 6.9% from mid-April through
Friday.
   Among consumer companies, Procter &amp; Gamble's 1990 earnings
are projected at $5.05 a share now, compared with less than
$5 a few weeks ago, according to Mr. Bogle. The average
forecast at Philip Morris, also in the non-cyclical consumer
sector, is up to $3.76 a share from $3.65 three months ago,
he says, and more than half of the analysts following the
company have raised their estimates.
   Among basic materials companies, Vista Chemical now is
expected to earn $5.92 a share this year, compared with
forecasts averaging $5.42 a share three months ago, Mr. Bogle
says. At the same time, estimates for Phelps Dodge, a big
copper producer, have jumped to $10.26 a share from $9.11.
   Overall, 36% of the revisions of earnings estimates for
basic materials companies are now positive, compared with 27%
in mid-April, Zacks says. Basic materials stocks, however,
have risen just 2.3% since mid-April, trailing the 5.2% gain
in the Dow Jones Equity Market Index.
   Aggregate earnings estimates for 1990 and 1991 for
companies in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index show the
same trend. For 1990, the "bottom up" or company-by-company
forecast by analysts covering all 500 stocks is up about 12%
from last year, and the "top down" forecast by economic
strategists shows a 7% increase. Zacks says its analysis of
4,000 stocks, which includes many small issues, shows
expectations of a 16% rise in earnings.
   Moreover, some analysts now say that a rally in growth
stocks -- shares of companies that have a five-year record of
earnings growing 20% annually -- may be just beginning.
Brooke Cobb, manager of Putnam Investors Fund, says investors
now face "an old-fashioned earnings-momentum type of market."
   The change in the way analysts are looking at companies is
subtle but important. Last year, buy-outs were a dominant
theme, and analysts attempted to assess companies for their
private market value, cash flow and other takeover-related
properties.
   "UAL ended that class of analysis," says Mr. Cobb,
referring to the failed buyout of the airline holding
company. "Earnings momentum models and people who invest on
that basis are doing better."
   What's striking is that shares of many high-growth
companies are not trading at large price-earnings multiples.
The average share in a growth-stock index developed by Putnam
Management Co. is trading at a 10% to 15% premium to the
current P-E ratio of the S&amp;P 500.
   "That's a historic low; in the 1972 `nifty 50' era, these
stocks traded at 55 times earnings, or at a 300% premium to
the market," says Mr. Cobb.
   Why are so many stocks with strong earnings prospects
trading relatively cheaply? Mr. Cobb says it's because
takeover-related valuation models were used by some investors
long after they had become irrelevant. Besides, the earnings
outlook was grim in the first quarter, and interest rates
were rising. That combination made cash a more attractive
investment early this year than growth stocks, he says.
   But now, interest rates are falling, making returns on
growth stocks more competitive. The yield on the 30-year
Treasury bond fell to 8.4% Friday. Mr. Cobb says he thinks
several growth stocks can make strong price advances in days
to come. He points out that PepsiCo is trading at a slight
premium to the market, but its earnings expectations continue
to climb. And he says that in their search for strong
earnings growth, many investors will turn to smaller
companies.
   "There is rally potential in a number of growth stocks --
both large and small," Mr. Cobb says.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its third record
close of the week, rising 24.31 to 2900.97 in active trading.
For the week, the industrials were up 80.05 points, or 2.8%.
   Trading was influenced by indications of a slowing economy
and expectations that interest rates will fall. Traders found
their evidence in a report of nearly flat job growth in May
and in a bond market rally.
   The S&amp;P 500-stock index also finished at another record,
adding 1.93 points to 363.16. For the week, it gained 8.58
points, or 2.4%.
   Separately, S&amp;P reported that the number of corporate
dividend increases in the first five months of this year was
down 21% from a year earlier and the number of companies
omitting payouts doubled, continuing an eight-month trend.
   Arnold Kaufman, editor of Standard &amp; Poor's Outlook, a
weekly stock-market newsletter, said the data reflect the
recent squeeze on profits and a sharp drop in hostile
takeover activity. In the current market environment,
"companies don't feel the need to please shareholders" with
generous dividends, he said.
   The dividend yield for companies in the S&amp;P 500 dropped to
3.4% from 3.6% in late April, Mr. Kaufman said, adding that
he expects the rate to hold at 3.4% for the rest of the year.
A yield below 3% is a signal that the market may be headed
for a decline. A few months before the October 1987 crash,
the dividend yield had slipped to 2.6%.
   Among the stocks not participating in Friday's rally was
L.A. Gear, which fell 21.7% and was the most active Big Board
stock at 6.6 million shares. The athletic-shoe company said
it expects to report that second-quarter per-share earnings
fell at least 34% from a year earlier. The stock fell 8 1/2
to 30 3/4.
   Large block trades pushed Varity into the second most
active position. It rose 1/8 to 3 3/8 on five million shares.
   Among other active issues, Philip Morris jumped 1 1/8 to
43 1/4 on 2.5 million shares, Westinghouse Electric advanced
7/8 to 37 1/4, and Upjohn surged 1 1/2 to 40 1/8.
   Some technology stocks that have led recent rallies sat
this one out. International Business Machines fell 1/2 to 119
1/2 and Digital Equipment lost 1 to 91 3/4.
   But Commodore International gained 1 to 9 1/8, Compaq
Computer rose 1/2 to 119 3/8, Cray Research gained 1 3/8 to
48 1/2, and Unisys closed 1/2 higher at 15.
   Expectations of lower interest rates helped several bank
stocks, as did Argentina's announcement that it will resume
interest payments on its $60 billion of foreign debt.
Citicorp was up 1 1/4 to 24, Chase Manhattan gained 1/2 to
27, Manufacturers Hanover advanced 1 to 37 5/8, J.P. Morgan
moved 1 1/4 higher to 38 7/8, and Chemical Banking was up 5/8
to 28.
   BankAmerica gained 3/4 to 31 3/8. Resolution Trust Corp.
will allow it to acquire Western Savings &amp; Loan Association,
Arizona's second largest thrift, for about $80 million.
   Oil prices slipped Thursday, and oil stocks fell Friday.
Exxon lost 1/4 to 47 3/4, Mobil was off 1/2 at 62 3/8,
Chevron fell 1/2 to 69 1/2, Amoco closed 1/8 lower at 52 3/4,
Atlantic Richfield fell 1/4 to 118, and Sun closed at 39 1/4,
down 7/8.
   Texaco and Unocal bucked the trend. Texaco rose 1/4 to 59
3/8, and Unocal was 3/8 higher at 29 7/8.
   At Wal-Mart Stores, Chairman Sam Walton said it will be
possible to double the number of stores to 3,000 over the
next 10 years. Mr. Walton also projected more than $30
billion in sales this year, compared with $25.8 billion last
year. Wal-Mart closed 2 higher at 58 3/8.
   May Department Stores predicted record earnings and sales
for the year, but its stock finished 3/8 lower at 57 1/2.
   Tribune rose 1 3/8 to 44 3/8. Goldman Sachs moved the
stock to its "focus list."
   Burlington Resources gained 1 1/4 to 43 5/8. Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report said investors may have been
reacting to test results from a Burlington unit's discovery
well in the Austin Chalk Trend in Texas. The company said it
is too early to call the discovery significant.
   Lowe's finished 1 1/4 higher at 48 1/2. The company told
analysts that 1991 earnings could be higher than previous
estimates.
   (See related story: "Credit Markets: Rates Expected to
Ease Further" -- WSJ June 4, 1990.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publishing
   ---
   Reporter's Notebook --
   Booksellers Pass the Word at Convention:
   The Trend Is Big Stores, Broad Selection
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   KM CRWN
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAS VEGAS, Nev. -- For book lovers -- those who prefer
bookstores that sell more books than video games and party
favors -- there is good news from the American Booksellers
Association's annual convention.
   Bookstore owners attending the convention, which runs
through tomorrow, say the overriding trend in bookstores
today is bigger stores that carry a broad selection of
titles, including previous titles by authors and books by
emerging writers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The trend is breadth: The public is interested in
everything," says Edward A. Morrow Jr., president of the
American Booksellers and owner of the Northshire Bookstore in
Manchester Center, Vt. Mr. Morrow says that the vast
expansion in bookstores in the 1980s, coupled with the
demographic growth of book-buying, well-educated yuppies, has
led to an increase in book sales in many areas, from computer
and self-help books to literary fiction.
   Mr. Morrow says that he added non-book items to his own
stock in years past "for defensive reasons, because margins
were better. But now, it's so important to have depth to be
competitive that we're looking to cut back in stationery and
maybe games, so we'll have more room for books."
   Not only are independent bookstore owners re-emphasizing a
broad, thoughtful selection of books, but the big bookstore
chains are also adding titles. The two biggest chains, B.
Dalton, a unit of closely held BDB Inc., and the Waldenbooks
unit of K mart Corp., are adding titles in their mall stores
and expanding smaller chains, such as Brentano's, which is
owned by Waldenbooks, that have more books, a classy image
and lots of service.
   The most extreme shift is that of Crown Books Corp., a
discount chain based in Landover, Md., which has grown to 260
stores by selling a limited selection of mostly best sellers
for discounts as high as 40%.
   Crown is just starting to build a series of Super Crown
stores, which have three times as many titles as the old
stores, or about 30,000, says President Robert Haft. Two
Super Crown stores that opened within the past three weeks
near Washington offer discounts even on specially ordered
books. The ambiance of the stores, with piped in classical
music and benches that encourage browsing, isn't what Crown
is known for.
   Mr. Haft, who says people tend to spend about one-third
more money at the new, bigger stores, says: "We just listened
to our customers. They said they loved our prices but there
were more books they wanted to read. I think it's a trend
reflected in all kinds of retailing. People don't just want
low prices, but also service and selection." Mr. Haft says he
has signed leases for four more Super Crown bookstores, and
if they do well, more will follow.
   Among the hundreds of exhibitors' booths here, there are
plenty of non-book products vying for booksellers'
attentions. There are half a dozen booths offering fancy
bookmarks alone, plus others selling videotapes, games,
stuffed animals, rubber stamps, post cards and
answering-machine audiotapes featuring impersonations of
movie stars. There is even a patented invention by housewife
Patty Sremba of Anaheim Hills, Calif., called a Sunbuddy, a
little paper device retailing for $1.99 that pops up to shade
a paperback book from the sun.
   Even while the staffs of New York publishing houses moan
about the tackiness of Vegas, there seems to be a consensus
among the bookish crowd that this ABA convention has been
more respectful about books than some in years past. "It
seems like there was more frivolity at earlier conventions;
lots of fitness celebrities and people dressed as cartoon
characters," says novelist Mark Childress. "This year, it
seems like everybody is running around trying to get galleys
{uncorrected, pre-publication copies of books} before they
run out. The focus is on the books."
   ---
   Proof of the mass popularity of bookstores comes from a
new national poll, released by the ABA at the convention.
   Bernard Rath, executive director of the Booksellers
Association, says that 93 million Americans visit a bookstore
at least once a month, according to a national telephone
survey conducted by Wirthlin Group. Of those who visit a
bookstore at least once a month, says Mr. Rath, about 54% are
women; and 62% of the visitors are between the ages of 18 and
44. New England and the Pacific region stand out for their
share of bookstore traffic.
   Since the ABA hasn't conducted such a survey before, it
isn't clear whether people are visiting bookstores more or
less often than in the past, but bookstore sales have been
climbing rapidly, says Mr. Rath. A recent ABA/Commerce
Department report showed an increase in retail bookstore
sales to $5.1 billion in 1987, from $3.1 billion in 1982.
Sales are expected to reach $7.2 billion in 1990. st
   ---
   Amid the optimism, Mr. Rath, the ABA executive director,
sees several discouraging trends. The survey on bookstore
visits showed that only half the 93 million Americans that
enter a bookstore monthly actually buy a book. Mr. Rath
believes that publishers and booksellers have to band
together to aggressively promote reading.
   One possible tool for promoting books and reading is a new
weekly television series, "First Edition," conceived by a
group of public television producers. At a meeting in the
convention center Saturday, Mr. Rath presented the idea to a
small group of influential bookstore owners, hoping to get
them to help commit some funding that could then be added to
anticipated corporate and foundation support.
   The new show would be produced by KQED, a public
television station in San Francisco. The producers emphasize
that this wouldn't be another talking-heads show with
professorial writers blathering on. Marjorie Poore, vice
president for national production at KQED, says the show is
modeled more on the syndicated "Entertainment Tonight" than
news shows on public television. It would feature visits to
authors at their homes; reports on industry trends, gossip
and best sellers and reviews, says Ms. Poore.
   Booksellers and publishing executives in the room wondered
if publishers would have enough money in their promotional
budgets for such a venture. Even if funding is found, Ms.
Poore says, "First Edition" probably won't get on the air
before fall of 1991.
   ---
   There is little doubt among convention-goers about what
will be THE big book this fall: "The Plains of Passage" by
Jean Auel.
   It certainly isn't because Ms. Auel's publisher, the Crown
Publishing unit of Random House, threw a party for 1,000
people on Saturday night, complete with wild-animal sounds
and a ballroom-sized copy of the book's cover. (Actually, it
wasn't the cover but a movie backdrop from the film "The Old
Gringo.") This is Ms. Auel's fourth book in a series about a
couple living in the Ice Age that started with "Clan of the
Cave Bear" in 1979. Her last offering, "The Mammoth Hunters"
came out five years ago, and her fans have been eagerly
awaiting the next book.
   Tom Simon, a Waldenbooks vice president, says "People have
been asking for this book for years. Thousands of people have
called Waldenbooks to reserve a copy of this, and it won't be
out for months."
   In general, booksellers take for granted that new novels
by all the big guns, such as John Updike ("Rabbit at Rest" is
out this fall from Knopf) and Jackie Collins will
automatically be published in huge quantities, heavily
advertised and sought out by fans. Thus, they are pretty sure
to be best sellers. Betting gets much trickier when it comes
to books, however promising, by little-known authors.
   But one author who may make the leap to bestsellerdom this
year is Mr. Childress, whose third novel, "Tender," is
getting special treatment from Harmony, a unit of Random
House's Crown Publishing. Bruce Harris, an executive vice
president of Random House, says the novel, about an Elvis
Presley-like rock star, "just got everybody excited at Crown
when they read it." When a copy was sent to Stephen King, the
bestselling author contributed a blurb calling the book "the
best rock 'n' roll novel I ever read."
   Mr. Harris decided to promote the book heavily, including
a 15-city author tour this fall, plus a party at the ABA
convention. Trying to create a buzz about the book among
booksellers, "Tender" is the only book he's handing out in
galleys this year. Mr. Harris recalls that a decade ago, he
handed out galleys at the ABA convention of "Clan of the Cave
Bear;" he hopes "Tender" will be a "surprise" best seller,
too.
   ---
                   The Buzz in Publishing:
                     Expected Hot Books
                                                                                                       

 The Plains of Passage by Jean Auel; from Crown, a unit of
Random House
                                                                                                       

 Burden of Proof by Scott Turow; from Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux
                                                                                                       

 Bo Knows Bo by Bo Jackson and Dick Schaap; from Bantam
Doubleday Dell
                                                                                                       

 Harlot's Ghost by Norman Mailer; from Random House
                                                                                                       

 Lady's Boss by Jackie Collins; from Simon &amp; Schuster
                                                                                                       

 The General in His Labyrinth by Gabriel Garcia Marquez; from
Knopf, a unit of Random House
                                                                                                       

 Tender by Mark Childress; from Harmony, a unit of Random
House
                                                                                                       

 Trump: Surviving at the Top by Donald Trump; from Random
House
                                                                                                       

 Message From Nam by Danielle Steel; from Bantam Doubleday
Dell
                                                                                                       

 The First Man in Rome by Colleen McCollough; from Morrow, a
unit of Hearst Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rexworks Inc. Stake Reported
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7D
</SO>
<CO>
   REXW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- William J. Nasgovitz, president of Heartland
Advisors Inc., a Milwaukee investment advisory firm, said he
holds a 5.2% stake in Rexworks Inc.'s common stock for
investment purposes.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Mr. Nasgovitz said he holds 93,552 shares, including 39,000
shares purchased between May 4 and May 21 for $3.50 to $3.73
a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rexworks, based in Milwaukee, makes concrete mixer
equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Firms Mull Private Placement
   Now That Disclosure Rules Have Eased
   ----
   By Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese companies, especially banks, are looking
closely at the possibility of offering securities through
private placements in the U.S., now that the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission has eased disclosure requirements.
   Until recently, many Japanese companies were wary of
offering securities in the U.S. because of SEC rules that
required them to make extensive disclosures of important
financial data. On April 30, however, the U.S. eased those
requirements in an amendment known as Rule 144a.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The change is aimed at simplifying private placements of
unregistered securities. It allows companies to place
securities with institutional investors whose securities
investments total $100 million or more without making full
financial disclosures. They need only provide the same
materials that they offer to regulators in their home
countries.
   The rule change promises to create a large secondary
market in unregistered securities among big financial
institutions. About 4,000 U.S. investors qualify to trade in
the new, unregistered securities. If the securities are
liquid, or easily traded, companies will have an easier time
selling them and thus will be able to obtain funds more
cheaply through private placements than they can now.
   The maiden test of the new rule came last week -- as the
Swedish industrial and construction equipment maker Atlas
Copco AB completed a 1.3 billion Swedish kronor (US$212
million) equity offering that included a portion placed in
the U.S. under Rule 144a.
   U.S. investment banks now have seized on the new rule to
approach normally secretive Japanese companies with the
possibility of underwriting private placements in the U.S. So
far, says Clive G.N. Galliver, a vice president at CS First
Boston (Japan) Ltd., Japanese companies are studying the
modification with "a great deal of curiosity, but also a
great deal of caution."
   Still, he predicts, "once several transactions have been
done, I think Japanese companies will have the comfort level
to go forward."
   Among the companies most closely studying the possibility
are Japanese banks. Many of them still have to meet tough new
international capital standards that will come into full
effect in 1993. But, with Japan's stock market off sharply in
the first quarter and a resulting temporary suspension of
Euromarket offerings by Japanese concerns, their prospects of
meeting those standards have been clouded. Their shortage of
equity capital already has prompted some banks here to start
curtailing their lending.
   Japanese banks concede the SEC rule modification has added
a new alternative for raising funds and they say they are
willing to take advantage of it. But, with the stock market
still feeble, the market situation itself isn't favorable.
   "Who would be willing to buy them now?" asks a senior
official at Mitsubishi Bank Ltd. He also pointed out that the
image of bank stocks in the U.S. isn't very positive.
Mitsubishi is the only Japanese bank to list its stock on
Wall Street, using American Depository Receipts.
   An official at Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank Ltd. says the mood
of American investors will determine whether Japanese banks
go ahead. "Given the current situation, I think Japanese
companies, including banks, want to increase their fund
raising in the Yankee market, but it depends on how American
investors would respond to it," he says.
   The creation of another source of funds for Japanese
companies comes at a crucial time. The plunge in Japanese
share prices early this year brought stocks down as much as a
third from their peak at the end of 1989 and prompted Japan's
securities houses to declare a temporary moratorium on new
equity-linked financings. Sherman S. Abe, another senior
official at CS First Boston here, says Japanese companies
probably won't consider U.S. private placements until that
suspension is lifted. Once they start raising money again,
Japanese companies are likely to seek a lot. Last year,
Japan's major companies raised nearly 25 trillion yen
(US$164.23 billion) of funds through equity sales.
   Companies most likely to place equity in the U.S. are
those with strong growth potential, the kind of companies
American investors like. The regulatory change is "most
attractive to some of the smaller high growth companies . . .
because their fundamental story is exciting," CS First
Boston's Mr. Galliver says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   L.A. Gear to Post First Quarterly Drop
   In Profit in 3 Years; Stock PLunges 22%
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   LA
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   MARINA DEL REY, Calif. -- Investor fears that L.A. Gear
Inc. might trip over its gilded shoelaces materialized as the
sneaker-maker disclosed that it will report its first
quarterly drop in net income in three years.
   Shares of the company plunged $8.50, or 22%, on volume of
6.6 million shares in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading Friday. Trading was halted briefly after L.A. Gear's
announcement. The stock closed at $30.75, nearly $20 a share
below the record high of $50.375 that it hit just one week
earlier. The plunge culminated a nosedive that began last
Tuesday when Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. cut its recommendation on
the highflying stock to "hold" from "buy."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   L.A. Gear said that per-share net income for its second
quarter ended May 31 was between 50 cents and 60 cents,
compared with 91 cents a year earlier. That was despite
record sales of about $225 million, up from $169.6 million a
year ago. The company estimated that per-share net income for
the full year will be "approximately equal to the low end" of
analysts' estimates, which had been a range of $4 to $4.50 a
share, compared with $3.01 a share for fiscal 1989.
   "Their days of nonstop growth are over," Kidder analyst
Gary Jacobson said Friday, after listening to an hour-long
conference call in which the company tried to explain why
earnings had plummeted. L.A. Gear executives didn't return
phone calls seeking comment.
   In its statement, L.A. Gear blamed the drop on its product
mix, citing increased sales of lower-priced, less-profitable
shoes that it had pushed in order to gain market share and
retail shelf space. The company, which is third in the market
behind Nike Inc. and Reebok International Ltd., had set a
goal for itself last year of being "No. 1 in '91."
   Shipments of newer shoe styles that are potentially more
profitable -- including a line plugged by singer Michael
Jackson and an expanded line of hiker-style shoes -- were
"negligible" during the second quarter, L.A. Gear said.
Earnings were also affected by increased sales of L.A. Gear
apparel and international sales of its footwear, both of
which have lower profit margins than domestic sales of
footwear, the company said.
   Kidder's Mr. Jacobson said he turned cool on L.A. Gear
stock last week because of its rapid price rise, coupled with
his "concern about a little softness in the quarter." But the
amount of the drop in profit caught him -- and most everyone
else on Wall Street -- off guard. "I did not in my wildest
dreams expect anything of this magnitude," he said. The
analyst said he's cutting his earnings estimate on the
company to between $3 and $3.50 a share for the current
fiscal year, despite the higher estimates of company
officials.
   Phone lines at L.A. Gear's headquarters here were jammed
Friday with angry investors demanding an explanation for the
sudden change in the company's fortunes. Just a week earlier
the stock had soared on the announcement that pop singer
Paula Abdul, formerly Reebok's pitchwoman, was joining L.A.
Gear's stable of stars. Several top brokerage houses had buy
recommendations out on the stock.
   There was some warning of problems ahead. When L.A. Gear
posted first-quarter results at the end of March, the company
noted that profit margins for the quarter had fallen to 39.3%
from 43.3% a year earlier. L.A. Gear cited then the same
causes that it gave for Friday's announcement.
   L.A. Gear said that despite the bad news about earnings,
business for the rest of the year looks brisk. Incoming
orders during the second quarter were about $400 million, up
more than 50% from a year ago. "The increase in orders,
together with strong retail demand for our new styles, makes
us confident in our ability to post renewed increases in
subsequent periods," said Robert Greenberg, L.A. Gear's
chairman and chief executive officer, in the company's
statement. Delivery of the company's newer styles is planned
for the third and fourth quarters to coincide with the
back-to-school and holiday selling seasons, he said.
   Still, some observers say investors shouldn't hold their
breath over all the new styles. "I think that probably the
Michael Jackson stuff hasn't done as well as they
anticipated," said John Horan, publisher of Sporting Goods
Intelligence, a trade publication. "There was a lot of
speculation that in Japan it was going to be a really major
number, and now the Asics people {distributors of the shoes
in Japan} aren't looking for giant numbers from that." More
important to L.A. Gear, he said, will be the success of its
hiker-style shoes. "They've got a lot riding on that
program."
   Sutro &amp; Co. analyst Jonathan Ziegler, who also cut his
recommendation on L.A. Gear to "hold" last Tuesday, said the
company insists the drop in earnings "is a hiccup." As for
himself, he said, "I think they may be right, but I'm going
to stand back and watch from the sidelines."
   L.A. Gear's stock has been on a roller coaster since last
year, when it soared on record earnings and the announcement
of the sponsorship agreement with Mr. Jackson. But the stock
sank in November and December on a string of developments
that included a criminal investigation into alleged
underpayment of customs duties; a lowering of earnings
estimates by an analyst; and the resignation of the chief
financial officer over a pay dispute. That, coupled with
concern that consumers might be turning away from the
company's trendy styles, sent the company's stock price to a
low of $22.50 in December.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Higher Tech
   ---
   Future Shock:
   Your Office Will Look Different 10 Years From Now,
   But You May Not Like It Any Better
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R19
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   THE OFFICE OF TODAY: An employee arrives in the morning
full of hope, sits behind a desk -- and feels sick. It's easy
to see why.
   On the left side of the desk, the in-basket totters under
a load of fresh paper work. Some of it has spilled onto a
three-ring binder hogging a couple of square feet of
adjoining space. It's a procedures manual; everybody has one,
and nobody uses it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The employee's eye moves past the Rolodex (many entries
are out of order and others are illegible); the gee-whiz
telephone with its advanced features that have never been
mastered; and a stack of legal pads and notebooks. The
employee's gaze rests finally on a formless heap of paper
that has settled over the whole right-hand side of the desk.
Somewhere in there are crucial warehouse inventory reports
and faxes that need responses. The remaining work space, a
tiny, irregular oval, is lightly dusted with paper clips,
notes and a scattering of pens, some of them defunct.
   ---
   And the office of the future, say 10 years or so from now?
Still a mess. But different. Much different.
   Paper won't disappear, but there will be tons less of it
on the desktop. Instead of the bulky personal computer next
to the desk, a single worker may have many computers that
won't look -- or function -- at all like what's available
now. And there is the prospect of an electronic organism we
can call Hydra, the office equivalent of the nine-headed
monster that Hercules slew as one of his labors.
   Experts in computers and office applications are by no
means in unanimous agreement about the exact shape of the
office of the future. But their differences are overshadowed
by general agreement on broad developmental themes.
   Today's office workers have to take action to plug
themselves into the electronic-information flow. Tomorrow's
workers will have to take action to cut themselves out of it,
and their bosses might raise an eyebrow if they do.
   One reason: Cellular modems will vastly expand the reach
of computer communications. Right now anyone who isn't
connected to a wire, telephone or otherwise is blissfully out
of touch. With the wireless communication that cellular
technology makes possible, it will be hard to hide.
   Many experts believe that this development, and others
paralleling it, will lead to networks enmeshing people and
their computers around the clock and around the world.
"You'll be reachable, no matter when it is, no matter where
you are," says Norman Weizer, senior consultant at Arthur D.
Little Inc. "The problem will be how much privacy you want."
Some related predictions:
   -- Few computers will have on-off switches; they will be
on all the time, receiving phone messages, storing electronic
mail (e-mail, as it's called, will become as important as the
telephone), and nagging their principal users to reply.
Moreover, workers will be equipped with locaters; their
office computer will be able to raise them -- on the golf
course, at the movies, wherever and whenever. In big offices,
a single human secretary manning an electronic locater board
will be able to tell the boss where everybody is at any
moment.
   -- Wherever you are, your work can be with you; the
"office in a briefcase" will be reality. Even if they're only
going down the hall, executives will carry a pocket-sized
phone and often a lightweight, full-featured computer as
well. The computer will have a cellular modem, allowing it to
stay in touch with its parent at the office. "We're not
talking about Dick Tracy's wristwatch computer here," says
Mr. Weizer. "But it'll be pretty close."
   For the people who love to wheel and deal on their car
phones, this new world will be a dream of connectivity come
true. For anyone who hates the very idea of being tied to
even such a simple device as a beeper, it will be a
nightmare.
   Tomorrow's desktop will have its own special kind of
litter, if Mark Weiser is right. He is head of the computer
science laboratory at Xerox Corp.'s famed Palo Alto Research
Center, where many advances in computing during the 1980s
were shaped. Mr. Weiser sees an office not piled with paper
but strewn with computers.
   "By the year 2000, the personal computer as we know it
will start to die away," he predicts. "When you walk into an
office, you won't see a recognizable computer: no monitor, no
obvious keyboard. But in fact, you'll be looking at several
hundred computers. They'll be all over -- on files, in
drawers, on other computers."
   Some will be small but powerful "notepad" computers. Each
will be dedicated to a special task or tasks, and each will
be able to recognize its user's handwriting, which will be
scrawled directly on its screen surface with a stylus. One
may be used for drafting correspondence, for example, while
another will hold information on customers. Still others may
be "scrap computers" used to record an executive's random
thoughts and jottings -- even doodles -- in electronic form.
   Mr. Weiser envisions even tinier machines, high-tech
"Post-it" computers that will allow users to add their
comments, data, and even voice messages to just about
anything in sight. Such a computer may cling to an optical
disk that holds accounting data, for instance, giving its
user details of seven accounts that must be modified during
the next accounting cycle. And all these computers will
communicate with one another via cellular linkups, so that
documents zip from place to place invisibly.
   Most other experts, however, believe that workers 10 years
from now will still depend mainly on one computer rather than
many, and will still be typing at keyboards at least some of
the time. But they agree with Mr. Weiser on other important
elements. Predictions:
   -- Computer screens will be flat, not the bulky vacuum
tubes of today. They could be hung on walls like pictures,
or, more likely, be set unobtrusively into desktops.
   -- Handwriting recognition will indeed flourish, as Mr.
Weiser believes, and there will be some note-pad and similar
computers in the office environment. Desktop computers may
have a note pad as well as a keyboard. Because the technology
isn't intimidating -- it works just like a pen and paper --
note-pad computers will become invaluable for secretaries,
journalists, and others who deal with people.
   "Can you imagine sitting across from someone and tapping
away at a keyboard while they're talking?" asks Jerry Kaplan,
a computer pioneer whose Go Corp. is developing a note-pad
computer. "This technology will break through the barriers
that computers have raised between people." The combination
of the accessible flat screen and handwriting recognition
will induce even technophobic chief executives to make much
greater use of computers.
   -- Computers will also be able to communicate through
voice, though the experts are split on how prevalent this
will be. Many envision computers that accept certain voice
commands (that's possible already) and perhaps even computers
that take dictation. Pierre Hessler, director of marketing
and services at International Business Machines Corp., raises
the possibility of computers that hook into telephones and
translate foreign languages as they are spoken.
   But will users take to applications like this? Mr. Weizer
of Arthur D. Little is skeptical. "People don't like talking
to machines, and they don't like machines talking to them,"
he says.
   Aside from looking different, computers in 2000 will be
vastly more powerful. Most experts predict that everyday
desktop computers will pack at least the power of today's
mainframes -- 100 mips, or millions of instructions per
second -- and possibly a lot more. Some of this muscle will
be directed at making computers faster, but a lot will go
toward making them far more versatile and much easier to use.
Some of the things more power will bring:
   -- Almost all computers will have color displays that
approach photographic quality and are extremely intuitive --
so easy to understand that someone with no training at all
could look at the screen and easily see how to get a desired
result. Some experts, including Paul Saffo of the Institute
for the Future in Menlo Park, Calif., suggest that the
computer will take on multiple personalities, depending on
what the user wants it to do. Instead of calling up a
scheduling program, for example, an executive may hit a
single button that summons a computer "secretary," who will
remind the executive of a Thursday squash game. Or the
executive may simply touch a tiny picture, or icon, on the
screen representing a secretary.
   -- Computers will be able to handle video images easily.
Video capability is important for "multimedia" computing, the
mixing of data with sound and images, but it may also open
the door to video communication.
   By 2000, the computer will be closely linked to the
telephone, and the two may have merged entirely. People will
still communicate by voice but improved telecommunications
technology (known as Integrated Service Digital Network, or
ISDN) will allow live pictures and lots of data to be
transmitted too. These will start popping up on computer
screens. Says Franklin Reece, chairman of Boston-based
USTeleCenters Inc.: "In 10 years we're going to know people a
lot better. We'll be looking at each other when we talk, and
we'll have their kid's birthday and their favorite food at
our fingertips."
   -- With so many computers hooked together and so much
information flying around, data security and data integrity
will be big issues. Lots of computing power will be devoted
to keeping records safe from tampering: Before it allows
anyone to open a file or change a document, a computer may
ask for voice identification, a thumbprint or a retina scan.
   -- Computer programs using artificial intelligence will
sift through the avalanche of information and present it in a
way tailored to the precise needs of the user. "People will
get a competitive edge just from the way they sort through
information," says computer columnist John Dvorak. "Those who
have better methods will keep them secret, sharing with only
a few friends." Bond traders, for example, will jealously
guard proprietary software that isolates the nuggets of
information on which they buy and sell.
   Computers and telephones aren't the only machines that
will get closer together. By 2000, most office technology
will be digital -- allowing different parts of it to
communicate in a common language.
   To many experts, this suggests an inevitable merger of
several machines that now operate separately because they
don't understand each other. In time, they say, we probably
won't be able to point to any office machine (except perhaps
the coffee maker) and define its purpose with a simple
phrase.
   Fax machines, all the rage now, won't exist. To send a
letter, a picture or graph -- all of which will be generated
on a computer screen -- around the world, users will need
only to push the "send " button on their computers to achieve
a paperless transmission. As for copiers, they, too, will be
submerged as recognizable entities, transformed into the
scanning and printing arms of a unified, computerized work
organism.
   That organism, some experts say, could easily take the
shape of a single desktop machine performing many functions.
"A machine like a Hydra won't be multifunctional because it's
designed to be multifunctional," says Jim Ivy of Ricoh Corp.,
which is experimenting with such devices. "It will be
multifunctional because that's where the technology naturally
leads."
   ---
   Mr. Hooper reports on technology from The Wall Street
Journal's New York bureau.
   ---
                      PCs in the Office
                                                                                                       

   Based on a 1990 survey of 8,000 personal-computer users in
the workplace
                                                                                                       

                      Age of Equipment
                                                                                                       

   More than half of the personal computers currently used in
business are less than three years old
                                                                                                       

   Year of purchase
                                                                                                       

   1985 or before .................................... 18%
   1986 .............................................. 10
   1987 .............................................. 18
   1988 .............................................. 27
   1989 .............................................. 24
   1990 ..............................................  3*
                                                                                                       

   *As of March
                                                                                                       

                      Type of Software
                                                                                                       

   Percent of workers using software at least once a month,
by type:
                                                                                                       

   Word processing ................................... 84%
   Spreadsheet ....................................... 63
   Database management ............................... 48
   Graphics .......................................... 39
   File management ................................... 35
   Communications .................................... 33
   Integrated ........................................ 28
   Desktop publishing ................................ 28
   Accounting ........................................ 25
   Desktop environment ............................... 23
   Engineering/scientific/technical .................. 14
   Project management (scheduling) ................... 11
                                                                                                       

   Source: InfoCorp/Gartner Group, 1990
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   EC Sends Soviet Refugees Aid
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- The European Community Commission last Friday
sent 500,000 European currency units ($607,150) in emergency
aid to refugees in the Soviet republics of Armenia and
Azerbaijan. The aid was to be handled by the Belgian branch
of a French medical charity, Doctors Without Borders.
   The money will provide medical aid to about 30,000
Armenians who fled to Armenia from Azerbaijan following civil
unrest there last January, and to 15,000 Azerbaijanis who
left Armenia for Azerbaijan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Motors Corp.:
   Some 1985 Models Recalled
   For Air-Fuel Calibration
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Motors Corp. has started recalling about 410,000
1985-model cars that exceed the federal exhaust standard for
carbon monoxide, the Environmental Protection Agency said.
   The models are the Buick Electra, Century and Somerset
Regal; the Oldsmobile Ninety-Eight Regency, Calais and
Cutlass Ciera and Cruiser; and the Pontiac Grand Am. All have
3.0- or 3.8-liter multiport fuel-injected engines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The repair, which should take about 30 minutes, is free.
The EPA discovered the problem during routine testing. To
correct it, GM will install a modified computer memory chip
to alter the engine's air-fuel calibration.
   Excessive amounts of carbon monoxide -- a byproduct of
incomplete fuel combustion -- can weaken heart contractions,
and can be particularly harmful to people with lung disease,
anemia or cerebral-vascular disease.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Smurfit to Buy Line in France
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9A
</SO>
<CO>
   U.JSG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The packaging and paper company Jefferson
Smurfit Group PLC, Ireland's largest industrial concern, said
it will purchase the corrugated case operations of Cie.
Generale de Papiers S.A. of France for about 235 million
francs ($41 million).
   Smurfit said the planned acquisition, its first in France,
"represents an important step in Smurfit's stated aim of
expansion in Europe." The deal requires approval by the
French company's shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   LIFE TECHNOLOGIES Inc.'s stock rose 3/4 Thursday to 15
3/4. Friday's OTC Focus column gave an incorrect closing
price.
   (See: "OTC Focus: Market Increases Slightly as Investors
Await Unemployment Data; Tyco Up 2 3/4" -- WSJ June 1, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   ESOP FINANCE TRUST's 9.35% Eurobonds due June 27, 1995,
are not guaranteed by Exxon Corp. In Friday's list of New
Securities Issues, it was incorrectly stated that the bonds
are guaranteed by Exxon.
   (See: "New Securities Issues" -- WSJ June 1, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Im Bank Backs Israeli Loan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST ALD
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Export-Import Bank said it will
guarantee a $20.4 million loan to Israel Aircraft Industries
Ltd. for the purchase of equipment from U.S. suppliers.
   The Israeli government-owned aerospace company plans to
buy aircraft engines, test equipment and other machinery for
manufacturing, modifying and repairing commercial aerospace
products. The Ex-Im Bank said the Garrett Engine Division of
Allied-Signal Aerospace Co., a Phoenix, Ariz., subsidiary of
Allied-Signal Inc., will be the primary supplier of the
equipment, which is valued at about $24 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alberta Telephones Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   EDMONTON, Alberta -- The government of Alberta said it
intends to privatize the Alberta Government Telephones
Commission after passage of legislation that would
restructure AGT financially and legally.
   The Alberta Treasury said all AGT debentures outstanding,
payable in Canadian and U.S. funds, will continue to be
unconditionally guaranteed as to principal and interest by
the provincial government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the restructuring, all AGT assets, including
investments in nonregulated entities, will be owned by wholly
owned subsidiaries of a new holding company. A public
offering of common shares in the holding company would
follow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Bid for Mecca
   Leisure Totals
   $859.4 Million
   ----
   By Barbara Toman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MGR RANKY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Mecca Leisure Group PLC soon may pay the
ultimate price for a 1988 takeover gamble.
   Financially weakened by debt from that acquisition, Mecca
is the target of a hostile #512 million ($859.4 million)
offer from rival British entertainment giant Rank
Organisationrank PLC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rank said it would offer 90.9 pence ($1.53) of new Rank
ordinary shares for each ordinary Mecca share. The
bingo-parlor and entertainment concern swiftly rejected
Rank's offer, saying it "has excellent long-term prospects as
an independent operator" and that Rank's offer undervalues
the company.
   Mecca's shares, however, traded Friday at just 87.5 pence
on London's stock exchange, up 3.5 pence from Thursday but
still below Rank's offer price. And before rumors of a
possible bid began circulating in early May, Mecca shares
were trading at just 58 pence.
   Two years ago, Mecca paid about #700 million for
Pleasurama PLC, a much larger casino and leisure concern and
owner of the Hard Rock Cafe restaurant chain. Mecca, which
also operates vacation parks and nightclubs, since has
struggled to integrate the Pleasurama operations and weather
a decline in U.K. consumer spending. Debt taken to finance
the acquisition has hurt its earnings.
   Analysts say Mecca's days of independence may be numbered.
"I really don't see what they can pull out of the bag," said
Julie Feaver, an analyst at British brokerage County NatWest
WoodMac. "There's nothing they can really say" to keep
shareholders' loyalty, she said, and a friendly counterbid is
unlikely.
   Mecca could win a reprieve if the U.K. government decides
to launch a monopoly investigation. Such an inquiry appears
likely, as Mecca and Rank together would own 20% of Britain's
bingo parlors and would account for 30% of the spending in
them, Ms. Feaver said. But the government is likely to
approve the deal eventually, she said, as long as Rank agrees
to sell some bingo halls.
   Rank, which is much larger than Mecca, had pretax profit
of #291.1 million on sales of #1.09 billion in the year ended
Oct. 31. Rank's interests include trailer parks, leisure
centers, a 50% stake in the Rank Xerox copy-machine maker and
film and television services. Mecca had 1989 pretax profit of
#91.1 million on sales of #588.4 million. Analysts estimate
Mecca's debt at #460 million. In January, the company said it
would try to reduce debt by raising #250 million through
asset sales.
   Rank said there would be "extensive benefits" in combining
the two companies, citing potential savings on marketing and
operations. Rank's shares tumbled after Friday's announcement
to 803 pence, down 15. Analysts attributed the drop to the
prospective issue of new stock. Rumors of a possible Rank bid
for Mecca had sparked concern that Rank might pay too much,
but "at this price, {the offer} seems sensible," said Max
Dolding, an analyst at James Capel &amp; Co. here.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Peru's May Inflation Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9D
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   LIMA, Peru -- Peru's monthly inflation rate hit 32.8% in
May, bringing the accumulated rate over the past 12 months to
1,968%, according to official figures.
   The National Statistics Institute's figures showed a
decline from April's inflation rate of 37.3%. Prices have
risen 309.9% so far this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Peru's inflation reached 2,775% in 1989, the highest rate
in the nation's history.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Where We'll Be
   ----
   All Play and No Work:
   One Critic Believes That the Future
   Belongs to the Zero-Work Movement
   ----
   By Bob Black
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R17
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   THE BEST FUTURE for the workplace is none at all.
   With belated notice taken of a crisis in the workplace,
consultants are coming forth with faddish reforms that have
one thing in common: They do nothing to excite interest among
the workers themselves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And little wonder. Done to -- and not for -- workers, the
reforms are business as usual, part pep rally, part
painkillers. They may raise productivity temporarily, but
only until the novelty wears off. For tinkering with the who,
what, when and where of work doesn't touch the source of the
malaise. That is, work itself.
   Consider working at home. Moving your work from the office
to the home is like emigrating from Romania to Ethiopia in
search of a better life. Or take flextime. As the office joke
goes, it's for professionals who now can work any 60 hours a
week they like. Flextime also does little for the vast number
of service-sector workers -- the short-order cook who would
like to avoid the lunch-hour shift, or the bus driver who
prefers not to drive at rush hour.
   Such "job-enrichment" schemes are too little, too late.
Disenchantment with work runs as deeply here as
disenchantment with communism does in Eastern Europe. How
else to explain the market for tranquilizers such as flextime
or working at home? How else to explain absenteeism,
job-jumping, the theft of goods and services, and efforts at
work so perfunctory as to verge on sabotage? These are the
ways the little fish emulate the big fish who market junk
bonds and loot savings and loans. What if there was a general
strike -- and it proved permanent because it made no demands,
it was already the satisfaction of all demands?
   Don't be fooled by the techno-futurologists, whose
predictions take work for granted. That's reason enough to be
skeptical. They never yet foresaw a future that came to pass.
They talked of moving sidewalks and single-family air-cars,
not computers and recombinant DNA.
   Futurologists are always wrong because they are only
extrapolators, limiting their vision to more of the same. But
history is filled with discontinuities, with surprises such
as Eastern Europe. Listen to the utopians instead. Since they
believe life could be different, what they say just might be
true.
   What they say is that the future, if we have one, belongs
to the zero-work movement -- but only if the abolition of
work is as practical as it is popular. Considering how
workers feel about work, popularity will follow from
publicity. But would the abolition of work, so to speak,
work? Is it possible?
   Let's hope so. Now our waking hours are divided between
work and leisure -- the latter being nonwork for the sake of
work, a rest stop.
   Yet when we work, we produce without pleasure so as to
consume without creating -- containers drained and filled,
drained and filled. Work devalues life by appropriating
something so priceless it cannot be bought back no matter how
high the GNP is.
   "Work," referring to what workers do, should not be
confused with exertion. Play can be more strenuous than work.
Work is compulsory production, something done for some reason
other than the satisfaction of doing it. Life enrichment, on
the other hand, consists of getting rid of many jobs, and
turning into play those jobs that are intrinsically enjoyable
-- if not to everyone at all times, then for some people at
some times. There is nothing genuinely indispensable to
survival that isn't recreation for someone. Play can be
productive, so forced labor may not be necessay. It's "work"
if farm workers toil for the lowest legally allowable pay,
for long hours; it's "gardening" if you go out and do it
after a long day trading bonds.
   With many jobs, of course, there is no point even trying
to turn them into pleasing pastimes. An example is bossing:
the work of making others work. Or selling; why stimulate
needs we would have to work to satisfy?
   But hobbies from hunting to handicrafts are already
productive play. It's just a matter of deciding what we
really need to have and what we really want to do -- and
matching them up.
   The improvement in our lives would be dramatic. Work
standardizes people. It wastes effort. It submerges our
talents and passions. In a zero-work world, our aptitudes and
appetites would multiply; each day would be a wonder of great
variety, an invitation to new adventures. Zero work would
disclose desires now suppressed. Wants would be greater, in
some ways, and different, as some current artificially
induced wants are sloughed off.
   You say you love your job? Fine. Keep doing it. Your sort
will help to tide us over during the transition. We feel
sorry for you, but we respect your choice.
   We also, however, suspect that it's rooted in a refusal to
admit that your present efforts have made life no better,
they only make life seem to go faster. You are coping in your
own way, trying to get it over with.
   As for the rest of us, we'll be much too busy to work.
   ---
   Mr. Black, an unemployed lawyer in Albany, N.Y., is the
author of "The Abolition of Work and Other Essays".
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kane-Miller Corp.
   May Seek to Garner
   Control of Amrep
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9F
</SO>
<CO>
   AXR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Kane-Miller Corp. said it may seek control of
Amrep Corp. through a proxy solicitation, tender offer,
merger or other transaction.
   Kane-Miller, a Tarrytown, N.Y., food processor, holds 8.1%
of Amrep, a builder of communities and international
distributor of magazines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the news Friday, Amrep rose 25 cents to $7.625 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. At that price, Amrep's
about 6.6 million shares would cost about $50 million.
   Howard W. Friedman, Amrep's chairman and chief executive
officer, declined to comment.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing,
Kane-Miller said that on May 30 it asked Amrep for a
shareholders list, to use if Kane-Miller should decide to
solicit proxies to gain control of Amrep's board.
   Kane-Miller spoke with Amrep about board representation,
but the discussions were "uneventful," the filing said.
Kane-Miller said it has "extensively studied" public
information on Amrep and its plans might change.
   Another substantial Amrep holder is Peter B. Bedford,
president of the Lafayette, Calif., real estate developer
Bedford Properties Inc. In January, Mr. Bedford disclosed a
5.2% stake and said he intended to raise it to as much as
10%. In late April, he said the stake had risen to 8.7%. A
spokesman for Bedford Properties wouldn't comment.
   For the nine months ended Jan. 31, Amrep had a net loss of
$492,000, or seven cents a share, compared with net income of
$1.1 million, or 16 cents a share, in the year-earlier
period. Sales rose 5% to $70.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Car Sales Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9F
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY NSANY J.MOT J.MZD
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Sales of cars, trucks and buses in Japan
increased 6.1% in May from a year earlier, to 444,040 units,
a new record for the month, the Japan Automobile Dealers'
Association reported.
   Sales of midsized passenger cars in particular have been
rising, helped by introduction of a 3% consumption tax in
April last year; that tax replaced a heavier commodity tax,
and lowered sticker prices of midsized cars more widely than
those of small-sized cars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among manufacturers, sales of the two largest car makers
in Japan posted healthy increases. Toyota Motor Corp. posted
an 8.4% rise, to 194,199 units. Nissan Motor Co. gained 5.5%
to 103,420 units. Sales by the two makers accounted for 67%
of total sales in May.
   Mitsubishi Motor Corp. sales were up 3.3% at 27,606 units;
while Mazda Motor Corp. sales rose 10.9%, to 36,172 units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air Liquide Aims for 12% Annual Rise
   In Profit Over Next Two or Three Years
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7F
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AIR G.LIN F.ORK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Air Liquide S.A. said it will aim for a 12%
annual rate of growth in per-share earnings over the next two
or three years. The industrial gases concern previously
reported that consolidated net income in 1989 rose 14% to
1.806 billion francs ($315.5 million).
   Air Liquide Chairman Edouard de Royere told a group of
analysts that the group's projection assumes an annual
inflation rate of 4% and a yearly expansion of 3% in world
gross national product.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Annual growth of 12% in the group's per-share earnings
would represent a slowdown from 1988 and 1989, when increases
of 13.9% and 13.6%, respectively, were recorded.
   Reflecting the need to finance an ambitious investment
program, the gases group's debt-to-equity ratio rose last
year to 35% from 33%, and Mr. de Royere said the earnings
projection assumes that this ratio will remain steady in the
next few years.
   Air Liquide's 1989 profit was boosted by a non-recurring
gain of 320 million francs from the sale of its 5%
shareholding in Societe Centrale d'Investissement when Cie
Financiere de Suez and Jean-Marc Vernes were battling for
control of the Victoire insurance group.
   Mr. de Royere said one of Air Liquide's goals is to expand
the group's share of the West German industrial gases market
from 4% at present to 20%, in line with the group's presence
in other national markets.
   Asked to comment on rumors that his group might be
interested in linking up with Linde AG of West Germany, Mr.
de Royere said he didn't believe that Linde's industrial gas
business was for sale.
   Edzard Reuter, head of West Germany's Daimler-Benz AG
industrial group, was appointed to Air Liquide's supervisory
board last week. Mr. de Royere indicated that Mr. Reuter's
contacts in German industry would be useful.
   Air Liquide recently acquired the bottled gases activities
of the East German company Chemihandel for a "symbolic" sum.
The French group hopes that this will provide a strong base
for future expansion after the unification of the two
Germanies.
   Mr. de Royere acknowledged that Air Liquide is practically
absent from the United Kingdom, saying it isn't a priority
area at this time. The group is taking a pragmatic,
step-by-step approach regarding external growth, he added.
   Air Liquide's chief executive indicated that the group
doesn't have any pressing desire to hold on to its 18.3%
holding in Societe Chimique de la Grande Paroisse, a
chemicals company that is two-thirds owned by the French
group Orkem S.A. The remaining shares are held by the public.
   Air Liquide decided last year on a 7.4 billion-franc
investment program that will boost the group's production
capacity more than 20% in the next few years, Mr. de Royere
said. The group's world-wide capacity is currently 40,000
tons of gas in gaseous form and 17,000 tons of liquid gas.
   The cost will be spread over the next two to three years,
the official added.
   Mr. de Royere said last year was "difficult" for the
industrial gases industry in the U.S. due to a price war that
forced operators to shave their profit margins.
   Like its U.S. competitors, Air Liquide has embarked on a
program of streamlining and restructuring in an effort to
restore an adequate level of profitability. "The fruits of
this effort will be seen in the second half of this year," he
added.
   Air Liquide acquired Big Three Corp. in the U.S. in 1986
for more than $1 billion, boosting the French group's market
share to more than 20%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Prospect Park Financial Corp.:
   Bank Holding Firm to Post
   Charge for Fourth Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PPSA
</CO>
<LP>
   Prospect Park Financial Corp. said it will report a charge
against earnings for the fiscal fourth quarter ended April
30, and likely won't meet certain federal capital
requirements by July 1. The amount of the charge wasn't
specified.
   The bank holding company based in West Paterson, N.J.,
said the charge will reflect a further deterioration of the
New Jersey real estate market, where its Prospect Park
Savings Bank has made loans and where two of the bank's units
have pursued development projects.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   President Edward Gurak said he believes Prospect Park
Savings Bank won't meet regulatory requirements for
risk-based capital by July 1, when those requirements change
to account differently for banks' real-estate development
activities. The future regulatory compliance of the bank's
tangible and core capital isn't clear, he said.
   If Prospect Park fails to meet any capital requirement, it
must file a plan with the federal Office of Thrift
Supervision showing how it will meet that requirement by Dec.
31, 1994, Mr. Gurak said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Keating and Bondholders
   Are Close to Accord on Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SANTA ANA, Calif. (AP) -- Investors who lost $192 million
in junk-bond investments by the collapse of American
Continental Corp., parent of Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan
Association, are close to a settlement with a law firm for
the company, lawyers said.
   Lawyers for Charles H. Keating Jr., former head of Lincoln
and chairman of American Continental, are negotiating with
lawyers for 11,500 bondholders who have sued to recover their
losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Almost 22,000 small investors purchased American
Continental bonds at Lincoln's 29 Southern California
branches. The bonds became worthless after the parent company
filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the
federal Bankruptcy Code in April 1989 and federal regulators
seized the thrift unit.
   Ten federal lawsuits, filed on behalf of 11,500
bondholders, were consolidated into one lawsuit.
   A settlement could be completed as early as tomorrow, said
Ken Feinberg of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays and Handler
Inc., the firm representing Mr. Keating. A lawyer for the
bondholders said he agreed.
   Any signed settlement is subject to final approval of
federal and state judges hearing the bondholders' lawsuit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France's Quarterly GDP Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's gross domestic product in the first
quarter rose an inflation-adjusted 0.7% from the 1989 fourth
quarter, the National Statistics Institute said.
   The state agency said the data were in line with results
for the previous three quarters, which showed GDP increases
of 0.7% in the 1989 second quarter, 0.5% in the third quarter
and 0.9% in the fourth quarter; the fourth-period figure was
revised downward slightly from the previously reported 1%
rise. The institute doesn't provide year-to-year growth data
for GDP.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paris market economists said the first-quarter GDP figure
was in line with their expectations and tended to confirm
their previous forecasts for a slight slowdown in 1990 from
the 4% rate that was measured on a similar merchandise basis
for 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lawson Mardon Group Ltd.:
   Toronto Company Acquires
   German Carton Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   LMG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lawson Mardon Group Ltd., Toronto, said its European
folding carton division acquired two West German carton
manufacturing operations in a transaction valued at about
16.5 million Canadian dollars (US$14.1 million).
   Both companies, W. Cordes and Hanse Druck, produce cartons
for the tobacco, confectionary and cosmetics industry in
Europe, said Lawson Mardon, a packaging and printing concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lawrence Tapp, president and chief executive officer, said
the acquisition will enhance Lawson Mardon's presence in the
niche markets that it targets.
   The company already had four carton plants in Britain and
two in Germany.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP BLS DH BSE IP USW C.UBF DRSDY
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                       CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   BellSouth Savings &amp; Employee Stock Ownership Trust -- $275
million of amortizing medium-term notes, due July 1, 2003,
were priced at par to yield 9.19%. The notes were priced at a
spread of 0.70 percentage point above the Treasury's 10-year
note. Rated double-A-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
triple-A by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the non-callable issue
will be sold through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Dayton Hudson Corp. -- $150 million of 9.35% medium-term
notes, due June 16, 2020, was priced at 99.945 to yield
9.36%. The non-callable notes, which may be put back to the
company in the seventh year, were priced at a spread of 0.89
percentage point above the Treasury's seven-year note. Rated
single-A-3 by Moody's and single-A by S&amp;P, the issue will be
sold through Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   Boston Edison Co. -- $100 million of 9 7/8% debentures,
due June 1, 2020, were priced at 99.09 to yield 9.97%. The
debentures, which are non-callable for 10 years, were priced
at a spread of 1.55 percentage points above the Treasury's
30-year bond. Rated Baa-2 by Moody's and triple-B by S&amp;P, the
issue will be sold through underwriters led by Goldman Sachs.
   Commercial Credit Corp. -- $100 million of notes, due June
15, 2010, were priced at par to yield 8.70%. The non-callable
notes, which may be put back to the company in the third,
sixth, ninth, 12th and 15th years, were priced at a spread of
0.375 percentage point above the Treasury's three-year note.
Rated Baa-1 by Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue
will be sold through underwriters led by Bear, Stearns &amp; Co.
   International Paper Co. -- $100 million of 9.40% notes,
due June 1, 2002, was priced at 99.703 to yield 9.44%. The
non-callable notes were priced at a spread of one percentage
point above the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated single-A-3 by
Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by First Boston Corp.
   Mountain States Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. -- $90 million
of 9 5/8% debentures, due June 1, 2030, were priced at 99.417
to yield 9.682%. The debentures, which are non-callable for
five years, were priced at a spread of 1.25 percentage points
above the Treasury's 30-year bond. Rated double-A-3 by
Moody's and double-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley. Mountain States
Telephone is a unit of U S West Inc.
                                                                                                       

                        EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Union Bank of Finland (Finland) -- $200 million of
variable rate notes, due July 9, 2000, priced at par via
Merrill Lynch International. Initial margin is London
interbank offered rate plus 0.15 percentage point, or,
alternatively, Libor plus 0.5 for first five years and Libor
plus 0.625 for second five years.
   Swedish Export Credit Corp. (Sweden) -- 30 billion yen
($197.6 million) of 6 7/8% bonds due June 28, 1993, priced at
101 1/4 to yield 6.92% via lead manager LTCB International
Ltd.
   Skopbank (Finland) -- $100 million of 50-year variable
rate notes priced at par, via Merrill Lynch International.
Extendible into a perpetual note, on amendment of Finnish
law. Initial margin is 7/16 over Libor, or, alternatively,
Libor plus 0.75 for first five years, then Libor plus 0.875
for next five years and Libor plus 1.25 thereafter.
   Dresdner International Financial Markets (Australia) Ltd.
(German parent) -- 75 million Australian dollars (US$57.6
million) of 15 1/4% bonds due June 23, 1993, priced at 102
via Dresdner Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP AFRIC LATAM FREST JAPAN J.BOT J.DKB MDEST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
BANKS (BNK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   EAST GERMAN NUCLEAR SHUTDOWN
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   East Germany said it shut down another reactor at a
Soviet-designed nuclear power plant because of safety
deficiencies.
   Environmental Minister Karl-Hermann Steinberg criticized
management of the Greifswald plant, near the Baltic Sea, for
permitting operation of a reactor even though a leak had been
discovered in its "cleaning system." The reactor was "shut
down because of grave safety deficiencies," he said.
   Two of the plant's four reactors had been shut down early
this year for safety reasons. The remaining reactor, which
has been upgraded, will be closed down in December, the
minister said.
   Mr. Steinberg didn't provide details, but news reports
have said the plant was sloppily managed and poorly
constructed.
                                                                                                       

   WORLD'S AIDS CASES RISE
                                                                                                       

   World-wide cases of AIDS rose by nearly 9,000 in May,
mostly in the U.S. and Africa, reaching a global total of
263,051 cases in 156 countries, the World Health Organization
said. The U.S. recorded 6,309 new cases, raising its overall
tally to 132,436. There were 903 new cases in Africa, 690 of
them in Congo, bringing the continent's total to 64,475.
European cases increased by 1,125 to 35,021. France alone
accounted for 835 more cases, lifting its total to 9,718,
highest in the region.

   VENEZUELAN SUBSIDIES
                                                                                                       

   Venezuela will more than double transport subsidies to
some three million workers to soften the effects of proposed,
and widely opposed, gasoline-price increase. Workers earning
less than $195 per month -- about half the labor force --
will see their $4.25 monthly transport subsidy raised to
$10.63 by June 30, Planning Minister Miguel Rodriguez said.
The domestic price of gas is expected to increase by 36%.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN-SIBERIA PIPELINE
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet Union asked Japan to cooperate in a plan to
build a 3,100-mile gas pipeline, partly undersea, between
Siberia and Japan. Soviet officials told Shintaro Abe, former
secretary-general of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party,
that the pipeline would connect the gas field in western
Siberia to Japan via North and South Korea, said a spokesman
for Mr. Abe's office. The Soviet side said it had already
received a positive reaction from both Koreas and that the
U.S. had also shown interest in participating in construction
of the project, the spokesman said.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH AFRICAN SECURITIES BILL
                                                                                                       

   South Africa's parliament is considering a bill aimed at
tightening legislation on insider trading in the nation's
securities markets. The bill is designed to strengthen the
powers of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and the police to
prosecute offenders. The new proposals clarify the
circumstances under which possession or use of unpublished
price-sensitive information is considered illegal. Under
existing legislation, no prosecutions have ever been brought
against insider trading.
                                                                                                       

   GERMANY BANS BRITISH BEEF
                                                                                                       

   West Germany and Luxembourg joined France in banning
British beef imports because of the "mad cow" virus that has
killed thousands of British cattle, while the European
Community offered to buy 20,600 tons of meat to support
Britain's troubled cattle industry. French officials had said
some of the British meat might be tainted by the disease.
West Germany -- which already had barred imports of British
beef still on the bone -- emulated France by extending the
ban to canned beef as well. London accused both France and
Germany of seeking to protect their beef industries and of
exaggerating their concern for public health.
                                                                                                       

   CHINESE PROTEST
                                                                                                       

   China's central bank has reportedly ordered its public
companies to suspend doing business with Bank of Tokyo Ltd.
in an apparent protest against the Japanese bank's plan to
open a representative office in Taiwan.
   A Japanese news report, quoting international banking
sources, said the People's Bank of China also called for the
suspension of staff exchanges between the Bank of Tokyo and
Chinese banks and other financial institutions.
   The Bank of Tokyo and other Japanese banks have been
trying recently to expand into Taiwan by taking advantage of
that country's plans to give foreign banks greater access to
the long-protected banking market. Currently, only Dai-Ichi
Kangyo Bank Ltd., among Japanese banks, has a branch in
Taiwan, as the number of foreign banks there has been limited
to one per country since 1959.
   In another Taiwan-related matter, China strongly
criticized the West African state of Guinea Bissau for
recognizing the Taiwan government. Beijing also accused
Taiwan of launching a "dollar offensive" to secure diplomatic
relations with small, destitute countries.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Tehran is draped in black for a week of state mourning to
mark the death a year ago yesterday of the Ayatollah Ruhollah
Khomeini. Millions of Iranians are expected to gather today
at Khomeini's grave just outside the capital. . . . Roland
Dorn, a West German art expert attending a symposium on van
Gogh in England, told the Times of London there were 20 to 30
paintings officially attributed to van Gogh that are fakes.
Other art historians described the claim as exaggerated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   British &amp; Commonwealth
   Is Entering `Proceedings'
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BCO
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- After giving up on a possible rescue package to
be worked out with creditors, troubled financial-services
concern British &amp; Commonwealth Holdings PLC agreed to "enter
administration," which is comparable to U.S. Chapter 11
bankruptcy proceedings.
   On Friday, following unsuccessful negotiations with banks,
Britain's Securities and Investment Board removed B&amp;C from
the list of financial concerns where other regulated
financial houses can place client money. The SIB, after
consulting with the Bank of England, explained in a brief
statement that it took the unusual step "as a matter of
urgency in consultation with the other regulators concerned,
in the interests of investor protection."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   British &amp; Commonwealth began to teeter in April when it
was forced to write off #550 million ($923.2 million) in
losses at its Atlantic Computers PLC unit. It placed the unit
in the hands of an independent administrator.
   Exco International PLC, a B&amp;C subsidiary acquired in late
1986, won't be part of the proceedings, but will be spun off
sometime this summer. Exco deals in money brokerage, foreign
exchange and money markets around the world. It hasn't been
affected by B&amp;C's problems and has maintained its own capital
base separate from the parent company.
   Richard Lacy, chairman of Exco, said a "management buy-out
is the most likely outcome," but he left open the possibility
the company might be merged into another financial concern."
It's expected that Exco would be acquired for about #200
million ($340 million).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- A/S/M Communications Inc.:
   Affiliated Publications Inc.
   To Acquire an 80% Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   AFP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Affiliated Publications Inc., publisher of the Boston
Globe and a stable of trade magazines, said it has agreed to
acquire 80% of A/S/M Communications Inc., publisher of Adweek
magazine.
   The purchase price was not disclosed, but industry
executives familiar with the transaction estimated the
Boston-based Affiliated paid about $17 million for the stake
to a group of private holders. Kenneth Fadner, president of
A/S/M, is the largest holder; he will continue in his post
and retain a substantial portion of the remaining 20%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Adweek, started in 1978, has been battered by a decline in
advertising by media companies. A/S/M, attempting to ease
financial difficulties, had quietly folded seven publications
in recent months, and had been seeking an outside investor to
provide cash.
   Affiliated is acquiring Adweek, Adweek's Marketing Week,
and Photo District News. All of the A/S/M titles will become
part of BPI Communications Inc, Affiliated's specialty
publishing subsidiary.
   Adweek will be a strategic addition to BPI
Communications's growing group of media and
entertainment-related magazines. BPI also publishes The
Hollywood Reporter, Billboard, Back Stage, American Film,
Photo Design and Interiors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ABM Gold Corp.:
   Deficit for 1990 Expected;
   Charges From Mine Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   AGO
</CO>
<LP>
   ABM Gold Corp., Toronto, said it expects to report a loss
for 1990, mainly because of higher depreciation and
amortization charges from its Colomac gold mine, scheduled to
begin commercial production Sept. 30. ABM, 52%-owned by
Northgate Exploration Ltd., had 1989 net income of US$2
million, or 12 cents a share, on revenue of $7 million.
   At the annual meeting, where shareholders approved
changing the company's name to NorthWest Gold Corp., John
Kearney, chairman, president and chief executive officer,
said, "ABM's income statement will substantially change when
Colomac achieves commercial production . . . and revenues and
expenses from the project appear on ABM's financial
statements." Last year, ABM had depreciation and amortization
costs of $570,000. Mr. Kearney wouldn't specify how much
these charges will increase this year, but said they will be
"much, much higher."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He estimated Colomac's maximum output is 200,000 ounces of
gold a year, at an average operating cost of $260 an ounce.
The low-grade, open-pit mine in the Northwest Territories has
an eight-year life.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Biotechnica Is Cleared
   To Test Designed Corn
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   BIOT
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- BioTechnica International Inc. said
its BioTechnica Agriculture unit received the first federal
approval to begin field-testing genetically engineered corn
plants.
   The company said the tests, approved by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, are scheduled to begin next week
near Lisbon, Iowa, at its cornbreeding station.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BioTechnica disclosed that its corn plants have been
modified to contain "marker" genes that enable scientists to
track the inheritance of artificially introduced genes in
genetically engineered plants. In January, the company said
it was the first to incorporate foreign genes successfully in
corn plants. Corn is one of several major grain crops in
which inserting new genes has proved difficult. But
BioTechnica hadn't previously disclosed what kind of gene was
involved.
   A marker gene has little economic importance and is
inserted to enable scientists to determine whether foreign
genes have been incorporated and are inherited in a plant. A
typical marker gene would confer resistance to a certain
herbicide; plants incorporating it are identified by their
survival when exposed to the herbicide. BioTechnica declined
to identify the marker gene used. In April, DeKalb Genetics
Corp. and a joint USDA-Monsanto Co. team separately said they
also had inserted marker genes in corn.
   BioTechnica also disclosed that it is trying to engineer
corn genetically to produce high levels of the amino acid
lysine, a building block of protein.
   And the company said it is developing corn, soybean,
alfalfa and wheat plants that have been genetically altered
for improvements, such as increased insect resistance, yield
or nutrition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mediagenic:
   Company Agrees on Paying
   $6.6 Million in Damages
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MGNC
</CO>
<LP>
   MENLO PARK, Calif. -- Mediagenic said it agreed to a
long-term payment of the $6.6 million in patent infringement
court damages that, as previously reported, a federal court
awarded earlier this year to Philips Consumer Electronics
Company, a unit of North American Philips Corp.
   Under the agreement, the entertainment software company
will pay Philips monthly installments of $150,000 from July
1990 to Dec. 1993, with a balloon payment at Dec. 31, 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit was originally brought by the Magnavox Company
(now Philips) against Activision (now Mediagenic). The patent
at issue expired in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Genzyme-Amoco Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GENZ AN G.HFA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Genzyme Corp., a biotechnology and
pharmaceutical concern, and the Amoco Biotechnology Co. unit
of Amoco Corp., Chicago, said the previously announced
agreement to sell their interests in their Gene-Trak Systems
joint venture to Hoechst Group AG of West Germany was
terminated without reaching terms.
   The companies said they now are free to negotiate with
"other interested parties"; none was identified. Gene-Trak is
developing tests for food-borne pathogens and infectious
diseases, using nucleic acid probe technology, the companies
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medusa Corp. Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   MSA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Medusa Corp. said it completed the
acquisition of the assets and mineral reserves of C&amp;C Cos.,
an Evans City, Pa.-based aggregates company. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   The acquisition will increase Medusa's aggregates sales
about 25%. Medusa is a mining and construction services
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Managing Change
   ---
   From Pyramid to Pancake:
   Management Layers and Jobs Will Keep Disappearing --
   Boding Traumatic Changes for the Survivors
   ----
   By Thomas F. O'Boyle
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R37
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   IF YOU STILL WORK for a large company, consider yourself
fortunate. After all, one out of every four jobs in Fortune
500 companies disappeared in the 1980s.
   But brace yourself. Being a survivor carries a high price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Middle managers have become an endangered species. During
the 1980s, U.S. business -- faced with a management structure
that impeded creativity and productivity -- slashed at least
one million management jobs. And there are plenty of cuts to
come: Most companies, even small ones, have middle managers
on their hit lists.
   "Until American companies find themselves in a better
position, the pressure will be on to remove every bit of
waste there is," says William Bridges, a San Francisco
consultant who helps companies eliminate layers of
management. By the year 2010, he predicts, the typical large
business will have half as many management levels and
one-third as many managerial positions as it does today.
   Such cutbacks clearly take their toll on those who are
fired. But they won't be the only casualties. Streamlined
bureaucracies also will force surviving managers to make
traumatic adjustments in how they work. Workloads will
increase while chances for promotion shrink. Lines of
authority will get fuzzier. And teamwork will become more
crucial.
   "You have to really get into a different way of thinking
about work," says John Hill, chief of an Eastman Kodak Co.
business unit that has drastically reduced the number of
managerial positions over the past year and a half.
   A different way of thinking, in fact, is precisely what
experts say is needed. U.S. business, they say, still has
plenty of fat, particularly in manufacturing. According to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 47% of U.S. manufacturing
employees are in nonproduction jobs, up from 23% in the
1950s. Ford Motor Co. still has 15 rungs of management;
Japan's Toyota Motor Corp. has just seven.
   "A good rule of thumb is that you should be able to take
out 20% of the managers at any organization with a fresh
look," says Barry Rhody, who has done just that since
becoming operations vice president last year at a small maker
of air-vent systems, Lunaire Ltd., in Williamsport, Pa.
   Formerly, during a 25-year career at Bethlehem Steel
Corp., he says, "I flattened everyone I had an opportunity to
flatten." That included reducing a 700-person accounting
department to 250. "Firing people is the toughest job a
manager has but it's got to be done," he says. "There's no
way companies can compete in world markets these days with
excess baggage."
   But for workers accustomed to the excess baggage, the
slimming down isn't easy. It changes the very nature of
managerial jobs. When baby boomers were growing up, the job
of a corporate executive was narrowly focused and clearly
defined. A manager's chief function was to control.
   Now, ambiguity reigns. Managers are supposed to "empower"
subordinates, who have lots of autonomy. The boss's job is to
provide direction and guide group decisionmaking -- to be a
"facilitator," according to the new lexicon, a person who
helps subordinates do their jobs.
   "I tell my people I work for them. I am their servant,"
says Ted Sutyak, a general foreman who supervises 166 workers
at Lincoln Electric Co. near Cleveland. The world's leading
maker of arc-welding products, Lincoln has stressed such
concepts since its founding nearly a century ago.
   But for most managers used to barking out orders, the new
order initially means one thing above all else: new
pressures. David Bates, who oversees 28 workers as part of a
new flattened management structure at the Eastman Kodak
subsidiary, says he and supervisory colleagues, called team
advisers, "are the most stressed people in the organization.
We have to make all this work."
   "All this" is Kodak's bold vision for the future in its
black-and-white paper manufacturing business, and so far it's
giving Mr. Bates fits. The reorganization, begun in December
1988, brought under one roof a $1 billion business once
divided among five separate organizations scattered
throughout Kodak.
   The business is now managed by just seven senior managers
rather than dozens. Three layers separate top from bottom,
and in the middle are the team advisers. "We still supervise
people, I guess," Mr. Bates says. Though the new system has
resurrected the once troubled black-and-white paper business
-- and reduced the number of workers by 30% -- Mr. Bates says
the change from giving orders to leading teams has been
difficult.
   "I don't disagree with the direction, but this was not the
job I signed on for," says Mr. Bates. "Basically the job I
was trained for was the traditional supervisor's role. I had
the control. I trained people. I rewarded people. I punished
people. I made the decisions. Things got done rapidly and my
way." Now, he says, "instead of being the decision-maker, I'm
more the coach or mentor. That's the kind of role I fill. One
of the hard things is not to make the decision yourself. I
want the people running the process to make the decisions."
   Such difficulties are often compounded when cutbacks
aren't well thought out. Stephen Henson, a former marketing
manager at Unisys Corp., says that his department of 75 was
halved last year, ostensibly to speed up decision-making. But
even though that eliminated two layers of management,
decision-making actually took longer, he asserts, because
control was raised to higher levels.
   "I believe in streamlining management, but when you
flatten an organization, you must push decision-making
responsibility down at the same time," Mr. Henson says.
   Frustrated, he quit his job, with its six-figure salary,
in March. He found a new job as marketing chief at American
Marketing &amp; Events, a small Santa Barbara, Calif.,
special-events promotion concern.
   A spokesman for Unisys, based in Blue Bell, Pa., declines
to comment on Mr. Henson's specific situation. He notes,
though, that the computer maker's restructurings have been
devised to do just what Mr. Henson suggests they should do --
that is, push decision-making down to lower levels.
   Management consultants say that, too often, companies
seeking to flatten their organization charts simply eliminate
jobs without analyzing business goals or what tasks are
critical. Once jobs are cut, survivors are supposed to
rebalance the workload among themselves.
   Most restructurings are done poorly, says Kim Cameron, a
University of Michigan business professor who studied
cutbacks at 30 auto-related industrial companies in the
Midwest. About two-thirds of the cases were botched: Either
the wrong jobs were eliminated, or blanket early-retirement
offers prompted the wrong people to leave.
   "Often the most invaluable people -- the ones with other
options -- end up leaving," he says.
   Moreover, when Mr. Cameron polled 2,000 surviving managers
at the companies about their workloads, nearly half said they
were working "a great deal" more than two years earlier.
   "I was putting in 17-hour days," says Eugene Baker, of the
period following the 1986 restructuring of General Electric
Co.'s engineered materials group. Mr. Baker had been the
group's general counsel; after the restructuring, he was
transferred to Waterford, N.Y., to be general counsel to a
former part of the group.
   He had a staff of two attorneys, but further cutbacks
whittled his staff to a single clerk. Though he liked the
job, he felt it was just too burdensome; finally, last
December after a 24-year career with GE, Mr. Baker accepted
the company's early-retirement offer.
   "I am happy the way it worked out, but I did not like the
way it was handled," says Mr. Baker, 60 years old, who now
makes pasta and writes fiction. He intends to study English
at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
   Some GE managers, though, find the challenge of flattened
management exhilarating. In the past, the purchasing function
was in effect playing one supplier against another to get the
cheapest price, says Paul Bertran, who supervises General
Electric's purchasing for its $5 billion appliance business.
   Now, it's much more creative. Rather than simply being
told what to buy, the purchaser finds his job more broadly
defined. Teams within the department execute strategy, manage
relationships with GE's suppliers and make important
decisions that affect the entire appliance business.
   "People like their jobs a lot more," Mr. Bertran says.
"It's actually fun coming to work."
   ---
   Mr. O'Boyle is deputy chief of The Wall Street Journal's
Pittsburgh bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Managing Change
   ---
   Deming's Demons:
   The Management Guru Thinks U.S. Corporations
   Are Crushing Their Worker Incentive
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R39
</SO>
<LP>
   ASK W. EDWARDS DEMING about the future of the American
workplace, and he has a very simple comment: "What future?"
   Mr. Deming, 89 years old, was long known as the guru of
Japanese business who was largely ignored in his own country.
Since 1951, the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers
has awarded annual "Deming Prizes" to Japanese companies
excelling in quality control. Lately, though, many U.S.
companies have sought his advice as well. But he remains
pessimistic that U.S. business will make the changes he
thinks necessary to compete.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What follow are excerpts from a discussion with Mr.
Deming.
   ---
   THE WALL STREET JOURNAL: What do you think is wrong with
current management at corporations?
   W. EDWARDS DEMING: We are all born with intrinsic
motivation, self-esteem, dignity, an eagerness to learn. Our
present system of management crushes that all out.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: How?
   DEMING: By replacing it with extrinsic motivation, by
constantly judging people. We rank people with incentive pay,
annual appraisals, production quotas. Judging people is not
helpful. We can rank people according to height, and of six
people, one would be tallest, one would be shortest. So what?
You knew that before you started. That's the way business is
run today. And it will get worse.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: How are people supposed to know how they're
performing if they are not evaluated?
   DEMING: People don't know how they're doing? All people
ask for is a chance to work with pride and joy. Management
has taken all of it out. Then you take quality out. Instead
of working for the company, people compete with each other.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: And competition is bad?
   DEMING: Of course it's bad. People then work for the
grade. In school, they studied for the grade; not to learn
anything but for the grade.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Is that different in Japan?
   DEMING: Yes, it is. They work for the knowledge. And a
child is never humiliated in Japan.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: How about Japanese companies? Are they different?
   DEMING: Yes. The Japanese top management were willing to
learn. They were willing to live by cooperation, not
competition.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: How great is the lead that Japan has over the U.S.
companies? Is it widening in management practices?
   DEMING: I'm afraid so, although you find some practices
developing in Japan that ought to worry them. At some
companies, for example, there's differential pay. There's
just a small amount of it. But the fact that it exists is
what ruins people. If you were to get 50 cents more per month
than I do, it would hurt me. If I got 50 cents more per month
than you got, it's going to hurt you.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: When a company comes to you for advice on how to
improve their management, where do you start?
   DEMING: I don't say much. I just ask questions.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Such as?
   DEMING: Where do you hope to be five years from now? Most
people can't answer the question. They don't have an aim. Or
many times the aim is simply to stay ahead of a competitor,
or at least not get too far behind. That's all people think
about -- competition.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: So just staying ahead of the competitor is not an
aim?
   DEMING: That's destructive.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: But isn't competition where America is losing the
battle.
   DEMING: That's right, that's where they are losing the
battle. Because they're focusing on competition. They show
diagrams and drawings to show how we're doing compared to the
competition. We don't think much about anything else.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Whereas, they should be focusing on. . .?
   DEMING: Better service to the public and employees.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: And they should be showing diagrams comparing
themselves to how they're doing against a goal?
   DEMING: A goal?
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Let's say, our goal is to reduce workplace injuries
by 50% per year over the next 10 years.
   DEMING: No, no, no. The goal should be reduced workplace
injuries. Put a figure on it, then you're wrong. That would
be destructive. You only get what the system will deliver.
The goal doesn't help you deliver.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Are there any particular companies that you think, in
America, are exemplary at doing what you're talking about?
   DEMING: Well, now and then there is a ray of hope in small
companies.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Are there any exemplary large companies out there?
   DEMING: Not that I know of. But make one thing clear:
Everybody is doing their best. And that's the trouble. Hard
work and best effort -- and doing it wrong. Without knowledge
-- there's no substitute for knowledge. And we don't have it.
What's the aim of the school of business, for example? They
teach students how business is conducted today and how to
perpetuate it. Any wonder we're in trouble? They ought to be
preparing students for the future, not for the past.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Another criticism of American companies is that they
are too profit-oriented. Do you agree?
   DEMING: They're not profit-oriented at all. They say they
are, but I don't see any evidence that they give a hoot about
profits. The only thing management can do today is lay off
people. The big losses go unknown and unknowable. If they did
care about profits, they would worry about these things.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: What are those losses?
   DEMING: Well now. A woman called me from Chicago and asked
if she could have an hour of my time. She would arrive at the
airport at 7 a.m., rent a car and be here by 9. Now, my head
did a little arithmetic. She'd have to leave home at 2:30
Chicago time to catch a 4:30 flight. She'd have to get up at
1:30. She might as well stay up all night. I said, `Well, why
don't you come the night before?' She said that the company
would not pay her hotel bill. Also, the flight the night
before would cost her $138 more.
   I began to comprehend. Her travel department gets a
special rate on the morning flight. So the travel department
gets a plus. But the woman gets six negatives, totally unfit
to go to that meeting. Why is the company sending her to the
meeting? To get rid of her? No. To learn.
   It would be far better for the travel department to take a
beating, not to provide the cheapest transportation and get
that woman on the job fit for the job. But what's their job?
To save money. Can you blame them for doing it? Saving money,
ruining the company. It's these hidden losses that are the
big losses. Unknown, not even under suspicion.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: You've been fairly critical of automation as a way to
improve quality.
   DEMING: It's all right in the right place. But it's not
the answer. It may be the right thing. But it has to be
managed.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Can you give an example of the way automation is
mismanaged from what you've seen?
   DEMING: Well, I sat next to a vice president at lunch. He
was so sorry that I didn't have time to go to one of his
plants. A lot of new equipment, automation, as if that made
quality. He thought it did. I said, Have you ever heard of a
plant that closed? Why did it close? Poor workmanship? Low
productivity? Mistakes? Faults? Never. Because it was
producing the wrong product. One that has no market. Not
enough market. Management didn't look ahead.
   Ever heard of a bank that closed? Do you think it closed
because of sluggishness and errors, mistakes at the tellers'
windows, mistakes in bank statements, mistakes in calculation
of interest? Don't be silly. It closed because management
made bad loans. That's from incentive pay and ranking people.
A bank lending officer has a quota to lend $83 million per
month. He does it, and can you blame him? That was his job.
Other lending officers do the same. And the bank gets into
trouble.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: You've criticized "management by objective" several
times. What's so bad about MBO?
   DEMING: You only get what the system will deliver. MBO is
used by people who have no idea about the capability of a
system. The system has a capability. Ask for something
outside its capability, and you'll not get it except for
destruction of the company. A manager will make it happen. He
better make it happen, that's his job. And to make it happen,
he'll ruin the company.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: For example.
   DEMING: Take a manager of a store. He's allowed only 1%
shrinkage (loss from theft). He knows 60 ways to reduce it to
1%, and every one of them loses customers. Could you blame
him for doing his job? He wouldn't have a job if he doesn't
do it.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: What kind of changes do you foresee within the next
10 years? Will U.S. managers change?
   DEMING: How can they learn? Why should they improve? How
could they learn? Experience teaches nothing. You learn only
with theory. There's no experience without theory, nothing to
record. So how could management improve?
   I know what management will have to do if it plans to
survive. An example of a system well managed is an orchestra.
The various players are not there as prima donnas -- to play
loud and attract the attention of the listener. They're there
to support each other. In fact, sometimes you see a whole
section doing nothing but counting and watching. Just sitting
there doing nothing. They're there to support each other.
That's how business should be.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: So there's no harmony in American corporations?
   DEMING: There's very little. Everybody's for himself. The
travel department should be supporting the rest of the
company, not trying to ruin it. You can't have an orchestra
that way. The system must be managed. It will not manage
itself. The components cannot manage themselves. And so many
companies have separate business plans for separate
departments. That's not management. That's foolishness.
That's the kind of thing that only makes things worse.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Time Warner Inc.:
   Firm Completes Acquisition
   Of Lane for $225 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Time Warner Inc. said it completed the acquisition of Lane
Publishing Co. for $225 million.
   Lane Publishing, Menlo Park, Calif., publishes Sunset, the
Magazine of Western Living, and Sunset Books, and produces
Sunset Films. The acquisition makes media and entertainment
giant Time Warner the nation's largest publisher of regional
magazines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Time Warner said that Sunset Magazine and Sunset Books
will become part of Time Publishing Ventures, a unit of Time
Inc. Magazine Co., which includes all of the company's
regional and special interest businesses, and its world-wide
development activity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Openers
   ---
   Office Memos:
   Some Predictions About the
   Workplace of the Future
   ----
   Compiled by Kerry Pechter
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R5
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   Lots of Chiefs
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 2000, there will be 81.6 million baby boomers between
the ages of 35 and 55. But there will only be 56.1 million
people between 20 and 35 for them to manage. One result: In
2010, the typical large business will have half as many
management levels and one-third as many managerial positions
as it does today.
   (Sources: WEFA Group; Forecasting International)
                                                                                                       

   What Paperless Office?
                                                                                                       

   Computers will definitely eliminate some paper. But there
will be plenty left. By 2000, U.S. businesses will still need
a space equivalent to all of the office space in Pittsburgh
to file the 120 billion sheets of new paper they will
generate every year.
   (Source: Wohl Associates)
                                                                                                       

   Talk, Talk, Talk
                                                                                                       

   Despite fax machines and electronic mail, businesses will
still be addicted to the telephone. One prediction:
Businesses will double their use of long-distance telephone
service by 2000.
   (Source: International Resource Development Group)
                                                                                                       

   Milk Break
                                                                                                       

   To keep new mothers working in the office, more companies
will be offering breast-feeding breaks as part of their
package of benefits.
   (Source: Research Alert)
                                                                                                       

   Ballot Boss
                                                                                                       

   Companies, concerned about declining morale and
productivity, may allow employees to select supervisors by
vote.
   (Source: World Future Society)
                                                                                                       

   Pencils Down
                                                                                                       

   Drug testing will proliferate in the workplace -- but it
will be less invasive. Within 20 years, most companies will
give workers periodic performance-based tests -- gauging such
things as short-term memory or object recognition -- to see
whether they are impaired by drugs.
   (Source: Institute for the Future)
                                                                                                       

   Cleaning Up
                                                                                                       

   Between now and 2000, about 556,000 janitorial and
maid-service jobs will be created. That's more than the
combined new jobs for computer programmers, accountants and
auditors.
   (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
                                                                                                       

   Just Relax
                                                                                                       

   Employers will increasingly provide mental-health days to
give workers some relief from job stress.
   (Source: World Future Society)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   MGM/UA Video Unit's Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MGM PG
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- MGM/UA Home Video, a unit of MGM/UA
Communications Co., said it reached a sponsorship agreement
with Procter &amp; Gamble Co.'s Downy fabric softener on a $21
million marketing campaign for the videocassette release of
the animated film "All Dogs Go to Heaven."
   The promotion is similar to last year's $8.5 million
campaign for the videocassette release of "The Wizard of Oz,"
MGM/UA said. As with "Oz," Procter &amp; Gamble will offer a $5
rebate on the $24.98 purchase price. The television portion
of the campaign will begin Aug. 29 and run through Christmas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Where We'll Be
   ---
   Close to You:
   Companies Are Breaking Up Employee Centers and
   Setting Up Offices Near Areas Where Workers Live
   ----
   By Cathy Trost
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR PAC
</CO>
<LP>
   JANET FUJII HAS LOST 37 pounds since last June. Her
amazing diet secret? A new kind of office that experts
believe will house a great number of workers in years to
come.
   Before moving into it, Ms. Fujii, an auditor for the
Hawaii state tax office, commuted more than an hour to
downtown Honolulu on the notorious H-1 freeway. She had to
get up at 4:30 a.m. to take care of the children, who often
ate breakfast in the car on their way to school; the family's
dinner often amounted to cheeseburgers or greasy fried
chicken snatched from fast-food outlets on her way home at
night. In the blur of freeways and french fries, she wound up
carrying 180 pounds on a 5-foot-3inch frame.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That changed last summer when she went to work at the
Hawaii Telework Center, a neighborhood work depot jammed with
computers, facsimile machines and similar gear, and set up in
a bedroom community of Honolulu only seven minutes from her
house. Suddenly she had more time -- time to prepare
nutritious meals, time to walk and ride her exercycle. The
pounds fell away. There is little, she says, that she misses
about her old headquarters job.
   Backers of the telework center, which now houses 17 people
working for both private and public employers, ballyhoo it as
"a 21st-century work concept," a model for a workplace of
tomorrow that will use "electronic highways" to move
information instead of concrete ones that move people.
Experts believe that they may be right -- and that so-called
satellite offices like this one will be at least as important
in the coming decentralization of business as the
already-growing move toward working at home.
   There is no doubt that social, environmental and other
pressures are gradually forcing business away from its usual
pattern of setting up big office centers where hundreds or
even thousands of people work. Minorities and women, the bulk
of tomorrow's potential work force, often cannot reach them
quickly or inexpensively, which puts a crimp in recruiting.
Heavy smog and clogged traffic arteries make prospects still
worse, and put more heat on business to change its thinking.
   Working at home is one obvious remedy, but it is a limited
one. The worker has to have enough space, for one thing. For
another, he or she must have the kind of temperament needed
to work without daily personal interaction with others, and
the internal discipline to stay in front of the computer and
away from the refrigerator. Quite a few people lack both,
which is where the satellite concept comes in.
   "If you look ahead five years, I bet there will be
proportionally as much or more growth in satellite offices,"
says one consultant in telecommuting.
   There are comparatively few true satellite offices or
neighborhood work centers in the U.S. now; foreign countries,
especially densely populated Japan, are ahead in this
respect. But the idea is spreading in this country, and those
who have tried it generally find that it is generating
benefits beyond those originally envisioned.
   The Hawaii center, for example, was designed and initially
financed by the state (corporations contributed heavily,
too), largely to take cars off the road. It has. The state
figures that employees now working there drive about 9,000
fewer miles annually and save more than $2,500 a year in
transportation-related expenses.
   But the benefits in worker efficiency, though not easily
measurable in numbers, may be even greater. Ms. Fujii, for
one, who was perennially fatigued by her commute, is slimmer
now, eating right and able to exercise. A former borderline
diabetic, her blood sugar is now normal and at 39 she has
more pep than she's had in years. "I think it makes a better
worker, both on and off the job," she says.
   State transportation planner Edward Uchida adds,
"Quality-of-life improvement has emerged as the most
significant benefit of teleworking."
   Some of those same benefits are to be found in
traffic-choked Southern California, a leader in the U.S. when
it comes to experimenting with new models of work. The state
is forcing employers to come up with commute-reduction
programs to improve air quality, and is trying to encourage
telecommuting among its own agency employees.
   Pacific Bell, a subsidiary of Pacific Telesis Group, has a
formal telecommuting policy, and as many as 1,000 of its
managers work fairly regularly from sites other than their
primary offices. The company opened two full-blown satellite
offices four years ago, each able to accommodate 18 managers
who communicate with the outside world via personal
computers, modems, facsimile, copying equipment and laser
printers.
   "I'm sold on it," says Jim Campbell, a sales-support
manager who works in the Woodland Hills satellite, 25 miles
from the downtown Los Angeles office. He used to make a
26-mile commute there. It took an hour when everything went
well, and up to 2 1/2 hours when it rained and a tanker truck
overturned on the freeway. Now he's at his desk in 15
minutes.
   Free of home-office distractions, he also feels he is
functioning more efficiently. In the downtown office, he
says, "you've got everyone to say hello to, you've got to
catch up on gossip."
   But he still prefers working at some kind of office to
working out of his house. "If I worked at home, I'd be doing
dishes and the laundry, and the lawn would need to be mowed,"
he says. He doesn't believe that working out of sight of the
nabobs at headquarters has impaired his career prospects,
either; like other satellite workers, he visits the main
office from time to time.
   He is far removed from his boss, Sesil Adams, who works
mostly in Orange County, well to the south. Mr. Adams is even
more remote from his own boss in San Francisco -- and the
latter sometimes telecommutes himself.
   Which leads to this: How can managers manage when they
can't see whom they are managing? How do they know their
minions haven't gone to the movies?
   Mr. Adams, who admits he was apprehensive when he first
started managing people "out of my direct sight," says that
trust is the key. Though he makes spot-check visits to the
satellite centers to make sure all is well, he basically
relies on bottom-line results that prove employee efficiency.
   Other companies find that satellite centers are an
important recruiting tool. NSM, a division of the
Atlanta-based Norrell Corp., has set up such centers in areas
of downtown Memphis and Atlanta served by mass-transit lines.
By offering convenient places to work, NSM has been able to
recruit and train for local clients many lower-skilled
clerical workers who might otherwise not have applied.
   Few employers who have tried satellite operations cite any
serious drawbacks to their use. Some employees have been
transferred out of them because they haven't been able to
work well without direct supervision, but on the whole
employers' experience has been positive.
   Mr. Uchida, the state transportation planner, can think of
only one problem at the Hawaii Telework Center. "The DB
Syndrome is going around -- the dead-battery syndrome," he
explains. "Our participants travel so infrequently and for
such short distances that their batteries don't have a chance
to recharge." Half the teleworkers have had dead batteries,
he says, and another worker ran out of gas. Twice.
   ---
   Ms. Trost is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's
Washington bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Charges Ex-Broker
   Misspent Athletes' Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission is
trying to sack a former Robinson-Humphrey Co. broker for
allegedly misappropriating more than $1 million from at least
18 professional football players.
   In a complaint filed in federal court in Atlanta, the SEC
charged that broker Oscar Ayala of Marietta, Ga., defrauded
the players, who held accounts at the Shearson Lehman Hutton
Inc. unit from 1988 to the present. The SEC asks that he be
enjoined from such activity and seeks unspecified relief.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agency alleges that Mr. Ayala, instead of purchasing
securities for his clients, misappropriated at least $1
million in funds for his personal use. A federal judge has
issued a temporary restraining order freezing Mr. Ayala's
bank and securities accounts and prohibiting the destruction
of any records relating to the transactions.
   The agency's Atlanta regional administrator, Richard
Wessel, said Robinson-Humphrey brought the matter to the
attention of the SEC and other law enforcement agencies. Mr.
Ayala's lawyer, Gary Freed, said that his client also is
under investigation by the Justice Department for possible
criminal prosecution and that his client would be eager to
huddle with the SEC to settle the case. He added, "We feel
that all of the accusations are not accurate and are
exaggerated."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Integrated Resources Inc.:
   Bidding Expires for Auction
   Of Interest in Partnerships
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IRE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Integrated Resources Inc., New York, said the bidding
expired last week in the auction of its general partnership
interest in its American Insured Mortgage Investors
partnerships.
   Integrated, which is operating under federal
bankruptcy-law protection, said it didn't receive any
unconditional, cash bids of at least $40 million, as required
under the court-approved auction. But Integrated said it
received bids exceeding $40 million with certain
contingencies, which it didn't identify. The American Insured
Mortgage Investors partnerships hold federally insured
mortgages. They raised $789 million from 66,000 investors in
the 1980s. Integrated recently said it was seeking to find a
new lender for a mortgage in one of the partnerships, after
the borrower missed two interest payments. The $99.9 million
mortgage, which the American Insured 84 partnership
originated, was one of 21 in a portfolio totaling $166
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the auction procedure, Integrated must decide
whether to accept a bid by June 15. The bankruptcy court must
approve any bid accepted by Integrated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Optimism on Earnings, Rates Boosts Markets
   ---
   Credit Markets:
   Rates Expected
   To Ease Further
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SLCPC RJR DH
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Economists' charts and graphs are flashing a
green light for the bond market, bolstering the case for
lower interest rates this summer.
   Economists now believe that yields on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond could fall to between 8% and 8.25% --
about where they stood in January. They think this will
happen even if the Federal Reserve doesn't lower interest
rates -- although some are beginning to whisper that the Fed
might do so.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The rally has just begun," said Philip Braverman, a
longtime bond market bull who is senior vice president at DKB
Securities Corp., a subsidiary of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd.
He said recent economic data confirm that the economy is weak
and inflation is losing momentum, a situation that often
leads to lower interest rates.
   Mr. Braverman isn't the only raging bull in the bond
market. Last week many economists trimmed their forecasts for
second-quarter economic growth, automatically heightening the
recent bullishness in a market that thrives on bad economic
news.
   The speed at which bond prices rise will depend upon the
Federal Reserve. Economists are sharply divided over how the
Fed will react to the weak economic reports. A growing number
believe the Fed will push short-term rates lower in an effort
to stave off a recession. But a smaller group believes the
Fed will keep credit policy on hold, using the current
slow-growth environment to fight stubbornly high inflation.
   Even without the Fed's help, economists say, bond yields
should continue to fall as the market retraces the sharp
spikes of January through April, when investors sold bonds on
signs that the economy and inflation were picking up. Now,
the economists are starting to view the four-month period as
an aberration in a longer-term decline.
   Bond prices don't yet reflect prospects for Fed easing.
Samuel D. Kahan, chief financial economist, Fuji Securities
Inc., notes that yields on the Treasury's two-year notes
ended Friday at about 8.3% -- still above the 8.25%
federal-funds rate, which banks charge each other on
overnight loans. The Fed often uses the rate to signal
changes in credit policy. "If the yield on the two-year notes
dips below or matches the federal-funds rate, that would
signify that the financial markets have begun to incorporate
future declines in the federal-funds rate into the bond
market," he said.
   Speculation that the Fed may choose to push rates lower
began on Friday, after the Department of Labor released the
May employment report. The government reported that nonfarm
employment rose by 164,000 in May, but most of that growth
reflected the hiring of temporary census workers. Moreover,
the labor statistics revealed that there has been virtually
no private-sector job growth in the past three months. The
unemployment rate declined slightly to 5.3% in May, but only
because 145,000 census workers were hired.
   After the data were released, institutional investors
plunged into the bond market. The buying spree pushed prices
of the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond 1 1/2 points higher,
or $15 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The yield on the
bond issue eased to 8.44%, the lowest rates on a benchmark
30-year bond since February.
   Some economists were clearly alarmed by the weak
employment report. They fear that a sluggish economy could
prompt a wave of corporate bankruptcies (especially among
highly leveraged companies), exacerbate the credit crunch
that appears to be brewing and thwart the government's
savings-and-loan bailout efforts. They say the Fed's only
recourse is to lower interest rates.
   "Only two months ago, some of the Fed Governors dissented
from a vote of unchanged policy for tighter policy; this new
set of data may convince the Hawks to at least swing back to
middle ground while some of the other members who would have
welcomed additional easing may now be wringing their hands
with worry," said economist Maria Fiorini Ramirez.
   Joseph Liro, an economist at S.G. Warburg Securities Inc.,
said it's likely that the Fed will vote to ease credit
conditions in July at the next Federal Open Market Committee
meeting. Mr. Liro said the Fed will reduce rates because the
next batch of economic data-consumer prices, commodity
prices, retail sales and industrial products -- will reveal
weakness and confirm the findings in the employment report.
   "If the Fed gets confirmation, that will set the stage for
a 1/4 percentage point decline in the federal-funds rate," to
about 8%, said Mr. Liro.
   But economists at Salomon Brothers Inc., James Fralick at
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and several others aren't ready to hit
the recession panic button just yet -- and they don't think
the Fed will either. These economists say that Fed officials
will use the slow economy to fight inflation.
   "As long as they can continue to keep (real gross national
product) growing between 1.5% and 2%, they can continue to
damp inflationary pressures," said Mr. Fralick. "That is
their stated objective and that is their goal."
   Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank,
said that if the Fed eases now, "they run the risk of having
the economy pick up more than they want." Mr. Fine said too
many people are overlooking signs that the industrial sector
is picking up strength.
   One such indicator is an index compiled by the National
Association of Purchasing Managers. The index, which measures
overall health in the manufacturing industry, rose to 50.7%
during the month, the highest reading since April 1989. The
association says a reading above 50% signals the
manufacturing economy is generally growing. Last month the
index increased to 50.2%, the first time it had crossed the
50% threshold since May 1989.
   Mr. Fralick notes that even the employment report
contained a few signs of economic strength. Although
employment in the key services and manufacturing sectors
declined, the number of hours worked in the manufacturing
industry rose. That suggests that manufacturers could be
gearing up again, although with fewer employees.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Prices of Treasury bonds surged Friday on speculation that
interest rates are heading lower.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of
103 8/32 to yield 8.44%, compared with Thursday's price of
101 24/ 32 to yield 8.57%.
   Short-term rates were also lower. The discount rate on
three-month Treasury bills ended at 7.70% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.94%, down from 7.76% to yield
8.00% on Thursday. Rates on six month bills ended at 7.62% to
yield 8.01% , down from 7.74% to yield 8.15% on Thursday.
   In the corporate market, falling rates prompted a handful
of corporations to issue new bonds.
   More than $800 million of new debt was sold to the public,
including a total of $425 million of notes issued by Dayton
Hudson Corp. and Bellsouth Savings &amp; Employee Stock Ownership
Trust.
   In trading, most active investment-grade corporate bonds
surged as much as 1 1/4 points in tandem with gains in the
Treasury market.
   Meanwhile, rising stock prices helped boost junk bonds,
which are speculative-grade corporate securities with low
credit ratings or no credit ratings at all.
   Most actively traded cash-paying junk bonds climbed 1/4
point.
   The pay-in-kind bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc., which pay
interest in the form of additional securities instead of
cash, also advanced strongly. RJR Nabisco's 14.07%
convertible pay-in-kind debentures, due in 2009, finished 5/8
point higher to close at 84 7/8 on the New York Stock
Exchange. The other widely held RJR issue, the 14.07%
exchangeable pay-in-kind debentures, maturing in 2007, ended
1 1/4 points higher to close at 71.
   Despite the overall strength in the market, junk bonds of
Southland Corp. fell. Southland's 16 3/4% subordinated
debentures, maturing in 2002, shed 1/2 point to close at 4.
After the market closed Friday, Southland said it won't make
the June 15 pay-in-kind stock dividend on its 15% cumulative
exchangeable preferred stock.
   (See related story: "Abreast of the Market: Profit
Forecasts For '90, '91 Rise" -- WSJ June 4, 1990.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, June 1, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 1/4% low, 8 1/4% near
closing bid, 8 5/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.075% 30 to 59 days; 8.05% 60 to 89 days;
8% 90 to 119 days; 7.975% 120 to 149 days; 7.95% 150 to 179
days; 7.85% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.15%
30 days; 8.15% 60 days; 8.13% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.81% two
months; 7.84% three months; 7.99% six months; 8.30% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.25% three months;
8.30% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.04% 30 days; 8.02% 60 days; 7.93%
90 days; 7.91% 120 days; 7.90% 150 days; 7.86% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/ 16% three months;
8 1/4% - 8 1/8% four months; 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% five months; 8
1/4% - 8 1/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 1/2% six months; 8 3/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.50; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Tuesday, May 29, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.80% 13 weeks; 7.74% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.02%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.98%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.70%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.85%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Televideo Systems Inc.:
   Firm Sets Up Joint Venture
   To Sell Systems in Moscow
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   TELV FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Televideo Systems Inc. said it has
signed two joint-venture agreements to market the company's
computer systems in the Soviet Union.
   The agreement, which also involves West Germany's ABM
Computer Systems, will provide computers to the city of
Moscow and the Ministry of Construction. The companies will
offer computers and computer parts for resale through a
computer store chain in Moscow that will be set up as part of
the venture. Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Televideo said it doesn't expect the venture to be
profitable for about two years. Initially, it expects to
provide 1,000 to 2,000 systems a month.
   As part of the agreement, Moscow is providing land near
the Kremlin that the joint-venture parties will develop into
a hotel and office complex for western visitors and a source
of hard currency earnings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nashville Network:
   Radio Broadcaster to Halt
   Round-the-Clock Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   WX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nashville Network's radio division, which delivered
around-the-clock programming via satellite emphasizing
country music, said it would cease full-time operations at
the end of the month.
   The 18-month-old service, called TNNR, will continue to
produce a weekly show that is sold through syndication. TNNR
is a joint venture of Opryland USA, a privately held company
owned by Gaylord Broadcasting Co., and Group W Satellite, a
unit of Westinghouse Electric Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since the network began in December 1988, it signed only
63 affiliates. According to a spokeswoman for Group W, an
unspecified number of on-air personalities will be laid off.
   The venture cost the partners between $5 million and $10
million, said Robert Unmacht, managing editor of M Street
Journal, a Washington, D.C., publication that follows the
radio industry.
   The discontinuation of TNNR will not affect TNN, a cable
TV network, the Group W spokeswoman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japanese Trade Firms
   Report Higher Net
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   J.CIT J.NIW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Two of Japan's major international trading
companies reported substantially increased net income for the
year ended March 31.
   C. Itoh &amp; Co.'s consolidated earnings rose 15% to 35.13
billion yen ($230.8 million), or 24.27 yen a share, from
30.44 billion yen, or 24.01 yen a share, in fiscal 1989.
Operating profit rose 11% to 117.42 billion yen from 106.29
billion yen. The companies in the consolidated results rose
to 692 from 628. Sales climbed 31% to 20.998 trillion yen
from 16.05 trillion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   C. Itoh said strong personal spending, capital investment
and construction industry growth in Japan helped the company
expand its domestic and import transactions of machinery,
construction equipment, ores and metals, and energy products.
Favorable economic conditions in the U.S., Europe and Asia
also contributed to the improved results.
   Nissho Iwai Corp.'s profit surged 42% to a record 18.43
billion yen ($121 million), or 25.91 yen a share, from 13
billion yen, or 19.63 yen a share. Sales climbed 35% to
15.442 trillion yen from 11.447 trillion yen.
   Despite the strong sales, administrative and marketing
costs grew 12% to 156.43 billion yen and put pressure on
earnings. Yet net income shot up, as extraordinary losses
plunged 72% to 3.91 billion yen. Interest receipts surged 51%
to 182.75 billion yen; while interest payments rose 43% to
208.4 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Allianz AG:
   Investment in East Germany
   Has Floor of $589.2 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   G.ALL EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Allianz AG Chairman Wolfgang Schieren said the West German
insurance giant's planned investment in East Germany will
total at least one billion marks ($589.2 million).
   Mr. Schieren said in an interview with the weekly business
magazine Wirtschaftswoche that the sheer costs of Allianz's
plan to buy into the East German insurance market also have
made it less controversial, because "in the Bonn Economics
Ministry, as well as at the Cartel Office, people realize
that financially strong companies are needed for the economic
reconstruction of East Germany."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Allianz said in late March that it intended to take a 40%
stake in East Germany's state insurance monopoly. In the face
of strong criticism, Allianz repeatedly asserted it isn't
intent on monopolizing the newly opened East German insurance
market. Mr. Schieren said that "we don't want to buy a state
monopoly to continue it as a private monopoly, but all
insurance companies from West Germany and other foreign
countries can start in East Germany at the same time."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   This Time, the Ships
   Really Will Fall Off
   The End of the Earth
   ---
   To Honor Columbus, Teams
   Design Sailboats to Mars,
   But the Obstacle Is Money
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   I.AER
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   About this time of year in 1490, Columbus was chewing his
fingernails in Salamanca, Spain, waiting for a royal
commission to advise Ferdinand and Isabella on whether they
should finance his proposed voyage west to reach the East.
   Half a millennium later, dozens of amateur and
professional space enthusiasts await word of who, if anyone,
will finance a voyage that seems almost as far-fetched: a
race to Mars by solar-sailing spaceships.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Early last year, these space fans' imaginations were
grabbed by a proposal from the Christopher Columbus
Quincentenary Jubilee Commission. To mark the Italian's
discovery, the U.S. group suggested, teams from around the
world would build and launch in October 1992 a fleet of three
small spaceships unlike any ever seen.
   Once in space, each of these unmanned ships would unfurl
thousands of square yards of gossamer sails that would billow
out under the almost infinitesimal pressure of sunlight.
Driven only by light bouncing off the sails' surfaces and
steered from Earth by electronic tillers and mainsheets, the
ships would tack past the moon and head for the red planet.
   The team whose sailing ship made the quickest transit from
Earth to Mars would claim the first Columbus 500 Space Sail
Cup, a trophy that would be put up for grabs every 10 years.
   At least that was the plan the Jubilee Commission put
forth in late 1988. Fascinated by the idea, space cadets of
all ages and disciplines rushed to their computers and
drawing boards. Last November, a committee of experts picked
the preliminary designs of eight teams -- three from the U.S.
and one each from Canada, England, Italy, Japan and the
Soviet Union -- that seemed to have a chance of actually
making it to Mars.
   But alas, history repeats itself. Many of the would-be
space sailors say they feel the kind of letdown Columbus must
have felt in 1486 when a rich Spaniard, the Conde de Medina
Celi, backed out on a promise to lend him some caravels.
   When the Quincentenary Commission called for design
proposals last year, "it indicated it was going to raise
funds," says Harold Fox, director of the solar sail project
for the Applied Physics Laboratory at Johns Hopkins
University in Baltimore. Scientists and engineers at the
laboratory rounded up government, industrial and university
space enthusiasts in Maryland and designed a $15 million
solar sail.
   But "they busted the bubble" a month ago, Mr. Fox says of
the commission's Columbus 500 Space Sail Project. Not only
did the project's director reveal that no money had been
raised, Mr. Fox says, but "the teams were encouraged to seek
funding on their own." The disappointed Johns Hopkins/APL
team is talking to some potential donors, he says. "We'll
give it a couple more months," but if funds aren't in sight
by then, the project will be shelved, he says.
   "I'm enthusiastic and I'd love to see it happen, but I'm
not into fund raising," says Andreas von Flotow, professor of
astronautics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
Cambridge, Mass. Mr. von Flotow and a graduate student will
spend the summer working on their concept of a $3 million
"heliogyro" with eight 250-foot bladelike sails. But that's
the most he can do without funding, he says.
   A Canadian team has obtained about $3 million worth of
hardware and services promised from corporations and this
month will test the waters of Canadian nationalism by
launching a public fund-raising drive. "If we can get nominal
cash donations from 100,000 individuals," then Canada can
launch its own $9.6 million (Canadian) entry in the race,
says Steve Horvath, a computer expert who heads the Canadian
Solar Sail Project organized by the Canadian Space Society.
   Fittingly, it's the Italians who seem really committed.
"We accepted with enthusiasm to do this space sailing to
Mars," says Joseph Viriglio, managing director of the space
systems group at Aeritalia, a Turin aerospace company.
Aeritalia is leading an industrial consortium to build and
launch a $20 million space sailer to be named the Capitana
Italica, the other name for the Santa Maria. "We are quite
confident of raising the money," Mr. Viriglio says.
   The man who dreamed up the race and heads the Columbus 500
Space Sail Project, Klaus P. Heiss, remains optimistic. Mr.
Heiss is a mathematical economist who has worked on the
economics of a number of space projects, including the space
shuttle. He concedes the project doesn't yet have any money,
but says "funding is being strongly pursued" and a
fund-raising consortium will be organized by early July. The
project, he says, is still planning to get three ships,
including at least one from North America, ready to launch in
October 1992. "It can be done if we have $25 million in
cash," he says.
   The idea of sailing through interplanetary space on puffs
of light is far from new, but it's never been tried.
Scientists have known since the turn of the century that when
light reflects off an object it exerts pressure on that
object. In the 1920s, the details of sun sailing in space
were worked out by two Russians, Konstantin Tsiolkovsky (a
schoolteacher who earlier had devised a remarkably prescient
way to rocket men to the moon) and Fridrikh Tsander, a
mathematician.
   Enthusiasts, however, say a 1951 article in Astounding
magazine by scientist and science-fiction writer Carl A.
Wiley gave birth to present concepts of solar sails. And they
trace the idea of a race to a 1963 Arthur C. Clarke
science-fiction story about an America's Cup-type race to the
moon among seven space sailors.
   In "The Wind From the Sun," Mr. Clarke noted that the
pressure of sunlight on one's hand was about a millionth of
an ounce. With this minuscule pressure applied to two square
miles of a sail in space, the sail would move about an inch
in the first second and about 60 feet in the first minute,
Mr. Clarke calculated. In an hour it would accelerate to 80
miles per hour, and by the end of the day the ship would be
traveling 2,000 mph -- and the speed would continue to build
day after day.
   The sails could be maneuvered by changing their angle to
the sun's rays, just as a sailing ship maneuvers in the wind.
Power to change the angles of the sail, "trimming" it, as
well as power for communications, could come from
solar-electric cells. Thus, the sail could flit through space
without a drop of fuel.
   All this prompted NASA in the late 1970s to commission Jet
Propulsion Laboratories in Pasadena, Calif., to design a
solar sailship to rendezvous with Halley's Comet when it came
by in 1986. Unlike rocket-launched probes that could only fly
by, a sail ship could maneuver about the comet for several
days.
   The Halley's project foundered on a budget reef. But the
idea fascinated a group of space enthusiasts in Southern
California, who organized the World Space Foundation and
built what is still the world's only space-sail manufacturing
machine. In 1981 they actually built a 50-foot-square
prototype solar sail of aluminized Mylar plastic, which was
unfurled once, in a gymnasium.
   Designing "sunjammers," as they were dubbed in a 1964
science-fiction story by Poul Anderson, is far from simple.
To get the most sail area per pound of spacecraft weight, the
sail must be tissue-thin. Proposed sails are huge, with
diameters and diagonals three to seven times the length of
the 117-foot Santa Maria. The Canadians' hexagonal sail would
cover 12,000 square yards, while the disk-shaped one designed
by Cambridge Consultants Ltd. in England would cover 15
acres, or 11 football fields.
   Yet the sails are so light they must be unfurled at least
1,000 miles above the Earth's surface, where there's not the
slightest wisp of atmosphere to drag them down. This altitude
is beyond the reach of the space shuttle, so ships must be
launched by rocket.
   The trickiest part of the whole race is unfurling the
giant sails after they've been packed into a nose cone.
Cambridge Consultants designed its sail, dubbed the Nina,
with 36 elastic ribs wound around a central hub, with the
sail folded up between the ribs. In space the ribs would
spring out radially from the hub.
   The Johns Hopkins/APL team figures its sail will have to
spend 60 to 90 days in a steadily elongating elliptical orbit
before it has enough speed to break free of Earth's gravity.
If it breaks loose at just the right moment, it will be
grabbed by the moon's gravity and whipped out on a course to
Mars, getting there in maybe 400 to 500 days.
   If past is prologue, the would-be space sailors are in for
at least one more disappointment. The finalists are to be
picked this October, by which time Mr. Heiss's promised
consortium should know its prospects for funds. This is 500
years almost to the month from the report of the Talavera
Committee on Columbus' request. The committee told Ferdinand
and Isabella that it wasn't proper for them "to favor an
affair that rested on such weak foundations and which
appeared uncertain and impossible to any educated person,
however little learning he might have."
   And President Bush doesn't have any jewels to hock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   DONALD TRUMP is in intense talks with bank creditors that
could force him to give up big chunks of his empire. The
bankers, concerned about the developer's critical cash
shortage, are likely to seek asset sales, new management and
a much more conservative operating style.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones industrials closed above 2900 for the first
time Friday as stocks and bonds surged in anticipation of
falling interest rates. The stock average rose 24.31 to
2900.97. Last week's record-setting equity prices also
reflect rising expectations for 1990 and 1991 corporate
earnings.
   ---
   Private-sector payrolls barely grew in May after shrinking
in April, the government said. But temporary census hiring
lowered the civilian unemployment rate to 5.3% from 5.4%.
Meanwhile, the purchasing managers' index of manufacturing
health rose to its highest level since April 1989.
                                                                                                       

   The soft jobs picture is leading economists to prune
forecasts of second-quarter gross national product.
   ---
   The Soviet Union is depositing large amounts of gold with
Western banks as collateral for loans. Trade creditors owed
hundreds of millions of dollars have been hounding the
cashpoor Soviets for overdue payments.
   ---
   Chevron and the Soviets agreed to study the feasibility of
jointly developing the huge Tengiz oil field. It could be the
biggest U.S.-Soviet venture yet.
   ---
   Steel prices are rising, leading some firms to restart
blast furnaces and to recall workers laid off last fall. The
rebound reflects brisk demand -- especially auto-related --
higher raw-material costs, and falling imports.
   ---
   Hitachi will unveil a mainframe computer this week far
more powerful than those on the market, boosting the Japanese
company's bid to become a major player in the U.S.
   ---
   Manville Corp. was ordered back to bankruptcy court by two
judges who urged changes in the funding and operation of a
trust that the company formed to pay asbestos claims.
   ---
   L.A. Gear disclosed it will post its first quarterly drop
in profit in three years. The news sent the sneaker maker's
stock plunging 22% to $30.75.
   ---
   Japan's current-account and overall trade surpluses
narrowed sharply in April. Tokyo is considering altering its
policy of reducing the surpluses.
   ---
   The failure of Western S&amp;L will add $1.7 billion to the
thrift-bailout cost, more than any other single rescue.
BankAmerica bought the Phoenix thrift's deposits, branches
and certain other assets for $81 million.
   ---
   Esprit's married founders settled their feud as Doug
Tompkins agreed to quit as image director and sell his 50%
stake in the apparel firm's U.S. operations to Susie
Tompkins.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 187,860,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2900.97, up 24.31; transportation 1189.42, up 17.89;
utilities 211.71, up 0.32.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3417.62, up
43.59.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 131.87, off 0.22;
spot index 133.34, off 0.46.
   Dollar: 151.85 yen, off 0.25; 1.6980 marks, up 0.0015.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Where We'll Be
   ---
   Gearing Up:
   Here's a Primer on What You'll Need And
   What It Will Cost to Set Up Your Own Workplace
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R12
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Take a loathing for commuting and office life, combine it
with the electronics revolution, and what do you have? The
home-office boom.
   These days, an individual with a few thousand dollars'
worth of equipment can imitate a fully staffed law office,
accounting firm or engineering company. And the future
promises even lower prices -- and more sophisticated
machines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Equipping a basic home office costs under $4,000, and even
a lavish setup is under $10,000. Here's a list of some of the
items that most home businesses are likely to buy today, with
prices culled from recent advertisements.
                                                                                                       

   Basic Needs
                                                                                                       

   IBM-compatible personal computer -- $1,000
   Prices have dropped sharply during most of the past six
months, and the most basic machines can be had for under
$500. But much of the best software today requires a hard
disk instead of cheaper floppy disks. The minimum computer
today should include an Intel 80286 processor, a 20-megabyte
hard disk and a monochrome monitor. Prices will keep dropping
30% a year.
                                                                                                       

   Letter-quality printer -- $270
   The 24-pin models print characters almost as well as
electric typewriters do.
                                                                                                       

   Answering machine -- $70
   After a telephone, the most important single item for any
home business.
                                                                                                       

   Facsimile machine -- $480
   The most basic models don't cut the paper or dial numbers
automatically, but they get the job done.
                                                                                                       

   Two-line telephone -- $120
   A must, unless you want to risk annoying clients with busy
signals or with constant requests to hold on while you answer
your call-waiting line.
                                                                                                       

   Computer modem -- $100
   The 2400-baud versions save lots of money when sending
electronic mail.
                                                                                                       

   High-Powered Office
                                                                                                       

   More powerful personal computers -- $3,099
   PCs with 100-megabyte hard disks will run faster and are
more likely to accommodate software packages that come out in
the future. Home workers say that the bigger the hard disk,
the better off you are.
   Hard-disk prices have been plunging lately. Color monitors
don't make much difference in the business, but they make the
kids' educational software look great -- and that's one of
the benefits of having a home office.
                                                                                                       

   Tape drive -- $380
   When all your business information is on your computer,
you need to back it up at least weekly. Keep the tape in the
car or elsewhere out of the house.
                                                                                                       

   Laser printers -- $995
   They let users print out headlines, different fonts, and
graphs and charts that look professionally produced. They are
almost silent and print at four to six pages a minute. Once
limited to print shops, they fell below $1,000 last fall.
                                                                                                       

   Personal copiers -- $530
   They're much less common in home offices than in corporate
offices. In emergencies, a fax machine can be used to make a
copy. And big jobs still require a trip to the print shop.
                                                                                                       

   Facsimile machine -- $800
   You might want one that includes an answering machine that
switches automatically to voice or fax.
                                                                                                       

   Software
                                                                                                       

   Buy a simple integrated package with word processing,
filing and spreadsheet built in; then add specialized
software as you find a need for it, advises Russ Walter,
author of "The Secret Guide to Computers." Unless you're
building a relationship with a computer retailer, buy
software by mail order. Join a user group for access to many
useful free programs. Some of the most popular software
includes:
                                                                                                       

   Integrated programs -- $100-$225
   Microsoft Works or Software Publishing's PFS First Choice.
Symantec's Q&amp;A is more expensive, but it combines easy but
sophisticated filing with adequate word processing.
                                                                                                       

   Word Processing -- $200-$300
   WordPerfect is the best seller. Microsoft Word, Samna's
Ami and Xyquest's Xywrite all have their fans.
                                                                                                       

   Spreadsheets -- $250-$330
   Lotus 1-2-3 version 2.2 is the best seller; many recent
reviewers prefer Borland's Quattro Pro and Microsoft's Excel.
                                                                                                       

   Accounting -- $35
   Intuit's Quicken, the best-selling check-writing program,
is easier than double-entry bookkeeping.
                                                                                                       

   Telecommunications
                                                                                                       

   Keeping a residential phone rate typically saves $5 a
month or so, but it keeps you out of the Yellow Pages. Some
telephone companies have special marketing plans for
home-based businesses. Experts recommend at least two lines,
one of which is hooked to the fax machine. Following are
monthly rates:
                                                                                                       

   Two lines, residential rates -- $20-$30
                                                                                                       

   Call waiting -- $5
                                                                                                       

   Voice mail boxes -- $6
   Just becoming available. The phone company will store
messages even if your line is busy, reducing the need for
another line and eliminating the need for call waiting.
                                                                                                       

   800 Number -- $20
   Lets distant customers call you at your expense. Be
careful about giving out the number because you get billed
for the incoming calls.
                                                                                                       

   MCI mail box -- $25 annual
   Lets people send and receive computerized messages.
                                                                                                       

   On the Road
                                                                                                       

   Without secretaries or assistants sitting in the office,
the home-based business person is even more dependent on
electronic lifelines while traveling.
                                                                                                       

   Cellular car phone -- $500
                                                                                                       

   Pocket cellular phone -- $1,200
                                                                                                       

   Portable computer -- $600-$4,000
   You pay for portability and screen quality.
                                                                                                       

   Portable facsimile machine -- $1,700
   Remember, it uses thermal paper, which will turn black
while sitting in a hot car.
                                                                                                       

   Portable printer -- $360
   ---
   Mr. Bulkeley is a staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's Boston bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH AND GORBACHEV ENDED a four-day summit at odds over
Germany.
   Despite proclaiming that they had achieved "an atmosphere
of growing trust" during their talks in Washington, the
president and the Soviet leader concluded their talks amid
unresolved differences over the future military status of a
united Germany and on independence for the breakaway Baltic
republic of Lithuania. Still, the two leaders decided to meet
on a regular basis, perhaps annually, and Gorbachev invited
Bush to Moscow. They also signed a U.S.-Soviet trade pact
Friday, and reached accords to halt the production of
chemical weapons and on verification procedures for
nuclear-arms testing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gorbachev traveled to Minnesota for a brief visit with
political, business and agricultural officials before heading
to San Francisco for a meeting today with South Korea's
President Roh.
   ---
   Beijing University students hurled bricks and bottles at
China's security forces, and then staged an anti-government
rally on campus. The protest, on the anniversary of last
year's crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators, was
considered the strongest since the government's assault in
Tiananmen Square and came amid tight security.
                                                                                                       

   Tens of thousands of people marked last year's Chinese
army attack on student-led protesters with demonstrations in
Hong Kong and elsewhere. Police estimated 100,000 people
joined in the Hong Kong march, considered the biggest rally
in the British colony since last summer's gathering in
support of China's pro-democracy movement.
   ---
   Genentech Inc. scientists conducted a test that protected
two chimpanzees from the AIDS virus. The company said
researchers vaccinated the animals with a copy of the virus's
outer coat, and then exposed them to the AIDS virus. After
more than six months, the chimps haven't shown signs of
infection.
   ---
   Dozens of Liberia's soldiers fled Monrovia, heading to
neighboring Sierra Leone amid fears of an expected rebel
attack aimed at overthrowing the government of President Doe.
Others evacuated their families, and residents of the capital
complained of food shortages. Troops on the battlefront
reportedly were retreating toward the city.
   ---
   A band of tornadoes struck the Midwest, killing at least
eight people and injuring about 150 in Indiana, where the
governor declared a state of emergency and dispatched the
National Guard to areas hardest hit by the twisters. At least
one person was killed in Illinois, officials said. The storms
reportedly left 24 cities with significant damage.
   ---
   Washington's Mayor Barry is scheduled to go on trial today
on cocaine conspiracy and perjury charges. But sources said
the 54-year-old official's defense attorneys met with
prosecutors over the weekend to discuss a possible plea
bargain. Barry was arrested Jan. 18 in an FBI sting
operation.
   ---
   Canada's Mulroney held emergency talks in Ottawa with the
country's 10 provincial premiers in an attempt to break a
constitutional impasse over granting French-speaking Quebec
special status. Three of the provinces oppose the move, part
of an accord that must be ratified by June 23.
   ---
   Mandela prepared for today's start of a six-week foreign
tour that includes stops throughout Africa, Europe and North
America. The African National Congress leader, who met
Saturday in Cape Town with de Klerk, is expected to try to
undo gains made by the South African president on an
eight-nation trip to Europe last month.
   ---
   Bulgaria barred soldiers from carrying arms outside
barracks after an officer killed an opposition activist two
weeks before the country's first free elections in four
decades. The Defense Ministry also ordered military officers
to surrender their personal weapons until June 17, the final
day of voting.
   ---
   Rival Cambodian officials said they expect to sign a
cease-fire agreement in Tokyo this week. But Prime Minister
Hun Sen of the Vietnam-backed Phnom Penh government and
Prince Sihanouk, head of a three-party guerrilla coalition,
cited differences over the role of the Khmer Rouge, which
could hinder the two-year peace process.
   ---
   Israel's Likud ministers reiterated a pledge to form a
narrow right-wing government by the end of the week. The
announcement, made after a strategy meeting called by
caretaker Prime Minister Shamir, followed a statement by
former Defense Minister Sharon, who said he would try to form
a hard-line coalition if Shamir failed.
   ---
   Died: Rex Harrison, 82, English-born actor whose career on
stage and film included portrayals of Henry Higgins in "My
Fair Lady," Saturday, in New York, of pancreatic cancer. . .
. Robert Noyce, 62, co-inventor of the semiconductor who was
a founder of Intel Corp. and president of the
government-industry consortium Sematech, in Austin, Texas, of
a heart attack. . . . Frederick Mellinger, 76, founder and
former chairman of Frederick's of Hollywood, Saturday, in Los
Angeles, of pneumonia. . . . Richard William Millar, 92,
former chairman of Northrop Corp., Friday, in Pasadena,
Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Laventhol &amp; Horwath
   Realigns Management
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Laventhol &amp; Horwath said a new senior
management team was appointed to serve under Chief Executive
Officer Robert N. Levine.
   Mr. Levine, who formally took office on Friday after being
elected last November by the accounting firm's partners, said
in a statement that he assembled the team of six managers "to
strengthen the firm's commitment to professional quality and
build client confidence."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Laventhol, the seventh-largest accounting firm in the
U.S., has been hurt in the last few years by lawsuits
accusing it of sloppy work and by defections of key
employees. It has been forced to pay out more than $50
million in judgments and claims in the last three years.
   Serving under Mr. Levine will be Jacob R. Brandzel as
national partner for professional services, including
accounting, auditing and tax work. He had served as the
firm's national tax partner since 1987.
   Reporting to Mr. Brandzel are James B. Leach, national
accounting and auditing director, and Frank J. O'Connell,
national tax partner.
   Reporting to Mr. Levine are David E. Arnold, national
partner for consulting services; Mark I. Murovitz, national
partner for technology and innovation; and Edward A. Suarez,
national partner for administration.
   Laventhol also said several regional managing partners
took office Friday:
   Arthur R. Nemiroff heads the Los Angeles office,
succeeding Philip T. Winik, who retires.
   Kenneth L. Weiss heads the San Diego office, succeeding
Howard Sibelman, who was promoted to accounting and auditing
director for Southwest and Southern California offices.
   Jerome L. Lefkowitz heads the Boston office, succeeding
David Love, who retires. Mr. Lefkowitz also manages the
Providence, R.I., office.
   Philip Piser heads the Tampa, Fla., office, succeeding Don
Garrison, who left the firm for personal reasons.
   Also, Sheldon J. Epstein formally assumed responsibilities
as Midwest area managing partner in Chicago. He had replaced
Kenneth I. Solomon, who resigned, at the beginning of the
year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Charter Medical Corp.
   To Close 25 Centers,
   Lay Off 600 Workers
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CMDA
</CO>
<LP>
   MACON, Ga. -- Charter Medical Corp., as part of an effort
to trim costs, said it will close about 25 outpatient
counseling centers and idle about 600 employees across the
country.
   Charter, a psychiatric-care company, went private in a
1988 buy-out and recently encountered problems in its fiscal
second quarter, ended March 31, when it posted a $67 million
loss on revenue of $475.2 million. The year earlier, Charter
had a $14.6 million loss on revenue of $397.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The most recent figures, which included a $35 million
pretax charge for accounting problems, raised some concerns
on Wall Street about the company's ability to service its
debt. At the time, Charter said it would cut capital
expenditures and other costs to ensure its ability to meet
its payments.
   The company's executive vice president for human resources
and development, Rod Laughlin, said yesterday that the
current closings and terminations reflect efforts to cut
costs as well as seasonal layoffs in the hospital business.
Patient loads, he said, typically lighten in the early
summer.
   Charter has between 250 and 300 counseling centers across
the country, Mr. Laughlin said, and a total of about 20,000
employees. The layoffs, he said, some of which will come
through attrition, involve primarily administrative positions
as opposed to those involved directly in medical care. All
the moves are expected to be completed in the current
quarter, he said.
   Mr. Laughlin said the company doesn't expect to make any
further closings or dismissals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Plan by Recognition
   Equipment to Buy
   Its Stock Is Delayed
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   REC
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Recognition Equipment Inc. said it delayed a
planned tender offer for $15 million to $20 million of its
stock for up to six more months while it works on improving
its business and continues to try to sell assets.
   The maker of document-processing equipment initially
agreed to purchase its stock when Prospect Group Inc., a New
York leveraged buy-out concern, made a $15 million loan to
the company. However, Prospect later agreed to let
Recognition use the funds for short-term working capital for
as long as four months after it made the loan in February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Recognition said its board moved to further amend the
agreement with Prospect after considering the capital needs
associated with its plans to focus on its imaging equipment
and because planned asset sales are moving more slowly than
expected. It also cited pending settlement discussions with
the U.S. Federal Reserve Banks over a contract dispute
involving currency-processing systems.
   The company said that delaying the tender offer until as
late as the end of November will allow it to look at its
results for the year ending Oct. 31. A spokeswoman said the
decision isn't the result of a liquidity problem, saying the
company had approximately $48 million in cash and equivalents
at April 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thrift Regulators
   Seize First Annapolis,
   Investors of Florida
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Savings-and-loan regulators took over First
Annapolis Savings Bank, Annapolis, Md., and placed it in the
government's program for failed institutions.
   First Annapolis had reported assets of $732.1 million and
negative tangible capital of $65.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Regulators also took over Investors of Florida Savings
Bank, Deerfield Park, Fla., and placed it in receivership.
The thrift had assets of $282.6 million and negative tangible
capital of $1.1 million.
   Both institutions will be run under the direction of the
Resolution Trust Corp., the government agency set up last
year to sell off and liquidate hundreds of failed thrifts.
   Separately, the RTC said it sold the deposits of
Spindletop Savings Association, Beaumont, Texas, to First
City, Texas Beaumont, also of Beaumont. Spindletop Savings
had total assets of $243.9 million and total liabilities of
$352.3 million.
   First City will pay the RTC $10,000 to assume $288.1
million in 9,800 deposit accounts. First City will buy $22.4
million of Spindletop's assets and will have options to
acquire most of the remaining assets.
   The RTC will give First City $271.9 million to back the
deposits and will retain $221.5 million of the assets. The
RTC expects its ultimate cost from the transaction to be
$250.1 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pezim Says Corona
   Is Set to Improve
   Offer for Stikine
   ----
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   ICRA T.SKZ PLDS PDG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Corona Corp. director Murray Pezim said the
company will announce today an improved offer for Stikine
Resources Ltd., upping the ante in a battle for control of a
Canadian gold property.
   Mr. Pezim also said Corona, based here, will announce
plans to spin off its gold assets into a separately listed
company that would offer to acquire all the shares of Prime
Resources Group Inc. Prime Resources is Stikine's partner and
the operator of the promising Eskay Creek gold project in
northwestern British Columbia. Corona already owns 20% of the
stock in Prime Resources, of which Mr. Pezim is chairman.
Prime Resources and Stikine are both based in Vancouver.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Pezim's disclosure unravels efforts by Corona's
management to keep the news under wraps until this morning.
Trading in shares of Corona, Stikine and Prime has been
halted since last week.
   Mr. Pezim, who is also honorary chairman of Corona, has
been in hot water before with the company's management. In a
fiery 1987 boardroom battle, Mr. Pezim, commonly known as
"the Pez," was ousted from an executive position amid
management charges that he had talked to the media about
proposed Corona transactions that hadn't been considered by
the Corona board.
   A Corona spokesman wouldn't comment on the accuracy of the
latest disclosures, but said Corona Chairman Ned Goodman was
"very concerned" about Mr. Pezim's statements. "Murray talked
when he shouldn't have," the spokesman said.
   According to Mr. Pezim, Corona will offer 6.5 Corona Class
A shares and two Prime Resources shares for each share of
Stikine.
   The revised Corona offer would have an indicated value of
about 257.3 million Canadian dollars (US$219.6 million), or
C$75.69 a Stikine share, based on market prices before the
trading halt went into effect. This is higher than a rival
bid by Placer Dome Inc. of Vancouver, which has offered
C$229.5 million, or C$67.50 for each Stikine share. Placer is
offering cash with a share alternative.
   Despite a possibly higher offer from Corona, analysts
weren't convinced that the Placer bid would be the less
favorable of the two. The gap between the bids "is quickly
closed when one considers one {offer} is cash and the other
isn't," said Egizio Bianchini, an analyst at Nesbitt Thomson
Deacon Inc.
   Corona's previous offer involved a complex plan under
which it would acquire a 44.6% stake in a company that was to
be formed from the merger of Stikine and Prime Resources. In
exchange, Corona was to issue to Stikine holders a package of
securities that analysts valued at anywhere from C$65 to C$70
a Stikine share.
   Mr. Pezim said that under Corona's plan to spin off its
gold assets, shareholders will receive one share in the new
gold company for every 2.27 Corona shares currently held.
   Corona is one of North America's biggest gold-mining
concerns, with production last year of about 680,000 ounces
of gold. The company also has interests in industrial
minerals and oil and gas.
   "At the end, Corona will control 45%" of the new gold
company, Mr. Pezim said. He said the gold subsidiary will be
based in Vancouver, with Peter Steen, Corona's president and
chief executive, serving as chairman of the new company. John
Ivany, president and chief executive of Prime Resources, will
serve in the same roles at the new company, Mr. Pezim said.
   Mr. Pezim said the new gold company will then bid to
acquire Prime Resources, offering one share of the new gold
company for each Prime Resources share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Daisy Systems Says
   Bondholders Seek
   Bankruptcy Status
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   DAZXC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOULDER, Colo. -- Daisy Systems Corp. said some of its
bondholders filed a petition in federal court in Denver
seeking to force it into involuntary bankruptcy proceedings.
   The struggling maker of computer-aided engineering
stations has been in default on $118 million in debt for
several months, starting with missed interest payments last
November. Much of the debt was incurred when Daisy acquired
Cadnetix Corp. for $200 million at the end of 1988. About $40
million of the debt is in the form of secured loans, with the
balance comprising two series of convertible debentures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Daisy spokeswoman said bondholders and the secured
creditor, Heller Financial Inc., have held a series of
discussions to avert the bankruptcy filing. But a one-year
statute of limitations on the right to file the action,
created by the Cadnetix acquisition, expired May 30. The
petition was filed before the deadline, according to the
spokeswoman, but negotiations continue "and meanwhile we are
operating our business as usual."
   But disappointing sales and resulting losses have
continued the company's liquidity problems. Daisy posted a
loss for the first quarter ended Dec. 31 of $18.3 million, or
$1.03 a share, wiping out remaining shareholder equity.
Second-quarter results continued the trend, as the company's
net loss widened to $21.6 million, or $1.08 a share, from
$10.4 million, or 60 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue
slumped to $33 million from $47.2 million.
   Daisy closed Friday in over-the-counter trading at 37.5
cents a share, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Are Junk Bonds Really Stocks in Disguise?
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- More and more stock investors are buying junk
bonds, and they aren't doing it for the high yield.
   Rather, they are pursuing a strategy -- long known, but
lately gaining favor -- that junk bonds of highly distressed
companies represent shares of stock in disguise. David
Schulte, managing partner of Chilmark Partners, calls junk
"equity with a bow tie."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reasoning is as follows: since many junk bonds will
eventually be converted through securities-swap offers or
bankruptcies into equity, or ownership, they hold the same
potential claim as a stock on the company's cash flow and
asset value.
   The compelling investment angle is that junk bonds are
selling at huge discounts from face value at the same time
that the stock market has reached a record high.
   In one sign of the trend, Bear Stearns is regularly
shuttling its junk-bond research to institutional stock
clients. A dozen or so of its equity accounts have purchased
junk, the firm says, and it expects that "more will
participate every quarter." Another sign is that takeover
speculators are buying junk.
   "It's a great area, because people have beaten it down,"
says Julian Robertson, head of Tiger Management, a
stock-picker lately enamored of junk. "Junk-bond people were
supposed to be geniuses. Then people got frightened. It's
been overdone both ways."
   Investors such as Charles Davidson of Steinhardt Partners,
which invests primarily in stocks, conclude that a
diversified group of junk bonds should outperform stocks over
the next few years.
   This is a heady idea, but it's doubtful that a buckshot
approach would work. Buying an entire class of securities
ensures that one will do no better than average. The
question, with junk bonds or anything else, is which
securities are priced well below intrinsic value? It appears
that only a handful of junk bonds fit that bill.
   Michael Price, president of Mutual Shares, a stock-picker
who has been sifting through junk bonds for longer than most,
says "there is nothing compelling. Brokers can talk all day
long about this bond being cheap, but we're the ones who have
to own them."
   Mr. Price says that when the time and cost of a
restructuring are factored in, few junk bonds look good.
   Bob Masterson, director of research at Cypress Capital
Management, says "You've been hammered so much in the past
six months; it's tough to know whether the tidal wave is
over."
   Perhaps, one shouldn't try to know. Amy Minella, senior
vice president of Deltec Asset Management, recommends that
buyers take a long-term view and keep buying, or "average
down," if prices drop. "It's not for the faint of heart," she
notes. Using an equity approach to junk bonds, "the first
thing you say is what is the value of the company? If it had
no debt, what would I pay for it?" In other words, assuming
the debt is converted to equity, what is the debt worth?
   One thing she and others don't set much store in is the
yield-to-maturity -- a favorite indicator of Wall Street
analysts that is just about meaningless for distressed bonds.
   "If I'm buying Southland I'm not buying for the current
yield," Mrs. Minella notes. "I'm assuming they won't pay."
   Wall Street generally leans towards bonds trading at close
to full face amount, the so-called "upper tier," as providing
safety. But this may offer less protection than meets the
eye.
   The label "upper tier" doesn't assure that a bond will
spend its life at the face amount, known as par. In fact,
just about every bond trading at big discounts -- those in
the so-called middle and bottom tiers -- were at one time
issued at par. And only bonds in the lower tiers offer the
potential for an equity-style return.
   Tiger Management, using an equity approach, has invested
in the debt of Greyhound Lines, Community Newspapers, MCorp,
RJR Nabisco pay-in-kind bonds of 2007 (paying interest in
additional securities), Jim Walter and Hospital Corp. of
America.
   Patrick Duff, a Tiger analyst, says, "You do the same kind
of valuation work you do with stocks. What kind of cash flow
will the business generate? And what kind of multiple would
you put on that business?"
   With Greyhound, for instance, he estimates that even if
business doesn't recover to pre-strike levels, cash flow
after capital spending should be roughly $35 million a year.
"You could buy all the company's debt for roughly $200
million," he says, or an attractive six times cash flow even
in a depressed year.
   Seth Klarman, a Mutual Shares alumnus who manages money
for Baupost Group, is bullish on selected issues such as
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. Mr. Klarman looks -- among other
measures -- at how much value a junk bond would have if each
of a company's securities were converted to equity. As with a
stock, he looks at the fundamentals of the business and puts
a presumed multiple on its cash flow.
   If the company winds up making its interest payments, the
bond should eventually appreciate and provide a fat return.
   But more often, the company restructures. "The job of the
distressed-security analyst is to figure out how under water
the company is and which security should get the equity," Mr.
Klarman says. "In Interco, the junior bonds are too under
water; however, the more senior 13 3/4% bonds" would get a
large share of the equity under the company's proposed
restructuring.
   Mr. Klarman cautions "there are a lot of ways you can get
hurt. People bought Allied Stores 11 1/2% bonds in the 50s
and 60s last fall believing that those bonds represented
significant amounts of equity." But the value of the company
deteriorated. Now, Mr. Klarman says, those issues "are valued
as a kind of warrant and they're trading at five cents on the
dollar."
   Another problem is that the corporate restructuring
"workout" process is time-consuming and unpredictable. In
theory, when a company can't pay its debts, shareholders
don't get any value until creditors are paid in full.
   But in practice, James Heffernan, managing partner of
investment firm Whitman, Heffernan, Rhein &amp; Co., says,
shareholders are able to "use the bankruptcy process to
extort some value out of bondholders."
   James Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer and
a longtime critic of junk bonds, questions whether it's
sensible to buy even deeply distressed junk. He sees the junk
bond collapse as "a symptom of {a continuing} broader
distress in banking and credit."
   Noting, earlier this year, that bargain hunters were
turning to junk, Mr. Grant wrote: "Still-unconverted bears,
including us, have their doubts. They ask, in effect, can a
bubble of four or five years' making be deflated in only four
or five months?"
   Mr. Price of Mutual Shares worries about the huge supply
of bonds paying interest in the form of more bonds. When
these convert to cash-paying bonds, they are likely to set
off a new wave of defaults. Thus, Mr. Price says, "Nobody
wants noncash-paying paper." With such an overhang, he adds,
"The market can't go anywhere."
   A precedent might be the Depression, when the world was
awash with corporate bonds selling at deep discounts. The
1934 investing classic "Security Analysis," written by
Benjamin Graham and David Dodd, recommended highly selective
purchase of such bonds. The authors favored a "common-stock
approach" and they weren't deterred by the lack of popular
interest.
   "The large supply of such issues, coupled with the lack of
a natural demand for them, will make for a level of prices
below their intrinsic value," they wrote. Even if the form of
the security is unattractive, "this may be more than offset
by the attractive price at which they may be purchased."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pacificorp Calls Halt
   For Now to Buy-Back
   Of Stock for Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   PPW PNW NOWT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PORTLAND, Ore. -- PacifiCorp said it temporarily stopped
open-market purchases of its stock in order to allow a quiet
period for setting an exchange ratio related to the $250
million stock and cash acquisition of North-West
Telecommunications Inc.
   PacifiCorp, an electric and telephone utility, has been
buying its stock to accumulate the about 10.5 million shares
it will need at current prices to complete the North-West
purchase.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock
Exchange, PacifiCorp closed at $21.50, unchanged.
   As reported, PacifiCorp's agreement to buy the La Crosse,
Wis.-based telephone company calls for it to pay North-West
holders $225 million of PacifiCorp common stock plus $25
million in cash.
   PacifiCorp had about 247.1 million common shares issued at
March 31. However, of that total, it held about 7.5 million
shares in treasury for the North-West transaction. A
spokesman declined to say how many shares PacifiCorp has
repurchased since March 31.
   PacifiCorp said it ceased repurchases on Friday and
expects to value its stock for the North-West transaction
based on open-market trading in 10 trading days between June
5 and June 18. After that latter date, it may resume
repurchases, PacifiCorp said.
   A spokesman said the suspension of repurchases isn't
related to PacifiCorp's $1.82 billion all-cash bid to acquire
Pinnacle West Capital Corp. That offer, made last month, has
been rejected by Pinnacle West, an electric utility based in
Phoenix, Ariz.; however, PacifiCorp has hinted that it may
pursue Pinnacle West despite its board's opposition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Massachusetts Democrats
   Set for Governor's Primary
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -- Boston University President John
Silber, whose maverick gubernatorial candidacy divided the
state Democratic party, narrowly won a spot on the primary
ballot, while former state Attorney General Francis X.
Bellotti won the party's endorsement.
   The long-dominant state Democratic party, facing its
strongest challenge in years, also gave Michael Dukakis's
lieutenant governor, Evelyn Murphy, a place on the ballot.
State Rep. John Flood was eliminated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Silber, on leave from his university post, fought
against a rule that required support of at least 15% of party
delegates to get on the ballot. He said it excluded
candidates who had popular support but were opposed by
liberal party insiders. Mr. Silber has led in recent polls of
likely primary voters.
   The convention here was marred by picketing Springfield
police officers, who delayed its start by more than three
hours as delegates refused to cross the line. But the
picketers, some of whom were chanting "four more years,"
clearly sided with the Republican party, leading to charges
that the protest -- over a contract dispute -- was
deliberately staged to disrupt the convention.
   A White House political aide, Ronald Kaufman, and state
Republican Party Director Alexander Tennant were in
Springfield during the weekend, but denied any involvement in
the protest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Stalking Rosty
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The last time House Ways and Means Chairman Dan
Rostenkowski tried to block a tax cut for the elderly -- the
catastrophic health-care tax repeal -- a group of seniors
besieged him inside his car in Chicago until he fled in his
car.
   Now, Rosty's committee has become the main obstacle to the
repeal of one of the most unfair laws in the U.S. tax code,
the earnings limit for Social Security recipients. Illinois
Republican Dennis Hastert has 226 co-sponsors for his bill to
repeal this tax on people over age 65. A House majority is
only 218. Yet Rosty, abetted by subcommittee Chairman Andy
Jacobs of Indiana, won't even let the legislation come to the
House floor for debate. Maybe Congress should consult the
Supreme Soviet for a lesson in democracy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The earnings limit amounts to a surtax on the working
elderly. For every $3 earned by a retiree over a certain
limit, he or she loses $1 in Social Security benefits. The
limit in 1990 is $9,360 for seniors between age 65 and 69;
it's $6,840 for seniors age 62 to 66 (who lose $1 in benefits
for every $2 earned above the limit). The special tax expires
at age 70.
   This means in practice that retirees face an outrageously
high marginal tax rate. A man in the 15% federal tax bracket
who works at McDonald's can face a marginal rate of 55%.
Since the earnings-limit tax also cuts his wife's Social
Security benefits (even if she doesn't work), the marginal
rate for the couple can reach 105%. And this doesn't count
state and local taxes. The couple ends up paying the
government for the privilege of working. As that Soviet
emigre comedian likes to say, what a country]
   It gets worse. The tax applies only to "earned" income,
the sort that comes from working for a wage or salary. If
income derives from interest or dividends, no Social Security
benefit is lost. So the rich elderly can have a lower
marginal tax rate than the average working stiff. Democrats
used to care about such matters of "equity," but nowadays
they'd rather be the tax collectors for the welfare state.
   Rosty and his comrades are petrified that repeal might
"cost" the Treasury revenue. In the static computer models of
the Congressional Budget Office, repeal would "cost" $3.6
billion in the first year, and $26.2 billion over five years.
This assumes repeal wouldn't change anyone's behavior. Former
Treasury economists Aldona and Gary Robbins, who do consider
behavior, have estimated that enough seniors would happily
work more and that the federal government would gain revenue.
Not surprisingly, labor-participation rates among the elderly
are lowest right around the income levels worst hit by the
earnings-limit tax.
   The earnings limit is an artifact of the Depression era,
when the U.S. wanted seniors to retire so scarce jobs would
open for younger people. But many parts of the U.S. now have
a labor shortage. The skills and experience of the elderly
are one of our most underutilized assets, and will become
even more valuable as the Baby Boom generation retires. The
punitive taxation of the earnings limit sends the message to
seniors that their country doesn't want them to work, or that
they are fools if they do. It's time for another run at Dan
Rostenkowski's limousine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   It's Anti-Israel Policy That's Deranged
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   In his attempt to portray the massacre by the crazed
Israeli gunman as an extension of the Israeli government's
plot to exterminate Palestinians, Alexander Cockburn points
to several examples of Israeli extremism ("Gunman Deranged?
No More Than Israel's Anti-Arab Policy," Viewpoint, May 24).
   Mr. Cockburn quotes an account from the May 18 edition of
the Hebrew daily Ha'aretz that says that the president of
Israel, Chaim Herzog, and the military commander of the West
Bank, Gen. Yitzhak Mordechai, attended a celebration in
Elkana honoring Rabbi Moshe Levinger, head of the Gush Emunim
(who was convicted of negligent manslaughter when he
indiscriminately fired his gun and killed an innocent
Palestinian after his car was pelted with rocks). In fact,
there was no such account in Ha'aretz or any other Israeli
newspaper on May 18 or any other day. Why? No such ceremony
honoring Rabbi Levinger ever occurred. There was indeed a
celebration in Elkana, at which both Gen. Mordechai and
President Herzog were in Elkana -- but it was to mark the
13th anniversary of the founding of the settlement by the
Labor Party. It had nothing whatsoever to do with Rabbi
Levinger.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Cockburn also quotes Rabbi Moshe Neriya as saying that
"the rabbi enjoined every Jew `to shoot {Arabs} left and
right without thinking and without hesitation.'" In fact,
what Rabbi Neriya said, according to a transcript of his
interview, was as follows: "As someone who has tasted the
feeling of being under a rain of heavy rocks, whose life was
in danger, of being killed or severe injury, I know how
someone who defends himself feels. . . . When you are
attacked {by murderers}, it is not the time to think but to
shoot right and left and to bring about the dispersal of the
murderers who are upon you." To twist Rabbi Neriya's
statement into a call for mass murder is an outright lie.
   Mr. Cockburn also alleges that Knesset member Rehavam
Ze'evi and Deputy Foreign Minister Binyamin Netanyahu support
"mass deportation of Palestinians." In fact, Mr. Netanyahu is
flatly opposed to such a policy. Mr. Ze'evi, a former Labor
Party member, supports a mutually agreed upon population
exchange with Arab regimes, similar to the Greek-Turkish
exchange of the 1920s. Without getting into a discussion on
Mr. Ze'evi's views (which I personally consider to be
patently ridiculous and extremist), Mr. Ze'evi is against any
forced exile, contrary to Mr. Cockburn's allegation. The only
major Israeli figure who supports forced exile is Meir
Kahane, who -- Mr. Cockburn neglects to point out -- has been
barred from running for office and who is boycotted by the
press.
   Mr. Cockburn also quotes Israel Shahak as a human-rights
authority. The problem is that Mr. Shahak is so extreme in
his views that Israeli human-rights organizations have been
forced to distance themselves from him. Mr. Shahak is no more
of an authority on Israeli human-rights violations than
Lyndon LaRouche is an authority on U.S. human-rights
violations.
   Mr. Cockburn alleges that the Israeli gunman may not have
been really crazy as evidenced by the interview conducted
with his neighbors by Newsday reporters. What Mr. Cockburn
neglected to say was that his own family said he was
disturbed and that he was dishonorably discharged from the
Israeli army.
   There is no doubt that racism and extremism exist in
Israel and that the repression of the Palestinian uprising
has been brutal. But Israel can no more be held to blame for
the actions of a madman than the U.S. can be blamed for the
actions of the crazed killer who walked into a McDonald's
several years ago in California and shot 21 people to death.
   Racism and extremism can be found in every society -- from
Egypt's ruthless repression of the Christian Copts to the
Sudan's continued enslavement of blacks to the scores of
unarmed young black men shot by white policemen across the
U.S. Any society covered by the media's same one-sided
scrutiny as Israel has been would end up being demonized in
the eyes of the world. The question for journalists -- who
have at their disposal the world's largest magnifying lens --
is whether Israel is really worse than these other societies
or whether there is a hidden agenda present in the selective
focus on Israel and the dangerous absence of any similar
focus on any other society.
   Mr. Cockburn entertains no such questions. In his
obsession with Israel, he has turned a blind eye to much
worse inter-Arab brutality and the celebration of Jewish
deaths in Arab society.
   As I wrote in my May 22 editorial-page article,
commentators who blame societies for individualized acts of
violence usually have an ideological agenda. In Mr.
Cockburn's case, the agenda may also be financial. It ought
to be remembered that several years ago (in a case
well-publicized at the time) Mr. Cockburn secretly took
$10,000 from an organization that had been funded primarily
by the governments of Iraq and Libya and by a bank known as
the PLO's bank.
   I want to thank Mr. Cockburn for confirming the
correctness of my original thesis.
   Steven Emerson
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB J.BOT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp. said it completed the
sale of its BancNewEngland Leasing Group operations to Bank
of Tokyo Ltd.
   The sale, approved by the Federal Reserve May 21, includes
about $500 million in assets, the bank said. Bank of Tokyo
will assume the group's 250 employees in a new subsidiary,
BOT Financial Corp., based in Boston.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Baptists Torn Asunder
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   R. Gustav Niebuhr's April 25 page-one article "House
Divided" is a fine example of factual, unbiased journalism.
It is evident that Mr. Niebuhr has keen insight and a
thorough knowledge of his subject.
   Southern Baptists, since inception, have held tenaciously
to the rights to think, to question and to speak. Not so
slowly, but surely, these rights are being snuffed out within
the denomination. A great religious body is being torn
asunder and destroyed from within.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mary Lou R. McKay
   North Augusta, S.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Management Co. Entertainment Group
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   MCEG GE
</CO>
<LP>
   MANAGEMENT CO. ENTERTAINMENT GROUP, New York, said General
Electric Co.'s General Electric Capital Corp. unit has
assumed all the rights and obligations of Kidder Peabody
Group Inc. related to $72.5 million of loans Management
received from Kidder. Management manages actors and actresses
and produces, finances and distributes entertainment. Kidder
is a brokerage and investment subsidiary of GE, Fairfield,
Conn.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Service Corp. Sets Redemption
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   SRV
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Service Corp. International, an owner and
operator of funeral homes and cemeteries, said it will redeem
50,000 shares of its Series A variable-term preferred stock
at a price of $1,000 a share on June 20, when the final
dividend also will be paid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Valley Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS VFED
</CO>
<LP>
   VALLEY FEDERAL SAVINGS &amp; LOAN ASSOCIATION (Van Nuys,
Calif.) -- Bill Brown was named senior vice president for
major loans and a member of this thrift's executive
administration committee. Mr. Brown, 33 years old, previously
was vice president for major loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New York City Partnership
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   LTR AXP
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Loews Corp. President Preston Robert Tisch is
expected to be elected chairman of the New York City
Partnership and the New York Chamber of Commerce, succeeding
American Express Co. Chairman James D. Robinson III.
   Mr. Tisch served as U.S. postmaster general from 1986 to
1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Partnership, founded in 1979, is a civic organization
consisting of private-sector leaders working on solutions to
the city's education, housing and economic-development
problems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manville Corp.
   Told to Consider
   Changes in Trust
   ---
   Funding Called Inadequate,
   Administration Unfair;
   Suit Ban May Be Lifted
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MVL
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Manville Corp. was ordered to return to federal bankruptcy
court to consider making major changes in the funding and
operation of the trust that the company formed to pay
asbestos claims.
   The order, issued jointly by a U.S. district judge and a
New York state judge, criticized the fund as being
inadequately funded and unfairly administered. The changes
recommended by the judges could have implications for
thousands of Manville asbestos personal-injury claimants
nationwide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal Judge Jack B. Weinstein and New York state Justice
Helen Freedman also left open the possibility that they will
lift a court order preventing asbestos victims from suing the
company, rather than the trust. The judges said they were
wary of taking such a step because it might hurt the company
that funds the trust.
   The judges estimate that the trust will need $7.5 billion
to pay pending and future claims. "There's no way (the
company) is putting enough money in the trust to take care of
$7.5 billion in claims," Judge Weinstein said. "At most the
trust appears to be worth $1.5 billion. . . . The 100,000
claims and the limited access (to funds) cries out for a more
workable and compassionate system."
   The judges said the best way to temporarily cover the
trust's shortfall may be for the company to advance the trust
from $200 million to $300 million.
   Trust and company officials wouldn't comment on details of
the judges' proposals. Previously, trust officials have said
that a shortage was expected in the early years of the trust.
Manville will begin making regular payments to the trust in
August 1991.
   The judges directed the company and the trust to meet with
U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Burton Lifland, who approved
Manville's 1988 Chapter 11 reorganization. It was the
formation of the trust that enabled Manville to emerge from
bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   Judge Weinstein and Justice Freedman gave the company five
weeks to take up the matter with Judge Lifland, and 10 days
for the trust to file a report in response to the proposals.
   The Denver company, which was holding its annual meeting
as the judges issued their order, tried to put the best face
on the matter, focusing on indications that the judges aren't
eager to lift the injunction barring suits against the
company.
   "We are pleased that the judges agreed that the most
important element of the plan is the provision which prevents
suits against the company and directs all settlements to the
(trust)," Manville said in a statement. Manville said the
injunction, which was part of the bankruptcy reorganization
plan, allows the company to provide maximum value to
shareholders, including the trust, which holds 50% of the
company's common stock and eventually could hold 80%.
   "Suits against Manville would substantially reduce the
value of the trust's assets," the company said. Officials
said they wouldn't be able to comment further until the
middle of this week.
   In their order, the judges also said, "The trust's funds
must be stretched by cutting administrative costs and fees to
both its own and plaintiffs' attorneys." The judges also
recommended changes in the way the trust ranks claimants.
Rather than giving priority to early claimants, the trust
should pay the sickest individuals first, the judges said.
Currently, new claimants aren't expected to be paid for
nearly 20 years, no matter how severe their illness or how
long ago they were diagnosed.
   Separately, Manville named Tom Stephens, president and
chief executive officer, to the additional post of chairman,
succeeding George C. Dillon. Mr. Dillon, who became chairman
of the company while it was still under Chapter 11
proceedings in 1986, will remain a director and chairman of
the executive committee.
   At the annual meeting, Mr. Stephens reiterated a forecast
that the sluggish construction and automotive industries will
push Manville's earnings down in 1990.
   The company also said it agreed to buy Fiskeby Board AB, a
unit of Kooporativa Forbundet Industri AB. Terms weren't
disclosed. The company said Fiskeby, which supplies
paperboard to Sweden, other Scandinavian countries and the
U.K., will complement Manville's purchase in April of DRG
Cartons Ltd., a large beverage carton maker in the U.K.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shaky Empire:
   Trump's Bankers Join
   To Seek Restructuring
   Of Developer's Assets
   ---
   Wary About His Cash Flow,
   They Might Force the Sale
   Of Certain Properties
   ---
   Loans Seem to Be Up to Date
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP PHC RT.A
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Donald J. Trump's cash shortage has become
critical. The developer is now in intense negotiations with
his main bank creditors that could force him to give up big
chunks of his empire.
   At a minimum, Mr. Trump is likely to face a humbling
change in his business and personal style, bankers involved
in the talks say. "He will have to trim the fat: get rid of
the boat, the mansions, the helicopter," one banker in the
talks asserts. The banks also are likely to push for some
asset sales, for some management changes and for a much more
conservative operating style at Mr. Trump's principal holding
company, Trump Organization.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Trump isn't believed to have missed any interest or
principal payments on his roughly $2 billion in bank debt.
But many of his properties, including the new Taj Mahal
casino in Atlantic City, N.J., and the Trump Shuttle airline,
aren't generating enough cash to ease lenders' fears that he
won't be able to meet payments due in the next few months.
Mr. Trump recently announced a total of about 450 employee
layoffs at the Taj and another 50 to 100 at the shuttle.
   The lenders also have grown nervous over Mr. Trump's
ability to sell most of his major holdings for anything like
what he says they are worth. Several attempts by Mr. Trump to
raise cash through refinancings or asset sales have fallen
through or been put on hold in the past few months.
   A seemingly insignificant, roughly $30 million in payments
due in mid-June to bondholders of Trump's Castle casino could
bring matters to a head. The developer, who has more than $1
billion in bond-debt outstanding in addition to his bank
loans, is said to have enough cash to make the payments and
to feel that making them is crucial to maintaining the
confidence of the bond market. But bankers are opposed to his
making the bond payments until steps can be taken to ensure
that payments due them will also be made.
   It remains possible that Mr. Trump can find a way to
retain all of his properties. Many are quite valuable, and it
is conceivable the banks could be persuaded to simply lend
Mr. Trump more money, to give him time to improve his
cash-flow situation on his own.
   Such a hands-off approach is unlikely, however. One banker
involved asserts that the banks have the upper hand in these
talks since they could threaten to at some point call their
loans, a move that, however unlikely, could force Mr. Trump
to seek refuge in bankruptcy court. Last week, Mr. Trump
offered his creditors a stake in two of his properties, the
Plaza Hotel and the Grand Hyatt Hotel in New York, in return
for retirement of some of his debt. The bankers rejected the
offer.
   A spokesman for Mr. Trump declined to comment for this
article. Spokesmen for the four major bank creditors, units
of Bankers Trust Corp., Chase Manhattan Corp., Citicorp and
Manufacturers Hanover Corp., said the banks would have no
formal comment. The banks are said to have long ago reduced
their exposure by syndicating their Trump loans with other
banks.
   The talks, which began about two weeks ago, are taking
place on the 26th floor of Trump Tower overlooking Central
Park. Each bank has a team of people attending the daily
meetings. On Friday, for example, there were 50 bankers and
lawyers from the banks in the room. Mr. Trump has usually
been present; he attended on Friday night until 8:30 p.m.,
when he flew to a boxing match he was promoting in Atlantic
City. Mr. Trump is being represented by several company
officials and attorneys and by the accounting firm of Kenneth
Leventhal &amp; Co., which specializes in real-estate workouts.
   Over the past decade, few have reveled more in
self-promotion and conspicuous consumption than Mr. Trump, a
man who has everything from casinos and condos to a board
game and a bicycle race named after him. He and his
now-estranged wife, Ivana, acquired a $30 million yacht, a $7
million oceanfront estate in Florida, a private helicopter
and a corporate jet. Unlike some other moguls' acquisitions,
Mr. Trump's were easy to track because he never seemed to
stop talking about them.
   There was a method to Mr. Trump's self-aggrandizement: It
enabled him to borrow huge sums to buy properties that, he
convinced banks, would become much more valuable once he put
the Trump name on them. Thus, normal financial analysis could
be tossed out the window: Whether or not a property made
sense from a cash-flow perspective, Mr. Trump argued, was
largely irrelevant once it became a Trump property; he would
always be able to sell out for a big profit because he made
properties seem special.
   For quite a while, that seemed to work. While other
developers sometimes struggled, people flocked to live and
shop in buildings with the magical Trump name: Trump Tower,
Trump Plaza, Trump Parc, to name a few. Even in the past
year's soft Northeast real-estate market, one-bedroom
apartments in the Trump Parc in New York sold for as much as
$600,000.
   In recent months, while many go-go entrepreneurs either
voluntarily pulled back or were forced into retreat by the
collapse of the junk-bond market, Mr. Trump seemed unwilling
to concede that the roaring '80s and their prevailing
economics were becoming a thing of the past. He bought the
Eastern Shuttle airline in 1989 for $365 million, then this
year brushed aside a skeptical casino industry to open the $1
billion Taj Mahal, his third casino in a market some believed
was already at overcapacity.
   By early this year, Mr. Trump's magic touch seemed to be
slipping. The weakening real-estate market made bankers less
willing to lend based on a property's theoretical resale
value. They now are insisting on strong cash flow, and at
some of Mr. Trump's properties, cash flow doesn't equal debt
payments. The shuttle, for example, has lost at least $85
million in the year since he bought it. And only two of Mr.
Trump's properties, the retail stores of Trump Tower and his
50%-owned Grand Hyatt, are expected by real-estate executives
to actually earn money after interest and principal payments
this year.
   Earlier this year a plan to sell a portion of the Plaza
Hotel to Japanese investors fell apart when the Japanese
stock market plummeted. Mr. Trump has a $245 million mortgage
on the property from Citicorp and a $135 million loan from
the bank that he personally guaranteed. He is believed to
have made added borrowings to refurbish the property.
   In April, Mr. Trump declared in an interview with this
newspaper that he was considering the sale of assets not out
of any weakness but because he wanted to become the "king of
cash" in order to be able to make new acquisitions. Mr. Trump
was so adamant in denying the existence of financial troubles
that he threatened to sue this newspaper if it reported that
he had cash-flow problems.
   But so far, he isn't believed to have completed any sales.
   Mr. Trump said in April that he would generate some cash
by replacing a $75 million Chase mortgage on Trump Tower with
a new $90 million mortgage from Prudential Insurance Co. of
America. Prudential declines to comment. Real-estate industry
executives say that deal has fallen through, as has a new
$200 million refinancing of Mr. Trump's stake in the Grand
Hyatt.
   Last month, a plan to sell his much-publicized yacht, the
Trump Princess, to Japanese investors for $115 million also
came apart, people familiar with the talks say.
   Mr. Trumps's efforts to sell the Trump Shuttle were thrown
into doubt last month by Pan Am Corp.'s announcement that it
plans to sell its own eastern-corridor shuttle. The Trump
Shuttle has a $245 million mortgage, and Mr. Trump has taken
out a personal loan with Citibank for about $135 million in
connection with the shuttle, according to knowledgeable
individuals.
   In Atlantic City, the situation is also worsening. In the
first quarter of the year, the two casinos Mr. Trump was then
operating lost a total of $12 million, after interest on debt
was paid.
   The Taj Mahal, which opened to great ballyhoo on April 2,
isn't doing as well as Trump officials had hoped. In May, its
first full month of operation, the Taj grossed $36.4 million,
or about $1.17 million a day. That figure falls short of the
$1.3 million a day he will need to break even, according to
industry analysts. What's more, April and May are generally
far better months for the casino industry than the winter
months.
   Casino industry analysts expect as many as 2,000
additional layoffs at the Taj by the end of the summer. Mr.
Trump has delayed paying some suppliers and, according to two
contractors, has offered to pay some creditors just 70 cents
on the dollar.
   Another continuing drain on Mr. Trump's assets is a vacant
72-acre parcel of land on the west side of Manhattan. Mr.
Trump has borrowed about $200 million from Chase Manhattan
Bank to carry that asset. His ambitious plans to build a
large-scale retail and residential complex that would include
the world's tallest building still await a lengthy approval
process by New York City. Even if the plans are approved, he
must face members of the West Side community, who have
threatened to sue to stop the project.
   Even Mr. Trump's private life has lately become something
of a liability. It is unclear what portion of his empire
could be claimed by his wife in any future divorce action.
People close to Mr. Trump say he intends this week to ask for
a major reduction in the $25 million he previously agreed to
pay his wife in the event of a divorce. She is challenging
the prenuptial agreement, seeking a higher figure.
   Mr. Trump has other legal problems as well. A
restructuring plan proposed by Resorts International Inc.,
which has sought bankruptcy-court protection, calls for a $5
million war chest to fund a possible fraudulent conveyance
action against Mr. Trump by Resorts bondholders.
   Such a suit would allege, among other things, that when
Mr. Trump sold his interest in Resorts to Merv Griffin and
bought the unfinished Taj Mahal, Resorts wasn't left with
enough capital to operate. In an interview a month ago, Mr.
Trump said he would consider settling that case out of court
to avoid costly legal fees.
   Mr. Trump has been sued by Pratt Hotels Corp. over his
purchase of a site adjacent to the Trump Plaza casino on the
Atlantic City boardwalk. Pratt claims Mr. Trump interfered
with its contract to purchase the parcel from Penthouse Corp.
Chairman Robert Guccione.
   Officials of the four banks now negotiating with Mr. Trump
admit they don't have an easy task. They lent to Mr. Trump
for each new property he bought; the banks themselves are
having trouble agreeing on which assets should be sold
because each bank isn't party to each loan. As part of the
restructuring, the banks want to remedy this problem by
putting Mr. Trump's debt in a more consolidated form -- the
way an ordinary corporation would borrow --a nd eliminating
the numerous separate entities that he has borrowed through
previously.
   What's more, since many of the banks involved don't lend
to casinos as a matter of policy, their bankers have had to
take crash courses in casino finance so they could fully
understand Mr. Trump's situation.
   For his part, Mr. Trump doesn't seem ready to give in yet.
Last night, he was in Las Vegas for the American Booksellers
Association conference to promote his second book. His
publisher, Random House, says it is planning a first printing
of 500,000 copies. The title: "Trump: Surviving at the Top."
   ---
                    The Art of Debt
                                                                                                       

   Estimated debt and annual interest for Donald Trump's
major holdings
                                                                                                       

                                                ESTIMATED
                              ESTIMATED            ANNUAL
                                   DEBT          INTEREST
 PROPERTY                   IN MILLIONS       IN MILLIONS
                                                                                                       

 Trump Taj Mahal                  $ 725            $ 95
 Plaza Hotel                        435              48
 Trump's Castle                     410              43.2
 Trump Shuttle                      380              42
 Trump Plaza                        273              34.7
 West Side Yards                    200              22
 Grand Hyatt Hotel                  115              13
 Trump Regency                       85              10
 Trump Tower                         75               9
 Trump Plaza of the
   Palm Beaches                      30               3.5
 Alexanders Inc. stock               68               7.5
 Homes, boats and
 personal transport                  70               7.4
 Miscellaneous                      120              13
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace (A Special Report): Managing Change
   ---
   Flexible Formulas:
   Companies Are Rewriting the Rules to Give Workers
   More Say in When, Where and How Much They Work
   ----
   By Ellen Graham
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R34
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   YOU'RE A JUNIOR manager, just embarked on your career. You
look ahead and see before you an endless succession of
five-day weeks, nine-to-five days, the tedium broken only by
a few weeks' vacation each year.
   But look again. Corporate America has begun to rewrite the
rules. With your company's blessing, you might work part time
while getting your M.B.A., then work full time but with
flexible hours after the birth of your first child. Burned
out at 50? Take a paid sabbatical to climb a mountain. And,
as you near retirement, share a job with the replacement you
will train.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All these options -- and a lot more -- are available on a
limited basis today, but they are expected to become more
pervasive in the near future. Faced with a tight labor
market, employers need to recruit and retain talented
workers. And employees, especially the growing numbers of
women in the work force, are demanding more flexibility. "The
benefit of the '90s is time off," says Michael Connors,
senior vice president for human resources of American Express
Co.'s Travel Related Services unit. "The power of two incomes
is making nonfinancial rewards such as flexible scheduling
and leaves even more valuable a motivator than higher
salaries."
   Snapshots of how these options are being handled at some
pioneering companies provide a glimpse of how how many of us
may well be working in the future.
                                                                                                       

   Part-Time Work
                                                                                                       

   Part-time work is by far the most common flexible
scheduling arrangement. Long used to reduce labor costs and
to staff for peak periods, it is increasingly seen as a way
to keep valued professionals in the loop until they can
return full time. The Bureau of Labor Statistics counts 3.2
million professional-level part-timers, of whom fewer than a
million are managers.
   Janet McLaughlin, Corning Inc.'s manager of strategic
corporate education, is one of those rarities. Hired eight
years ago as a part-timer, she asked to keep that status
after she was named a supervisor. "I told them that if it
didn't work, I'd gladly step down," she says. No one
complained, and today, after four promotions, she is
responsible for Corning's management training, supervising a
staff of five.
   Ms. McLaughlin works four days a week, taking Wednesdays
off to be with her two young children. She finds this
schedule meshes well with managerial duties. "People need
start-up at the beginning of the week and closure at the
end," she says, "but in the middle of the week they're busy
and it seems very manageable." If need be, she switches her
day off and figures that by limiting her travel, she sees her
staff about as much as managers who take more frequent
business trips. But there's little free time in her schedule.
What she misses most, she says, is informal time -- such as
rehashing meetings with colleagues. "The only way that kind
of informality happens," she says, "is if I structure it."
   The success of trailblazers like Ms. McLaughlin led
Corning to formally offer a medley of flexible scheduling
options to its work force two years ago. Some 40 salaried
employees now work part time; over 1,000 work full time but
have flexible hours.
   "We see the biggest value in our retention figures," says
Thomas Blumer, Corning's director of quality management and,
until recently, director of human resources. Prior to 1988,
Corning's annual attrition costs for women and minorities
were running nearly $4 million ahead of those for men. Since
the introduction of flexible scheduling as part of a broad
"work and family" initiative, those attrition costs have been
halved, saving $2 million a year. "I don't know whether being
more flexible was the whole answer," Mr. Blumer says, "but
it's part of it."
                                                                                                       

   Job Sharing
                                                                                                       

   Job sharing, whereby a pair of part-time employees share
one job, one salary and usually one set of benefits, is still
available mostly at the clerical level, and even there to a
relative few. But Northeast Utilities Service Co. and
Steelcase Inc. have had happy results with both professional
and hourly workers, and men as well as women.
   Neither company permits supervisors to share jobs. "We're
not quite ready to ask people to report to two bosses," says
Mike Brown, director of employee relations at Northeast
Utilities, which employs 54 job-sharing pairs. But there are
few other hard-and-fast caveats; the arrangements are
negotiated case by case.
   Mr. Brown has analyzed the cost-effectiveness of job
sharing. In only one area -- doubled
unemployment-compensation taxes -- did a job-share team cost
more than a full-timer. And he says the job sharers' better
attendance and productivity more than offset that added
expense. While a full-time employee seldom works full tilt
all day, he explains, two job sharers each give four hours of
"full-bore production."
   Both companies stress that job-sharing success depends on
the chemistry between the two partners. Ideally, they look
for two people who complement each other's skills.
   Patricia Konwinski and Martha O'Brien, senior recruiters
for Steelcase's marketing division, are one of 46 job-share
teams at the company's Grand Rapids, Mich., headquarters.
They each work on every job opening, Ms. O'Brien for the
first half of the week, Ms. Konwinski the latter half. They
confer over lunch on Wednesdays. The pair, both mothers, say
they generally agree in their assessments of job candidates
and find that one may notice something that the other has
overlooked.
   "Our job is one of the least likely you'd say could be
shared," says Ms. Konwinski, noting that it doesn't break
down into discrete tasks that are finished at the end of a
day. "But we've made it work because of good communication. I
feel like I can pick up where she left off and not miss a
beat."
   One of their recruits vouches for their system: "For
months I had dealt with Marty, but when the job offer was
extended it was Patty's day to work. She knew everything --
it was seamless."
   Their boss, Dick Becker, manager of employment for sales
and marketing, concurs. He admits having had initial
reservations about continuity and managing the workload. But
in their case, he says, "one and one equals three and a
half." Besides, he says, "we kept two very valuable people in
the work force when we could have lost both of them."
   Ms. Konwinski, now pregnant with her third child, doesn't
rule out returning to full-time work someday and feels that
job-sharing won't hamper her long-term advancement
opportunities. Indeed, she and her partner have been promoted
as a team.
   Do they ever resent submerging their individual identities
and achievements to the team? Ms. Konwinski says no. "We are
both so strongly oriented to keeping this situation intact,"
she says, "that competition hasn't come into play."
                                                                                                       

   Flextime/Compressed Workweek
                                                                                                       

   Many companies now allow full-time employees to adjust
their starting and quitting times, usually around a set of
core hours when everyone is expected to be on the job.
Because it doesn't involve a reduction in hours, flextime is
popular with men as well as women. Nor does it usually
require the complicated redesign of jobs or benefit plans,
and thus it can be a low-cost morale builder.
   Like other flexible arrangements, however, it can be
threatening to managers, who worry about maintaining adequate
staffing, scheduling meetings, and lack of supervision.
"There is a level of discomfort," says Kathleen Christensen,
an associate professor at City University of New York,
referring to flexible plans in general. Ms. Christensen,
author of a 1988 study by the Conference Board on flexible
scheduling, adds that "traditional management techniques
don't seem entirely operable when people are not always
present or are on different schedules."
   Significantly, however, very few of the programs have been
rescinded. One reason: giving employees more control of their
time appears to yield payoffs in productivity and retention.
"Companies have begun to realize these options are all
strategic tools, not just new goodies for the employees,"
says Barney Olmstead, co-director of New Ways to Work, a San
Francisco research group.
   Hewlett-Packard Co. was the first U.S. company to offer
flextime, initiating it in 1973. Unlike many "inflexible"
flextime plans, Hewlett-Packard's allows employees to
readjust their hours on short notice. At Aetna Life &amp;
Casualty Co., some jobs can be done during any hours
acceptable to both employee and supervisor. "Conceivably, a
person could work from 10 p.m. to 6:10 a.m. Wednesday through
Sunday," suggests an Aetna supervisors' manual issued to
encourage flexibility.
   The compressed workweek is a different sort of full-time
flexibility. This option -- in which participants typically
work four 10-hour days with three days off -- often springs
from the need to continuously staff a particular operation,
such as computer services. When, for example, an Aetna
project was nearing deadline and running out of office space,
managers asked for volunteers to work a compressed week. Two
teams, one working a three-day week and another working four
days, coped with the cramped space while keeping the project
going seven days a week. (The volunteers' only complaint:
spending too much money on their long weekends.)
                                                                                                       

   Extended Leaves
                                                                                                       

   Employee child-care and elder-care responsibilities are
prompting many corporations to loosen unpaid-leave policies.
When Aetna followed up on employees who had taken maternity
disability three years ago, it found that 23% had left the
company after their babies were born. "And those who left
were the higher performers," says Sherry Herchenroether,
manager of family services. A year later, after Aetna
introduced a six-month unpaid family leave, such attrition
was cut in half.
   Elder care is cited by many employers as a growing problem
for both male and female employees. At Northeast Utilities,
nearly 30% of employees surveyed in 1987 had responsibility
for caring for an elderly relative. And the utility's work
force is 80% male.
   When torn between their jobs and a crisis involving an
elderly parent or a sick child, American workers are
increasingly choosing to leave their jobs, employers say. Mr.
Connors at American Express Travel Related Services sees this
as a recent and abrupt shift in values. "Even in the late
'80s," he says, "I'm not sure we'd have thought employees
would make those choices." His company, which permits
employees up to 12 weeks of family leave without jeopardizing
their jobs, is preparing to announce a set of new flexibility
initiatives aimed at easing work-family conflicts.
   At a handful of companies, extended leaves are granted
purely for self-renewal. At Tandem Computers Inc., based in
Cupertino, Calif., all employees are eligible for a six-week
paid sabbatical after four years on the job.
   One employee used the time to hike through the Himalayas;
others have attended cooking school, studied the piano or
remodeled their homes.
   Longer sabbaticals -- up to 10 weeks -- can be arranged if
an employee volunteers for a public-service project approved
by management. One software designer spent four weeks in
Zimbabwe last summer conducting a public-health survey.
Tandem paid her travel and living expenses.
   Sabbaticals reduce job burnout and serve as an effective
recruiting and retention tool in the competitive Silicon
Valley job market, says Dee DiPietro, Tandem's manager of
health and welfare. Another benefit: Tandem insists that
sabbatical-bound employees train their replacements so that
co-workers gain new skills while filling in. Some
hard-chargers are uneasy about taking off for an extended
period, Ms. DiPietro concedes. "They have to get used to the
fact that life will go on without them for a while," she
says.
                                                                                                       

   Contract Work
                                                                                                       

   Contingent employment grew in the turbulent 1980s, as many
companies sought to avoid layoffs, control labor costs and
handle fluctuating work flow by creating a second tier of
temporary or independently contracted workers. Such employees
have loose ties to the corporation and aren't eligible for
the fringe benefits accorded the "core" work force.
   The outlook, according to the Conference Board survey, is
for expanded use of in-house temporary pools of former
employees, coupled with slackening use of outside contractors
and temporaries. And though pension and Social Security
restrictions limit their participation now, retirees promise
to be a rich source of experienced labor in the future, as
supply diminishes.
   Travelers Cos., for example, recently modified its pension
plan to double the number of hours pensioners can work
annually without jeopardizing benefits. Travelers also
maintains a job bank for its own retirees and those from
other Hartfordarea companies. About 250 retired temporaries
work at Travelers during any given week. Placements are made
by two job-sharing retiree teams, including one 81-year-old
woman.
   John Huntley, a former Travelers vice president, retired
on a Friday in 1987 and registered with the job bank the
following Tuesday. "I took Monday to do all the things I
never had time to do," he says with a laugh. Hired as the
actuary for a Travelers-owned company that was being sold, he
worked about half-time in 1988 and, as the sale neared
completion, gradually fewer hours after that.
   By using Mr. Huntley, Travelers was spared the need to
hire a full-timer for a short-term project. And though he
worked enough to lose Social Security benefits in 1988, Mr.
Huntley found the job "an excellent way to wind down into
retirement."
   ---
   Ms. Graham is a feature writer and editor based in The
Wall Street Journal's New York bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Victor Venture With Philips
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   J.VIC PHG
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Victor Co. of Japan announced Friday that it will
establish a joint venture in Malaysia with N.V. Philips of
the Netherlands for the production of video cassette
recorders.
   The venture will be created in Shah Alam in the state of
Selangor in the fall of this year; it will be owned equally
by the two partners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Employing about 1,000 people, it will start production in
February 1991.
   The company will have an annual production capacity of
700,000 VHS cassette recorders initially. Eventually, it will
be equipped with facilities capable of making two million
recorders, according to officials.
   The company plans to export its products mainly to the
U.S. in addition to the Far East and Central and South
America.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lost Promise:
   How Sen. Durenberger
   Went From Mr. Clean
   To a Man Under Fire
   ---
   The Minnesotan's Is a Tale
   Of Power, Money and Sex,
   With a Tragic Protagonist
   ---
   A Public Apology for `Lapses'
   ----
   By Jill Abramson and David Shribman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   COLLEGEVILLE, Minn. -- For the first 21 years of his life,
Dave Durenberger lived here in the protective shadows of a
Benedictine monastery on the shores of Lake Sagatagan.
Brother Ed was the plumber, Father Alfred taught him English.
He explored Catholic theology and ethics with Father Emeric.
   The other morning, Father Vincent Tegeder talked about the
young man who grew up in the little lay community of
Flynntown on the abbey grounds and then went just up the hill
to St. John's University. Thumbing through an old St. John's
annual, Father Vincent found this prediction, both eerie and
ironic: "Dave intends to put Flynntown on the map by
reforming national politics."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Instead, Mr. Durenberger is living out the final episodes
of an agonizing morality tale.
   Since early 1989, the Minnesota Republican's personal
finances have been the subject of a Senate Ethics Committee
inquiry into a host of alleged ethical breaches and rules
violations. Next week, the committee begins two weeks of
public hearings -- probably televised in Minnesota -- in
which the senator faces potentially devastating testimony
from former aides and political supporters who helped
structure his complex and controversial deals.
   And even if he manages to settle the case without
resigning or being expelled from the Senate, his career,
based in the clean-government oasis of Minnesota, is in
tatters. "People here are never going to support a guy who is
in the position of trying to cop a plea with the Ethics
Committee," says Hyman Berman, a University of Minnesota
historian.
   Tall and trim with graying temples, 55-year-old Dave
Durenberger is Central Casting's idea of a senator. His fall
is like a film noir version of "Mr. Smith Goes to
Washington," with all the familiar ingredients of a political
career gone sour: power, money and sex. But unlike other
Washington scandals, this one has an unlikely, even tragic
protagonist: the first commanding officer of the St. John's
ROTC, protege of two reform governors of Minnesota, a man
once regarded as among the most promising Republican senators
of his generation.
   "This," says former Republican Gov. Elmer L. Andersen, "is
the saddest political story I have ever seen."
   Sen. Durenberger expresses hope that the ordeal will soon
be behind him, but his aides, after promising an interview,
decided that he shouldn't talk further about his case at such
a sensitive stage.
   The unraveling of Dave Durenberger is the story of a man
whose life, once so pastoral, was roiled by tragedy, then
beset by inner doubt and finally tainted by scandal.
   Mr. Durenberger, the oldest of five children, grew up in a
white clapboard house with olive shutters; his neighbors were
the abbey bus driver, the custodian and the manager of the
dairy herd.
   His father, known universally as "Big George," had been a
revered St. John's football star, remembered for an 82-yard
punt. But he left his most enduring imprint as a coach and
athletic director for more than four decades. Father Emeric
Lawrence calls George Durenberger, who now lives in Florida,
"big, deeply Republican and very honest." The senator's
mother, Isabelle, a secretary, was the university's first
female employee.
   Dave was an important figure on campus himself, a serious
student and avid participant in class discussions. Father
Emeric remembers his dissent over an article called "Inroads
of the Bourgeois Spirit," where the young man argued that the
dangers of the acquisitive urge were being overdrawn.
   But St. John's and its ethos of work, study and prayer
left its imprint. "He was as much a part of St. John's as you
could be without wearing a habit," says Albert Eisele, a
former press secretary for Vice President Walter Mondale who
knew Mr. Durenberger at school.
   Harold LeVander, a partner in former GOP Gov. Harold
Stassen's law firm, hired him right out of law school. "He
was young, aggressive, full of energy and personality,
idealistic -- just the kind of guy I was looking for," Mr.
LeVander says. In short order, Mr. Durenberger established
himself as a joiner, becoming a director of the Chamber of
Commerce, legal counsel of the Minnesota Young Republican
League, division chairman of the United Fund, state advocate
of the Knights of Columbus and a member of both the Elks and
the Lions.
   When Mr. LeVander ran for governor in 1966, Mr.
Durenberger, seeking to exploit a contretemps over highway
funding, helped craft an early negative campaign ad that, in
the middle of the Batman television craze, proclaimed: "Holy
scandals, Batman]" When Mr. LeVander won, he took Mr.
Durenberger with him as executive secretary. Mr. Durenberger
put together the staff and worked with the legislature.
   But his wife, Judy, developed cancer. Gov. LeVander and
his wife, Iantha, were at the hospital when she died in 1970
at age 31. Mr. Durenberger, 36, was left the sole parent of
four sons, the oldest just seven.
   "He was totally devastated," says U.S. Judge Paul
Magnuson, a long-time friend. "It was upwards of a year
before he returned back to the normal Dave."
   After Mr. LeVander decided against another term, former
Gov. Andersen, then the president of H.B. Fuller Co.,
recruited Mr. Durenberger to attend to the philanthropic
activities that that company took so seriously. "He really
cared about people, about being a factor," Mr. Andersen
recalls.
   In 1978, Mr. Durenberger set his sights on winning the
governorship for himself. But then-Republican National
Chairman Bill Brock and party operative Charles Black
persuaded him to run instead for the Senate seat left open by
the death of Hubert Humphrey. Mr. Durenberger won his first
bid for office.
   In Washington, his Mr. Clean image made him a natural for
the recently formed Senate Ethics Committee -- the very panel
that now is deciding his fate. And after just two years, he
became chairman of an important Finance subcommittee. He
plunged into Washington life with a relish, taking unusual
pleasure in the substance and small print of legislative
issues like Medicare and Social Security.
   But the Democrats were gunning for him, their fervor
stoked by the conviction that no Republican should sit in
Hubert Humphrey's seat. In 1982, their candidate was Mark
Dayton, a department-store heir who spent over $7 million,
much of it his own money. In 1988, their candidate was state
Attorney General Hubert Humphrey III. Mr. Durenberger won
both elections, but they were bruising campaigns.
   It was around the time of the first of these re-election
races that Mr. Durenberger began to depend ever more heavily
on special-interest money. Between 1983 and 1988, he
collected $1.8 million in political-action committee
contributions, more than all other senators but four in that
time.
   While he was chairman or ranking Republican on the Finance
Committee's pivotal health subcommittee, Mr. Durenberger
received more medical and health PAC money than any other
senator. Still, contributors often know they are buying
access rather than votes from lawmakers, and indeed Mr.
Durenberger has bucked the powerful American Medical
Association, which has fed him both campaign contributions
and honoraria, on such issues as tighter Medicare cost
controls and physician payments.
   Some Durenberger observers say they noticed a political
callousness in him after the difficult 1982 campaign. But he
was also capable of great emotional generosity. When his
legislative director, Ralph Neas, was stricken with a
paralyzing disease on a Minnesota trip and was hospitalized
for months, Mr. Durenberger spent hours at his bedside --
even though Mr. Neas, on a respirator, couldn't communicate.
   "He tried hard to make me feel included in what was going
on back in Washington," says Mr. Neas, now the executive
director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights. "I'll
never forget that."
   Within the Senate, Mr. Durenberger was something of a
loner. Some of his colleagues found more than a hint of
arrogance in his introspective, even scholarly demeanor. Even
so, he continued his rise, becoming co-chairman of the
powerful Senate Intelligence Committee. Outside the Senate,
Mr. Durenberger's life seemed to be falling apart.
   Two of his children developed severe drug problems. His
second wife, Penny, a Vietnam-war widow who helped raise the
four Durenberger boys, never took to the rituals of politics.
"It was not an easy marriage at any time," says former Gov.
Andersen. The senator's office announced a separation in
early 1985, and he moved into The Cedars, a Christian retreat
residence in Arlington, Va.
   At the same time, the newspapers were full of lurid
stories about Mr. Durenberger, including details of an affair
with a 28-year-old secretary who worked in his office. Mr.
Durenberger did not dispute the accounts. There was a petty
incident in which he was charged with disorderly conduct for
refusing to wait in an airport cab line. He publicly admitted
that he was undergoing a midlife crisis. The expense of
seeing a marriage counselor in the Boston area who
specialized in helping Christian couples preoccupied the
senator, as did the financial burden of college costs for his
sons.
   Just as his personal and family problems were mushrooming,
however, his income was coming under pressure. In 1983, Mr.
Durenberger had collected a huge $93,750 in honoraria for
making speeches, bringing his total income to $163,550 that
year. As chairman of the Finance subcommittee on health, he
had a captive, special-interest audience of health care
providers, hospitals, medical groups and pharmaceutical
companies.
   The next year, however, new Senate ethics rules took
effect, capping honoraria at 30% of salary. Mr. Durenberger's
income fell to $92,980 ($72,200 in salary; $20,780 in
honoraria).
   In late 1984 Gary Diamond, a member of Mr. Durenberger's
health subcommittee, offered what must have seemed like a
perfect solution to his financial problems: He would publish
a book by the senator. Royalties and other income from books
fell outside the new income limits. "My reason for doing this
was to get a small publishing company off the ground," says
Mr. Diamond. "For the senator, it was a way to get his ideas
published in book form."
   Although Mr. Diamond's previous book ventures were limited
to sports, including a volume on wrestling holds, he hoped to
lure other lawmakers to his new venture.
   According to the agreement, Mr. Diamond would bear the
cost of publishing Mr. Durenberger's first book, a collection
of speeches and position papers on defense. The senator would
promote it before audiences that invited him to make
speeches. But the speaking fees would go to Mr. Diamond's
Piranha Press. Once Mr. Diamond's printing costs and profit
margin were covered, Mr. Durenberger would get a stipend for
helping to sell books.
   The plan worked so smoothly at first that Mr.
Durenberger's first book, "Neither Madmen nor Messiahs," was
quickly followed by "Prescription for Change," on health
policy. Mr. Durenberger earned $38,375 from Piranha in 1985
and $62,500 in 1986, pushing his income back to its robust
pre-1984 level.
   Nearly 100 companies, trade associations and lobbying
groups that invited him to speak in 1985 and 1986 sent
honoraria to Piranha Press, including Drexel Burnham Lambert,
Salomon Brothers and a host of health-care organizations.
Oddly, many of the health groups paid Piranha fees in 1985 --
even though the health book wasn't published until the
following year.
   At some of the book promotion appearances, there weren't
even any books. Mr. Diamond says that his small company
wasn't equipped to handle distribution, and that some groups
didn't want to bother with transporting the volumes. "I
couldn't force them to take books," he says.
   In addition, 40 of the groups that paid honoraria to
Piranha also supplied transportation and other services to
Mr. Durenberger, none of which were listed, as Senate rules
require, on his financial disclosure statements for 1985 and
1986. (Mr. Durenberger last July amended his disclosures to
include these gifts.)
   He also accepted $5,000 in limousine services during his
many book-promotion speeches in Boston. (The ethics panel
investigated whether he might have pressured lobbying groups
to offer him speaking engagements in the Boston area as a way
of underwiting the costs of his marriage counseling, but
found insufficient evidence to pursue such charges.) On six
occasions, Mr. Durenberger made paid appearances on Senate
grounds, another apparent violation of the rules.
   The ethics committee has also been investigating a
transaction involving a Minneapolis condominium Mr.
Durenberger owned and stayed in during trips back home. In
1984, he sold the condo to a partnership he formed with a
wealthy political supporter. The partnership agreement wasn't
signed until mid-1984, but records show that Mr. Durenberger
claimed rental-expense reimbursement from the Senate for
several months in 1983. Moreover, the partnership documents
were backdated to 1983 by a notary, a longtime supporter of
the senator's.
   Mr. Durenberger has said that he wasn't aware the
documents he signed had been backdated, and last January he
repaid the Senate $11,005 after the Rules Committee decided
he wasn't entitled to expenses incurred when he stayed in the
condo during congressional recesses.
   Although this isn't yet included in the Ethics Committee's
bill of particulars, the panel has also subpoenaed the
financial records of a foundation, Americans for Generational
Equity, that Mr. Durenberger helped create in 1984 and
chaired until last December. Also of potential interest to
the panel are nearly $1 million in loans the senator received
from a St. Paul bank over 10 years, some without collateral
and some at low interest rates, according to the Minneapolis
Star Tribune newspaper, which reported the loans in February.
   Mr. Durenberger has admitted paying insufficient attention
to his personal finances. His close friends have different
theories of how the alleged breaches may have occurred. Some
blame his former top aides and attorneys for slipshod advice.
Others say he was preoccupied with fundraising for his
re-election campaigns or his personal problems.
   Almost everyone who knows him says Mr. Durenberger isn't
money-hungry. "Getting rich never concerned him," says Roger
Ailes, the senator's media adviser since 1978. "He has the
kind of mind {that} he could be making a million a year at a
law firm. But he never wanted that."
   Paul Hewitt, the senator's former aide, believes Mr.
Durenberger lost his emotional moorings in Washington.
"Everywhere a senator goes, people are giving them things and
reinforcing their sense of supreme importance," Mr. Hewitt
says. "For someone with a weak sense of identity, it can
change your personality. His sense of self was not enough to
withstand these pressures. He came to believe he was above
the rules. His own personal needs, wants and desires
{overwhelmed} other things."
   But Mr. Durenberger himself said in a Wall Street Journal
interview in 1986: "There's a premise this office, by its
very nature, destroys people -- but I don't believe that. The
place and the office are given too much credit for the
deterioration of personal relationships, and the individual
is not given enough of the credit or blame."
   Though he and his wife were reconciled in 1986, a friend
describes their relationship as "legally on" but still
troubled.
   Sen. Durenberger was once formally criticized by the
Ethics Committee for the appearance of divulging national
security information at a 1987 Florida fund-raising event.
But the current case is much more serious. It is now in the
investigative trial phase, in which there is an open hearing
on the charges, and only two previous Ethics Committee
inquiries have gotten that far. In 1979, Democratic Sen.
Herman Talmadge of Georgia was formally denounced for
reprehensible handling of government money. Mr. Talmadge lost
his bid for reelection in 1980. In 1982, the Ethics Committee
recommended the expulsion of New Jersey Democrat Harrison
Williams for his role in the Abscam bribery case, but he
resigned before he could be kicked out.
   As if those weren't bad enough omens, the ethics panel is
itself under pressure to look tough in the Durenberger case,
the first of an unprecedented seven investigations on its
agenda. After this case is resolved, the panel moves on to
the Keating Five -- the senators accused of improperly
intervening on behalf of savings-and-loan executive Charles
Keating. With so much of the Senate's ethical credibility on
the line, panel members don't want to be accused of
whitewashing.
   According to several people close to the Durenberger
inquiry, the senator has conceded he would handle his
financial dealings differently if he could do them again, but
says any rules violations were unintentional. For the last
several weeks he and his chief lawyer, James Hamilton, a
veteran defense lawyer who was assistant chief counsel to the
Senate Watergate committee, have been negotiating a possible
settlement with the ethics panel.
   The sources say that Sen. Warren Rudman of New Hampshire,
the Republican co-chairman of the six-member bipartisan
panel, is insisting on stiff terms -- something short of
expulsion but stronger than a reprimand. Mr. Rudman and other
members of the panel decline to comment.
   Mr. Durenberger's personal problems were generally viewed
sympathetically in Minnesota, but the voters apparently are
having a much more difficult time overlooking the book and
real-estate deals. In January, the Star Tribune newspaper
published a statewide poll showing his approval rating
plummeting to 41% from 73% last fall. A few local papers have
called for his resignation.
   Mr. Durenberger now is fighting a war on many fronts: in
the Ethics Committee; in his Senate duties, where he is
waging what one aide calls "an effectiveness campaign"; and
in Minnesota, where at Christmastime he flew around the state
to apologize publicly for "mistakes and bad lapses in
judgment on these matters."
   Even so, he continued last year to accept large amounts of
honoraria for speaking to special-interest groups. Most of
the other senators facing ethics inquiries abstained from
taking honoraria.
   Through it all, Mr. Durenberger has sought solace and
solutions in religion. "It doesn't surprise me that he should
retreat into religion at times of crisis," says Father
Emeric, his old St. John's religion teacher. "I wouldn't be
surprised if he felt more comfortable in that setting than in
the public life."
   Last fall, he went on a Christian fellowship tour of 21
countries and met with Mother Teresa and the Dalai Lama. In
between meetings on the ethics case, he dashes to prayer
groups, sometimes more than once a day.
   Former Democratic Gov. Richard Lamm of Colorado, an old
friend, acknowledges that Mr. Durenberger probably broke some
rules, but says, "In a world full of politicians who don't
stick their heads up, he was an exception."
   Then Mr. Lamm adds: "In Washington, there's survival of
the unfittest."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM Agrees to Sell
   Computers to Soviets
   For Use in Schools
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARMONK, N.Y. -- International Business Machines Corp. said
it agreed to sell more than 13,000 personal computers to the
Soviet Union for use in high schools and third-level
education.
   IBM didn't disclose the value of the contract, but it is
likely one of the biggest sales ever of electronic equipment
to the Soviets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An IBM spokesman also said the company is talking to
Soviet officials about establishing a personal-computer
assembly plant within the Soviet Union, but he declined to
give details. Soviet officials couldn't be reached for
comment.
   IBM said the education contract, which was signed last
month and unveiled to coincide with the U.S.-Soviet summit,
is the first fruit of a ripening relationship between the
computer giant and the superpower.
   IBM established an office in Moscow in the mid-1970s but,
until recently, trade restrictions have limited its role to
representation and goodwill. Last year, the company donated
about 40 personal computers to the Soviets for various
purposes, including a pilot program in several schools;
education of blind and hearing-impaired students; and
familiarization with business applications.
   IBM said the education contract will be paid in dollars.
The personal computers will be a mix of models from its
Personal System/2 line, and will be sold at an undisclosed
discount. The spokesman said the discount is greater than the
generally accepted discount for educators, which is 40%.
   Computer makers are barred from selling to the Soviets
machines based on microprocessors more powerful than Intel
Corp.'s 80286 chip, the basis of IBM's AT-class computers.
Given that fact, the contract, which also includes some
printers, is likely to be valued between $10 million and $20
million.
   The IBM spokesman said "precious few" educational programs
have been written for the Soviet market, and that even fewer
will run on the new computers. But he noted that IBM has
agreed to adapt about 150 of its educational software
packages for Soviet schools, a move he said should encourage
further computerization.
   IBM said it will start shipping the computers from its
Scottish manufacturing plant in September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chevron, Soviets
   Sign Study Pact
   For Oil Venture
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CHV FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chevron Corp. signed an agreement with the Soviet Ministry
of Oil and Gas Industry to study the feasibility of jointly
developing the huge Tengiz oil field, paving the way for what
could be the largest joint venture yet between a U.S. firm
and the Soviet Union.
   With reserves estimated by Soviet officials at more than
25 billion barrels, the Tengiz field is "probably the single
largest field discovered in the last decade," said Richard
Matzke, president of Chevron Overseas Petroleum Inc., the
unit of San Francisco-based Chevron that's engaged in the
talks with the Soviets. The reserves are roughly
two-and-a-half times those of Alaska's Prudhoe Bay, which
accounts for 20% of U.S. oil output.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, speaking at a news
conference in Washington, lauded the agreement with Chevron,
calling it one of several "important decisions" on
U.S.-Soviet economic cooperation reached in connection with
his summit meeting with President Bush. He said the agreement
will produce an investment of about 10 billion rubles in the
Soviet Union.
   "I think that this economic area and other areas create a
good foundation for our political dialogue and create a kind
of solid support, a solid pillar of support for our
cooperation," Mr. Gorbachev said.
   Chevron's accord, signed Saturday at the Soviet Embassy in
Washington, came just one day after the signing of the
landmark trade agreement between the U.S. and Soviet Union.
"This fits right in with the mood of the season," Mr. Matzke
said. Though the trade agreement wasn't the linchpin in
Chevron's agreement, Mr. Matzke acknowleged that "it sure
didn't hurt any."
   Mr. Matzke said Chevron comes to the table with oil-field
technology that the Soviets need, international marketing
experience, and "capital at a time when capital means
something to them."
   Just last month, the Soviets signed an oil exploration and
production agreement with Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine,
the French oil company, giving Elf exploration rights on
between 13,500 and 15,500 square miles in the Volga-Caspian
region of the Soviet Union. Until recently, the Soviet Union
had restricted foreign oil company participation to technical
assistance. But the government now acknowledges its oil
industry is having problems and needs outside assistance. The
Soviet Union is the world's largest oil producer, with just
under 12 million barrels a day, but oil production has been
declining.
   The so-called "protocol of intentions" between Chevron and
the Soviets is only the first step in lengthy negotiations
that may culminate in a joint venture for production and
development of the Tengiz field, as well as the much smaller
Korolev field nearby. A feasibility study and related
joint-venture documents for development of the smaller field
already have been compiled, though the study results haven't
been disclosed. There are currently no commercial drilling or
refining activities in either field.
   Chevron will send about 20 employees in the next
month-and-a-half for on-site evaluations of the Tengiz field.
By the end of the year, "we will make a development proposal
spelling out what we would like as an interest in the field,"
Mr. Matzke said.
   While the protocol is far from a guarantee of a
joint-venture agreement, Mr. Matzke said it "does give us a
reasonably exclusive right to pursue" a joint venture with
Tengizneftegaz, the Soviet oil firm, which would serve as
Chevron's partner. The proposed project, called Sov-Chevroil,
would involve exploration and production activities over
8,900-square-miles in the northeast Caspian Sea region.
   The talks between Chevron and the Soviets were facilitated
by the American Trade Consortium, a group formed in early
1988 by American companies looking to pursue joint ventures
in the Soviet Union through the Soviet Foreign Economic
Consortium. In March, 1989, the two organizations signed a
general trade agreement and have since been negotiating about
25 potential joint ventures. Other companies in the American
consortium include the agricultural company
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., photography-products company
Eastman Kodak Co., consumer-products maker Johnson &amp; Johnson,
and food and tobacco giant RJR Nabisco Inc.
   On Saturday, the American and Soviet consortiums agreed to
form a new committee in the Soviet Union to develop and
implement a so-called "accelerated economic development
program" that would create additional joint ventures to
produce consumer goods, medical equipment, and "other
projects of mutual interest," and work to modernize the
Soviet food, agribusiness, health care, and oil-field
equipment industries.
   ---
   Gerald F. Seib in Washington contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's Current-Account Surplus Slims,
   Adding Fuel to Debate on Trade Policy
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan said its current international payments
account surplus narrowed sharply in April, an announcement
that is likely to heat up a simmering policy debate over the
country's need for such surpluses.
   The Finance Ministry said the country's unadjusted
current-account surplus, which measures trade in goods and
services, was only $2.0 billion in April, off a sharp 70%
from $6.58 billion a year earlier and an even steeper 76%
from $8.3 billion in March. The country's overall trade
surplus shrank 50% to $4.02 billion in April from $8.10
billion in April 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rapidly diminishing surpluses will add impetus to an
ongoing government review of its policy of reducing such
surpluses, which in the past have generated huge amounts of
capital for Japan Inc. On Friday, Finance Minister Ryutaro
Hashimoto said he welcomed a report from a government
advisory panel that said Japan must determine an
"appropriate" level for its surpluses -- suggesting that
official acceptance of such surpluses might be near.
   Until recently, severe trade frictions, chiefly with the
U.S. and Europe, have sustained the policy. But a looming
international capital shortage, caused by the huge cost of
reunifying Germany, rebuilding Eastern Europe and covering
chronic U.S. budget deficits, has prompted the government
here to consider altering its policies to preserve the
surpluses.
   Such a change in policy could inflame tensions with trade
groups and some politicians in the U.S. After battling Japan
for years to trim its persistent surpluses, Americans may
resent a switch to what effectively would be an endorsement
of perennial imbalances.
   In Paris this past Thursday, the first sign of resistance
came from Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, who warned
against confusing the need for capital in Eastern Europe with
the need to reduce external surpluses.
   On Friday, the American Electronics Association sent a
note to U.S. journalists in Tokyo noting that the Japanese
study panel's conclusion that a current-account surplus was
necessary was "likely to cause comment" in the U.S.
   The report, issued Thursday by a special advisory council
to Japan's Finance Ministry, said that Japan may have to
assume a role as a global creditor nation. That would entail
keeping its surplus, which the panel said was likely anyway
in light of Japan's industrial prowess. Japan's
current-account surplus already has shrunk to about 2% of
total economic output, the panel noted, from 4.3%, and no
longer can "be considered a cause of world economic
disorder."
   The report echoed the conclusion of an International
Monetary Fund economic survey that Japan's current-account
surplus and high domestic savings rate might be desirable to
help cover capital shortages elsewhere in the world.
   The sharp decline in the current account during April
isn't likely to last. The Finance Ministry ascribed the
decline to a plunge in automobile exports, together with a
sharp rise in aircraft imports.
   The decline in automobile exports was due in part to
aggressive localization of production by Japanese
manufacturers. Auto exports were down 19% in April from the
year earlier, the first time in 20 years that levels have
dropped so drastically.
   The yen's weakness also was a factor. During April, the
dollar traded at an average of 157.20 yen, compared with
132.12 yen in April 1989, a 16% depreciation. Although the
yen also fell in January and February 1990, a ministry
official said April's 16% devaluation was particularly
"unusual." In the long run, a weaker yen tends to make
Japan's products cheaper to buyers overseas and could help
exports, but in the short run it reduces the dollar value of
Japan's export figures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada to Drop Form
   For Exports to U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government decided to eliminate an
export declaration form for most Canadian goods bound for the
U.S.
   The decision will benefit more than 15,000 Canadian
exporters, by eliminating the need for more than 200,000
documents each month, the government said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move was made possible by a U.S.-Canada agreement,
whereby each country will use the other's import statistics
to produce its export figures.
   The U.S. and Canada have more bilateral trade than any
other pair of countries. Their merchandise trade in the first
three months of this year totaled US$42 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Hitachi's
   Mainframes
   Get Jump
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll and Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   HIT AMH J.FUT IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hitachi Ltd. will unveil a mainframe computer this week
that will be far more powerful than those now on the market,
boosting the Japanese company's bid to become a major player
in the U.S.
   Company executives in Tokyo declined to discuss the
details, but Hitachi's U.S. arm, Hitachi Data Systems, has
invited reporters and analysts to a mainframe announcement
Wednesday in six cities around the world. Industry executives
said the Hitachi machines will be the first of the new
generation of mainframes that Hitachi, International Business
Machines Corp. and Amdahl Corp. are expected to announce over
the next few quarters for the U.S. market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It will mark the first time that Hitachi, the traditional
laggard, has been first out of the starting gate. That should
change the dynamics of the market and set Hitachi up well for
the five to seven years that this new generation of
mainframes will last.
   Securities analysts and consultants said the Hitachi
machines will most directly hurt Fujitsu Ltd., the other
major Japanese mainframe maker, and Amdahl, a U.S. company
that is 46%-owned by Fujitsu and that makes machines based on
Fujitsu designs. But some said the machines could also damage
IBM, despite its traditional dominance in this area.
   "I believe this is the first time Hitachi could
potentially be in the position of claiming technology
leadership in high-end mainframes," said Steven W. Myers, a
technology analyst for the Tokyo office of Jardine Fleming
Securities Ltd. "I expect them to see nearly a doubling" in
U.S. market share over the next few years. Currently, Hitachi
has only about 6% of the U.S. market.
   The machines will, at the least, make Hitachi a credible
player in the high-end of the mainframe market, where it
doesn't even have an entry in the U.S. at the moment. Hitachi
Data Systems' current line tops out at 88 million
instructions a second, while Amdahl hits 108 mips and IBM
reaches 112 mips. But the new machines are expected to
provide at least 150 mips, and Steve Cohen, an analyst at
SoundView Financial Group Inc., said the architecture leaves
plenty of room for Hitachi to boost that number to around 400
mips over the next few years. That means Hitachi will at
least be a factor even after IBM and Amdahl announce their
next generations.
   "They may not win all the deals," said Jim Cassell, an
analyst at Gartner Group Inc., a market-research firm, "but
at least they have to be shown in the door."
   Hitachi's new line also could chip away at IBM's
stranglehold on the mainframe market in other ways. While the
initial machines will get their power by lashing together as
many as four processors, the architecture will apparently
allow for using as many as eight. IBM's mainframes currently
top out at six processors, and Mr. Cassell said IBM, too,
will hit a maximum of eight processors when it announces its
new machines. IBM traditionally has had processors that were
individually slower than those in the Hitachi and Amdahl
machines, but it made up for that deficiency by figuring out
how to use more processors in each machine. Thus, IBM may be
losing one of its major technological edges.
   It also could hurt that Hitachi didn't feel obliged to
wait to see what standard IBM set before bringing out its own
machines. This follows a similar, though smaller, coup by
Amdahl two years ago, when it introduced its 5990 mainframe
in advance of some IBM models. Evidently, IBM's competitors
are no longer willing to give the company the head start of a
year to a year and a half that it used to get after
introducing a mainframe line. That could be ominous: IBM lost
control of the personal-computer market after Compaq Computer
Corp. beat IBM to the market with products four years ago and
didn't get squashed when IBM introduced its competing models
later.
   The initial impact of the new machines is likely to be
modest -- unless, as sometimes happens, the announcement
freezes the market while customers try to sort out who
managed to do what to whom. Hitachi will be able to ship only
a trickle of machines by the end of the year, at least in the
U.S., and won't really get up to speed until the second
quarter of 1991. By that time, IBM and Amdahl will be out
with their own announcements, and they shouldn't be too far
behind Hitachi's shipment dates.
   In any case, IBM, with more than 80% of the world-wide
market for IBM-compatible mainframes, still has abundant
resources that it can use to dominate the market. And Amdahl
remains formidable despite some recent earnings declines.
   "One-time strikes don't count in this game," said Bob
Djurdjevic, an analyst at Annex Research Inc. "You have to
show a sustained ability to keep up."
   Hitachi also has been very weak at marketing, as shown by
its very small slice of the U.S. market and its No. 3
position behind Fujitsu and IBM in Japan, where Hitachi has
21% of the market.
   But Hitachi is pushing hard to boost its presence in both
countries. "For the time being, we'd like our share . . . to
be about the same as Amdahl" in the U.S., said Toshiakira
Ikeda, a product-planning manager in Hitachi's computer
division. Amdahl's current share is around 12%.
   Last year, Hitachi bought an 80% share of its major U.S.
distributor, National Advanced Systems, with General Motors
Corp.'s Electronic Data Systems Corp. subsidiary purchasing
the remaining 20%. The company, now called Hitachi Data
Systems, is beefing up its sales staff and recently set up
user support centers in New York and California.
   In Japan, meanwhile, Hitachi's market share has grown by
nearly three percentage points in the past four years, while
No. 1 Fujitsu has fallen more than two points. IBM has
climbed two points in the same period, and smaller
manufacturers have lost ground.
   Hitachi also has scored a hit in the lucrative market for
the disk drives that store the vast amounts of data that
mainframes manipulate. Its disk drives won the reputation as
the most reliable on the market -- at a time when IBM was
having trouble with its drives -- and sales have held up
reasonably well despite IBM's announcement of a new
generation late last year.
   ---
                   Narrowing the Gap
                                                                                                       

    Share of IBM-Compatible mainframe computer market
                                                                                                       

                             1987   1988   1991*
                                                                                                       

               IBM           88%    83%    76%
               Amdahl         7     10     13
               Hitachi        5      7     11
                                                                                                       

   *Projection
   Source: Gartner Group Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CML Group Says Net
   In 3rd Period Fell 10%
   While Sales Increased
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9E
</SO>
<CO>
   CML JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ACTON, Mass. -- CML Group Inc. said third-quarter net
income dropped 10%, while sales rose 10% to $58 million, from
$52.7 million a year ago.
   Separately, the company told analysts that following weak
sales growth in February and March, sales rebounded sharply
in April and May, rising 23% and 25%, respectively, from
year-earlier levels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The direct marketer of consumer products said earnings,
including discontinued operations, for the quarter ended
April 28, fell to $2.5 million, or 38 cents a share, compared
with $2.3 million, or 35 cents a share, in the year-earlier
quarter.
   Profit from continuing operations in the third quarter
fell sharply, to $1.7 million, or 26 cents a share, from a
year-ago $3.8 million, or 59 cents a share. CML sold its
Carol Reed unit in February and the Boston Whaler power boat
company last August.
   "CML has turned the corner -- and their numbers were right
on the button, for a change," said Harry E. Wells, an analyst
with Adams Harkness &amp; Hill, Boston. "Things are really
looking up."
   CML Chairman Charles M. Leighton said that while the
softness in income was anticipated, NordicTrack and the
Nature Company performed ahead of expectations. But he added
that the "continued sluggishness of the retail apparel
environment" hurt the performance of the Britches of
Georgetown group of stores.
   CML also said it has gained a foothold in the Far East
with the signing of an agreement with the retail subsidiary
of the West Japan Railway System to begin opening CML's
Nature Company stores in Japan. The flagship store will open
in Osaka in May 1991, CML said.
   The move will be CML's first foray into international
markets. Mr. Leighton said he felt Japan will be "a perfect
market" for Nature Company stores. Payment will be on a
royalty basis, CML said.
   For the nine months ended April 28, net income was
$664,000, or 10 cents a share, including discontinued
operations, compared with $11.1 million, or $1.71 a share,
for the year-ago period. Sales rose to $217.9 million, from
$187.8 million in the same period last year. Income from
continuing operations for the nine months rose to $14.6
million, or $2.20 a share, from year-ago $13.7 million, or
$2.10.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Sierra Loves Gerrymander
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Sierra Club is now unabashedly in the muck of partisan
politics, trying to defeat two California initiatives
tomorrow that would end the gerrymandering that ensures
Democratic advantage in drawing election districts. A TV ad
shows a hand pulling an oil-sodden otter from the water. Then
actor James Garner (sic transit "Maverick") says the
initiatives "could let big business exploit our oceans, trees
and few remaining wilderness areas. The Sierra Club says no
on 118, no on 119."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Pleading to a Crime
   That Doesn't Exist
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Your May 4 editorial defending citizens who trade shares
on inside information, "Justice Reaches Into Allenwood," is
exactly right, but does not go far enough. Any citizen who
owns an asset, and who has no fiduciary responsibility over
its disposition, should be permitted to call anyone in the
world and ask for information on its prospects for
appreciation or depreciation -- and buy or sell on any
information gleaned.
   If I own shares or am thinking of buying shares in General
Motors, I am protected by the First Amendment to the
Constitution if I call the chairman of GM, the directors or
their investment bankers and ask them any question I can
imagine. And I can buy and sell on the information they
provide. Any laws that make it a crime for me to do so are
patently unconstitutional. The government can make it a crime
for me to own a particular asset, to sell an asset at a price
the government deems unfair. But the Constitution does not
permit the government to criminalize my communications in
inquiring as to its prospects.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The frenzied outrage over the fact that a lot of people
have made money buying and selling assets on Wall Street in
recent years should not obscure the fact that there are
fundamental rights we possess and should defend. Federal
prosecutors, judges and juries who have been swept up in this
frenzy over tales of untrammeled greed on Wall Street should
bear this in mind. In the Waldbaum case, you correctly point
out that Robert Chestman was convicted and jailed for a
"crime that he did not commit -- and that the judges ruled
does not exist."
   Another egregious example in this vein was the conviction
of Robert Freeman of Goldman Sachs for trading on "inside
information." Mr. Freeman was actually indicted on a variety
of charges that were dropped when he agreed to plead guilty
to trading on the news that his "Bunny has a good nose."
Because Mr. Freeman had no fiduciary responsibilities
violated in the subsequent transactions, he thus pleaded
guilty to a crime that does not exist in order to give the
feds their pound of flesh. I suggest a new law, perhaps even
a capital crime, that prohibits U.S. citizens from pleading
guilty to crimes that do not exist.
   Jude Wanniski
   President
   Polyconomics Inc.
   Morristown, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   China Light-Exxon Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   XON H.CLP GE
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Kowloon Electricity Supply Co., a joint
venture between China Light &amp; Power Co. and Exxon Corp. of
the U.S., said it placed an order valued at 600 million Hong
Kong dollars (US$77.1 million) with John Brown Engineering
Ltd., a Scottish power supplier, to provide three
100,000-kilowatt combustion turbines for a power station on
the colony's Lantau Island.
   The facilities are to be made by General Electric Co. of
the U.S. The plant is to go into operation in early 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Culbro Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CUC
</CO>
<LP>
   CULBRO Corp., New York, said it closed a three and a half
year, $90 million revolving credit agreement. Proceeds will
be used to replace short-term debt and for working capital
and general corporate purposes. The banking group was led by
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. Culbro businesses include
cigars, tobacco and consumer product distribution, and
industrial products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Caldor Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   X.CLD
</CO>
<LP>
   CALDOR Inc., Norwalk, Conn., said it completed $300
million in new permanent financing arrangements to help
retire a $460 million bridge loan obtained in connection with
its management buy-out in November 1989. It also arranged up
to $235 million in new working capital from Citibank,
Chemical Bank and Security Pacific Business Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Genentech Test of AIDS Vaccine
   Protects Two Chimps From Virus
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GNE MRK RGEN
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO -- Genentech Inc. said it conducted an
AIDS-vaccine experiment that protected two chimpanzees from
the virus.
   In its anouncement, the company broke the tradition of
silence before publication of results. A full report is
scheduled to appear in the British journal Nature in the
middle of this month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Scientists inside and outside the company called the
experiments a step forward, but one requiring years of
refinement before a practical vaccine is at hand. "These
findings provide encouragement that an AIDS vaccine may one
day be developed, but work on the project, if successful,
will take several years," Genentech acknowledged.
   In the experiment, scientists vaccinated two chimpanzees
with a gene-spliced copy of the virus's outer coat, called
gp120. Then the vaccinated chimps, along with an unvaccinated
control animal, were "challenged," or exposed to a live
infectious dose of the same strain of the acquired immune
deficiency syndrome virus, reportedly the IIIB strain. Seven
weeks later, the control animal showed signs of infection.
The vaccinated animals, however, still haven't shown signs of
infection more than six months after exposure.
   Although a Genentech release declared the work to be a
"first," the test came to light after similar work by Marc
Girard of the Pasteur Institute in Paris, who announced at an
April meeting in Colorado that he had immunized two chimps
against infection by using a mixture of several proteins from
the AIDS virus.
   Previously, U.S. researchers in Boston and New Orleans had
reported success in shielding primates against simian AIDS by
innoculating the animals with killed-virus vaccine.
   Genentech's success is sufficient to revive the company's
vaccine program, which was relegated to the back burner for
about two years. Early setbacks and failure to induce
protective immunity in chimps had led Genentech to scale back
the work to a basic research project in mid-1987. Now, it has
been restored as a major development project, a spokesman
said.
   Genentech said it plans to test the vaccine in people as
soon as the company completes arrangements with federal
agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration and the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. An
announcement is expected this summer. The company plans tests
in both uninfected volunteers, as well as in infected people,
to see whether the vaccine has a role in allaying the course
of disease in those already exposed.
   "It's potentially a promising lead," said Daniel Hoth,
head of the AIDS program at NIAID in Bethesda, Md. However he
cautioned against too much enthusiasm because only two
animals were used and because the challenge was made with
precisely the same strain used to make the vaccine -- unlike
a real world situation in which an individual might be
infected by any of several different strains.
   Competitors also lent credence to the report, saying it
confirms and adds to the body of knowledge about protective
immunity in animals.
   "This experiment confirms work done by {our collaborators
at} Merck &amp; Co., and by Marc Girard at the Pasteur," said
Scott Putney, director of molecular biology at Repligen Corp.
of Cambridge, Mass., which has a major vaccine program. He
asserted that the test lends suppport for Repligen's focus on
a tiny portion of the virus coat called "the loop," which
many believe will be the key part of any protein-based
vaccine.
   "That's where the action is," Mr. Putney said, explaining
that he believes it's the loop that sparks the body's
production of neutralizing antibodies against the virus. He
added that his group at Repligen is trying to overcome the
problem of the AIDS virus's many strains by making a
"cocktail" vaccine designed to spark immunity against 80% of
such strains.
   A full report of the vaccine experiment is scheduled to
appear in Nature on June 14. Normally, any pre-publication
promotion is prohibited by the editors of scientific
journals. "It's a little unusual. It's not a normal action
for Genentech," said Denise Gilbert, a securities analyst
with Montgomery Securities.
   However, Genentech spokesman Jack Murphy said the company
got permission to make a brief early announcement because "we
wanted to be able to discuss our full development program" a
week before publication at the company's annual meeting on
June 8. At that meeting, Genentech shareholders are expected
to vote on the proposed $2.1 billion merger with the giant
Swiss drug firm, Roche Holding Ltd.
   The vaccine work was led by Genentech scientists Phillip
W. Berman and Timothy J. Gregory, in collaboration with Jorg
Eichberg, director of chimp studies at the Southwest
Foundation for Biomedical Research in San Antonio, Texas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ASEAY S.ABB
</CO>
<LP>
   ABB ASEA BROWN BOVERI Ltd. (Zurich, Switzerland) -- Donald
H. Rumsfeld was named to the board of this
electrical-engineering company. Mr. Rumsfeld, a senior
advisor to William Blair &amp; Co., of Chicago, becomes the
eighth member and the only American on this company's board.
He was a U.S. ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization during 1973 and 1974 and secretary of defense in
the Ford administration from 1975 to 1977.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campeau, Bank
   Are Mum on Status
   Of Personal Loans
   ----
   By Robert Melnbardis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC T.NA
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Robert Campeau and National Bank of Canada were
silent last week about whether Mr. Campeau had regained
control of Campeau Corp. by settling 153 million Canadian
dollars (US$130 million) of personal loans he owes the bank.
   Mr. Campeau, chairman and chief executive officer of the
real estate and retailing company, had until last Thursday to
come up with the first C$40 million payment on the loans,
after which National Bank would return Campeau shares it
seized from him in January. But the deadline passed without
comment from National Bank or Mr. Campeau.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Bank said last Thursday that it would comment on
the agreement the next day, but on Friday it said an
announcement wouldn't be forthcoming. Neither Mr. Campeau nor
his lawyer could be reached to comment. Campeau officials
said they didn't have any information on the status of the
agreement between Mr. Campeau and National Bank. The bank was
expected to announce that it had extended the deadline under
the agreement.
   In January, the bank seized Campeau securities from Mr.
Campeau, claiming that he had defaulted on about C$153
million of personal loans, against which the securities were
pledged. The securities, which included 13 million Campeau
common shares, C$60.4 million of convertible debentures and
four million convertible preference shares, amounted to a 38%
stake in the company on a fully diluted basis. After the
seizure, Mr. Campeau's fully diluted stake in Campeau
dwindled to about 21% from 43%.
   Under Mr. Campeau's agreement with National Bank, he was
to pay a further C$40 million by Jan. 31, 1992, or, failing
that, pledge the C$60.4 million of debentures back to the
bank. Mr. Campeau hasn't indicated whether he has financing
for the first C$40 million transaction.
   Mr. Campeau's agreement with National Bank was crucial to
a vote last Friday by holders of Campeau's 7 1/2% debentures,
approving deferral of interest payments on the debentures
until Dec. 31, 1991. National Bank allowed him to vote the
C$60.4 million of debentures it holds, which, together with
his own stake in the issue, entitled him to vote a total of
42% of the debentures. The Reichmann family's Olympia &amp; York
Developments Ltd., Toronto, which holds 25.3% of the
debentures, was viewed as supportive of the interest-deferral
resolution. With Olympia &amp; York's support, Mr. Campeau
apparently had the assurance that holders of 67.3% of the
debentures agreed to the interest deferral.
   Campeau officials said they were seeking agreements from
other creditors and debenture holders on deferrals of
interest payments. In March, Campeau stopped paying interest
on the 7 1/2% debentures and US$260 million of convertible
debentures held by Olympia &amp; York. It also stopped paying
interest on US$225 million owed to Olympia &amp; York and US$480
million owed to a Youngstown, Ohio-based developer, Edward J.
DeBartolo Corp.
   Campeau plans to sell a substantial part of its Canadian
real estate assets to restructure the finances of its
Canadian operations, which it said have a "significant
negative cash flow." The Canadian parent company couldn't
meet interest payments on its debt after its U.S. retailing
units, Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores
Corp., sought protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of
the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in January.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Stotler Unit Seeks Seasonal Trade Bargains
   With Profit Potential; 12 Recommendations Made
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Some commodity traders stake real money on the idea that
price patterns for many commodities repeat themselves about
the same time each year.
   Such seasonal price action once was detectable only with
painstaking and haphazard study. Today, computers sniff out
such patterns easily.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pacific Research Center in Eugene, Ore., a wholly owned
operation of Stotler &amp; Co., a Chicago-based futures broker,
looks for seasonal trades with a high probability of being
profitable. Recently, the firm issued its recommendations for
12 seasonal trades that begin in June and have been
profitable at least 80% of the time over the past 15 years.
(Seasonal reliability for Treasury notes and Eurodollars
could only be checked for eight years because their contracts
have only been trading that long.)
   In many cases the seasonal price pattern can be attributed
to the seasonality that affects all agricultural commodities.
For example, prices for some agricultural commodities drop
just after their harvest begins. However, traders who use
seasonal price patterns don't look for explanations but
reliable repetition. Surprisingly, even when a price pattern
becomes well-known among traders it doesn't necessarily
disappear -- contrary to what market theorists assert.
   John Crane, research director at Pacific Research Center,
urges traders not to buy into every highly repetitive
seasonal trade without considering other factors. "We suggest
to clients that they try to combine our seasonal work with
other technical studies before taking a trade," he says. If,
for example, short-term price moves in the market being
studied are going in the same direction as the seasonal
pattern, he says traders can be more confident that a trade
will work.
   "Sometimes we will pass up a seasonal trade completely if
the price patterns of the commodity seem to be out of line,"
adds Mr. Crane.
   Just because a seasonal price move has demonstrated high
reliability in the past is no guarantee that it will do so
again. For that reason Pacific Research Center has used its
computer to calculate an optimum amount of money that should
be risked on each seasonal trade. If a seasonal trade goes
the wrong way and produces a bigger loss than the amount
shown in the table accompanying this story, Mr. Crane
suggests abandoning the trade. Pacific Research uses closing
prices only to determine profits and losses.
   Mr. Crane also recommends that when a seasonal trade has a
paper profit at least equal to the average amount shown in
the table, traders should protect that profit with an order
that would close out the position at a price that would leave
at least half the profit intact.
   "Many times I have seen seasonals quickly move to a profit
and then give up most, or all, of that profit in subsequent
days," he says.
   The report prepared by Pacific Research Center gives not
only the data shown in the nearby table but also shows for
each year studied the maximum profit and the biggest loss
produced during the trade. In addition it gives the dates
these profits and losses were made. Mr. Crane says readers
who wish to receive a copy of the June report may call
800-365-8000, or write to Pacific Research Center, 85180
Loraine Highway, Eugene, OR 97405.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Precious Metals
                                                                                                       

   Gold futures fell to new life-of-contract lows Friday,
further darkening the metal's already-gloomy situation.
Traders this week will be watching to see if and where
underlying support develops to brake the decline.
   The latest pressure on gold came from reports that the
Soviet Union has run out of hard currency and has asked for
credit extensions to pay for a number of commodities it has
bought, analysts said.
   The belief among traders is that the Soviet Union has been
swapping gold with foreign banks to obtain hard currency,
said William O'Neill, vice president of research for Elders
Futures, New York. Foreign banks, in turn, are hedging the
swapped gold to protect themselves against a loss in value
while they hold it, further depressing prices, he said.
   "We'll likely see more of this in coming months, and this
doesn't take into consideration South Africa, which has
foreign exchange problems of its own," he said.
   Mr. O'Neill also observed that traders have been
negatively conditioned by the two recent big Saudi Arabian
sales of gold that caused prices to plunge, and they're
braced for another round. "This is keeping a damper on
investment enthusiasm," he said.
   However, Jeffrey Nichols, president of American Precious
Metals Advisors, of Toronto, notes that the National
Commercial Bank of Jeddah, which was credited with making the
big gold sales, mightn't do it again. "The Saudi Arabian
Monetary Authority and the Saudi royal family, {which hold}
significant gold reserves and investments, could not have
been pleased to see the metal's price fall so sharply," he
says.
   The National Commercial Bank has important ties to the
central bank and the royal family, "so much so that a word
from the authorities could guarantee there are no further
disruptive dealings," Mr. Nichols says.
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   This is the week for OPEC numbers -- estimates of May
production and perhaps even preliminary indications for June.
The Paris-based International Energy Agency will release its
estimates of May crude oil volumes for the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. Some other OPEC output
monitors may be out with early-June guesses.
   These reports are important because they could signal the
direction of petroleum prices over the summer. Most analysts
agree the major factor now in determining the price outlook
is how much OPEC trims its output to shrink the world oil
glut. And most forecasters are bearish after the
roller-coaster oil market that sizzled briefly last week
before its gasoline-fed rally collapsed.
   But some, such as Fereidun Fesharaki of the Resource
Systems Institute at Honolulu's East-West Center, see oil
prices recovering. "Although the reduction in oil production
has been slow in the OPEC countries," Mr. Fesharaki said,
"the reduction is nevertheless real and {the} impact of such
cuts will soon be observed." In the U.S. cash market, he
expects West Texas Intermediate crude to rise $1 a barrel in
June to $19 and by another $1.75 in July before falling back
some to $20 in August.
                                                                                                       

   Grains &amp; Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Today analysts will try to determine whether last week's
dry weather allowed Midwest corn farmers to complete their
rain-delayed planting.
   Analysts expect the weekly progress reports issued by the
Midwest states today to show that corn farmers have nearly
completed planting their fields. The general rule of thumb is
that most Midwest fields must be planted by June 1 for the
corn crop to obtain maximum yield. After that date, many
farmers will shift their fields to other crops, such as
soybeans.
   If the weekly reports show that a significant amount of
corn fields haven't been planted as planned, analysts will
trim their estimates of the corn harvest.
   Grain traders will also watch interest rates this week. A
drop would imply that a deflationary mood is building in the
financial markets -- which might signal that commodity prices
would come under downward pressure.
   ---
                  Seasonal Trades for June
                                                                                                       

 Trades analyzed by Pacific Research Center that have worked
at least 80% of the time in recent years
                                                                                                       


 STRATEGY   EXIT DATE   LOSS YEARS    AVG. LOSS    RISK
                                                                                                       

 Sell December Coffee
              June 9       14          $5,783       $1,500
              July 9        1           9,000
                                                                                                       

 Sell September T-Notes
              June 15       8           1,074        1,800
              June 21       0               0
                                                                                                       

 Sell July Soybeans
              June 19      12           1,395        1,500
              June 29       3           1,033
                                                                                                       

 Sell July Oats
              June 23      14             582        1,250
              July 19       1             350
                                                                                                       

 Sell September Eurodollars
              June 25       7           1,367        1,250
              July 20       1             725
                                                                                                       

 Sell October Live Hogs
              June 25      14             591        1,500
              July 17       1           1,650
                                                                                                       

 Source: Pacific Research Center, Eugene Ore.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   SEASONAL FUTURES TRADES recommended by Pacific Research
Center, listed in a table accompanying the commodities story
in yesterday's edition, should have said to buy September
Eurodollar futures on June 25 and sell them on July 20. The
table misstated this trade recommendation.
   (WSJ June 5, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Centocor Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CNTO
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CENTOCOR Inc., Malvern, Pa., said it is offering 1.3
million common shares at $43.25 each through Hambrecht &amp;
Quist Inc., PaineWebber Inc. and Robertson Stephens &amp; Co. The
developer of health-care products has 11,983,355 shares
outstanding. Proceeds from the offering will be used to fund
expansion, working-capital requirements, and possible
acquisitions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Intermark Inc. Loss
   Widened to $14 Million
   In Fiscal 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9C
</SO>
<CO>
   IMI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LA JOLLA, Calif. -- Intermark Inc.'s fiscal fourth-quarter
loss widened to $14 million, or $1.54 a share, from $7.2
million, or 79 cents a share, a year earlier.
   Revenue in the period ended March 31 rose 69% to $277.7
million from $164.7 million, mainly reflecting the
consolidation of Intermark's results with those of Triton
Group Ltd. Intermark owns 52% of Triton's stock, and the two
firms recently agreed to merge, pending various approvals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Intermark had operating profit, before interest expense,
minority interest and taxes, of $4.7 million. A year earlier,
it posted a $14.6 million operating loss, including a $16
million provision for store closings at its Sunbelt Nursery
Group Inc. unit.
   Intermark said interest expense climbed to $14.1 million,
including $6.4 million from Triton, compared with $8.2
million a year earlier. The quarter also included a $4.3
million loss attributable to Munson Sporting Goods Co.
Intermark sold its stake in the wholesale sporting goods
distributor in February.
   For the year, Intermark posted a net loss of $10.7
million, or $1.20 a share, compared with net income of
$215,000, or one cent a share, in fiscal 1989. Revenue grew
39% to $945.5 million from $681.9 million. Operating profit
rose 21% to $47.3 million from $39.1 million.
   Intermark and Triton holds interests in numerous operating
companies in retailing, restaurants, real estate and other
industries. Intermark said the strongest operating
performances in fiscal 1990 were from Sunbelt Nursery, which
contributed $10 million of profit in contrast to a $22
million loss the year before, and from Pier 1 Imports Inc.,
whose contribution jumped by 12% to $48 million.
   "While the fiscal year 1990 loss is disappointing, we feel
good about the progress made by our partner companies during
the year and about the general health of our business," said
Charles R. Scott, Intermark chairman and chief executive
officer. "The growth in operating income during 1990 is a
clear indication of the strength of our companies."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NCNB Acquires
   Most Remnants
   Of Texas Firm
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   NCB NBCTC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- NCNB Corp. acquired most of the
remnants of the failed National Bancshares Corp. of Texas,
based in San Antonio, increasing its stake in the state by
purchasing $1 billion in assets and assuming $1.5 billion in
liabilities.
   The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved NCNB's
proposal to assume the deposits and secured liabilities of
nine of the 12 bank subsidiaries of National Bancshares. The
banks are expected to reopen today as units of NCNB Texas
National Banking Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since its entry into Texas in 1988, the ever-aggressive
NCNB has grown to be the largest bank in the state by picking
up sundry pieces from the Texas banking disaster. With this
acquisition, NCNB Texas will have $31.4 billion in assets and
250 branches in 77 communities.
   In a statement, Kenneth D. Lewis, president of NCNB Texas,
called the transaction "a major step in NCNB's expansion
strategy and an excellent addition to our trust business." He
said it doubles the number of locations in San Antonio, which
NCNB considers an attractive market, and gives NCNB a
presence in seven new communities. The FDIC said the nine
bank units are based in Austin, Boerne, Corpus Christi,
Houston, Kerrville, Mission, San Antonio, Sequin and Uvalde.
   Under terms of the transaction, the FDIC will infuse
$581.2 million into the assuming bank and will retain assets
of the failed banks with a book value of $613.7 million, the
agency said. NCNB agreed to pay a premium of $59.5 million
for the $1.5 billion in deposits it is assuming.
   Until the end of April, it appeared that National
Bancshares would be acquired by Equimark Corp., the
Pittsburgh bank holding company. Under a recapitalization
plan drafted in mid-1989, Equimark agreed to invest or raise
about $116 million of new capital for National Bancshares. At
the same time, the FDIC was expected to invest about $250
million to eliminate the negative net worth -- assets minus
liabilities -- of subsidiary banks and cover losses from
problem assets.
   In late April, however, the FDIC unexpectedly scuttled the
plan rather than bow to bondholders' demands that it sweeten
its offer. Some banking industry observers also speculated
that the recapitalization failure owed as much to Equimark's
problems at home as it did to recalcitrant bondholders.
Buffeted by the weak commercial real-estate market, Equimark
had a $15.4 million loss in the first quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   North American Newsprint Producers
   Push Through a Price Increase of 5%
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7D
</SO>
<CO>
   ABY STO LABOR CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Most North American newsprint producers pushed through a
scheduled price increase of slightly more than 5% Friday, the
first good news in two years for struggling newsprint makers.
But if labor negotiations in Eastern Canada are settled
without a strike, prices could slide back to pre-increase
levels, some industry executives and observers said.
   "It looks like {the increase} has a better chance of
sticking than it did two months ago," said Homer Taylor, vice
president, supply, at Knight-Ridder Inc. Mason Sizemore,
president of the Seattle Times, said five of his six
newsprint suppliers raised their prices, and, "As far as I
know, it's going through."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Led by Toronto-based Abitibi-Price Inc., which said it
expects the price boost to hold, most North American
producers earlier this year announced the increase for June
1. Producers raised the benchmark Eastern U.S. list price of
standard newsprint 5.4%, or US$35 a metric ton, to $685 a
metric ton. A similar increase was announced in other
markets, where the pricing system is slightly different. A
metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds.
   Newsprint now is sold at about a 19% discount from list,
so the price increase raises transaction prices, or actual
selling prices, to about $555 a metric ton from about $525 in
the East.
   When the price increase was first announced, many
newsprint buyers said it had little chance of going into
effect. But the supply of newsprint has tightened in the past
several weeks, newsprint buyers said, as publishers built
inventory in anticipation of a possible strike at mills in
Eastern Canada. U.S. publishers buy more than half of their
newsprint from Canadian mills.
   Any strike would first hit Montreal-based Stone
Consolidated Inc., a unit of Stone Container Corp., Chicago.
The Canadian Paperworkers Union targeted certain Stone
Consolidated mills for negotiation of contracts that will
then set the pattern for settlements at other Eastern
Canadian mills. A Stone Consolidated spokeswoman said that
negotiations on contract language began last Thursday, and
that once those points are settled, discussion of salary
issues will start. The union is seeking wage increases of 8%
a year in each of two years.
   Canadian newsprint producers in particular are desperate
for a price increase. "The average Canadian company isn't
making money" at current prices, said Brian Topp, an analyst
at Capital Group Securities Ltd. in Toronto. Along with
facing higher labor costs, Canadian producers continue to be
hurt by the high level of the Canadian dollar, valued against
the U.S. dollar.
   Analysts said that, without a strike, producers will have
to curtail production to make the price increase stick. While
U.S. output has increased this year, Canadian mills have
already cut some production. Canadian newsprint output in the
first four months of this year dropped 2.6% from a year
earlier, according to the Canadian Pulp and Paper
Association, an industry group. Canadian mills operated at
94% of capacity through the end of April, compared with 97% a
year earlier.
   Meanwhile, Canadian producers of market pulp continue to
make sharp cuts in production to keep prices for their major
premium grade pulp from falling. Canadian producers of market
pulp operated at just 77% of capacity in April, as production
fell 11% from a year earlier. For the first four months,
Canadian market pulp production fell 8% and shipments
declined 13%.
   Market pulp is wood pulp sold on the open market to
producers of paper, sanitary and other products. The
statistics exclude pulp consumed at the producing mill or
shipped to another mill that is affiliated with the producing
mill. Canada is the world's largest producer of newsprint and
of market pulp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Suzie Wong Revisited
   ----
   By William McGurn
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   It was the late 1950s, it was the Wanchai district of Hong
Kong, and a Chinese bar girl was explaining to a tall,
puzzled American that she could not possibly be the nice girl
he'd met earlier in the day. "What a nice girl you met on
ferry doing in a place like this I like to know for goodness
sake," she tells him, ending with her favorite expression.
Her name, of course, was Suzie Wong, and the part would
launch an unknown 21-year-old named Nancy Kwan into stardom.
   Three decades after she first shimmied across the screen
and into William Holden's grudging heart, Ms. Kwan still
looks young enough to catch a sailor's eye -- a testament no
doubt to the Oriental Pearl Cream she now hawks on late-night
TV.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shortly after "The World of Suzie Wong," she put her Royal
Ballet training to good use as the scheming nightclub
performer Linda Low in Rodgers and Hammerstein's "Flower Drum
Song." Like the good-hearted Suzie, Linda was somewhat
pre-Betty Friedan in her outlook ("It's nice to have outside
accomplishments . . . but the main thing is for a woman to be
successful in her gender"); she sings the film's big song, "I
Enjoy Being a Girl."
   Ms. Kwan has gone on to prove herself decidedly more
diverse, having branched out into producing and writing in
addition to acting. But she too enjoys what life's given her
and thus has little time for modern complaints that the
cheongsam she wore as Suzie Wong -- the traditional
tightfitting, high-collared, Chinese slit sheath -- was
exploitative.
   "I still think it's very feminine," she says, conceding,
however, that "if you don't have the right figure, it
accentuates all the wrong places."
   Today home for Ms. Kwan is a modest ranch house tucked
away in Sherman Oaks, Calif., far removed from the hustle and
bustle of her native Hong Kong but filled with more Chinese
pieces than the emperor's palace. Toward "The World of Suzie
Wong" she exhibits a healthy indifference tinged with
appreciation for the opportunity. It was, she says, "just a
job," and indeed she tried out for the part on a lark only
after director Ray Stark spied her hanging around her uncle's
film studio during a school holiday from Britain. Of co-star
William Holden, she has only praise for an actor who was
"exceptionally generous" with others. "He was a man's man and
a woman's man if you know what I mean," she says. Her
Cantonese upbringing compels her to add that he "was a good
businessman, too."
   For though born of an English mother and now carrying an
American passport, Ms. Kwan was raised a daughter of the
Celestial Kingdom. Her Chinese name is Kwan Ka Shen, from a
family that traces itself back to Kwan Kung, a general so
renowned for his uprightness that his red-faced visage adorns
many a police station and shop. She relates how, as a young
student, she had intended to join a demonstration against one
of the many British-run Hong Kong clubs that wouldn't allow
Chinese as members. Her father, a famous local architect,
asked her not to, and out of filial piety, she did what any
Chinese girl would have done. She obeyed.
   Not long after "The World of Suzie Wong" made her a star
she left Hong Kong for work reasons but returned in the 1970s
to start up a production company called Nancy Kwan Films. In
the interim she's also kept up her acting career, appearing
in everything from the pilot for the old TV series "Hawaii
Five-O" to "Miracle Landing," the recent CBS docudrama about
the 1988 Aloha Airlines flight that survived losing its roof
in midair.
   It's been three years now since Ms. Kwan's visited Hong
Kong, but she eagerly quizzes a former resident about
prospects come the 1997 transfer of sovereignty from London
to Beijing. Like most Chinese, she is glad to see the end of
colonial rule; like most Hong Kong Chinese, she has her
worries. "I am Chinese and Hong Kong people are Chinese," she
says, fingering a jade bracelet. "Nevertheless, I wouldn't
like to see its special identity swallowed up by China."
   These days, however, her ethnic pride takes the
characteristically American form of volunteer work for such
organizations as the Association of Asian Pacific American
Artists. Things have changed considerably since the days when
Caucasians played Charlie Chan, but the organization remains
concerned about the public image of Asians. She also works on
behalf of the Vietnamese boat people, as well as heading up
public liaison for the Asian American Voters Coalition.
Although Asian Americans treasure the freedoms that have
enabled them to prosper in their new home, Ms. Kwan notes
that they have been reluctant to get involved in politics
because they by and large come from "police states where
politics get you in trouble." She reports proudly that the
White House requested a copy of her speech to an October AAVC
conference in Washington.
   For similar reasons she also is pleased about her upcoming
part in Frank Vinh Noan's "Endless Love." The story revolves
around an American separated from her Vietnamese husband and
infant daughter by the fall of Saigon, and Ms. Kwan plays the
Chinese-Vietnamese U.N. official fighting to bring them back
together. In the process she falls in love with a well-known
anti-war reporter now feeling some guilt pangs about the
consequences of the American defeat there. What makes this
film different from the dozens of others about Vietnam is
that this is the first seen through the eyes of a Vietnamese.
In addition to landing one of the lead roles, Ms. Kwan will
be co-producing the project, to be shot this summer, probably
in Thailand.
   Too soon the interview winds down, and it comes time to
ask for an autograph. Admitting to some wariness about the
press ("words never seem to turn out the way I said them"),
she nonetheless takes pen in hand and bends over a photo, a
formal portrait of her grandfather dressed in his imperial
robes. "A word is worth a thousand pictures," she writes, and
a reporter suggests that while flattering it's probably
untrue. The observation draws a mischevious smile. "Of course
it's not true," she says.
   For goodness sake.
   ---
   Mr. McGurn is Washington bureau chief of the National
Review.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baseball-Card Marketer Fleer Corp.
   Is Offering an 18.5% Stake to Public
   ----
   By Neal Lipschutz
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9D
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors are about to get another opportunity
to join in the baseball card craze without having to worry
about such things as how to value a Mickey Mantle rookie
card.
   Fleer Corp., which describes itself as the third biggest
of six national marketers of sports cards, plans an initial
offering this week of 1.7 million common shares, representing
an 18.5% stake.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In one sign of investor interest, lead underwriter Smith
Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. has been talking about an issue
price of $13 to $15 a share, rather than the $11 to $13
originally expected.
   And even at $13 to $15, the issue would be fairly priced,
says Al Hadhazy, senior analyst for the newsletter New
Issues. There could be more attractive initial public
offerings in the pipeline, he says, but Fleer has strong
fundamentals including a tripling of annual sales between
1986 and 1989.
   "I like the stock," says Robert Natale, an analyst who
tracks new issues at Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. At $13 to $15 a
share, he says, the stock would be "less attractive but still
{would have} appeal."
   As interest in baseball cards and other sports
collectibles has boomed, so have Fleer's sales, especially of
its baseball cards packaged with team stickers. On a pro
forma basis, revenue last year was $83.4 million, and net
income was $6.9 million.
   In this year's first quarter, the company's pro forma net
was $6.8 million, or 74 cents a share, compared with $2
million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales climbed
to $40.2 million from $20.6 million.
   The company says in its preliminary prospectus that a
"substantial majority" of its revenue and earnings are
generated in the first half of the year from baseball card
sales.
   Meanwhile, the leading baseball card concern, Topps Co.,
had record sales and net in its year ended March 3. Net was
$37.6 million, or $1.20 a share, on sales of $246.4 million,
after fiscal 1989 net of $28 million, or 89 cents a share, on
sales of $198.8 million.
   A Topps spokesman said he couldn't estimate the company's
share of the baseball card market. In calling itself the No.
3 company, Fleer says in its preliminary prospectus that "the
current market leader has a significantly larger share of the
market for baseball cards than any other entity."
   If the increased interest in baseball card collecting
continues, competition is sure to heat up further, says Mr.
Hadhazy of the New Issues letter. "Any number of companies
can jump into the ball game at any time," he says, and he
doesn't expect Fleer to maintain its growth rate of the past
four years.
   And what if enthusiasm for the cards wanes? Fleer
acknowledges that its sales can be "significantly impacted by
changing consumer tastes and interests."
   Mr. Hadhazy says, "I wouldn't say I'm ready to call it a
fad, but in terms of speculative frenzy, baseball cards are
right up there."
   However, Mr. Natale of S&amp;P says, "It's a faddish business,
but it's also a perennial one." Collectors aren't the only
purchasers of the cards, he points out. Fleer, in fact, says
its primary market is "the young consumer, aged six to 16."
   Fleer markets its baseball and other sports cards under
non-exclusive license agreements with players' associations
and representatives of leagues and teams.
   Fleer says in the preliminary prospectus, "Although there
can be no assurance that new licenses will be granted . . .
the company anticipates that it will obtain new licenses on
terms acceptable to it." Future licenses, however, could be
granted to other companies, and analysts say it's possible
that sports leagues or player groups might eventually decide
to market the cards themselves.
   Fleer began selling baseball cards in 1981. It introduced
basketball cards in 1986 and expects to begin marketing
football cards this summer. The company also makes bubble
gum, mostly marketed under the Dubble Bubble brand, as well
as Razzles, a gum product pressed into the form of a tablet.
   An investment group led by Charterhouse Equity Partners
acquired Fleer last August through a holding company, Charter
Confectionary Inc., for $55.4 million. Charter Confectionary
was merged into Fleer in April of this year. The company says
it doesn't have any current plan to begin paying dividends.
Proceeds from the stock sale will be used to reduce debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Synchrotron Facility
   Construction Begins
   By Energy Agency
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7F
</SO>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   ARGONNE, Ill. -- The Department of Energy's Argonne
National Laboratory is scheduled to break ground today for
the $456 million Advanced Photon Source, a device that will
generate X-ray beams 10,000 times brighter than those from
any existing source.
   The new-generation synchrotron, an aluminum circle
two-thirds of a mile in length, will succeed DOE's Brookhaven
National Laboratory on Long Island as the world's most
powerful X-ray source.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Synchrotrons, originally developed for particle research,
produce powerful X-rays as a by-product of accelerating
electrons through magnetic fields. Scientists can use such
rays to determine the precise positions of atoms in chemical
reactions.
   The Argonne device will produce X-rays with higher
energies: There are "more photons, or light particles, in the
beam so you get data faster," said a lab spokesman.
Scientists will be able to "do experiments at APS in a few
hours that would require months at Brookhaven," he added.
   Experiments at the Argonne lab aren't scheduled to get
under way until 1996, however, by which time a slightly less
powerful machine now under construction in Europe will be
operational, and another device in Japan will also be
starting up.
   Argonne is operated by the University of Chicago for the
DOE.
   The lab says the APS will be "fundamentally for basic
research." The spokesman, however, stressed that it is
"research that's expected to produce lots of practical
results," in fields such as computer science, ceramics,
chemistry and physics.
   Argonne said scientists from companies including
Allied-Signal Inc., Exxon Corp., International Business
Machines Corp., and American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s Bell
Laboratories have helped plan and design the facility, and
have indicated interest in using the facility when it's
completed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, June 1, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                               Stock   N.A.   Stock     %
 Fund Name                     Exch.  Value   Price    Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

 Adams Express                 NYSE   18.92  16 1/8   -14.77
 Baker Fentress                NYSE   25.03  20 1/2   -18.10
 Blue Chip Value               NYSE    7.84   6 5/8   -15.50
 Clemente Global Gro           NYSE  b12.22  10 1/4   -16.12
 France Growth Fund            NYSE   10.76  11 3/4   + 9.20
 Gemini II Capital             NYSE   16.79  13 3/4   -18.11
 Gemini II Income              NYSE    9.55  12 3/4   +33.51
 General Amer Invest           NYSE   24.71  20 3/8   -17.54
 Growth Stock Outlook          NYSE   10.33   9 3/8   - 9.24
 Liberty All-Star Eqty         NYSE    9.96   8 3/8   -15.91
 Niagara Share Corp.           NYSE   17.93  14 7/8   -17.04
 Nicholas-Applegate            NYSE   12.48  10 3/4   -13.86
 Quest For Value Cap           NYSE   17.97  13 3/4   -23.48
 Quest For Value Inco          NYSE   11.67  13 1/4   +13.54
 Royce Value Trust             NYSE   10.56   9 5/8   - 8.85
 Salomon Bros.                 NYSE   15.82  13 1/4   -16.25
 Schafer Value Trust           NYSE   10.61  10 3/8   - 2.21
 Source Capital                NYSE   41.07  40 1/2   - 1.39
 Tri-Continental Corp.         NYSE   29.17  25 1/8   -13.87
 Worldwide Value               NYSE   19.02  16 1/4   -14.56
 Zweig Fund                    NYSE   11.18  11 3/4   + 5.10
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

 CIM High Yield Secs           AMEX    6.72   6       -10.71
 Franklin Prin Mat Tr          NYSE   b7.98   8 3/4   + 9.65
 Franklin Universal Tr         NYSE   b7.79   7 1/8   - 8.54
 Municipal High Inco           NYSE    9.43   9 5/8   + 2.07
 Zenix Income Fund             NYSE    6.30   6 1/8   - 2.78

   Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       

 America's All Seasn           OTC     5.91   4 1/2   -23.86
 Franklin M-M Inco             NYSE   b8.67   8 1/4   - 4.84
 Zweig Total Return Fd         NYSE    9.33   9 1/8   - 2.20
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

 Alliance New Europe Fd        NYSE   11.28  10 1/4   - 9.13
 American Capital Conv         NYSE   22.09  19 1/8   -13.42
 ASA Ltd                       NYSE bc61.17  48 3/8   -20.92
 Asia Pacific                  NYSE   16.02  14       -12.61
 Austria Fund                  NYSE   14.25  12 3/4   -10.53
 Bancroft Convertible          AMEX   20.95  18       -14.08
 Bergstrom Capital             AMEX   63.75  61 5/8   - 3.33
 BGR Precious Metals           TOR  be10.95   9 3/4   -10.96
 Brazil                        NYSE    9.72  10       + 2.88
 CNV Holdings Capital          NYSE    9.95   5 1/4   -47.24
 CNV Holdings Income           NYSE    9.56  11       +15.06
 Castle Convertible            AMEX   22.04  18 3/8   -16.63
 Central Fund Canada           AMEX   b4.91   5 1/8   + 4.38
 Central Securities            AMEX   11.80   9 3/8   -20.55
 Chile Fund                    NYSE   16.64  15 7/8   - 4.60
 Couns Tandem Secs             NYSE   12.69  10 1/2   -17.26
 Cypress Fund                  AMEX   10.00   9 1/2   - 5.00
 Duff&amp;Phelps Sel Utils         NYSE    8.25   8       - 3.03
 Ellsw Conv Gr&amp;Inc             AMEX    8.38   7 1/8   -14.98
 Emerging Ger Fd               NYSE   10.94   9 5/8   -12.02
 Engex                         AMEX   13.08   9 3/4   -25.46
 Europe Fund                   NYSE   14.10  15       + 6.38
 1stAustralia                  AMEX    9.67   8 3/4   - 9.51
 First Financial Fund          NYSE    7.07   6 7/8   - 2.76
 First Iberian                 AMEX   10.91  11 3/8   + 4.26
 First Philippine Fund         NYSE   10.93   9 1/8   -16.51
 Future Germany Fund           NYSE   16.73  14 7/8   -11.09
 Gabelli Equity Trust          NYSE   12.42  12 1/4   - 1.37
 Germany Fund                  NYSE   12.95  13 3/4   + 6.18
 Global Utilities Fund         NYSE   11.10  10       - 9.91
 Growth Fund Spain             NYSE   12.13  10 5/8   -12.41
 GT Greater Europe Fd          NYSE   14.03  13 1/4   - 5.56
 H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv            NYSE   12.36  10 1/2   -15.05
 Hampton Utils Tr Cap          AMEX  b11.43   9 3/4   -14.70
 Hampton Utils Tr Pref         AMEX  b49.41  48 3/4   - 1.34
 India Growth Fund             NYSE  f13.08  14 1/2   +10.86
 Indonesia Fund                NYSE   14.98  16       + 6.81
 Inefficient Market Fund       AMEX   11.20  10 1/4   - 8.48
 Irish Investment Fd           NYSE   11.09   9       -18.85
 Italy Fund                    NYSE  b15.10  15       - 0.66
 Jakarta Growth Fd             NYSE   11.05  13 5/8   +23.30
 Japan OTC Equity Fund         NYSE  b11.93  16       +34.12
 Korea Fund                    NYSE   15.87  24 3/8   +53.59
 Malaysia Fund                 NYSE   14.93  17 1/2   +17.21
 Mexico Fund                   NYSE  b15.37  14 3/4   - 4.03
 Morgan Grenf SmCap            NYSE   12.00  11 1/8   - 7.29
 New Germany Fund              NYSE   14.26  13 7/8   - 2.70
 Pacific Eur Growth Fd         NYSE   11.19  12       + 7.24

 Patriot Prem Div Fd II        NYSE   10.43  11       + 5.46
 Petrol &amp; Resources            NYSE   31.09  27 1/8   -12.75
 Pilgrim Regional              NYSE    9.32   8 7/8   - 4.77
 Putnam Dividend Inco          NYSE   10.45  11       + 5.26
 Portugal Fund                 NYSE   13.37  14 1/2   + 8.45
 Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd         AMEX    6.53   6       - 8.12
 ROC Taiwan Fund               NYSE   12.38  11 5/8   - 6.10
 Scudder New Asia              NYSE   17.84  15       -15.92
 Scudder New Europe            NYSE   11.81  10 1/2   -11.09
 SE Savings Inst Fd            OTC    b8.02   7 1/4   - 9.60
 Spain Fund                    NYSE   14.31  17 3/4   +24.04
 Swiss Helvetia Fd             NYSE   14.37  14 3/8   + 0.03
 Taiwan Fund                   NYSE  b20.95  27 3/8   +30.67
 TCW Convertible Secs          NYSE   b8.24   8 1/4   + 0.12
 Templeton Em Mkts             AMEX  b15.89  14 7/8   - 6.39
 Templeton Value Fund          NYSE   b9.97   9       - 9.73
 Thai Fund                     NYSE   21.37  25 1/4   +18.16
 Turkish Inv Fund              NYSE   15.93  12 7/8   -19.18
 United Kingdom Fund           NYSE   11.18  10 1/8   - 9.44
 Z-Seven                       OTC    13.54  14 1/4   + 5.24
                                                                                                       

   b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at Commercial Rand
exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of Wednesday's
close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   Nestle Courts the LDC Middle Class
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.NES FREST MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   VEVEY, Switzerland -- At the headquarters of Nestle S.A.
here, a landscaped garden stretches down to the shore of Lake
Leman. Across the blue waters rise the snowcapped Alps. It is
one of the world's greatest corporate vistas.
   But Helmut Maucher, Nestle's German-born chief executive,
is concerned with a much broader landscape, all the markets
around the world where Nestle sees new worlds to conquer.
Surprisingly, some that offer the most potential are in what
we have tagged with that marvelous euphemism, "less-developed
countries" or LDCs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   LDC simply means poor, but not all LDCs are alike. Some
are making economic progress and have an emerging middle
class. Upwardly mobile individuals in LDCs behave in ways not
unlike middle-class consumers everywhere. Because they have
money and are busy, they like the convenience foods that are
a Nestle specialty -- instant teas and coffee, packaged
soups, dry cereals and candies, to name a few.
   Thus, the view from Vevey is by no means as bleak as the
one often presented when LDCs come begging at the World Bank
or other agencies that attempt to foster international
development. Nestle's world-wide revenues -- from production
operations in 61 nations -- soared 21.6% last year from the
year before. Profits were up 17.2%. This year will not be as
spectacular, but Mr. Maucher hopes to earn as much as last
year and maybe a bit more.
   A lot of that progress is coming from developed nations,
not least the U.S. and Canada. But the LDC component is of
special interest. For example, Nestle and other global
companies have become quite interested in India, a country of
more than 800 million people that now has a middle class said
to number 150 million, a potentially huge market.
   There is a flip side, of course. Mainly because of
protectionist politics, such markets sometimes are hard to
crack, even though foreign investment is exactly what LDCs
need. PepsiCo, for example, has met serious roadblocks,
presumably thrown up by the political friends of India's
soft-drink tycoons, in its efforts to develop a market for
its products in India. Other companies have encountered
similar difficulties. For that reason, foreign investment is
puny relative to India's size.
   Indeed, Nestle itself learned a great deal about
anti-multinational LDC politics some years ago when it was
accused of exploiting the Third World poor through promotion
of its infant formula in ways that were claimed to induce its
substitution for mother's milk. But the company worked hard
to separate the genuine concerns of church people and
nutritionists from mere political sharpshooting and then set
up a code of marketing conduct. The issue has largely been
laid to rest.
   "I usually say that if it is very difficult, all the
better," says Mr. Maucher. "Then it is a challenge for Nestle
to do it when others won't. In the last 10 years we have
doubled the size of our factory in the Punjab for producing
meat products. We have built a new factory for Nescafe. We
have started four new joint ventures with new partners."
   He admits that even in democratic countries such as India,
foreign investors are often subject to bureaucratic vagaries
and the selective application of laws. But with careful
cultivation of partnerships and an effort to understand the
political forces at work, it is possible to make progress.
Nestle's turnover in India of $72 million is tiny compared
with its world-wide revenues of $34 billion, but it has a
foothold in a potentially large market.
   Having made headway in India, Nestle is tackling some
other LDCs. It has started a joint venture in Pakistan, a
country of more than 100 million people with a middle class
estimated at 10 million to 20 million. That is smaller than
India's but three times the size of the Swiss market.
   "We've also started in Egypt, a country that is very
difficult for many reasons, but we also started with partners
and now we have the learning curve and the first phase is
behind us."
   Nestle has an advantage over some of its competitors in
tapping difficult markets because it has been a global
company for many years. Mr. Maucher notes that the Vevey
headquarters, plunked down in that marvelous Swiss setting,
houses employees with some 50 different nationalities. The
company has done for years what some other multinationals
have only learned to do recently, made people of all
nationalities working for the company feel that they have as
much chance of advancement as the Swiss.
   "If you see our Swiss Latin American manager here talking
to his people in Brazil, you don't know he's Swiss. He talks
the language. The idea that other nationalities should be
inside and not outside has been an attitude of Nestle for a
long time.
   "We have certain basic policies and concepts but only very
few and for the rest we integrate ourselves into the
traditions and the mentality of the country where we are
operating. If we send people, we urge them to learn the
country completely. That is a very important strength of
Nestle. The whole culture here of being in a small country
has prepared us to do so because we've always had to do this
to survive."
   Of course, yet another thing that facilitates the
exploitation of new undeveloped markets is the communications
revolution. Nestle's central computer can process data from
its 421 factories, not to mention sales and research offices,
throughout the world on a real time basis. "By being
everywhere and working in different products, you also spread
risk," Mr. Maucher says. "That is part of the beauty of real
globalization."
   As with most successful CEOs, Mr. Maucher is an optimist.
He thinks that the world is becoming more and more
cooperative and that barriers to trade and investment are
gradually coming down. As a German he is particularly excited
about the opening up of the formerly communist countries of
Europe.
   "East Germany is for me already integrated. On Nov. 9 last
year, the Wall came down. And on the 10th we delegated East
Germany to our West Germany company. We were probably the
first ones to do it. We said to them, `East Germany is now a
part of your business.'
   "Within a few months, a half a year, you will see a lot of
things in these countries. Poland is very open and very
positive but still on the way to organizing itself. But it is
very open philosophically.
   "The next years to come will not be less exciting than the
last 10 years. The restructuring will go on and we will
finally come to total globalization, including many countries
which up to now have been excluded from this process. To some
extent, the rest of the planned economies will join in,
perhaps slower and with less intensity. One way or another I
think there will be more business for multinationals."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Feuding Esprit Founders Reach Accord;
   Doug Tompkins Will Relinquish Post
   ----
   By Susan C. Faludi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- The husband and wife who co-founded
Esprit de Corp. in 1968 and have been feuding ever since
finally reached a peace pact Friday: Doug Tompkins agreed to
relinquish his post as image director and sell his 50% stake
in Esprit's domestic operations -- to an investor group led
by Susie Tompkins, his wife.
   Esprit, one of the nation's largest apparel makers, had
been up for sale last year, after the couple's differences
became so intractable that they ceded operating control. The
settlement will allow Esprit to "stay within the family" yet
finally speak with "a single, unified voice," said Corrado
Federico, the chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is a solution, not a victory," said Mrs. Tompkins,
who now has design and operational control as creative
director. "We have buried the hatchet," she said.
   It's an ending that also firmly ejects Mr. Tompkins from
the controls. The roles are greatly reversed from only a few
years earlier when, over Christmas 1986, Mr. Tompkins came
close to firing Mrs. Tompkins over the telephone, while she
was on a business trip in Hong Kong.
   But company officials said that this round of the couple's
war has been negotiated quickly and with few rancorous
displays on either side. "There was surprising little
haggling," said Isaac Stein, an Esprit director. "He {Mr.
Tompkins} decided this week, and three to four days later,
the papers were signed."
   Esprit officers would not disclose the value of the deal,
except to say that it was a cash transaction. (The company
was reportedly appraised at about $380 million.) Mr.
Tompkins, who is leaving the company to pursue "environmental
interests," will retain control of Esprit Italy -- a unit
that includes operations in Spain, France and Italy -- and
will keep his shares in various other international
affiliates.
   "The prospect of devoting my entire energy to social,
political and environmental issues is a beckoning and
tantalizing idea," Mr. Tompkins said. Apart from Mrs.
Tompkins taking over her husband's post, the management of
the company will not change, company officials said. Mr.
Federico will remain chief executive -- he was originally
appointed to that post in 1988 to resolve a court battle
between the warring couple.
   Esprit's product line is expected to see some changes over
time. Mrs. Tompkins plans to realize a long-sought goal to
develop clothing for older, professional women. And Mr.
Federico said the company is considering expanding into
infant wear and boy's clothes.
   As part of the deal, Esprit will also create an Employee
Stock Ownership Plan. Mrs. Tompkins said she would lend $10
million to fund the plan.
   The investor group led by Mrs. Tompkins includes Mr.
Stein, an Esprit director since 1988 and president of
Waverley Associates, a private investment firm in Palo Alto,
Calif.; Michael Ying, an Esprit director since 1989 and
chairman of the Esprit Far East Group; and Bruce Katz,
founder of the Rockport Shoe Co. and Rosewood Stone Group, a
private investment firm in San Francisco.
   The announcement comes at a time when Esprit's financial
picture and internal climate is finally starting to improve
from the turmoil that descended in 1986 -- with the company's
first losing quarter, a bout of layoffs, austerity measures,
and a management shakeup. This fiscal year just ended, Esprit
enjoyed its highest sales ever, company officials reported.
   The company's sales went flat in 1986, after Esprit failed
to accommodate a fashion shift to more sedate, traditional
styles. Mrs. Tompkins's repeated efforts to re-tailor the
Esprit look to please older, career-oriented women were
thwarted by Mr. Tompkins, who believed Esprit stood for
youthful sexuality.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   `Angels' Find Financing Start-Ups Isn't So Heavenly
   ---
   Firms Need the Investors, Who Often
   Are Unaware of the Frustrations Ahead
   ----
   By Monua Janah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   When engineer Gerry Schwartz sought money to start a
business several years ago, luck was with him: He found some
angels.
   But later -- as his company failed -- he learned that
finding a moneybags who thinks your company has a wonderful
future can turn into a mixed blessing. Often neither
entrepreneur nor investor fully realizes the frustrations
ahead. Both sides end up sadder and wiser -- and poorer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet companies depend more than ever on angels, as
individual investors -- usually wealthy ones -- are called.
For all the attention paid to venture-capital firms, private
investors back more than 30,000 start-up companies a year,
while venture funds back only about 2,000, says William E.
Wetzel, professor of management at the University of New
Hampshire.
   Angels have become even more important now that
venture-capital funds have turned cautious. Shying away from
start-ups, the funds increasingly focus on financing
companies at later stages of development. And angels are
becoming more visible now; several organizations, such as
Venture Capital Network, Durham, N.H., have emerged to put
entrepreneurs in touch with individual investors.
   Some angels -- often those who were entrepreneurs
themselves -- know as much about starting a company as
venture-fund managers who make their living financing
start-ups. But many angels don't anticipate the amount of
time and money it takes to build a company, says Prof.
Wetzel.
   A typical disappointed angel is Gus Owen, a Southern
California real estate developer, who backed two of Mr.
Schwartz's ideas. Mr. Schwartz started his first company,
Voice Prints Inc., a Newport Beach, Calif., maker of
voice-recognition systems, with about $500,000 raised from
Mr. Owen and other investors.
   Mr. Schwartz enjoyed a flying start, landing big contracts
with McDonald's Corp. and Amway Corp. The company even went
public. But developing the complex voice-recognition
equipment, which was used, for example, to order at drive-in
restaurants, "took longer than we thought, and we'd try to
make it up in volume and get behind in everything," Mr.
Schwartz says. The original investors declined to invest more
cash. And no institutional investor would come to the rescue.
In 1988, the company closed its doors.
   Since then, Mr. Owen invested $300,000 over 14 months in a
second company started by Mr. Schwartz, Voice Command &amp;
Control Inc. This San Clemente, Calif., concern makes
voice-verification software rather than the entire system.
   After no return on his investment, Mr. Owen decided
against investing any more money. "We did not have the
experience to invest in high-tech companies, and it was
obvious to us after a period of time that we were out of our
league," he says. "I have finally realized that's it's best
for me to stay in real estate."
   (However, Mr. Schwartz found another angel -- Pat
Anderson, an employee in the real estate company owned by Mr.
Owen's wife -- who helped VCCI to stay alive.)
   Another problem is that entrepreneurs often need guidance
from investors as well as cash. Unlike venture capitalists,
who may have worked with start-ups for years, inexperienced
angels often can't help.
   James M. Kormos, president of American Health Products
Inc., says the Orange, Calif., firm raised $8 million from
private investors. But in eight years of operation, it didn't
show a profit until last April.
   Among other problems, the product -- a wireless,
light-weight monitor that tells when the wearer stops
breathing -- was redesigned to obtain health regulators'
approval. Originally intended for use only on infants, it was
modified for adult hospital patients as well. Besides, the
company was the target of an abortive takeover attempt last
year that halted business.
   The company resumed operations last January. But Mr.
Kormos thinks he missed out by not having a venture fund
behind him. "Venture funds are in tune with the specific
markets that they invest in. They would have understood the
gestation period required for this type of product, probably
better then we did."
   To be sure, seasoned angels know what to expect. If
investors "are going to get in, they have to sit around and
be prepared to double or triple what they put in and ride the
company through tough times," says Henry M. Morgan, who runs
Innovative Capital Partners a Waltham, Mass., company that
raises private capital.
   Given the commitment frequently required, some think that
angels should simply steer clear of capital-intensive
businesses. "Can companies that need an ongoing capital
infusion really depend on individuals? My answer is, probably
not," says Jeffrey P. Parker, an entrepreneur who's now an
angel himself. He recommends that angels invest in companies
that can quickly turn out a product.
   In 1980, Mr. Parker launched Technical Data Corp. -- which
published an electronic commentary on the government bond
markets -- with $100,000 raised from 15 individuals in
exchange for a 10% stake. When the company was sold in 1986,
the angels made a profit of more than $20 for every dollar
invested, Mr. Parker says.
   But his second venture, started in 1982, was a
cash-guzzler. And the company, Business Research Corp. of
Boston, encountered a problem common to companies financed by
angels that later turn to venture-capital funds for
financing.
   To keep going, the company "needed money every two
months," Mr. Parker says. But when the company tapped venture
capitalists, it found they placed a lower value on the
concern than the original backers had.
   Angels often "overprice the deal," when they first come
in, says the University of New Hampshire's Mr. Wetzel. "So,
when a venture-capital firm does come in, there may be some
disgruntled early-stage investors who find that the venture
capitalists don't price the company as highly as they did.
Moreover, there's some dilution of their capital."
   One way an entrepreneur can avoid a nasty shock in
later-stage financings is to play it safe the first time and
avoid "pie-in-the-sky" valuation, Mr. Parker says. And
investors can take hope from the fact that if the company
flourishes, so will its valuation. "If you've done it often
enough, you know that you have to ride the valuation back
up," says Mr. Morgan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   Two Shows That Didn't Deserve the Ax
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   This is an interesting time of year in TV-land, a time
when armchair executives get to examine -- and scoff at --
the choices the networks have made for the fall season.
Although there weren't any shocking errors this year, like a
cancellation of "Twin Peaks," the lesson of "Peaks" has yet
to be understood. Programmers still don't quite believe that
they can, that they must, dare to be experimental, even
wacky. (Perhaps the lone exception is ABC's "Cop Rock," half
police story, half opera.)
   In the meantime, two fine hour-long dramas, "Equal
Justice" (ABC) and "Shannon's Deal" (NBC), have not made the
fall schedule. "Justice" (still airing Wednesdays at 10 p.m.
EDT) is the other side of "L.A. Law," the prosecutors' side.
Set in a big-city D.A.'s office, the show has "Law's" large
cast and revolving story lines, but a much grittier flavor
(more like "Hill Street Blues").
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Co-created by its executive producer, Thomas Carter,
"Justice" may lack "L.A. Law's" sense of oddball fun, but the
subject it portrays is grimmer. These are not high-gloss,
high-roller clients, but junkies, muggers and cheap rip-off
artists -- the everyday dross of a legal system that's so
overburdened it creaks. "It's a revolving toilet," says one
character. "Flush 'em down, they come right back up."
   If "Equal Justice" is harsh, it's certainly more in touch
with reality than most shows on TV. "Justice" is unafraid to
kill off the girlfriend of a main character in an early
episode, unafraid to feature a junkie struggling with
addiction. The characters are richly, fully drawn -- young
assistant district attorneys who signed on for idealistic
reasons but now are stuck trudging through the garbage: "One
day I was studying the Constitution, the next I was
prosecuting rapists."
   This is a world of compromises, a world in which the ends
are always justifying the means. All sorts of dubious deals
are struck as the ADAs fight to put people away, and climb
over each other on the way to the top: "We all gotta crawl
sometimes," says one. "It toughens the knees." In the
black-and-white world of television, "Justice" is a study in
gray.
   "Shannon's Deal" (reruns may air this summer) is perhaps a
step closer to run-of-the-mill TV fare -- a down-and-out
lawyer takes on various cases that come his way. But, as
created by John Sayles, this series stands out because of
top-grade writing. Shannon is a reformed gambler; his "deal"
is that he's lost his money, his high-paying corporate job,
and his wife. He's starting over with a wonderful secretary
he can't afford to pay, and cheesy clients who say things
like, "He made a move on me and I greased him." "I wouldn't
say `greased' in court," says Shannon. "It doesn't convey
your deep sense of remorse over the tragic incident."
   One especially well-crafted installment was "Words to
Music," guest-starring the real-life singers Iggy Pop, Tanya
Tucker and David Crosby. A young country songwriter's lyrics
get stolen, and Shannon plunges headlong into the world of
music. The writers have a blast, taking swipes at everything
from punk rock (a ballad called "Search and Destroy") to
country ("the only kind of music where trucks and trucking
play a major role").
   Both "Shannon's Deal" and "Equal Justice" display the kind
of intelligence infrequently seen on TV. And both are being
relegated to backup status, only to be resuscitated if other
shows falter.
   What are these other shows? What are the exciting series
that will air instead? We'll only be able to see them in the
fall, but here's a cross-section of what lies ahead from the
three networks, as described in their own press releases.
Remember, these shows were approved by real network
executives:
   "`America's Funniest ... Part II,' in which the producers
of the original hit series go out to capture the rest of
what's funny about America."
   "`Married People,' about three generations of couples --
newlyweds, baby boomers and `longweds' -- who share a New
York brownstone and learn a lot about love and marriage from
each other."
   "`Baby Talk,' based on the hit movie `Look Who's Talking'
and starring Connie Selleca as a young, single mother
determined to raise her baby son while trying to find him a
perfect father. The baby's thoughts are expressed through the
voice of Tony Danza."
   "`Going Places,' {which} tells of four talented and
energetic young people who move to Los Angeles to work on
their first TV show."
   "`Hull Street High': This musical comedy follows the
unpredictable events at Cordell Hull Street High School. . .
. Music lurks around every corner and there's no telling what
pandemonium might break loose."
   "`Four Alarm Family' . . . a half-hour comedy about a
widower who finds raising his kids a full-time job.
   "Unfortunately, he's already got one . . . as captain of
the local firehouse. And that's a good thing, because with
four kids, it's always a four-alarmer at his house."
   "`The Hogan Family' . . . a family that thrives on the
love, support and humor that comes from being together."
   "`The Hammersmiths' is a comedic and poignant one-hour
drama {about} a large, boisterous family who share a great
sense of humor and an ability to snap back from life's
tragedies. But that aside, they're as different as can be,
with ongoing clashes of style, interests, attitudes and
priorities which only their deep love for each other can
overcome."
   "`The Green Machine' . . . is a one-hour drama about a
diverse group of top-notch professionals who have been
specially selected to fight against threats to the world's
ecological balance."
   No wonder "Equal Justice" and "Shannon's Deal" didn't
stand a chance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hiring Plans Remain
   Modest, Says Survey
   By Manpower Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7D
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILWAUKEE -- Hiring plans by U.S. employers continue to be
modest, although activity in the Midwest and Southwest is
stronger than elsewhere, according to a Manpower Inc. survey.
   The employment services concern said its latest quarterly
survey of 15,000 companies found that 27% plan to enlarge
their work forces in the third quarter, while 8% plan
reductions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The figures are the weakest for any third quarter since
1986, Manpower said. They are barely more positive than the
results for the second quarter, when 26% of the employers
anticipated hiring and 8% foresaw reductions.
   The survey found big differences in the outlook from
region to region. "The current employment outlook really
depends on where you live," said Mitchell S. Fromstein,
Manpower's president.
   Activity appears strong in the Midwest and Southwest, he
said, but there is "a very visible weakness" in the
Northeast, where only 21% of companies polled expect to
increase hiring and 10% plan cuts. The comparable figures
were 29% and 7% in the 1989 third quarter. In the Midwest and
West, hiring projections are ahead of second-quarter levels
and only marginally below last year's.
   Industries with the most active hiring plans are in the
construction and services groups, where activity is
traditionally brisk in the summer, and in the wholesale and
retail trades, which have recovered some of the strength they
lost in the second quarter.
   Manufacturing shows further softness, meanwhile, and the
finance, insurance and real estate sector continues to slow
down. That sector has been showing a year-by-year
deterioration in hiring plans since 1986. For the coming
three months, only 19% of those companies expect to add
staff, the lowest figure since early 1983, while 8% plan
cutbacks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900604-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900604-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush's Hopes of Resolving Issues of Arms Control,
   German Unity Remain Stalled Following Summit
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg and Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush emerged from the latest
superpower summit with his foreign policy stalled by Mikhail
Gorbachev's unwillingness or inability to compromise on
German unification and Europe's future.
   The meager results of the four days of talks raise serious
questions about whether the U.S. and Soviet presidents can
meet the historic goals they set in December at Malta: to
sign two major arms-control pacts and settle Germany's future
in a series of meetings scheduled for the rest of this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The disappointing outcome leaves in doubt whether Mr. Bush
will be able to fulfill his top foreign policy objective,
which is to lock in these sweeping agreements remaking the
face of Europe on Western terms while Mr. Gorbachev remains
powerful enough to conclude them.
   Despite Mr. Gorbachev's public protests to the contrary,
it seemed clear during the summit that he is worried about a
challenge to his power from maverick Russian leader Boris
Yeltsin and uncertain how to deal with the demand by tiny
Lithuania for independence from the U.S.S.R. He complained
about both in bitter terms during meetings with U.S.
officials, who were dismayed by his new rigidity.
   "I think the summit was a triumph for Gorbachev," said
Richard Perle, the Pentagon's top strategist during the
Reagan administration. "He came here weak, managed to appear
strong, collected concessions on arms control and trade, and
gave up nothing."
   Rep. Lee Hamilton of Indiana, a leading Congressional
Democrat on foreign affairs, termed the summit a success for
improving the tone of superpower relations, but conceded that
"the two big issues there are still there. I didn't see any
discernible movement" on Germany or Lithuania.
   One of the administration's top foreign policy officials
said after the summit that "I don't think things have
advanced very much, certainly not in any substantive sense.
Our impression is that Gorbachev still hasn't come to terms
with the changes in Germany and Europe and they still don't
have specific positions."
   Mr. Bush and his aides put a brave face on the meeting,
heaping lavish public praise on Mr. Gorbachev, whose
popularity has been sinking at home. Both men stressed they
had grown closer personally. The U.S. president tried to
boost Mr. Gorbachev's standing by signing a trade agreement
the Soviet leader repeatedly pleaded for as a political
symbol. Moreover, Mr. Bush suggested that his decision on
whether to send the trade pact to Congress for approval won't
be linked to Mr. Gorbachev ending his economic embargo on
Lithuania, but only to passage of a new Soviet emigration
law.
   Yet the Soviet leader refused to budge on the U.S. demand
that a united Germany be a full member of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization and that a conventional arms pact be
signed to formally seal the Red Army's retreat from Eastern
Europe.
   "I'm not sure we narrowed" differences over Germany, Mr.
Bush said at the concluding news conference, at which both
leaders spoke.
   U.S. officials saw glimmers of hope in two stands Mr.
Gorbachev took in private talks on Germany. In one meeting
the Soviet leader said he agreed in principle with Mr. Bush
that the German people have the right to pick their
alliances. Such a Soviet position could clear the way for a
vote by Germans to join NATO.
   But Mr. Gorbachev didn't explain in subsequent meetings
what he meant, Bush administration aides said, and the U.S.
isn't sure how meaningful his remarks were. He pointedly
avoided repeating them at the closing news conference. Some
U.S. officials think he simply blundered and was straightened
out later by his staff.
   Mr. Gorbachev also suggested overcoming the German impasse
by having NATO and the Warsaw Pact, the East bloc military
alliance, meet to solve the issue. But the proposal was
vague, and U.S. officials aren't sure how it would work.
   Offsetting those vague glimmers of hope, Mr. Gorbachev
seemed at yesterday's press conference to toughen his stands
on three key matters:
   -- On Germany and NATO, the Soviet leader issued a vague
threat that if a united Germany were to enter the Western
alliance, the U.S.S.R. would review its recent military
cutbacks and arms control concessions. "Then we should go
back and see where we are," he said. "What's happening to our
security? What should we be doing with our armed forces,
which we are both reforming and reducing?"
   -- On Lithuania, Mr. Gorbachev asserted that it could take
as long as seven years to negotiate the Baltic republic's
secession, instead of the two to three years he'd recently
suggested.
   -- On emigration by Soviet Jews, he threatened to slow or
halt the issuance of exit permits unless Israel stopped
settling the emigrants in occupied Arab territory. "Either .
. . our concern will be heeded in Israel and they will make
certain conclusions. Or else we must give further thought to
it in terms of what we can do with issuing permits for exit."
   Mr. Gorbachev's comments on Jewish emigration are likely
to further fuel an emotional debate about Mr. Bush's decision
to sign a trade agreement with the Soviet Union at the
summit. Mr. Bush had entered the summit uncertain about
whether he would agree to sign it, both because the Soviet
legislature still hasn't passed a new emigration law required
before the Soviets can receive most-favored nation trade
status, and because of unhappiness over Lithuania.
   But in the end, Mr. Gorbachev won American approval of a
trade agreement, partly by making unusually intense personal
appeals directly to President Bush. He urged completion of
the trade pact three separate times in his private meetings
with Mr. Bush, administration officials said. At the same
time, lower-ranking Soviet officials were suggesting that if
Mr. Gorbachev didn't get the trade agreement he wanted, he
wouldn't sign a five-year agreement to buy millions of tons
of grain from the U.S., a sale that politically potent
American farmers badly want.
   The combination of Mr. Gorbachev's appeals and the threat
against a grain deal convinced Bush aides that Mr. Gorbachev
needed the political boost of the trade agreement more than
they suspected.
   Just before the deal was signed, Secretary of State James
Baker bluntly told Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze that the trade pact could be challenged by
American lawmakers unless Mr. Gorbachev lifts his economic
embargo against Lithuania and opens serious negotiations with
the breakaway republic. Despite such warnings, Mr. Bush
acknowledged yesterday that the U.S. hasn't received any
"assurances" from Mr. Gorbachev that the embargo will be
lifted. But administration officials said the president came
away from a long, private talk with Mr. Gorbachev reassured
that the Soviet leader will try to find a politically
palatable way out of the Lithuania deadlock.
   Still, American conservatives will be incensed by Mr.
Bush's decision to sign the trade deal without winning in
return any guarantees that Lithuania will receive its
freedom. They will be further angered by Mr. Bush's
indication that he won't link the situation in Lithuania to
his eventual decision about sending the trade deal to
Congress for approval.
   The American right also is likely to gripe that Mr.
Gorbachev gave up too little on arms control. The meeting had
been billed as an "arms control" summit at which it would be
announced that the major issues in long-range nuclear missile
talks, called START, were settled. There also were
predictions of major progress on conventional arms talks,
which are really an exercise aimed at legally affirming the
Soviet retreat from Eastern Europe.
   But even the summit's progress in arms control was less
than expected. To be sure, the two presidents did sign
treaties curbing chemical weapons and nuclear arms testing.
They also issued a statement listing agreements on a START
treaty. But three of the four major START issues unresolved
at the summit's outset were still hanging when the meeting
ended. Two of these -- limits on tests of heavy missiles and
on the Soviet Backfire bomber -- are considered critical by
American conservatives, who fear the U.S. will wind up giving
the Soviets too much leeway.
   The conventional forces talks moved ahead slightly during
the summit. The two sides apparently agreed on a definition
of what constitutes a tank and made progress on the issue of
destroying excess weapons.
   But the Soviets are indicating that their willingness to
reduce their traditional edge in conventional arms depends on
the outcome of the dispute over Germany. Moscow can't flatly
block German unification unless it unleashes its 380,000
troops in East Germany to stop it by force, something the
U.S. hardly expects. But Mr. Gorbachev can deny the new
Germany full sovereignty and freedom in its probable capital,
Berlin, by refusing to relinquish rights over Germany the
U.S.S.R. acquired as a World War II victor. And he can refuse
to set a firm date for withdrawing Soviet forces from East
German territory.
   To try to calm Soviet fears about Germany in NATO, Mr.
Bush trotted out nine uncontroversial American ideas, such as
ensuring that Germany not build nuclear weapons, and
presented them as a package. But the U.S. effort to give Mr.
Gorbachev a political fig leaf for losing Eastern Europe
seemed to fail, at least for now.
   One reason may be that Moscow, in its separate direct
talks with West Germany, is trying to extract a large
economic and political price for Soviet acquiescence in
unification. Any early agreement by the Soviets could lower
the ultimate price Bonn would pay.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
