<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Stotler Collapse Indicates Futures Funds' Growth
   Has Outpaced Their Regulation, Analysts Say
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   SG
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The amount of money invested in managed futures
funds has skyrocketed over the past decade, but regulation of
these funds hasn't kept pace.
   An estimated $12 billion is invested in managed futures
funds, which are pools of professionally managed capital
invested in futures markets, compared with $500 million in
1980, according to Managed Account Reports, Columbia, Md.,
which tracks the performance of managed futures fund
operators. Investments in such funds are now actively sold
through several major brokerage concerns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But such funds need far more oversight than they're
currently getting, many regulators say. Just how long and
ineffective the regulatory leash is was brought to light by
the collapse of Stotler Funds Inc. this month amid regulatory
charges of fraud and misuse of customer funds.
   A routine audit of Stotler Funds' financial statements
three months ago by regulators revealed a questionable
transfer of about $5.5 million in customer money that formed
the basis for the fraud charges by regulators. But no action
was taken against the funds unit until after its
cash-strapped parent, Stotler Group Inc., defaulted on
commercial paper payments to one of the funds and other
lenders July 26. At that point Stotler Funds halted customer
redemptions from the fund.
   The default might have been prevented, and no customer
money would have been imperiled, if regulators had forced
Stotler Funds to unwind the $5.5 million transfer when it was
discovered, futures industry officials said.
   Stotler Funds hasn't said how much, if any, of the $5.5
million is recoverable. Regulators declined to comment on the
status of the funds.
   In the wake of Stotler Funds' collapse, "we need to
explore the need for additional regulations on intracompany
transactions," said Daniel Roth, general counsel of the
National Futures Association, the industry-funded regulator
that audited the Stotler funds. The NFA audits financial
statements from all publicly offered managed futures funds.
   Last Tuesday, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
the Securities and Exchange Commission charged Stotler
Group's defunct brokerage unit, Stotler &amp; Co., in
administrative proceedings with, among other things, failing
to maintain sufficient capital since December. Those actions
follow CFTC charges July 31 that Stotler Funds violated
anti-fraud laws by effectively loaning $5.5 million to
Stotler Group from money that it told customers would be
invested in the futures markets.
   This month, Stotler Group was forced into involuntary
bankruptcy-law proceedings by certain of the funds from which
the $5.5 million was borrowed. Further regulatory action
against the company and possibly its officers is expected.
   The CFTC is the federal futures industry regulator. The
SEC had oversight responsibility for Stotler &amp; Co.'s
government securities activities.
   Regulators and futures industry officials said it is
impossible to know how widespread such possibly fraudulent
mishandling of customer money by futures fund mangers is
without more regulatory scrutiny. "Typically, you don't find
out about these things until they explode," said Morton
Baratz, editor of Managed Account Reports.
   Lawrence Hite, a partner with Mint Investment Management
in New York, said Mint and most management companies maintain
internal auditing controls that are designed to prevent
fraudulent handling of customer funds. But these controls are
only as reliable as the management company's officials.
   ELM Financial Inc. in Dallas was the trading adviser to
one of the Stotler funds. ELM invested the fund's money in
the futures markets, but it didn't know of the commercial
paper purchase until the day of the default, according to
ELM's founder, Ed Miller. Mr. Miller said he never received a
copy of the fund's audited financial report that noted the
commercial paper transaction. He said he resigned as adviser
to Stotler's Compass Futures Fund 10 minutes after learning
of the commercial paper transaction from Stotler Funds'
president, Thomas Kolter.
   Troubles engulfing the Stotler companies reached to the
top of the Chicago Board of Trade this month, when its
chairman, Karsten "Cash" Mahlmann, suddenly resigned as the
exchange's top elected official. Mr. Mahlmann also resigned
as chairman of Stotler Group and its collapsed futures
brokerage subsidiary, Stotler &amp; Co.
   In a letter to CBOT members, Mr. Mahlmann said he didn't
know about the problems at Stotler Funds. If he had, "I would
not have condoned them, and I would have taken action to
reverse them," he told the members. Mr. Mahlmann didn't
return calls seeking comment.
   In its complaint against Stotler Funds, the CFTC charged
the unit with fraudulently misusing money from hundreds of
investors in two commodity funds -- Compass Futures Funds and
Advanced Portfolio Management L.P. The federal futures
industry regulator charged that Stotler Funds late last year
fraudulently loaned $5.5 million from the two funds that was
earmarked for investment in the futures markets to Stotler
Group.
   When the National Futures Association queried Stotler
Funds about the loans in May, the association said the loans
"may be in violation of the pools' respective disclosure
documents." The Compass funds disclosure document
"specifically disallows such lending," the association said.
   Mr. Kolter, Stotler Funds' president, responded the
following week by telling the association that investors were
aware of the transactions. Investors in Compass Futures Fund
had been told of the loan to Stotler Group in a note in the
fund's annual report, which was audited by accountants
Coopers &amp; Lybrand, Mr. Kolter said. The National Futures
Association received the audited report for 1989 in late
March of this year.
   Mr. Kolter didn't return calls seeking comment.
   A senior NFA official insisted that the regulator didn't
drop its investigation of Stotler because of Mr. Kolter's
letter. "But we did put it on the back burner" because of the
Coopers &amp; Lybrand imprimatur, he said. A Coopers &amp; Lybrand
spokesman declined to comment on the audit of the Stotler
funds.
   After failing to secure an emergency cash infusion of $10
million in late July, Stotler Group defaulted on $750,000 in
commercial paper payments, $260,000 of which is owed Compass
Futures Fund. Compass loaned a total of about $4.5 million to
Stotler Group via the purchase of its commercial paper.
Advanced Portfolio Management loaned Stotler Group $1 million
in the form of a demand note.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Gold
                                                                                                       

   The rally triggered by the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait
sparked a global wave of forward selling by producers that
has stifled price advances. But that selling may have peaked.
   "Before the crisis began, Australia, for example, had
already sold about 60% of its production for two years ahead
at an average price of 600 Australian dollars (then about
US$460) an ounce," says Don Mackay-Coghill, chief executive
officer of Gold Corp. of Australia, a government-owned
concern that sells Australia's legal-tender precious metal
coins. "When you consider that it cost between A$300 and
A$350 (an ounce) to mine the gold, producers were very happy
with the profit."
   Producers in the Soviet Union, South Africa and even the
U.S. sold gold this way when the price rose above $400 an
ounce, Mr. Mackay-Coghill says. As a result, he says, gold
prices have advanced about 20% during the recent rally and
the market has absorbed tremendous selling without breaking.
   The conventional wisdom now holds that if there is a
diplomatic settlement of the Mideast crisis, gold will drop
sharply, perhaps to around $350, Mr. Mackay-Coghill says.
However, "I don't agree," he says. "I think the decline will
amount to $15 to $20 or to $25 at the most."
   The sharp rise in oil prices that is just starting to work
its way through world economies will have an inflationary
impact that will create a strong underpinning for gold
prices, he says.
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Grain futures prices, inflated by concern about the
numerous ways higher petroleum prices will hurt farmers, may
drift downward this week if the Mideast crisis remains
stalemated, analysts said. The correction is not likely to be
sharp, however, because fundamentals in soybeans, corn and
wheat remain strong.
   Weather in the Mississippi valley growing region has been
hot and dry throughout August, and farmers in Brazil are
suffering from a host of financial problems. Demand,
meanwhile, remains strong for soybeans and other grains.
   Last week, "a lot of people were talking about making war,
and the markets reacted accordingly," said Daniel Basse,
director of market research for Ag-Resource Co., Chicago.
This week the markets are likely to remain focused on the
Mideast, and if it remains relatively quiet, prices may ease.
                                                                                                       

   Cocoa
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices boomed Friday, with the December contract
ending $158 a metric ton higher at $1,381. But the rally
isn't expected to continue this week.
   According to analysts, there were no new fundamental
developments to account for the strong buying. Demand
developed in London early in the day as traders bought
contracts because that market will be closed for a holiday
today.
   The New York market was described by one analyst as
speculative and technical. Buying by traders who had sold
short in anticipation of falling prices caused the December
contract to rally above $1,250 and then $1,300, two key
resistance levels. At those points, a large number of buy
orders were activated, pushing prices even higher.
   However, one analyst said, "In the absence of fresh
fundamental factors, I don't think the rally can continue for
more than a day or two at the most."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Promus Cos.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PRI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PROMUS Cos. (Memphis) -- Charles A. Ledsinger Jr.,
formerly vice president and treasurer of this hotel and
casino company, was named senior vice president and chief
financial officer. He succeeds Stephen F. Bollenbach, who
left recently to become the chief financial officer of the
Trump Organization.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Bargain Hunters Go On Shopping Spree
   Buying Up Undervalued, Growth Stocks
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   WPO GCI TMC FRE SLM CHRS FLE LTR NYTA MO KO GE MC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   When the going gets tough, the tough go shopping.
   The stock market's tough guys nowadays are the "value"
investors, who seek out undervalued stocks. They lagged the
rising stock market for 19 months, arguing that nearly every
stock was fairly priced at best or outrageously overvalued at
worst. But with the Dow Jones Industrial Average down 15% in
little more than a month, the market's bargain basement is
back in business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Value investors were bottom-fishing all last week, but on
Friday they dominated the action, pushing the Dow industrials
up 49.50 points to 2532.92 following a 173-point sinking
spell during the preceding three days.
   "If you can't find bargains in this environment, you
aren't trying," says value investor Donald Yacktman. On
Friday, Mr. Yacktman bought stocks for himself and for some
private accounts he manages, but he didn't do any buying for
the $360 million mutual fund he runs, Selected American
Shares. "I couldn't," he says. "I didn't have any money to
buy with" because he already had invested most of it. "I'm
down to about one tenth of 1% in cash."
   "It's kind of like revenge of the nerds," says Kurt
Brouwer, an investment adviser with San Francisco's Brouwer &amp;
Janachowski Inc. "The boring guys who were buying undervalued
companies weren't doing well in the booming market. Now
they're starting to do well relative to the market."
   That's a turnaround from a month ago, when growth-stock
pickers were flying high. "The growth guys had a wonderful
time in the second quarter," says Andrew Massie, manager of
$70 million Counsellors Capital Appreciation, a no-load fund
that invests in medium-sized growth companies. "Now they're
being taken out and shot, one by one."
   Value investors generally keep their eyes glued to
corporate balance sheets, hunting for undervalued real
estate, overfunded pension funds, understated inventories and
brand names that are carried on the books for a fraction of
their real worth. They tend to prefer low-debt companies that
generate more cash than is needed to keep their businesses
running.
   Growth-stock pickers, on the other hand, look for firms
with rapidly growing earnings, and frequently don't mind if
the company has to borrow money to finance that growth.
Growth stocks often perform best when the future seems
brightest. Now, of course, the future seems anything but
bright.
   "For most stock market investors, we're driven by
fundamentals," says Mr. Massie, "Now, we're driven by
politics, by fear, by the Middle East. That's what's driving
prices."
   Adds Mr. Massie, "Most of the people investing today
haven't seen a stock market faced with war. What's happened
in the last six weeks? We've had a few bad economic
indicators. So what's driven the market down 500 points? It's
fear of war."
   The Middle East crisis has battered virtually all stock
mutual funds, but growth-stock funds have been hit
particularly hard. According to Lipper Analytical Services of
New York, the average stock fund is down 15.9% since the
market peak of mid-July. But many top growth funds have been
hit much harder than that. Twentieth Century Growth is down
22.6% since the market peak, and the Pasadena Growth Fund is
off 25.2%.
   The Mideast situation bashed growth stocks badly because
of general uncertainty and specific concern about the economy
going into recession, which would eviscerate already-lean
corporate profits. That's a deadly condition for growth
stocks, which investors buy in expectation of rapidly rising
profits.
   But growth stocks have also been hit by the recent jump in
interest rates. "Growth stocks -- more than any other type of
stock -- are affected by rapidly rising interest rates,"
points out value investor William Miller, who runs Legg Mason
Special Investment Trust. As bond yields spike upward, it
makes less sense to pay a premium price for corporate
earnings that won't materialize for two or three years, if
then.
   "The uncertainty caused by recession or inflation or fear
of war makes your comfort level with future earnings go down
at the same time that your discount rate goes up," says value
investor Richard Fontaine, manager of Baltimore's Fontaine
Capital Appreciation Fund. "It's a double whammy."
   Growth-stock picker Stephen Poling, the chief investment
officer at AMEV Advisers, isn't worried about earnings for
the stocks he owns. "The earnings of our companies are doing
very well," says Mr. Poling. "That's what growth stocks are
meant to do. The problem is not the earnings, but rather what
investors will pay for earnings."
   Some growth-stock managers have raised huge quantities of
cash. Brandywine Fund now has 64% of its assets in cash, and
Janus Fund has 75% cash. This month, Mr. Poling and Mr.
Massie haven't done much selling, but they haven't done any
buying, either.
   "We're not going to be buying aggressively until we see
what happens in the Middle East," says Mr. Massie. "I think
the odds are greater than 50% that we'll have a war. I hope
I'm wrong."
   Many value investors, meanwhile, are piling back into the
stock market. "I feel totally comfortable being 100% invested
these days," says Mr. Yacktman of Selected American Shares.
"People probably think I'm nuts." Mr. Yacktman has been
loading up on newspaper stocks, such as Washington Post,
Gannett and Times Mirror, as well as two government-sponsored
finance agencies, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. and
Student Loan Marketing Association.
   Why are value investors charging in where growth-stock
pickers fear to tread? "Bonds got cheaper, but stocks got
even cheaper," notes Donald Schmidt, manager of Bartlett
Capital Basic Value. "If something is good value, if you can
buy something with demonstrable earning power, and you can
buy it at five times earnings, that sure seems more
attractive to me than money-market instruments. The important
question is, why is something cheap? If it's cheap because
people are dumping stocks, that sure doesn't seem like a good
reason."
   Many value-oriented fund managers headed into August
holding a bundle of cash, but few were as bearish as Mr.
Fontaine. He went into July with 65% of his fund in cash,
hiking his cash hoard to 90% by early August.
   Mr. Fontaine uses the price-to-book value of Standard &amp;
Poor's 400-stock index to judge whether the market is
overvalued. In July, it hit 2.8 times book value, higher even
than 1987. "That's well past what I consider reasonable,"
says Mr. Fontaine, who also managed to avoid the October 1987
carnage. At that time, he was just 22% invested in stocks.
   Mr. Fontaine is starting to buy, and his fund is now 30%
invested. He has been nibbling at such stocks as Charming
Shoppes, Fleetwood Enterprises, Loews and New York Times. All
have taken a beating in the recent sell-off. But Mr. Fontaine
thinks many stock still have further to fall.
   "You'd be a fool to be buying the stocks that held up like
Philip Morris, Coca-Cola, the oil stocks in general, the
drugs, some of the bio-tech stocks that have held up, General
Electric," says Mr. Fontaine. "These are good companies, but
they're not reflecting the fact that the world has changed,
that we're going into a recession and that we're going to
have higher inflation. I think the market is headed down to
the low 2000 range."
   Earlier this month, value investor Peter Cundill was over
50% in cash, largely Canadian Treasury bills. "Back in
mid-July, I was feeling very blue, the growth stocks were
going up and I was sitting on all this cash," says Mr.
Cundill, who runs a top-performing Canadian mutual fund, the
Cundill Value Fund.
   Now Mr. Cundill is putting that cash to work. He boasts,
"I just bought my first Japanese stock in five years":
Matsushita Electric Industrial, the giant consumer
electronics firm.
                                                                                                       

   Friday's Market Activity

   The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 49.50 points in
active trading to close at 2532.92, trimming the loss for the
week to 111.88, or 4.2%. That was the average's worst weekly
performance since October, resulting from heightening
tensions in the Mideast and soaring oil prices.
   Traders said some of the strength Friday came from short
sellers buying stocks to replace those they had borrowed and
sold in anticipation of price declines, coupled with some
bargain-hunting. But the strength wasn't enough to erase all
the hefty losses posted throughout the week.
   Broader market measures also posted gains Friday. Standard
&amp; Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.45 to 311.51; the New York
Stock Exchange composite index added 2.17 to 171.05, and the
Dow Jones Equity Market Index climbed 4.41 to 288.54. All
three were off about 5% for the week. On the Big Board,
volume was 199 million shares and advancers led decliners,
956 to 649. The market has now fallen for six consecutive
weeks.
   Despite the rally Friday in most share prices, stocks of
some of the major oil companies followed crude oil prices
lower. The October contract for crude oil fell $1.02 on the
New York Mercantile Exchange to $30.91 a barrel.
   Chevron lost 1 3/8 to 74 1/4; Amoco dropped 1 3/4 to 54;
Royal Dutch Petroleum declined 1 3/8 to 78 3/4, and Exxon
fell 3/4 to 48 7/8. Texaco added 3/8 to 60 1/2.
   Federal National Mortgage Association surged 2 3/8 to 29,
while the association's warrants rose 2 3/8 to 15 1/8. Fannie
Mae said it would buy back as much as $500 million of its
stock and warrants.
   AmBase jumped 3/8 to 2 3/8. The insurance and financial
services holding company signed a letter of intent to sell a
controlling interest to an investor group for $4 a share.
   Other big gainers were Harken Energy, up 5/8 to 4; Germany
Fund, up 1 7/8 to 12 3/8, and R.O.C. Taiwan Fund, up 1 to 5
7/8.
   Among the top percentage losers, CF Income Partners fell
1/2 to 2 7/8. Hadson, an energy and defense concern, fell 1/4
to 1 3/4. Idex, an industrial products company, dropped 1 1/4
to 11 3/8, and Worldcorp, an airline holding company, fell
3/8 to 4 1/4.
   The most actively traded Big Board issue was Philip
Morris, up 1 7/8 to 43 3/4. Also among the 10 most active was
General Electric, up 2 7/8 to 61 3/8.
   International Business Machines rose 3 1/2 to 100 3/8 on a
report in this newspaper that the company is about to
introduce a new mainframe computer.
   General Motors was up 1 1/8 to 37 3/8.
   United Technologies rose 1 7/8 to 48 3/4. AMR was up 1 3/8
to 45 3/4. Boeing soared 3 3/8 to 45 7/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Vikonics Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   VKSI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   VIKONICS Inc. (Secaucus, N.J.) -- Richard N. Perle was
named to the board, increasing membership to six, at this
maker of computerized security systems, primarily for the
armed forces and government agencies. Mr. Perle, formerly an
assistant secretary of defense, is currently a consultant to
the secretary of state and to several U.S. and multinational
corporations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   As Odds-On Favorite to Retain Seat, Rep. Kolter
   Proves the Power of Congressional Incumbency
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   {This is the first of two articles about the political
advantages of congressional incumbency.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   BEAVER, Pa. -- From the back seat of the late-model
Lincoln, Rep. Joe Kolter leans forward with an apology. "The
reason we're driving slow," he explains, "is we're always
getting picked up by the state police. I have four points
right now."
   The husky, white-haired Mr. Kolter is no stranger to life
in the slow lane. Little known outside this western
Pennsylvania district, the four-term Democrat has never won
passage of a major bill and is generally regarded as a
legislative lightweight. He is little involved in the
pressing issues of the day, such as the budget, and his
occasional political missteps and penchant for verbal
stumbles -- "Some of the people taking over defunct S&amp;Ls are
people who have defuncted themselves," he said recently --
are a source of amusement both here and in Washington.
   On paper, he ought to be susceptible to challenge. Though
Democrats hold an edge in registration, his district voted
for Ronald Reagan in 1980, gave George Bush 45% in 1988 and,
in fact, was designed after the 1980 census especially to
elect a Republican who had recently converted from being a
Democrat, Rep. Eugene Atkinson. Republicans also hold several
local offices.
   Yet Mr. Kolter is a solid favorite to win re-election this
year. His underfinanced GOP opponent, a chemistry professor
at a Pennsylvania State University branch campus here, lost
to him two years ago and this year has been unable to raise
any money from political-action committees.
   The story of Rep. Kolter's longevity is a parable of the
power of incumbency. In recent election years, more than 90%
of the House incumbents who ran won, and this year isn't
expected to be much different, even if anti-Washington
feeling is on the rise. Even lackluster legislators are
greatly advantaged by the routine perks of their office.
   In Mr. Kolter's case, that means consistently bringing
home the bacon in the form of federal "pork barrel" projects.
His particular plus is his seat on the House Public Works
Committee. From that position, he has obtained funds to
improve almost every airport in his district, to establish a
new post office in one of his most Republican communities,
and to construct part of a highway that someday may traverse
his entire district.
   "Highways and airports are very important to me because I
know they create jobs," he says proudly. "These are jobs I am
able to provide through my assignment."
   Over the years, Mr. Kolter has been dogged about getting
federal money for the folks back home. "You cannot accept
`no' for an answer," he says, and his colleagues agree that
he rarely does. "He works very hard," says Democratic Rep.
Robert Borski, a fellow Pennsylvanian who serves with him on
the Public Works Committee.
   Despite severe spending constraints during his tenure in
Washington, Mr. Kolter has won funds for airports in Beaver,
Butler and Lawrence counties, the Jimmy Stewart Airport in
Indiana County and the promise of funds for an airport in
Armstrong County, "the site of which has not even been
decided," he says. He also procured money for an armory in
Butler County and a highway bypass around the heavily
Republican town of Ligonier.
   Like other careful incumbents, he also devotes enormous
energy and resources to helping constituents on a personal
level. He has five district offices that house 11 caseworkers
-- a more far-flung system than many larger districts have.
In addition, Mr. Kolter goes home almost every weekend to
make himself available to the voters. "He's got an
exceptionally strong constituent-service operation," says
Rep. Thomas Ridge, a Republican whose district adjoins Mr.
Kolter's. "That's tough to beat."
   Here in Beaver this dreary day, Rep. Kolter is busy
pursuing more jobs by playing host to a powerful Public Works
subcommittee chairman, Rep. Norman Mineta (D., Calif.). Mr.
Kolter wants to persuade him to finance a new four-lane
highway. As an inducement, he treats Mr. Mineta to a briefing
on the project replete with multicolored maps at a local
engineering firm, to a luncheon with local business
executives at a country club, and to an overland tour of the
winding country road he wishes to replace.
   During the tour, Mr. Mineta falls asleep in the front
seat. But Mr. Kolter is undaunted. "Norman]" Mr. Kolter
shouts to rouse him. "We're getting to Cranberry Township
now]" Rep. Mineta regains consciousness and his composure
but, by the end of the day, is still uncommitted to the $150
million proposal.
   Even less impressed is the Beaver County Times. "Only
those with the hardest of hearts could resist the urge to
laugh at U.S. Rep. Joe Kolter's election-year proposal," its
editorial states. "Instead of waxing eloquently and hollowly
about this fantasy road and bridge project in a never-never
land future, Kolter should be telling voters how he would cut
the deficit, not add to it."
   Mr. Kolter's Republican opponent would like to cast Mr.
Kolter, who is 63 years old, as a person who is prone to
making missteps. "I am going to attack his competency," says
Republican Gordon Johnston, the 62-year-old professor who is
running against him. "I don't think he's as aware of the
issues as he really should be."
   To make his point, Mr. Johnston hopes to use such examples
as the time three years ago when, in a television broadcast,
Rep. Kolter confused the U.S.-backed Contras with the
Communist Sandinistas. "The Contras are a pure Communist
group," Mr. Kolter said. He also misidentified the Contra
organization, UNO, as an individual rather than a group.
   That same year Mr. Kolter made an error that cost him one
of his coveted construction projects. Against the wishes of
Mr. Mineta, Mr. Kolter compiled a list of $200 million in
airport projects that lawmakers wanted for their districts,
including one for his own. Mr. Mineta thwarted Mr. Kolter's
effort to attach the list to an aviation bill.
   Last year, another Kolter project was axed when, despite a
clear warning from a fellow lawmaker, Rep. Kolter again
defied a senior colleague. Against the wishes of Rep. William
Lehman (D., Fla.), an appropriations subcommittee chairman,
Mr. Kolter voted for a motion to increase Coast Guard
spending. Mr. Lehman considered the vote an affront to his
authority, and cut out the projects of those who voted
against him, including Mr. Kolter.
   Mr. Kolter continues to make mistakes of protocol. During
his presentation at Beaver, he disparages an alternative
route for his hoped-for highway because it would run through
another district. "Let some congressman from Allegheny County
support that," he sniffs. He also confesses envy of a fellow
Pennsylvania lawmaker who is the senior Republican on the
Public Works Committee, Rep. Bud Shuster. "All he has are
four-lane highways over there," he says.
   Still, Mr. Kolter bridles at any suggestion that he is
less than capable. "I have four children, two of whom I
taught well," he protests. "They're medical doctors."
   Another politician ought to be able to make a credible
campaign against Mr. Kolter. During his eight years in
office, his district, which is northwest of Pittsburgh, has
continued to stagnate economically, unable to rebound from
the devastating job losses that befell the steel industry.
Mr. Kolter has frequently feuded with senior members of his
own party. And, from the Republican side, the district was
drawn in 1982 to give party-switching Rep. Atkinson a chance
to win re-election as a Republican. But Mr. Kolter beat Mr.
Atkinson that year by a margin of 3-2, and no challenger has
done much better since.
   "I'm a politician," Mr. Kolter explains. "I say the right
things at the right time to the right people." But more
importantly, he adds, "I bring things back to my district
that it really needs; that's why I'm successful."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Mortgage Front: Fixed-Rate vs. ARMs Spread Widens
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   If you're shopping for a home mortgage, don't despair.
Things aren't as bleak as they seem.
   True, rates on conventional 30-year fixed-rate mortgages
have moved up in recent weeks and may go even higher. But
mortgage rates in general are still lower than they were last
spring and adjustable-rate loans can be, and will probably
remain, a good deal for many borrowers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's because fixed-rate mortgages tend to be pegged to
long-term interest rates, while adjustable-rate mortgages, or
ARMs, typically are pegged to short-term rates. The crisis in
the Persian Gulf and fears of rising oil prices and inflation
are pushing up long-term rates; at the same time, a softening
economy and fears of a recession are keeping short-term rates
low.
   "The gap {between fixed and adjustable rates} is starting
to widen again," says Harry V. Tomlinson, senior vice
president for the Northeast region of Sears Mortgage Co. "We
haven't seen a dramatic shift to ARMs yet . . . but we're
gearing up for it." Including a recent acquisition, the
Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. unit has about $13 billion in mortgages
outstanding nationwide.
   Adjustable rates have actually declined a fraction of a
percentage point in the last month and are off more than a
third of a percentage point since last spring, according to
HSH Associates, a mortgage-information service based in
Butler, N.J. The average first-year rate on a one-year ARM is
currently 8.20%, according to HSH's survey of 2,000 lenders
nationwide.
   The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is
10.30%, according to HSH. That's up more than a third of a
percentage point from early August. But just a little more
than three months ago, in early May, lenders were charging an
average 10.71%; in the spring of 1989, rates went as high as
11.33%.
   At today's levels, the "spread" between fixed and
adjustable rates is about two percentage points, enough to
make a meaningful difference in monthly payments. On a
$100,000 mortgage, for instance, the difference between 8.20%
and 10.30% means a savings of roughly $150 a month for those
who opt for the ARM.
   A study by the U.S. League of Savings Institutions, a
Chicago-based trade group, indicates that adjustable-rate
mortgages have been considerably cheaper than fixed-rate
loans over much of the past decade. The study, which covers
the period since April 1981, found that an ARM would have cut
a home buyer's interest payments by an average of 25%.
   Even borrowers who opted for adjustable rates in 1987 and
1988, only to see their payments increase as interest rates
rose steadily through the spring of 1989, would have saved at
least $1,500 in interest on a $100,000 mortgage. The holder
of an adjustable-rate mortgage originated in November 1981
could have saved more than $60,000 in interest, the study
indicates. The study doesn't take into account the homeowners
who refinanced their fixed-rate mortgages when rates dropped.
   But there's more involved than monthly payments in
choosing between adjustable and fixed rates. Borrowers have
to "consider the level of risk they're willing to assume,
financially and emotionally," says Mr. Tomlinson of Sears.
   The interest rate on an ARM generally is adjusted every
six months, annually or once every three years, depending on
the index it is tied to. Lenders in the East and Midwest tend
to favor an index based on Treasury securities, often the
six-month or one-year Treasury bill, while a monthly
cost-of-funds index issued by the Federal Home Loan Bank of
San Francisco is more common in western states.
   Typically, the rate on an ARM can rise or fall two
percentage points a year and five or six percentage points
over the life of the loan. While three-year adjustables often
are considered more desirable because they are more
predictable, lenders say they expect ARMs with shorter
adjustment periods to become more popular because they are
tied to lower, shorter-term interest rates.
   Financial advisers say that before agreeing to an
adjustable rate, borrowers should know the index used, the
margin charged over the index, the frequency of adjustments,
the periodic and lifetime caps, and whether there's the
possibility of "negative amortization." That's when payment
increases are limited so a rise in rates may mean that the
monthly payment isn't sufficient to cover both principal and
interest actually being charged. The difference is added to
the balance of the loan, and the borrower can end up owing
more than the original mortgage.
   All that uncertainty leads many people to prefer
fixed-rate mortgages. Only about a quarter to a third of
mortgages currently being written are ARMs. They were more
than half during most of the period from late 1987 through
mid-1989. Lenders say ARMs' market share starts to increase
significantly when fixed rates get to the 11% to 12% range.
   They say the outlook for rates in the next few months
depends to a large extent on events in the Persian Gulf. If
hostilities escalate, long-term rates could soar. If there's
a peaceful settlement, rates could resume their slow decline
that began last spring. "For now, it's a real tough call"
between adjustable and fixed-rate mortgages, says Dennis
Jacobe, research director for the U.S. League of Savings
Institutions.
   Rather than lose sleep, it may help to remember the high
double-digit rates of the early 1980s. Current rates are "not
unattractive from a longer-term perspective," says Richard
Peach, deputy chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers
Association. "Compared with a year ago, certainly the last 10
years, they look fairly good."
   ---
                Mortgage Rates Then and Now
                                                                                                       

                                    ONE-YR           30-YR
                                    ADJUSTABLE       FIXED
                                                                                                       

   Current ........................  8.20%           10.30%
   1990 Highs .....................  8.56            10.71
   1989 Highs .....................  9.44            11.33
                                                                                                       

   Source: HSH Associates
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Dissident Southern Baptists Act to Form
   Own Unit and Budget, Skirting a Split
   ----
   By R. Gustav Niebuhr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Dissident Southern Baptists voted
overwhelmingly to set up their own budget and government, in
moves that fell just short of secession from the Southern
Baptist Convention at an unusual three-day meeting here.
   The group of about 3,000, representing the "moderate"
faction of the denomination, voted to establish its own
administrative body, called "the steering committee." And it
voted to withdraw its financial support from Southern Baptist
headquarters in Nashville, Tenn., setting up a trust fund
that would support its own causes like foreign missionaries
and possibly a new seminary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While there was no formal vote on the subject, many in the
group expect the newly formed committee to hold its own
annual convention, eschewing the huge one that the
denomination holds every June.
   By the end of the meeting, it was unclear whether the
group would eventually decide to split from the denomination,
or whether it would use its money and new voice as leverage
to influence the conservative fundamentalist faction that has
ruled the denomination for more than a decade. The moderates
and fundamentalists are bitterly at odds over the direction
of the Southern Baptist Convention, which has been a big
conservative political force in Washington for the last
decade. The group's actions could cause severe financial
problems for the denomination and could seriously dilute its
political influence.
   Rev. Daniel Vestal of Dunwoody, Ga., chairman of the
committee, said the actions represented the group's attempt
at "renewal" of the denomination, rather than a prelude to
secession. And during the debates, the group rejected several
proposals that would have amounted to an outright break.
   Its members declined to adopt a name for their new
organization, opting instead to call it simply "the
Fellowship." They also rejected a motion to hold a spring
convention in Augusta, Ga., where in 1845 the Southern
Baptist Convention was launched after a bitter dispute with
northern Baptists over the issue of slavery.
   But throughout this meeting, there was open and passionate
talk about secession. And many of the moderate Baptists here
said they thought that a split was inevitable. "I don't see
any reconciling taking place. The wedge {between the two
factions} is being driven in further and further," said
Walker Knight, publisher of SBC Today, a moderate newspaper.
   A workshop on legal issues was dominated by questions
about what would happen if moderates were to form their own
denomination -- how they could sue to regain control of
Southern Baptist institutions and property like colleges,
hospitals, orphanages and retirement homes, into which they
have poured millions of dollars. Several Baptist lawyers
urged the steering committee to hire outside law and
accounting firms that could assist them in such legal
battles.
   An official of the Southern Baptist Convention, who
attended the meeting as an observer, said he thought the
actions taken by the new group amounted to nothing less than
a split. "I think there definitely has been a new
denomination formed," said Lee Roberts, a member of the
denomination's ruling executive committee. "I don't think
there's any question about it."
   The actions represent a new tack for the moderates, who
have fought internally to regain control of the denomination
since 1979. With vastly superior organizational skills, the
fundamentalists since then have tightened their grip on the
denomination. They have barred from the leadership those who
don't share their strictly conservative religious and
political views and have even forced some out of the
seminaries and national Baptist agencies.
   But it is the moderates, who have contributed well more
than half of the denomination's income during that time, more
than 60% by their own estimates. Even with their support, the
denomination has had some financial trouble, leading to a
round of layoffs and the curtailment of some programs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Hot-and-Cold Pattern of Economic Data
   Is Likely to Continue During This Week
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- One fact that makes the current weak economy
so hard to forecast is that it continues to show occasional
signs of strength.
   On Thursday, for example, the Commerce Department reported
that durable goods orders in July, on a seasonally adjusted
basis, rose a strong 2.9%, led by orders for commercial
aircraft.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This week is likely to see a continuation of the economy's
up-and-down pattern. Today, for instance, analysts expect the
Commerce Department to report that personal income in July
rose by about 0.5%, slightly faster than the 0.4% gain in
June. The main factor, according to Stephen S. Roach, senior
economist at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., was an acceleration of
wage earnings.
   That may seem paradoxical in view of the fact the
unemployment rate in July jumped to 5.5%, the highest level
in more than two years, from 5.2%. But Mr. Roach says that
40% of the rise was among teenagers, who make up only 6% of
the labor force and aren't the major contributors to income
growth.
   Another report today, however, is expected to show that
personal consumption in July rose by 0.5%, down from a 1.0%
gain in June. Nancy Lazar, an economist at C.J. Lawrence,
Morgan Grenfell Inc., figures last month's spending pattern
was highly uneven: a 1.5% rise in outlays on durable goods
other than automobiles and a 0.8% upturn in services, both
partly offset by a 1.5% drop in autos, with no change in
spending on nondurable goods.
   One of the statistics that is usually fairly easy to
predict is the Commerce Department's index of leading
economic indicators. The index is designed to move up or down
in advance of the general economy, but several of its
components are known before the index itself comes out.
   The performance of the index's components in July,
analysts say, was almost entirely negative. C.J. Lawrence
analysts offer the following estimates for various index
statistics: stock prices, down 0.1%; inflation-adjusted M2
money supply, down 0.3%; manufacturing hours worked, down
0.2%; vendor performance, down 7.9%; and consumer sentiment,
down 0.1%. These declines, C.J. Lawrence says, more than
offset a 0.2% gain in sensitive materials prices and a 0.8%
drop in initial unemployment claims, resulting in a projected
0.2% drop in the index. The index will be announced
Wednesday.
   Also on Wednesday, new home sales for July will be
reported. This statistic has been one of the few bright spots
in the housing industry, showing gains of 2.3% in May and a
strong 8.0% in June. Despite the fact that adjustable rates
on mortgages were still relatively low in July, analysts on
the average say that new home sales probably fell about 5%,
joining the other gloomy housing numbers.
   Manufacturing orders for July, which will be available
Thursday, are expected to be one of the week's bright spots,
rising about 1%. Mr. Roach of Morgan Stanley, however,
predicts that shipments will decline slightly after two
months of solid gains and that inventories also will show a
modest decrease.
   After months of something close to a recession, the
manufacturing sector has begun to look a little better.
Employment and inventories have been reduced sharply, making
it easier for companies to benefit from any upturn in demand.
   The chief upturn so far has been in exports. In June
exports reached $34.3 billion, a record high. Together with a
small decline in imports, this reduced the merchandise trade
deficit to $5.1 billion, the narrowest since December 1983.
   Manufacturers, however, are remaining cautious. One
positive factor for exports has been the decline in the value
of the dollar. In a crisis such as the current Mideast
situation, the dollar usually rises as investors seek what
they regard as a haven. It hasn't happened this time, for
reasons that analysts don't fully understand.
   In the past the Federal Reserve has often stepped in to
tighten money and shore up a sagging dollar. At the moment
the Fed appears to be holding policy steady, and few
economists expect any early move toward tighter money. The
hope among analysts is that the Fed instead will at some
point resume its cautious move toward easier money.
   That move came with quarter-point reductions in the
federal funds rate, the fee charged on short-term loans of
bank reserves. Until recently these moves weren't reflected
in significant increases in M2, the most commonly watched
money supply, consisting of currency and most bank deposits.
   In early August, however, M2 began turning upward. Its
growth is still slow, but it may persuade the Fed that its
earlier federal funds moves are having some effect.
   ---
                  Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

       Statistics Released in the Week Ended Aug. 24
                                                                                                       

                                                CHANGE
                                           (from prior

                                                                                                       

   Money supply
                                                                                                       

     M1 -- Week ended
     Aug. 13 (in billions)    $814.4           +$1.5
                                                                                                       

     M2 -- Week ended
     Aug. 13 (in billions)  $3,299.6           +$7.5
                                                                                                       

     M3 -- Week ended
     Aug. 13 (in billions)  $4,085.6           +$2.5
                                                                                                       

   Real Corporate Profits
                                                                                                       

   Second quarter,
   preliminary annual rate
   (in billions)              $166.7           -0.2%
                                                                                                       

   Durable Goods Orders
   July (in billions)         $128.3           +2.9%
                                                                                                       

   Auto Sales
   Mid-August total vs
   year ago                  160,633          -10.0%
                                                                                                       

   Real GNP
   Second quarter, revise
   annual rate
   (in trillions)             $4.163           +1.2%
                                                                                                       

   New Jobless Claims
   Week ended Aug. 11        366,000           +7.3%
                                                                                                       

            Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Personal Income
   (Mon.) July
                                                                                                       

   Personal Consumption
   (Mon.) July
                                                                                                       

   Money Supply
   (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Leading Indicators Index
   (Wed.) July
                                                                                                       

   New Home Sales
   (Wed.) July
                                                                                                       

   New Jobless Claims
   (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Agricultural Prices
   (Fri.) August
                                                                                                       


   (Thurs.) July
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Storage Technology Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   STK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   STORAGE TECHNOLOGY Corp. (Louisville, Colo.) -- Robert J.
Luth, former executive vice president and chief financial
officer of Savin Corp., was named corporate vice president of
financial planning and treasurer of this maker of data
storage equipment. Mr. Luth succeeds Carl R. Vertuca Jr., who
was named to the new position of corporate vice president of
development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Despite Haphazard Efforts at Reform,
   Burma's Economy Continues to Struggle
   ----
   By Helen E. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   BANGKOK, Thailand -- Almost two years after a military
junta took power and began touting a new open-door policy,
the Burmese economy is floundering.
   Output has yet to return to the already sinking levels of
late 1987, when the United Nations declared Burma to be among
the world's least-developed nations. Economists estimate the
annual inflation rate is about 70%, and some predict it will
reach triple digits this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All this has occurred despite some fundamental changes in
Burma's business climate. For the first time in nearly 30
years, foreign investment is permitted, and several large
foreign companies -- including 10 oil companies -- and many
smaller ones have set up shop. After decades of prohibition,
the Burmese private sector has been allowed to engage in
foreign trade. More than 1,000 Burmese exporters, and about
350 importers, have registered since liberalizations were
announced in November 1988.
   The regime has legalized a booming border trade with China
and allowed border dealings with Thailand, Bangladesh and
Laos. It has permitted the private sector to engage in
activities formerly monopolized by the state. It also has
given more Burmese access to foreign currencies.
   But open-door policy and other changes haven't much helped
the average Burmese, nor have they lessened the country's
macroeconomic plight. The military regime has yet to tackle
such fundamental problems as the country's unrealistic
exchange rate, resource-draining state enterprises, and an
inept bureaucracy.
   Political uncertainty also is sapping business confidence.
Though the National League for Democracy won a landslide
majority in May's election, the military is unlikely to cede
power in the near term.
   Burma's military rulers "have a verbal commitment to
reform, but they don't have the slightest comprehension of
what economic reform would actually entail," says a Western
diplomat. "There's a complete absence of the realization that
if you want Burmese to invest in Burma, then you have to
reduce the entrepreneur's fear of the arbitrary power of the
state."
   Arbitrary state action has been at the heart of Burma's
economic decline for years. For example, the currency has
thrice been declared worthless. Even now the government seems
ambivalent: While the state-run press heralds each foreign
investment as a triumph of the open-door policy, it denounces
foreigners as neo-colonists and warns Burmese not to trust
outsiders.
   "They say they want foreign investment, but the number of
hoops any investor has to go through is just as many as it
was before," says a foreign economist specializing in Burma.
   Some analysts cite the country's new tourism law, unveiled
in June, as indicative of the regime's fundamental mistrust
of business and foreigners. Tourism is a potentially
promising industry for Burma, yet in the new law, the first
priority specified is "prevention of infringement of the
sovereignty and security of the state." The last priority is
"providing security and satisfaction of tourists."
   A commercial tax law announced in March is even more
flawed, some analysts say. Probably introduced to widen
Burma's tax base, the law appears to function somewhat like a
value-added tax. But unlike VATs, where only the value-added
component is taxed at each stage of production of a good, the
law apparently taxes the entire value of the product at each
step. Because of its pyramiding effect, the tax is likely to
discourage desperately needed manufacturing and processing
industries, analysts say, and promote imports, which are
taxed only once.
   Burma's exchange-rate policy is among the thorniest
problems for foreigners and Burmese alike. The official
exchange rate is about 5.6 kyat to the dollar, or more than
10 times its current black-market value. Because foreign
companies are required to convert funds at the official rate,
business in Burma is expensive.
   A longer-term problem is Burma's rotting infrastructure.
The country's manufacturing base has been debilitated by
chronic shortages of foreign exchange, which meant that vital
parts and raw materials couldn't be bought. The country has
vast oil reserves, but decades of self-imposed isolation
blocked industry access to modern technology and equipment to
improve yields from older oil fields. Recently concluded
joint-venture exploration contracts won't add to output for
several years. The distribution of electricity is "abysmal,"
and the country's telecommunications network -- including
only 26 international circuits -- is woefully inadequate, a
diplomat says.
   Burma's basic infrastructure problems probably won't be
solved without substantial foreign aid. However, the
country's main donors -- including Japan, West Germany,
Britain and the U.S. -- have suspended aid, pending transfer
of power to a democratically elected government.
   Burma's sizable debt also hampers its ability to secure
development financing. In March, Burma repaid 3.5 billion yen
($23.3 million) of the 23 billion yen it owes Japan, the
first debt repayment it has made in several years. Diplomats
and economists don't expect further repayments soon on
Burma's more than $5 billion of debt.
   Despite obvious obstacles, several foreign companies are
doing business in Burma. Aside from the 10 oil companies,
other foreign concerns are exploring for zinc and other
minerals. Korea's Daewoo Group, which started with a
shirt-making factory outside Rangoon in 1987, recently
unveiled plans to produce television sets, radio-cassette
recorders and refrigerators, and to set up a third garment
factory.
   Daewoo, Toshiba Corp.'s Singapore subsidiary and other
foreign companies have opened retail outlets in Rangoon,
selling consumer goods priced in foreign currencies.
   Coca-Cola Co., PepsiCo Inc., Nestle S.A. and other food
companies are contemplating investments, and several tourism
companies have concluded deals to build hotels and operate
chartered tourist flights.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Frank B. Hall &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FBH
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANK B. HALL &amp; Co. (Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.) -- Maurice
Mann was named to the board of this insurance services firm.
Mr. Mann was formerly chairman and chief executive officer of
the Pacific Stock Exchange, based in San Francisco.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy's Inflation Rate Grows, Erasing
   Recent Progress; Gulf Crisis Is Factor
   ----
   By Guy Collins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- The Persian Gulf crisis has fueled a rapid
surge in Italy's inflation, wiping out progress made over the
past six months, pushing up interest rates and adding to the
government's woes as it attempts to bring the runaway budget
deficit under control.
   Consumer prices rose between 6.2% and 6.3% this month from
a year earlier, sharply higher than July's 5.7%
consumer-price increase and the worst performance since
February. The August projection is based on early data from
major Italian cities. The official inflation figure is due
out at the end of the month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Higher prices for gasoline and other oil products were
largely to blame for the jump, but the mid-month figures
don't yet reflect the full rise in oil prices since the Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait, officials said. Apart from the shock
effect of oil-price increases, inflation also was boosted by
a 20% rise in national newspaper prices from the start of
August.
   Analysts had expected inflation to accelerate this month,
not only because of the Gulf crisis but also because of last
week's news of a surge in annual wholesale prices, to 5.5% in
June from 3.9% in May.
   On a month-to-month basis, consumer prices in major cities
grew between 0.6% and 0.7% in August from 0.4% in July.
   Italy, which relies on imports for about 80% of its energy
needs, is particularly vulnerable to the Gulf tension; it
buys around 35% of its crude oil from the region. With spot
crude prices now around $30 a barrel and prospects fading for
a peaceful solution to the Gulf crisis, Italian bankers and
business leaders are resigning themselves to a harsher
economic environment over the coming months.
   One early result could be higher interest rates. As
recently as last month Bank of Italy Governor Carlo A. Ciampi
predicted that inflation would fall to around 5% by the end
of this year from 6.5% at the end of 1989. In May, the
Treasury felt confident enough to cut the official discount
rate by a percentage point, to 12.5%, and banks in turn
lowered their commercial lending rates.
   Now speculation is growing in the financial community here
that banks will raise rates at least half a percentage point
to take into account the gloomier inflation outlook --
possibly within the next couple of weeks.
   The lira's slide within the European Monetary System over
the past month, particularly against the mark, has given
Italian monetary authorities more room for maneuver should
they wish to tighten rates.
   At the start of this month the mark fell as low as 731.78
lire, fractionally above its EMS floor of 731.57 lire, as
gloom over the mounting costs of German unification hit the
currency. But with the dollar weakening sharply and focus now
switched to the Gulf, the mark has gained ground rapidly in
recent days. It climbed to 747 lire Thursday in Milan, only
slightly below its EMS mid-rate of 748.217 lire.
   Yields on fixed-rate government bonds already have risen
on expectations of higher inflation and events in the
Mideast. The net yield on 12.5% four-year Treasury paper is
currently above 12%, compared with 11.5% barely two months
ago.
   Higher interest rates are bad news for Treasury Minister
Guido Carli, however, as he prepares the ground for the 1991
budget, scheduled for Cabinet approval by the end of
September.
   His task is to try to cut the budget deficit to around
L115 trillion ($99 billion) next year from this year's L135
trillion ($116 billion). Mr. Carli has already warned that
spending cuts will be painful. But it is far from clear where
savings will be found, and the government can ill afford to
pay higher interest rates on its rising stock of debt.
   Mr. Carli met with Budget Minister Paolo Cirino Pomicino
and Health Minister Francesco De Lorenzo Thursday to discuss
possible cuts in health spending, one of the largest and
least-efficient items in the state budget. Since the Gulf
crisis reduces the likelihood of cuts in defense spending,
Mr. Carli will be turning up the pressure in other ministries
to come up with concrete proposals for big savings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   How Much Is an MBA Really Worth These Days?
   ----
   By Jeffrey Paul Mark
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   In 1909, Abraham Flexner surveyed American medical schools
for the Carnegie Foundation and discovered the following
facts: Many schools had either nominal or no specific
entrance requirements; the schools were set up essentially as
moneymaking ventures (with education only a byproduct); there
were no uniform standards or curriculums; degrees were
conferred by institutions that sprang up as quickly as a
faculty could be assembled, regardless of how well trained
the instructors were; medical degrees became devalued as a
growing number of graduates with sub-par training entered the
profession. Finding that medical education lacked both
regulation and uniformity, he recommended sweeping reforms.
   During the past decade, similar trends have taken place at
American business schools. Today, the number of institutions
offering MBA degrees, or their equivalent, has nearly doubled
to 700. A steady rise in applicants to graduate business
programs, particularly foreign nationals, has continued as
well, and it is conceivable that the number of both graduates
and degree-granting institutions will double again within the
decade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While that's good news for the cash-starved universities
seeking to fill excess capacity by starting low-cost,
high-margin business schools, the increasing variety of new
MBAs has created a growing problem for employers. The
employers use the MBA degree as a screening mechanism, in the
belief that someone with the degree should be better
qualified than someone without one, all other things being
equal. But there are so many schools offering MBAs that it's
difficult to ascertain who has really learned something of
value.
   What happens in the case of two equally qualified job
applicants who both have MBAs, but from different schools?
Can one judge the relative strength of an applicant based on
the reputation of his or her alma mater? Is a B-plus from one
business school necessarily better than a C-plus from
another?
   The answer to all these questions is, of course, that
employers can't tell whether one person's MBA is any better
than someone else's, until they test them. In an effort to
hire people who are truly qualified -- not just credentialed
-- employers are doing precisely that. The Educational
Testing Service (of SAT fame) now has a burgeoning business
helping employers find out what MBA graduates actually
learned in their business-school careers.
   If, as it appears, employee tests are the wave of the
future, no one is more to blame than the business schools
themselves. To find more and better MBA students, B-schools
have touted the vast quantity of money their students are
likely to earn upon graduation, rather than the quality of
the education they're likely to gain in the process. The top
20 B-schools, particularly, publicize the starting salaries
of their MBA graduates as one way of claiming their vaunted
status. They implicitly argue that they must be teaching
something of use because the marketplace values their
products so highly.
   Unfortunately, as the number of business schools has
increased, those starting-salary statistics have become less
meaningful. Top business schools -- which boast average
starting salaries of more than $64,000 -- may claim that
their graduates are better simply because they earn more. But
it can also be argued that those schools also have the
highest entering-class salaries of any business schools.
Statistics of those kind aren't reported, but it's safe to
say that the best B-schools select a majority of students who
were earning close to $50,000 before they matriculated.
   In 1982, the year I entered the University of Chicago
Graduate School of Business, the average age of my classmates
was 24, the average length of work experience was slightly
more than two years, and the average starting salary upon
B-school graduation was $35,000. Today at Chicago, the
average age of matriculating students is nearly 27, while the
starting salaries upon graduation have jumped to $55,000. Are
the students better prepared now, hence the higher salaries,
or do these numbers need to be adjusted for inflation?
Neither is the case. Chicago, Harvard, Stanford and all the
other top business schools have simply started admitting more
students with four, five or six years of work experience,
people who already earn substantial incomes.
   Then how much is an MBA now worth? If you were earning
$50,000 before you went, and two years later, after an
investment of $30,000 or more, you're re-hired at $60,000 or
$65,000, was it worth the investment? Leaving aside the
immediate financial gain, if any, will your career blossom
because you now have the skills and knowledge that your
employer needs? Presumably these questions could best be
answered by employers based on their prior experience with
hiring MBAs. But given that they're now forced to screen
potential employees with standardized tests to find out if
they're qualified, it's clear that the MBA degree, by itself,
is becoming relatively less meaningful to them.
   Because graduate business schools, including most notably
the Harvard Business School, are moving away from even using
the standardized GMAT as an entrance requirement, the need
for some standard in business education is becoming ever
greater. At the same time, schools will continue to admit
overqualified applicants, with many years of work experience
(for whom the real value of an MBA is far less than its
nominal value), which makes placement statistics look better.
   Up to this point, graduate business schools have resisted
all efforts to standardize either curriculums or graduation
requirements. It's likely that the only way in which such
reforms are likely to come about is if employers themselves
demand them. At one time the chances of that happening were
remote, but with more companies taking matters into their own
hands it's becoming a real possibility.
   As many recruiters will attest, it's quite possible for
students to graduate from even top business schools knowing
or remembering virtually nothing about accounting, economics,
finance or marketing, and having no certifiable business
skills whatsoever. Clearly, business schools today are at the
same point that medical schools were in 1909, before the
publication of the Flexner Report.
   ---
   Mr. Mark is a consultant and author of "The Empire
Builders: Power, Money and Ethics Inside the Harvard Business
School" (William Morrow, 1987).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Wolverine World Wide Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WWW WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WOLVERINE WORLD WIDE Inc. (Rockford, Mich.) -- Stuart J.
Northrop, former chairman of Huffy Corp., was named a
director of this footwear maker, increasing board membership
to 10.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Crop Genetics International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CROP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CROP GENETICS INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Hanover, Md.) -- Joseph
Kelly, chief operating officer of this agricultural
biotechnology concern, was named to the newly created
position of president and chief executive officer. Mr. Kelly,
45 years old, who also has been chief financial officer of
the company since 1984, succeeds John B. Henry as chief
executive. Mr. Henry will remain chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Huffy Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HUF WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HUFFY Corp. (Dayton, Ohio) -- Christopher A. Bartlett,
professor of business administration at Harvard University's
Graduate School, was named a director of this maker of bikes
and other sport products, increasing the board to 12 members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ultramar PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.UMA
</CO>
<LP>
   ULTRAMAR PLC (London) -- Nick Di Tomaso was named group
senior vice president, refining and marketing, of American
Ultramar Ltd., a Tarrytown, N.Y., unit of this energy holding
company. Mr. Di Tomaso, who also joins American Ultramar's
executive committee, is currently president of Ultramar's
Canada unit and will be succeeded by Guy Archambault,
currently executive vice president. Both appointments take
effect Oct. 1. Frank Sisti, currently president of Ultramar
Inc., a California refining unit, was named senior vice
president, corporate development at American Ultramar. He is
succeeded by John G. Drosdick, previously president and chief
operating officer of Tosco Corp., Santa Monica, Calif. The
appointments take effect Nov. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Price Board Clears Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   PCLB
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- Price Co., an operator of members-only
warehouse stores, said its board authorized management to buy
back in transactions from time to time an additional $50
million of any of its securities outstanding.
   Under a previous authorization, Price since January
purchased 1,447,500 of its 49.9 million common shares
outstanding for $52 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Sun Microsystems Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW T
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUN MICROSYSTEMS Inc. (Mountain View, Calif.) dropped its
planned public offering of 5.9 million shares of new common
stock. The computer maker had been having second thoughts
about the plan to raise $150 million through the offering
because of the stock's sharp dive since the proposal was
announced 11 days ago. At the time, the stock was trading at
$32 a share, and Sun had been seeking $31 a share for the new
shares. In national over-the-counter trading Friday, the
stock closed at $27.625, up $1.25. "We do not believe it is
in the best interest of shareholders to sell additional
shares under current market conditons," said Scott McNealy,
Sun's chairman, president and chief executive officer. Mr.
McNealy said the company is studying other options to raise
capital, but that Sun doesn't plan another stock offering any
time soon. Some analysts had criticized Sun for proposing the
offering just a few days after announcing a separate plan,
under a long-running agreement, to issue 4.6 million shares
to American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   S&amp;P Lowers Ratings
   On Debt of McDonnell
   Douglas Finance Unit
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   MD
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. lowered its ratings on about $3
billion of debt issued by McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s finance
unit.
   The rating concern cited the finance unit's problem
real-estate and auto loans in addition to the parent
company's "weaker credit-worthiness" and the negative outlook
for its aerospace business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S&amp;P reduced McDonnell Douglas Finance Corp.'s senior debt
to single-A-minus from single-A-plus, subordinated debt to
triple-B-plus from single-A and commercial paper to A-2 from
A-1. S&amp;P removed the issues from its Credit-Watch list, where
it had placed the term debt June 11 and the commercial paper
July 27.
   A spokesman for the St. Louis-based parent company said
the finance unit had increased its provisions for loan
losses. But the unit "isn't in a net-loss position and has
been very profitable for some time."
   S&amp;P said that although it has traditionally rated the
finance unit's debt separately, "the negative outlook for the
parent's business represents a potential drag on the
credit-worthiness of the subsidiary."
   As previously reported, S&amp;P reduced McDonnell Douglas's
senior debt rating July 27 to triple-B-plus from
single-A-minus and subordinated debt to triple-B from
triple-B-plus and removed those issues from its Credit-Watch
list. The company's single-A commercial paper rating was
placed on Credit-Watch.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Magma Repays Its Bank Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   MCU
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN MANUEL, Ariz. -- Magma Copper Co. said it has repaid
in full its bank debt outstanding, which was $32.2 million on
June 30.
   The debt was part of a credit agreement with a group of
banks led by Continental Bank, Chicago, and National
Westminster Bank PLC as co-agents. The copper producer now
has approximately $362 million in unsecured long-term debt,
with no maturities until Dec. 31, 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sweden Closes Its Doors to Refugees
   Amid Growing Strain on Welfare System
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   MALMOE, Sweden -- Since arriving in Sweden 10 days ago,
Sahra Hassan and her four children have been shuttled from a
tent camp to a converted cruise ship in Malmoe's harbor
because refugee housing is scarce.
   Now, Ms. Hassan, whose husband is fighting with rebel
forces against the Somali government, fears that new rules
restricting asylum will force her to move again -- back to
Africa.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If we go home, we die," she says.
   Sweden, long famed as a sanctuary for U.S. draft
resisters, Chilean dissidents and other exiles, is rapidly
closing its doors. With the number of asylum-seekers soaring,
and its generous welfare state already strained, Sweden has
effectively sealed its southern sea border and stepped up
deportations of recent arrivals.
   "It is sad, but Sweden cannot keep trying to solve all the
world's problems on its own," says Marleen Andersson, an
immigration official in Malmoe. Gazing wearily at the mound
of asylum applications on her desk, she says about 80% of
such requests were granted last year. In 1990, she expects
the rate to be half that.
   Swedish officials point out that they have long taken more
than their share. Last year, 30,000 refugees poured into the
country. In neighboring Finland, the figure was 174. There
now is about one refugee in Sweden for every 50 natives.
   But the change in Sweden also reflects the anti-immigrant
sentiment sweeping across Europe. Isolated, bland and
overwhelmingly blond, Sweden always was an awkward haven for
exiles from war and famine-torn Third World nations. Now,
hostility towards "svartskallar" -- blackheads -- is
increasingly coming out of the closet.
   "There is a good climate in Africa and the Middle East, so
why can't people make a good life there?" asks Carl Herzlow,
a right-wing politician and popular radio host in Malmoe.
Answering his own question, he says, "these people don't
work, that's why."
   Echoing the view of many European officials, Mr. Herzlow
says the money spent on settling refugees could be used more
efficiently in the form of foreign aid. "Houses in the Middle
East are much lighter than in Sweden," he says. "For every
one we build here, we could put up 10 in Africa."
   Such talk strikes a chord among young Swedes, many of whom
now wait months for housing and other services. During May
and June, there were repeated firebombings of refugee camps
across Sweden. At a mosque in Malmoe, young Swedes have
smashed the imam's car and threatened Moslems by mail and
phone.
   Liberal-minded Swedes fear their country has betrayed its
role as a conscience to the Western world. "We are still
small and rich, we don't have the excuses of a Germany or
England," says Nils Sjoestrom, a Baptist pastor who works
with refugees in the southern port of Trelleborg. "If we
don't offer refuge anymore, who will?"
   The answer, for now, is that no one is likely to pick up
the slack. Until June, refugees poured into Trelleborg aboard
boats from East Germany, a common transit point for travelers
from Africa and the Middle East. Now, Sweden regards East
Germany as a country of "first asylum," so refugees arriving
from Germany can now be sent back to seek refuge in Berlin. A
similar ruling earlier this year allowed Sweden to turn back
hundreds of refugees arriving by boat from Poland. In March
and April, as many as 500 refugees arrived by boat each day
in southern Swedish ports. In late July, the average was 35.
   Robleh Ali and three other young Somalis had the bad luck
to arrive from East Germany just hours after the new rule
took effect. They spent two nights in a Trelleborg apartment
before being put back on a boat. "They are East Germany's
responsibility now, not ours," says the deporting officer,
assistant police chief Leif Pegreus. He adds that they were
"economic refugees" rather than political exiles. Except in
rare cases, Sweden now hews to the Geneva Convention
definition of a refugee as someone with a "well-founded fear"
of persecution or imprisonment in his own country.
   To Mr. Ali, such distinctions seem strange. With a civil
war that has destroyed the Somali economy and resulted in
thousands of civilian deaths, "the police do not need to
arrest me," he says. "The whole country is already a prison."
   The 21-year-old student and his friends fled their
hometown, Hargeisa, on foot and walked for 10 days through
the bush to reach Djibouti. There, they paid several hundred
dollars for crudely forged Djibouti passports. Mr. Ali later
spent the rest of his money on a frayed black tuxedo jacket,
during a stopover in Cairo. "I was told in Europe they wear
nice clothes," explains the youth, who chose Sweden as a
destination because fellow Somalis told him it was "peaceful
and nice to refugees."
   Mr. Ali's first view of Europe was a dingy East Berlin
train station where hundreds of East Europeans, many of them
gypsies, bed down each night because they have nowhere else
to go.
   It was to the train station that the Somalis returned
after being deported from Sweden. "I do not speak German, I
do not know any Germans," Mr. Ali says, counting what's left
of the money given to him by a generous Swede: $40, to be
split four ways. Unable to find any officials to help them,
and bewildered by the chaos and anti-immigrant feeling in
Berlin, the group eventually decides to find a way back to
Africa.
   "There is no place for us to run now," Mr. Ali says,
"except maybe the moon."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western Publishing Group
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   WPGI
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Western Publishing Group Inc. said directors
authorized the repurchase of up to 200,000 common shares.
   The publisher of children's books has more than 20 million
shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Western Publishing closed Friday at $13.50, unchanged, in
national over-the-counter trading, after falling $2.25 on
Thursday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   Living and Loving on the Edge
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   "We just make the best out of life," says a character in
"Motel," the new "P.O.V." offering airing tomorrow night on
PBS (10 p.m. Check local listings). That may not sound like
much of a dramatic premise but it is in fact a sterling one,
in the right hands. The stories of lives lived on the edge in
this film by Christian Blackwood are in fact the stuff of
genuine drama, largely because they are about the effort to
hold on to the norms of life while living at the fringes.
   The first segment, about three middle-aged divorcees who
run the Silver Saddle Motel in Santa Fe, may seem like slow
going compared with the rest of the program, but that
slowness also succeeds in establishing the tone of these
lives. You will instantly recognize these brassily confident
businesswomen, clearly pleased at where they find themselves
(running a motel), after decades spent on husbands and
similarly useless investments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Just what motels mean in American life is something Mr.
Blackwell has obviously pondered deeply. Somewhere in one of
the publicity handouts, he opines that motels are a very
American story because they represent the constant state of
impermanence and transition in America. This cliche about the
impermanence of American life is, of course, an idee fixe
among European film makers (Mr. Blackwood hails from
Germany), for whom it serves as an all-purpose explanation
for all social phenomena. Fortunately, there is no trace of
any such fatuousness in the film itself, which focuses
chastely on its subjects with little intrusiveness.
   The really riveting characters begin to appear in the
second sequence, which concerns three women who married men
in prison -- men in for hauls as long as 25 years to life for
murder. Every few weeks the women arrive at the Blue Mist
Motel, close by the Arizona State Prison, and begin to primp
for their visits.
   One of these is Helen, apparently in her 60s, who met and
married a good-looking prisoner half her age after becoming
his pen pal. Helen pokes at her hair and applies makeup with
ferocious concentration as she explains with considerable
poise that all this is in obedience to requests from her man.
For instance, he wants her hair worn long. So be it, though
long hair looks silly on an older woman, Helen cheerily
notes, plumping her tresses.
   Elsewhere on the premises, Sandra, another wife, is
primping for the visit to her spouse, incarcerated for
involvement in a drug murder. A former guard who met her
husband while working at the prison, Sandra's relation to her
husband's social circle is more delicate than that of most
wives. As she explains, "A lot of convicts will never accept
me because I'm a cop." A problem indeed.
   Nancy, the third wife, who married her husband after he
was jailed for credit-card fraud, reports that he is a
wonderful person who happens unfortunately to be in prison.
Nancy also explains that once you get used to hanging around
a prison, it doesn't seem so strange. We learn that conjugal
and other visits used to be allowed at the motel but are no
longer, ever since a prisoner chopped his adoptive mother's
body up into small pieces there.
   Still, for all their lack of physical intimacy, for all
the joshing talk about plans to scale the prison walls to be
with their men, these wives, its clear, have found their
version of perfect love. "This is the only thing that has
ever worked for me," says blond Nancy, married to the
credit-card thief. Of her limited relation to this wonderful
person in her life, Nancy says, it causes her to appreciate
every little moment all the more. The other wives fervently
agree, declaring themselves in love as never before, and that
no relationship in their lives has ever succeeded the way
their marriages to these husbands have.
   Theirs are not the first cases to suggest that the secret
of undying love is to have little or no contact with the
beloved. If for no other reason, "Motel" would be worth
watching for its cold-eyed elicitation of such testimony.
   There are, as it happens, plenty of other reasons, mainly
having to do with the last 30 minutes. Here we encounter an
aging, still beautiful ballerina of phenomenal ambition. Her
performance career over, dancer Marta Becket some years back
saw her future in an ancient hotel and opera house in the
ghost town of Death Valley Junction. A talented painter as
well as a dancer, she transformed the old opera house walls,
covering them with murals showing hordes of faces watching
the stage.
   Ms. Becket explains that these were at first her sole
audience for the productions she and her husband mounted for
an empty house in a ghost town. Be warned that some aspects
of this segment are confusing, as the camera shows her
dancing to wild applause in that empty house, which suggests
that applause is her fantasy. In fact, Ms. Becket succeeded
in making a name for herself locally, and draws crowds to the
Amargosa Opera House, as it is called. She also managed to
get rid of her ne'er-do-well husband, replacing him with the
town's one other resident and, along the way, falling in love
with him.
   All of this could easily have gone awry, as portraits of
eccentrics, even highly talented eccentrics, have a way of
doing, in part because eccentricity is a barrier to emotional
connection. But in this profoundly eccentric life, "Motel"
has found the fire and the passions that render her wholly
recognizable. The ballerina looks to be a woman of
indeterminate decade, hovering somewhere between 55 and 65.
In one lyrical sequence she dances through the rooms of the
deserted hotel and it is, while elegiac, a performance
untouched by sadness or self-pity.
   If you want self-pity, you have to wait till the ballerina
talks, which she does at some length, and with style. The
self-pity oddly enhances Marta's recital of her various life
burdens. These included, first and foremost, a mother who
thought only of success. A woman in her fifth or sixth decade
who can still carry on in public about her mother, without
losing dignity, is not to be underestimated. This affecting
portrait of the ballerina is likely to stay with you a while.
   "Motel" is presented under the auspices of "P.O.V."
("Point of View"), which specializes heavily in politicized
programs designed for our moral betterment. This entirely
nonpolitical offering is by far the best "P.O.V." segment in
some time. There may be a lesson in there somewhere.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australia's Commonwealth Bank to Sell
   Shares, Acquire State Bank of Victoria
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST WBK
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANBERRA -- Commonwealth Bank Corp. of Australia,
currently 100% owned by the federal government, will issue
shares to selected investors and use the funds to acquire
State Bank of Victoria, the government announced.
   It said the acquisition of State Bank of Victoria for 1.6
billion Australian dollars (US$1.33 billion) will make
Commonwealth Bank the third-biggest in Australia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   State Bank of Victoria, which is owned by the Victoria
state government, was offered for sale because its investment
banking unit, Tricontinental Holdings Ltd., incurred losses
and huge bad debts over recent years. The state government
couldn't afford to cover the losses and settle
Tricontinental's debts without selling the bank.
   Commonwealth Bank's acquisition doesn't include
Tricontinental.
   Paul Keating, Australia's treasurer, said State Bank of
Victoria's debt of A$2.7 billion would have extinguished its
entire capital base of $A1.6 billion. That could have had
implications for the stability of Australia's financial
system unless State Bank of Victoria was acquired by a
stronger bank, he suggested at a news conference.
   Mr. Keating took the opportunity presented by the bank's
problem to pursue his aim of selling at least parts of
government businesses to reduce public-sector debt. Partial
privatization of government businesses is supported by some
members of the ruling Labor Party, including Mr. Keating and
Prime Minister Bob Hawke, but bitterly opposed by the party's
left-wing faction, in particular.
   Labor Party officials already had called a meeting for
Sept. 24 to decide whether the government can privatize parts
of its telecommunications concerns and airlines, which need
capital injections.
   Mr. Keating said Sunday that Commonwealth Bank "cannot
finance the acquisition from its existing capital base, and
the (federal) government isn't in a position to augment that
capital base from its budget.
   "Therefore, the equity base of Commonwealth Bank will need
to be augmented with private capital roughly equivalent to
about 30% of the Commonwealth Bank's existing capital base,"
he said.
   The federal government will retain control of Commonwealth
Bank. Australian investment institutions such as pension
funds are likely to invest in Commonwealth Bank, but other
banks can't buy shares in the bank.
   Mr. Keating said the acquisition doesn't have any
implications for the federal government's budget, announced
last week, or the overall public-sector borrowing requirement
that he plans to keep in balance this fiscal year ending June
30, 1991.
   The Victoria state government, also run by the Labor
Party, was under pressure from its members to sell State Bank
only to government-controlled Commonwealth Bank, rather than
to an investor-controlled institution. The state government
rejected a slightly higher offer for State Bank from Westpac
Banking Corp., contending that the Commonwealth Bank offer
was better because it includes certain federal tax benefits
for the state.
   Don Sanders, managing director of Commonwealth Bank, said
the merger "will create the strongest financial-services
group in Australia."
   The move wouldn't be possible without the federal
government's giving the bank the ability to issue equity
capital, Mr. Sanders said in a statement.
   The federal government will maintain its guarantee of
Commonwealth Bank's liabilities, including deposits. The
acquisition is subject to due-diligence checks by
Commonwealth Bank, as well as government and central bank
approvals and certain legislation.
   Commonwealth Bank's most-recent published accounts for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1989 show total assets at A$60.66
billion and group capital and reserves totaling A$3.98
billion. Operating profit after tax rose 74% to A$475.9
million from A$273.4 million.
   State Bank of Victoria dominates retail banking in that
state, Australia's second-biggest, so the acquisition greatly
strengthens Commonwealth Bank's competitive position in
Victoria. Indeed, State Bank is the fifth-biggest bank in the
country, with more than 500 branches and A$24 billion of
assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Russian Republic's Threat
   To Soviet Authority Grows
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST DBRSY
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- With breathtaking speed, a new federal structure
is starting to emerge in the Soviet Union that bypasses
central authorities in Moscow. And President Mikhail
Gorbachev, after five years of spearheading change, is in
danger of being left behind in the rush.
   Setting the pace is Boris Yeltsin, the newly elected
president of the Russian republic and the man Mr. Gorbachev
fired from the Politburo in late 1987. Over the past few
weeks, Mr. Yeltsin has set a dizzying agenda for himself and
his colleagues, starting talks with the Baltic states,
Azerbaijan and other republics on establishing direct
economic and political ties, and preparing for an overhaul of
Russia's economy that would effectively destroy the present
system of Soviet central planning.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Underlying Mr. Yeltsin's activism is a declaration of
sovereignty passed by the Russian Parliament in June that
gives the republic sole jurisdiction over its economic
affairs. Almost all the other 14 Soviet republics have
adopted similar declarations, paving the way for a new union
treaty to replace the 1922 treaty that created the U.S.S.R.
   To some extent, Mr. Gorbachev supports these moves. He
wants a new union treaty to be concluded by the end of this
year that would clearly define the functions of constituent
republics and central authorities. A vital part of such a new
treaty, he insists, would be the maintenance of a common
economy, albeit one based more on markets than central
planning. And he wants republics to delegate some of their
sovereign powers to the center, particularly in such areas as
foreign affairs and defense.
   But in the absence of a new treaty, Mr. Yeltsin's Russia
is pushing ahead anyway, taking unilateral economic steps to
enforce its sovereignty. Mr. Gorbachev has been thrown on the
defensive, seeking to block Russian decisions that he feels
contravene national interests.
   The result is a brewing constitutional crisis that all
sides hope to avoid, and growing confusion over lines of
authority that is further undermining international
confidence in the Soviet economy.
   "Gorbachev is dancing on the wire," says Andrei Fyodorov,
a senior Russian government official. "The question is, can
he do so without falling off?"
   After a spat over banking, in which a compromise offering
Russia greater autonomy in monetary matters defused a
confrontation between republican officials and the central
authorities, the latest feud between Russia and the Soviet
government involves control of the republic's vast mineral
wealth. Most of the gold, diamonds, oil and gas in the Soviet
Union are on Russian territory, and republican officials say
they should have a say in how these commodities are used. So
far, however, Moscow has ignored such demands. Officials have
recently plunged ahead with big sales of diamonds and gold to
the West without consulting Russian authorities.
   The Russian Parliament quickly passed a decree stipulating
that it has jurisdiction over minerals mined on its territory
and threatening to block such sales. Last week, Mr. Gorbachev
issued a presidential decree that declared the Russian
decision illegal and promised to honor all foreign contracts.
The Russian Parliament immediately struck back, declaring
this weekend that Mr. Gorbachev's decree itself was invalid.
   Mr. Yeltsin, winding up a three-week tour of Russia,
denounced the Gorbachev move as "a mistake." Speaking on the
Kamchatka peninsula in the Far East, he declared: "I would
advise (Mr. Gorbachev) not to quarrel with Russia, where 150
million people live."
   Such belligerence can partly be ascribed to posturing
prior to negotiations over the new union treaty. Russian
officials say they don't intend to block the diamond sales,
to a Swiss subsidiary of South Africa's De Beers. And so far,
they don't have any of the institutions needed to conclude
such a sale themselves.
   Nonetheless, the message the Russian officials want to
send is unmistakable: Mr. Yeltsin and his colleagues, not Mr.
Gorbachev, are now calling the shots. The Russian government
feels it has greater legitimacy because it was democratically
elected by the people, unlike the Soviet government. "We will
go our own way and nothing will stop us," says Yuri Lebedev,
a senior Russian official who heads the "Innovation Council,"
a think tank recently set up by the Russian leadership that
is supposed to find quick and clever ways around policy
problems.
   Next week, the Russian Parliament will reconvene for its
autumn session, and the agenda is likely to include a dozen
new laws that will lay the groundwork for a market economy in
Russia. They would allow widespread ownership of assets
including land, introduce a rapid privatization program and
end the jurisdiction of most Soviet ministries over the
Russian economy.
   As part of these changes, Mr. Lebedev and several
colleagues on the Innovation Council are planning to travel
to the U.S. this week to negotiate with American computer
companies over possible participation in a project to
establish a Russian computer industry. "A market economy is
impossible without information," Mr. Lebedev says.
   The Russian economic plans are far more radical than a
package of measures being worked out by Soviet Prime Minister
Nikolai Ryzhkov, who is also planning to unveil his proposals
in early September. To avert the very real threat of turmoil,
Mr. Gorbachev has agreed to cooperate with Mr. Yeltsin in an
attempt to coordinate the economic-reform plans. Top
economists from both sides are currently holed up in a
Russian government dacha outside Moscow called Little Pine
Trees, trying to thrash out a consensus.
   Prime Minister Ryzhkov and the state central planning
authorities are likely to be the losers. Some Russian
officials have already called for the resignation of Mr.
Ryzhkov, whose attempts at introducing reforms earlier this
year were rejected as inadequate.
   But Mr. Yeltsin insists he is still seeking to work with
Mr. Gorbachev for the good of the nation. The two leaders are
expected to meet to discuss their many differences in the
near future, perhaps as early as tomorrow. "It is not a
process of confrontation, but growing closeness between the
leaders of the Soviet Union and the Russian Federation," he
said last week. "Serious steps to meet each other halfway
have been taken."
   Given Russia's enormous economic and political clout, few
officials doubt that Russia will play the leading role in
writing a new union treaty. For them, it is a question of
whether Mr. Gorbachev cooperates with Mr. Yeltsin, rather
than the other way around. Says Mr. Fyodorov, the Russian
government official: "The balance of forces has changed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Rosenthal May Resume Payout
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.ROS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- Rosenthal AG of West Germany, a porcelain
products maker, said it expects to resume paying annual cash
dividends beginning for 1990, after omitting the 1989 payout.
It last paid five marks ($3.23) a share for 1988.
   In February, Rosenthal decided to forgo a dividend for
1989, to channel fresh cash to beef up the capital base of
the Johan Haviland China Corp. subsidiary in the U.S. "We are
confident that for 1990 we can again pay a satisfactory
dividend," the company said, but it didn't mention a sum.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dividend probably will be declared in early 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OPEC Begins Talks on Raising Output
   Aimed at Holding Down the Price of Oil
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   VIENNA -- OPEC's oil ministers began politically charged
talks on higher output quotas to help hold down petroleum
prices during the Middle East crisis.
   As more ministers than had been expected arrived here over
the weekend, a consensus seemed to build that the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries might turn what
had been billed as a series of informal talks into a
full-blown meeting. Such a formal meeting could officially
act on proposals by some countries that they be allowed to
produce more oil to replace embargoed Iraqi-Kuwaiti oil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A previous request by Saudi Arabia and Venezuela for such
an extraordinary conference, or emergency meeting, failed to
receive majority approval and was rejected by Sadek Boussena,
Algeria's oil minister and OPEC's president.
   Even Mr. Boussena, who has insisted that the consuming
nations should draw down their high oil inventories before
asking OPEC to produce more, showed some signs of flexibility
on the issue that has sharply divided the organization. "The
only thing we have in mind is to save OPEC," he said on his
arrival.
   Of OPEC's 13 member nations, 11 were represented here by
last night. The only absentees were the ministers from Iraq
and Libya. Libya's minister is still expected.
   Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates are
thought to be capable of making up three million barrels a
day of the four million barrels taken out of world oil
markets by the embargo. The three countries would like to get
a meeting to officially approve output beyond their current
quotas, though it has been clear they intend to increase
production, anyway, if OPEC's clearance isn't forthcoming
soon.
   Iraq strongly opposes such a move by OPEC, and has been
supported by several other members who argue that OPEC's late
July production agreement shouldn't be altered until there is
real evidence of tight supplies. Some worry that changing
that agreement would appear to be bowing to U.S. wishes to
hold down petroleum prices while the U.S. leads global
sanctions against Iraq and Kuwait.
   On Friday, oil prices eased but remained above the
$30-a-barrel mark. West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark
crude, fell $1.05 to $30.90, while in the international
market, North Sea Brent dropped $1.20 to $31.20.
   Celestino Armas, Venezuela's oil minister, renewed the
call for an emergency session on his arrival. "We need to
take some action {now}," said Mr. Armas, adding: "The world
is waiting for OPEC."
   Venezuela already is pumping more than its quota of 1.9
million barrels a day, but the additional oil is going into
storage, Mr. Armas said. Other officials from Venezuela
confirmed that the country's national oil company can
increase output by 350,000 barrels a day within a week and by
an additional 150,000 barrels a day by year end.
   The UAE could exceed its quota by a similar amount, while
Saudi Arabia is understood to be capable of producing as much
as two million barrels a day over its quota, making up 50% of
the four million barrels of oil taken out of world markets by
the embargo.
   Supporting the wish of those three countries to raise
output is a delegation from Kuwait's government-in-exile.
Heading the delegation is Ali Khalifa al-Sabah, Kuwait's
finance minister and former oil minister.
   Sheik Ali was the architect of Kuwait's long-standing
practice of over-production. That practice particularly
enraged Iraq, which contended the excess Kuwait production
depressed oil prices and kept Iraq from gaining funds needed
to rebuild its war-torn economy.
   Sheik Ali slipped out of Kuwait the night of Iraq's
invasion and has been shepherding his country's vast global
investments and its oil policy from exile. He had little to
say on his arrival other than to express hope for an
agreement on increased quotas for "those who can produce"
more.
   Others backing the Saudi-Venezuela proposal are the United
Arab Emirates, Ecuador and Qatar. Delegates from these
countries not only support expanded output by OPEC's
producers but also recommend that consuming nations draw
additional supplies from their government and commercial
stockpiles. That combination, they argue, would change the
market psychology that has resulted in a doubling of oil
prices since June.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Australian Firm Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY, Australia -- OTC Ltd., Australia's
government-owned international telecommunications company,
said it received a 10-year contract valued at more than 250
million Australian dollars (US$208.4 million) to help Vietnam
develop and manage its international telecommunications
network.
   OTC already is involved in Vietnam through a contract
signed in 1988 to build satellite earth stations. Under the
new contract, OTC will construct two digital international
telephone exchanges in Vietnam, invest in domestic
telecommunications projects and train local staff.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McCormick to Buy Back Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCCRK
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HUNT VALLEY, Md. -- McCormick &amp; Co., a maker of spices,
flavorings and food products, said it began a program to
purchase as many as two million of its 40 million common
shares outstanding, in open-market transactions from time to
time.
   The company said its most recent buy-back program, which
was announced last Sept. 18 and covered about 2.1 million
shares, has been completed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Stora Puts Finess Up for Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   S.STO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags AB of Sweden, a pulp
and paper maker, said it plans to sell its Finess AB unit, a
tissues and paper napkin maker with annual sales of about 2.2
billion kronor ($385.2 million). An asking price wasn't
disclosed but an analyst estimated 1.6 billion kronor as
likely.
   Stora said it will provide more detailed information on
Sept. 6, following a board meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   EPA v. Private Property
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Some environmentalists are running headlong at the
property rights embedded in the U.S. Constitution. The
question is why the Bush Administration has been helping the
greens succeed.
   In a normal world, a clean environment and private
property are perfectly compatible. As residents of Leningrad
or Leipzig know, private owners do far better by preservation
than socialists have done. But in their zeal to cleanse the
world of man's sins, U.S. enviros have been ignoring the
Constitution's Fifth Amendment ban against the "taking" of
private property without compensation. Idaho Republican Steve
Symms tried to remind them late last month by offering a
modest amendment to the Senate farm bill. He ran into the
buzzsaw of the green lobby and its friends at the
Environmental Protection Agency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Symms amendment is hardly radical. All it would do is
require the Justice Department to review the guidelines
federal agencies use to vet regulations so they aren't an
unconstitutional "taking." In effect, the amendment would
enforce a 1988 executive order (reissued by George Bush)
implementing two Supreme Court judgments on "takings." The
White House agreed not to oppose the amendment, but EPA
fought it behind the scenes on Capitol Hill lest anyone else
get a chance to question its judgment.
   Rhode Island Republican John Chafee told fellow Senators
the green lobby considered this an "environmental" vote. The
National Wildlife Federation issued a hysterical letter
claiming it would result in "superfluous takings lawsuits,"
as if lawsuits haven't been the warp and woof of modern
environmentalism. The amendment lost 52-43, with protean
conservatives Gordon Humphrey (R., N.H.) and Alabama
Democrats Richard Shelby and Howell Heflin joining liberals
in voting against property rights.
   This opposition is strange, because support for Symms
crosses normal ideological lines. Free-market farm groups
support the idea, but so does the usually pro-regulation
American Agriculture Movement. They've united in opposition
to the way federal agencies -- the EPA and Army Corps of
Engineers -- have imperially blocked development on most
private wetlands throughout the U.S.
   In a letter to Senators, AAM's national director, David
Senter, wrote that U.S. farmers stand to lose "25% to 50% of
their net equity due to the outright taking of their land by
the federal government." Federal agencies, he added, "are
using wetlands delineation, clean water, and other laws as a
way to take control of vast areas of farmland, much of which
has been farmed for decades and has nothing to do with
permanent wetlands."
   This doesn't impress top EPA officials, who've long talked
as if the Founders' notions about property are quaint
anachronisms. Reviewing a book in 1988, EPA general counsel
Donald Elliott endorsed "an evolutionary theory of property."
He added that, "Such a theory will not conclude, however,
that the only system of property possible in a Darwinian
world is 19th-century capitalism's."
   EPA Director William Reilly has attacked what he called,
as recently as 1985, "mainstream attitudes about private
property and freedom of action." He criticized these
attitudes for producing "tawdry gateways to some of our
greatest national parks." Apparently, Mr. Reilly's aesthetic
sensibilities are offended by the Motel Sixes and Citgo
stations that serve the hoi polloi outside the parks. He's
also written that "conscious public choice" -- i.e., his own
regulatory choice -- is needed, or else, gasp, "the market
will decide which land gets developed and which remains as it
is."
   As it happens, U.S. courts are moving against Mr. Reilly's
views -- and toward more protection for property rights.
Shortly before the Senate voted on Symms, the U.S. Claims
Court ordered the U.S. to pay substantial fines for unfairly
"taking" private wetlands. It ordered $1,029,000 in
compensation for the Army Corps' refusal to allow limestone
mining on 98 acres in Dade County, Fla. It also awarded $2.66
million for a taking of 12.5 acres in Long Beach Township,
N.J., once again after the Army Corps denied any development.
So taxpayers will now have to pay for regulatory mistakes
that the Symms amendment is designed to prevent.
   As Soviet reformers know, private property rights lead to
a cleaner environment because they imply individual
responsibility. Maybe what Bill Reilly and his EPA colleagues
need is a couple of years studying Lake Baikal to remind
them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pentagon to Pare
   Its Orders by 40%
   For LH Helicopters
   ----
   By Bob Davis and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   MD TXT BA UTX
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Defense Department, bowing to
congressional pressure, said it would slash by 40% the number
of LH helicopters it plans to buy and delay production of the
new aircraft by about two years.
   The Pentagon, as part of an in-depth review of big-ticket
weapons programs by Secretary Dick Cheney, said it wants to
buy 1,292 of the new lightweight Army helicopters at an
annual rate of 120. They'd replace the current fleet of AH-1,
OH-6 and OH-58 choppers at a cost of $34.2 billion.
Previously, the Pentagon had planned to buy 2,096 LHs at a
cost of $42 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Critics in Congress have questioned the cost of the
helicopter, its necessity in light of the diminished Soviet
threat and its ability to survive attack from the ground. In
addition, the Senate has voted to require that the Army build
prototypes of the helicopter before it starts assembling a
final production model. The Army originally had planned to
rely just on engineering analyses before putting production
tooling in place.
   In its decision, announced Friday, the Pentagon largely
acquiesced to the Senate requirement, saying it would build
six prototypes before deciding on a production model. The
first LH helicopters for actual use now are expected to come
off the production line in December 1998, about two years
later than scheduled. "We're falling in line" with the
Senate's position, said an Army spokeswoman.
   Yet given the effort by some lawmakers, especially Rep.
Larry Hopkins (R., Ky.), to scuttle the LH program
completely, the Pentagon's long-awaited call to push ahead
with development was greeted by the contractors on the
project as welcome news.
   They cited, in particular, Mr. Cheney's assertion that the
Army's current fleet of helicopters does "not meet the
projected threat." In a letter dated Thursday to Senate Armed
Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn (D., Ga.), the secretary
maintained that "the collapse of the Warsaw Pact does not
alter the need for the LH," saying that crises such as the
one currently in the Persian Gulf "require a versatile and
more flexible force."
   "In light of all the programs that the Pentagon has
canceled or has gone back to a study phase on, we're pleased
with its decision," said Al Haggerty, director of a team made
up of McDonnell Douglas Corp. and Textron Inc.'s Bell
division -- one of two teams competing for the LH accord.
"We're talking about hundreds of people that could have been
out of work had they zeroed it," he said.
   The other team is made up of Boeing Co. and United
Technologies Corp.'s Sikorsky subsidiary. The Army plans to
choose between the two teams in February 1991. The industry
has already poured a total of about $450 million into the LH.
   A Sikorsky spokesman said he couldn't comment as to what
the Army's newly proposed production rate of 10 a month might
mean for his team. But Mr. Haggerty asserted: "This will keep
the momentum going, the technology moving." The new rate, he
said, would allow for adequate efficiency and "certainly
isn't something that anybody in the industry would turn their
nose up at."
   Still, the Pentagon announcement doesn't end the program's
political problems. The House Armed Services Committee, for
instance, has approved language calling for the Army to scrap
the LH and come up with an improved design, which it calls
the Scout attack helicopter. "We want them to go back to the
drawing board," a committee spokeswoman said. Mr. Haggerty
countered, however, that the measure being advanced by the
House panel seems more a matter of semantics than substance;
the LH's mission, he insisted, hasn't been changed.
   The Pentagon describes the LH as an armed reconnaissance
helicopter that can perform at night, in bad weather and in
hot climates with a range unmatched by current helicopters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Previews of NBC Fall Lineup Get Panned
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   GE CCB JCP J.NIP
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NBC hit on a sure-fire way to call attention to its fall
lineup: It previewed five of its new shows last week, a
traditionally dead time when tired reruns rule the airwaves.
   NBC got attention, all right -- but definitely not the
kind it was looking for. The New York Post lambasted its
"Hull High" as "a waste of time." NBC's "Ferris Bueller" is
the "evil twin" of the movie that spawned it, complained USA
Today. The Washington Post opined that "Lifestories," a drama
about gravely ill patients, is "icky."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The disappointing reviews are yet another piece of bad
news for top-ranked NBC, whose lead over second-ranked ABC
has been steadily dwindling. The early previews laid bare
potential weaknesses in NBC's fall schedule to advertisers
and ad agencies, who just finished committing hundreds of
millions of dollars to the network. They also showed up the
problems inherent in NBC's latest strategy, called "double
pumping," because it involves previewing the pilots for new
series before the season begins and then airing them again
later on.
   The strategy is supposed to "get awareness and early
sampling. That can work if the shows are liked by the
audience -- and will backfire if the shows aren't that good,"
says Arnie Semsky, an executive vice president with ad agency
BBDO, an Omnicom Group unit. "The fact that the critics
didn't like some of {NBC's new shows} isn't going to help.
That's the chance you take when you get out early."
   An spokesman for NBC, a unit of General Electric, concedes
that the early blast of negative reviews is a "concern." But
he notes that there were some good reviews, especially for
"Parenthood," based on the movie of the same name. And he
says NBC stands by its strategy of giving viewers a sneak
preview at a time when viewership levels are usually at rock
bottom. "The one thing we were looking for is viewer
attention. We're trying to attract an audience at a time of
year when we don't normally have good viewership," he says.
   Not surprisingly, the new NBC shows did perform well
against the other networks' reruns. Monday, when three of the
shows made their debut, NBC's overall rating was 27% higher
than the average of the previous four Mondays, the spokesman
says. But ad agency executives counter that those ratings
don't give any indication as to how the shows will actually
fare against competitors after the new season kicks off.
   "The ratings levels in the summer deal with a whole
different level of TV usage, so it's hard to make a judgment
of what they would mean in the fall," says Joseph Ostrow,
executive vice president at Foote, Cone &amp; Belding
Communications.
   Still, ad agency executives generally give a nod of
approval to NBC's "double-pump" gamble, even though the early
previews did end up attracting the torrent of negative
publicity. The early exposure of the new shows can help build
viewership, the executives say. As BBDO's Mr. Semsky reasons,
it's better to take the chance of having a bad show bomb
early on "than to take the chance of a good show getting lost
in the shuffle" of new programming later.
   Other ad executives suggest that NBC might be able to put
the bad news to work, by getting a headstart in tinkering
with its shows to make some improvements. "It may lead NBC to
make changes in the programs themselves or in the schedules.
It might help them in many ways," says Stephen Leff, vice
chairman of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi's Backer Spielvogel Bates unit.
"No one can deny there's been slippage {in NBC's standing},
but I don't think NBC is showing signs of being complacent."
The NBC spokesman, however, says that as of now, no tinkering
is planned.
   The ad executives can afford to be sanguine. NBC
guaranteed certain ratings levels for the new shows and will
have to "make good" on its promises if the actual ratings
fall short.
   In any case, NBC needs to take some gambles if it is to
stay ahead of the competition for the sixth season running.
While most ad executives expect the network to hold on to the
top spot for another year, the gap between NBC and ABC is
closing -- and ABC is luring away the audience most
attractive to advertisers. BBDO estimates, for example, that
despite NBC's projected ratings lead this coming season, the
Capital Cities/ABC unit will tie the leader in ratings for
women 18 to 49 years old and for women who are 25 to 54.
   "Even if {the new NBC shows'} reviews had been
spectacular, the fact is that ABC has been closing in on
NBC," says Foote Cone's Mr. Ostrow. He adds, "I think the
idea of getting those programs on early is a good one. It
gives you an opportunity to test the waters. It's a very
enlightened way of trying to do things."
   ---
   Penney's New Attack
                                                                                                       

   J.C. Penney, in its latest bid to burnish its still-frumpy
image, next month will begin airing surprisingly hip ads with
the theme "Fashion Comes to Life."
   The new advertising drive, created by Ayer's Dallas
office, will replace Penney's seven-year-old "You're Looking
Smarter Than Ever" campaign.
   The new TV commercials, which will be supported by a $10
million budget in September alone, feature a catchy tune and
images of good-looking yuppies at work and play. Penney also
plans to run many newspaper ads with more stylish models than
the ones in its past ads.
   Ron Shuler, Penney's director of marketing communications,
said the old campaign helped contemporize Penney's image. But
he said the new campaign should give a more pointed message
to women that Penney's is a good place to shop for clothes
nice enough to wear to work. "We need that consumer to spend
more of her fashion dollar with us," he said.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Librex Corp., San Jose, Calif., named San
Francisco agency Goodby, Berlin &amp; Silverstein to handle the
advertising launch of a new line of computers. Billings are
set at $5 million. Librex is a unit of Nippon Steel of Japan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bernard Chaus Inc. Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHS
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bernard Chaus Inc. said it may purchase, from
time to time, up to $1 million of its common stock in the
open market, depending on market conditions. Officials said
this would be the first time it bought back shares this year.
They gave no particular reason for the timing of the
announcement, saying only that the company saw this as a
"good opportunity" to buy shares.
   Bernard Chaus is a maker of moderately priced women's
clothing, sold in department and specialty stores throughout
the U.S. For the nine months ended March 31, the company
reported net sales of about $221 million. Chaus shares closed
Friday at $2.75, up 25 cents, in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDevitt &amp; Street to Be Sold
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   U.PO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- McDevitt &amp; Street Co., a large, closely
held contracting company, said it agreed to be acquired by
the Bovis Construction Group unit of London-based Peninsular
&amp; Oriental Steam Navigation Co., which also has interests in
ferry lines and passenger shipping and owns Princess Cruises
in the U.S. Terms weren't disclosed.
   With revenue last year of $880 million, McDevitt &amp; Street
is North Carolina's largest private business. The company
builds office buildings, industrial facilities, stores and
hotels, among other things.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   U.S. Again Says
   GNP Rose 1.2%
   In 2nd Quarter
   ---
   But Revised Report Finds
   Better Economic Tone;
   Corporate Profits Eased
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The economy wasn't quite as bad off in the
second quarter as the government originally estimated,
although overall growth was just as weak.
   After reviewing new data, the Commerce Department made
minor revisions to its calculation of the second-quarter real
gross national product -- the market value of all the goods
and services the economy produced, adjusted for inflation --
showing that personal spending and exports during the period
were stronger than originally estimated. Business
inventories, the new data showed, were smaller.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While this made a healthier mix of economic factors, the
bottom line was the same: Real GNP rose at a 1.2% annual rate
in the second quarter, the same as the department first
estimated. That trailed the 1.7% growth rate in the first
quarter of the year, and marked the fifth quarter in a row of
a growth rate under 2%.
   During the latest three-month period, after-tax corporate
profits slipped 0.2%, the department reported in its first
calculation of earnings for the quarter. It was the first
decline in that category since the fourth quarter of 1989.
   But profits from current production, or earnings adjusted
for changes in the value of inventories and depreciation of
capital, rose 3.3% after growing 2% in the first quarter and
falling 5.2% in the fourth quarter. This measure is
considered by some analysts to be a better gauge of corporate
financial health than after-tax profits.
   The revised GNP figures still show that the economy was in
a precarious position even before the Middle East oil crisis
cast a further pall on the economic outlook. As in its
initial report, the government still said most major segments
of private economic activity declined in the second quarter,
including construction, business investment and exports.
   Personal consumption, which accounts for about two-thirds
of the country's economic activity, did increase slightly,
however, the department said after examining new information.
It grew at a $2 billion annual rate, instead of dropping at a
$2.1 billion pace as the department initially estimated.
   The department also cut its estimate of the second-quarter
decline in exports almost in half, to a $5.6 billion rate,
instead of $11.1 billion.
   The government will revise the second-quarter GNP figures
a final time next month.
   All the figures are adjusted for seasonal changes.
   ---
                  GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT
                                                                                                       

   Here are some of the major components of the gross
national product expressed in seasonally adjusted annual
rates in billions of constant (1982) dollars:
                                                                                                       

                                      1st Qtr.    2nd Qtr.
                                        1990       1990
                                                                                                       

   GNP .............................   4150.6      4162.8
    less: inventory chng ...........     -2.2        11.6
    equals: final sales ............   4188.1      4191.1
                                                                                                       

   Components of Final Sales
    Personal Consumption ...........   2677.3      2679.3
    Nonresidential Invest. .........    514.6       507.8
    Residential Invest. ............    188.3       183.0
    Net Exports ....................    -35.4       -39.9
    Gov't Purchases ................    807.9       820.9
                                                                                                       

   In the second quarter, the implicit price deflator rose to
4.7% of the 1982 average, from 4.8% in the previous quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Small Arab Force Takes Up Position
   In Saudi Arabia as First Line of Defense
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   HAFAR AL BATIN, Saudi Arabia -- A relatively small but
strategically placed Arab force has moved into position near
here to form the first line of defense against any Iraqi
assault.
   The Saudi army's elite "Peninsula Shield" division, along
with thousands of Egyptian and Moroccan troops, now guard the
main desert and coastal approach routes from the desolate
Kuwaiti frontier. The first group of Syrian soldiers has been
deployed near a section of the border closer to the coast,
and even the tiny Persian Gulf sheikdoms of Bahrain, Qatar
and Oman are deploying troops at the urging of the U.S. and
Saudi Arabia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But behind this tripwire of Arab soldiers about 20 miles
from the Iraqi border, U.S. commanders are marshaling their
formidable forces for what is likely to be a different kind
of battle in the next few days and perhaps weeks.
   As part of a calculated, psychological test of wills with
Saddam Hussein, American forces are trying to intimidate the
Iraqi military and its leadership, according to U.S. and
Saudi officials. U.S. officers are jamming ground
communications, challenging Iraqi fighter pilots in the air
through long-range warnings, and sending out wide-ranging
patrols of Apache helicopters with laser-guided missiles.
   Keeping heavily armed American units well back from the
skirmish line along the border, according to these officials,
is part of a broader strategy intended to destroy Saddam
Hussein's standing in the Arab world if he launches any kind
of attack and injures Arabs in the multinational force. The
plan also ensures that U.S. forces retain maximum flexibility
to take defensive or offensive action.
   Meanwhile, the long-awaited arrival of the ships carrying
the most deadly U.S. tanks, the Army's M-1 models, means they
will reach the field in the next few days. And the general in
charge of supplying the rapidly expanding U.S. army here with
everything from weapons and fuel to candy and shaving cream
told reporters that his operation has mushroomed into
"probably the largest logistical exercise ever accomplished
in a short period of time since the end of World War II."
   The buildup of heavy ground forces accelerated over the
weekend as the first troops from the Army's 24th Mechanized
Infantry Division based at Fort Stewart, Ga., stepped off a
chartered Pan Am jumbo jet. Their M-1 tanks and Bradley
Fighting Vehicles will substantially increase the heavy armor
in Saudi Arabia and plug an important gap in the makeup of
U.S. forces here.
   Providing the most detailed breakdown so far of the
12,000-mile supply trail sustaining Operation Desert Shield,
Maj. Gen. Gus Pagonis said the Saudi government has been
giving free fuel, water, food, buses, trucks and even
military barracks to American troops. "They will give us
anything they have without any hesitation," he said.
   Right on the border, the Saudis appear to have only rifle
and pistol-toting border guards, backed up by a couple of
pickup trucks equipped with makeshift machine guns. Guards in
flowing white robes and turbans listlessly lean against
rundown posts surrounded by garbage and abandoned vehicles. A
gnarled man wore a shiny black bandoleer and waved a World
War I-era bolt-action Enfield rifle. Fourwheel-drive trucks
slowly patrol sections where an ordinary chain link fence
marks the edge of a three-mile-wide no man's land between
Saudi and Iraqi territory.
   Not too far to the southwest, the multinational forces are
digging in to defend what would be a natural highway for
Iraqi tanks if fighting breaks out.
   The first group of Western journalists to visit the Arab
force taking shape in the hard-packed, pancake-flat desert
saw a scene straight out of a Middle East adventure novel.
Standing in a large tent with an Oriental carpet on the
ground and gold-colored cloth lining the inside, Col.
Abdurahim Mohammed al Said, the commander of a battalion of
Saudi M-60 tanks, described the morale of his men. "For them,
it is a question of victory or martyrdom," he said.
   Instead of a map, Col. Said used a box filled with sand to
explain why his battalion was blocking one end of a wide
valley. A grid of black and green strings showed distances
and the route of the nearest highway. A deep gouge in the
surface represented the valley. Pink flags stuck in the sand
marked the location of Saudi units.
   Brig. Gen. Mohammed A. Shehri, the chief supply officer
for the division, described the Saudi military's reaction to
Saddam Hussein more bluntly. "We are not going to give this
crazy man a singe meter of (our) land. He will have to go
over us."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Appeals Court Upholds Major Portion
   Of Rules for Natural-Gas Deregulation
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A federal appeals court has upheld a major
portion of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's rules
for deregulating the natural-gas industry.
   The unanimous decision by a three-judge panel of the
appeals court here could spur investment in the industry by
reducing the likelihood of protracted litigation that might
have followed a decision throwing out the commission's
actions. Industry officials said they haven't yet decided
whether to appeal this outcome, however.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At issue were the commission's terms for increasing
competition in the pipeline industry and dismantling the
so-called take-or-pay system. During the 1970s and early
1980s, when gas prices were high and expected to go higher,
many producers and pipelines entered into agreements under
which the pipelines agreed to pay top dollar for gas -- and
to take it even if they didn't need it -- in exchange for the
promise of long-term supplies.
   A subsequent sharp drop in prices, however, left these
pipelines with expensive gas they had to buy but couldn't
sell. At the same time, in a series of deregulatory steps,
the commission was allowing distribution companies, utilities
and a range of other customers to buy gas directly from
producers -- at the lower market prices. Pipelines were
required to transport these customers' gas on the same basis
as they moved gas they owned.
   In the court case, various producers, pipelines and
customers sought changes in the rules the commission
established for getting pipelines out of their take-or-pay
obligations and for ensuring that they provided all customers
with equal access to their transportation systems.
   Because the status quo was upheld, with some minor
exceptions, the court decision isn't expected to raise or
lower consumer gas prices much. Moreover, many pipelines and
producers have already reached settlements of their
take-or-pay contracts, though a different court decision
might have led to a reopening of some of these agreements.
   The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait has led to a jump in oil
prices, which, if sustained, is likely to lead to an increase
in gas prices as well. That could renew interest in
longer-term contracts, but the regulatory restrictions that
surrounded the take-or-pay contracts would no longer apply.
   Glen Howard, a partner at the law firm of Sutherland,
Asbill &amp; Brennan, which represented industrial gas customers
in the case, said that "big jumps in gas bills" might have
resulted if the pipelines had been allowed to recover more of
their costs of buying their way out of their take-or-pay
contracts.
   The commission had no comment on the court decision.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Police-State Prescription for America's Woes
   ----
   By Susan Lee
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Philip Mattera, according to his book blurb, is a former
reporter for Fortune magazine. And, judging by his footnotes,
he does read the business press. How could it come to pass,
then, that such a person could write a book urging the U.S.
to retrofit itself as some sort of Eastern European nation --
say, Romania -- before the Berlin Wall tumbled down?
   "Prosperity Lost" (Addison-Wesley, 247 pages, $19.95) is
one weird book. It mostly describes how down at the heels the
U.S. has become. There is nothing much new on Mr. Mattera's
list: The rich are becoming richer, the poor, poorer. There
is a lack of affordable housing. Workers are being treated
like a second-class work force. The economy suffers from
deindustrialization and shrinking unions. Government policy
has put America up for sale to foreigners. And, if inviting
foreigners to own us wasn't bad enough, business is locating
production on foreign shores.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nothing seems right to this poor benighted baby. In fact,
even the good stuff generated by the U.S. economy is actually
bad stuff masquerading as good stuff. Mr. Mattera recognizes
that we are creating jobs, but complains that they are lousy
ones. He admits that living standards for senior citizens
have dramatically improved, but cautions that they still are
"vulnerable" to poverty. He concedes that the majority of the
work force is covered by health insurance, but is outraged
that some must pay a portion of their medical expenses
themselves.
   The whining of This Poor Benighted Baby is relieved only
by the whining of the citizens he quotes. We read employees
whining about the demands of their employers, home owners
whining that their castles are located too far from their
jobs, deadbeats who have defaulted on their student loans
whining about their debts.
   But there always will be grumblers among us trotting out
tired complaints. It is when T.P.B.B. proposes his solutions
that he takes off toward Planet Debbie. What he wants us to
do is "tear down the barrier between people's income and
their needs." How? Fasten your seat belts and consider:
   1. The government should establish a maximum wage -- a
limit beyond which accumulation would be illegal. And here I
really must quote or you won't believe me: "Admittedly it
would be difficult to enforce such ceilings on income and
wealth. In the case of chief executives of publicly held
companies, the federal reporting requirements would help in
keeping tabs. Otherwise, we would have to depend on zealous
federal investigators who would be using the Forbes 400 list
for an entirely different purpose than its originators
intended."
   2. The government should establish a guaranteed income.
Where would the money come from? Again, I must quote: "As for
the ability of society to pay . . . it is important to keep
in mind that affordability is ultimately a political rather
than an economic concept." (Could I make this stuff up?)
   3. The government and the banks could forgive the "monthly
vigorish demanded by MasterCard and Visa."
   4. The government should reduce the 40-hour work week. Oh
dear, I must quote again: "It is insane to have a society in
which some people work ridiculously long weeks while others
cannot find a job at all." In fact, making it illegal to work
over a certain number of hours "may also be the cure for the
workaholism that afflicted so many white-collar types during
the 1980s."
   5. The government should pay women who do housework and
child-care more income than men.
   6. Private pension plans should be controlled by unions
who would take over all residential construction and offer
low mortgage rates.
   7. There should be limits on the international mobility of
capital to discourage multinational corporations.
   In short, what T.P.B.B. is proposing is a kind of Soviet
Union: a police state with strict limits on the accumulation
of income and wealth, a massive redistribution of income from
the industrious and upright to the lazy and profligate, and a
wicked shortage of housing by making it "affordable."
   Indeed, the only aspect of state socialism that T.P.B.B.
misses is collectivizing farms. Perhaps the U.S. farm program
with its heavy subsidies -- which redistribute income to
farmers -- suits him fine. And, come to think of it, he
doesn't propose converting the dollar into a soft currency as
part of his plan to keep America American.
   You really need to be a P.B.B. to think such programs
would create prosperity, not ensure widespread poverty.
Without getting into a lecture on the beauties of a market
economy, consider what labor productivity would be like once
it was illegal to work hard. Consider what retirement income
would be like if pension plans had to depend on
below-market-rate mortgages. And consider how competitive and
productive corporations would be if they were barred from
locating production and capital where they would earn their
highest rates of return.
   Just where was T.P.B.B. when all those Trabants were
gasping across the border from East to West Germany?
   ---
   Ms. Lee is an economist.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toyota Exports Rose in July
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY NSANY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Toyota Motor Corp. said exports rose for the
second month in a row, jumping 10% to 146,089 units in July
from a year earlier.
   Japan's No. 1 auto maker said exports to the U.S. rose 10%
to 63,330 units, but exports to the European Community
dropped 12% to 22,264 units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Nissan Motor Co., Japan's No. 2 auto maker,
said exports fell 11% to 77,302 units in July, the 11th
consecutive monthly decline. Exports to the U.S. fell 17% to
25,181 units, while those to the EC nations dropped 10% to
26,291 units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Vehicle Output Soars
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's production of cars, buses and trucks in
July soared 10.1% from a year earlier to 1.2 million units
from 1.1 million, marking the second-largest year-to-year
percentage gain for a month and a record total for the month
of July, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers' Association
reported.
   The record year-to-year gain was a 10.8% jump in May. In
June, by comparison, output slipped 1%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domestic sales, growing 8.3% to 766,174 units in July,
fueled the rise, the association said. Export figures are
expected to show a 3% gain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Robert L. Muller
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST FREST U.RR J.DKB
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
RAILROADS (RAI)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
SECURITIES (SCR)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TURKEY'S KURDISH STRATEGY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In shaping their policies on the Gulf crisis, officials in
Ankara may have been thinking ahead to Turkey's problems with
the nation's large Kurdish minority.
   While Turkey has refrained from military involvement, it
has cut off two Iraqi oil pipelines across its territory,
imposed a trade ban and prohibited neighboring Iraq from
using Turkish roads or airspace to transport goods.
   Official sources and commentators suggest Turkey is taking
an active role in the crisis now so it will be listened to
later. The reasoning goes this way:
   The U.S. appears determined to bring down Iraq's Saddam
Hussein and make the Persian Gulf oil fields secure. This
will probably lead to war and, eventually, a peace
conference. And Turkey would like to sit at the conference
table to make sure that its national interests aren't
jeopardized and that an independent Kurdistan doesn't emerge.
   An estimated 20 million Kurds live in an area where the
borders of Turkey, the Soviet Union, Iran, Iraq and Syria
converge. Turkey has the largest group, an estimated 10
million out of its total population of 55 million. Several
thousand guerrillas have been fighting since 1984 for an
independent Kurdish state in southeastern Turkey.
                                                                                                       

   HAVE FOOD, WON'T TRAVEL
                                                                                                       

   Finding many doors on the European continent closed to
them, big British food-retailing chains such as Sainsbury,
Tesco, Gateway, Argyll and Asda are storming the weaker gates
of the U.K.'s own corner grocers and independent
supermarkets. Instead of pushing their shopping carts across
borders, the British groups are stocking up on U.K. sites for
"superstores." The new-generation supermarkets, made
appealing with high-margin fresh produce, are proving more
profitable than operating comparable big stores on the
continent, analysts say.
                                                                                                       

   FAST TRACK
                                                                                                       

   West Germany's federal railroad system expects to spend 40
billion marks ($25.9 billion) in the next 10 years on new
plant and equipment, including a high-speed train network.
The amount doesn't include the costly upgrading of East
Germany's timeworn rail system.
                                                                                                       

   `BABY' GETS A GIFT
                                                                                                       

   Ninety years after it officially became a commonwealth,
Australia has its "birth certificate." British Deputy Prime
Minister Sir Geoffrey Howe handed over to Prime Minister Bob
Hawke one of the two originals of the legislation, passed by
the British Parliament on July 5, 1900, that turned six
colonies into the Commonwealth of Australia.
                                                                                                       

   CAST OF CHARACTERS
                                                                                                       

   Teams at the Asian Games in Beijing will march into the
opening ceremony Sept. 22 in order of Chinese characters,
organizers said. The nation with the name that, in Chinese
characters, has the smallest number of strokes will march
first while the country with the most strokes will be at the
end of the line.
                                                                                                       

   WATCHDOG BITES
                                                                                                       

   Hong Kong's watchdog Securities and Futures Commission
said it fined Y &amp; C Property Investment Co. 15,000 Hong Kong
dollars (US$1,930) for issuing unauthorized advertisements
related to investments designed to help people secure the
right to emigrate to Canada. Hundreds of thousands of Hong
Kong residents are seeking second passports before the
British colony reverts to Chinese hands in 1997. Many
countries make immigration easier for those willing to invest
money, a factor that has spawned a sizable local industry
touting such plans.
                                                                                                       

   BLEAK BULGARIA
                                                                                                       

   Nine months after ousting its hard-line Communist leaders,
Bulgaria's political future is uncertain. Its economy is in
crisis and its population is frightened by the prospect of a
winter of starvation.
   Shops and gas stations are empty, foreign investors are
deterred by huge foreign debt, and the new, freely elected
parliament can't agree on what kind of government will run
the country.
   An increasing number of Bulgarians, frustrated by empty
stores and worried by the prospect of chronic shortages
during the harsh Balkan winter, are lining up outside
consulates for emigrant visas.
   "This country is really on the ropes," one Western
diplomat said. "People are getting out for whatever reason
they can -- and I wouldn't want to be here this winter if I
were Bulgarian."
   Like many of its East European neighbors, Bulgaria last
year ended the Communist monopoly on power. But while other
countries in Eastern Europe voted the Communists out of
power, in Bulgaria the party renamed itself Socialist and
swept to victory at free elections in June.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Sanctions against Iraq will cost 650 British workers their
jobs at a division of Rolls-Royce PLC that had a 75
million-pound ($146.6 million) contract to supply four
turbine generators to Iraq. . . . Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd.,
of Japan, said it and Bank Dagang National Indonesia P.T. are
awaiting approval from both governments to open a jointly
owned bank in Jakarta.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hasbro Inc. Stock Repurchase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   HAS
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PAWTUCKET, R.I. -- Hasbro Inc. said its board of directors
approved the company's purchase of up to three million of its
common shares "in the open market or otherwise."
   Hasbro said it would use some of the repurchased shares
for funding its employee stock-option plans and outstanding
warrants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On July 31, Hasbro had 57.9 million shares outstanding.
The shares closed Friday at $13 apiece, down from $17.325 on
Aug. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Northrop Wins Air Force Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC TRW CMIC HPH
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Northrop Corp. received a $35.4 million Air
Force contract for support of undergraduate pilot training.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   TRW Corp. received a $30.9 million Air Force contract for
improvements to the Cheyenne Mountain complex.
                                                                                                       

   California Microwave Inc. got a $17.8 million Army
contract for a classified system.
                                                                                                       

   Institute for Defense Analysis was awarded a $10 million
Army contract for defense studies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Kuwait Government-in-Exile Keeps
   Economy Thriving Despite Invasion
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST G.MET
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Kuwait is bullish on stocks and bonds.
   That's the message the Kuwait government-in-exile is
sending to the world's jittery financial markets, where share
values have plummeted because of investor nervousness about
the prospect of war, higher oil prices and the possibility
that Kuwait could liquidate its massive overseas financial
holdings to raise cash.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The buy signal was sent out at an unusual weekend news
conference here, held by Kuwait's Sheik Ali Khalifa al-Sabah,
minister of finance. Sheik Ali is one of the senior
government figures responsible for the management of Kuwait's
estimated $100 billion in overseas assets. Since Iraq's
invasion, London has become the refuge and headquarters of
most of Kuwait's exiled business leaders, with a nucleus
forming around the London-based Kuwait Investment Office,
which manages most of the country's overseas holdings.
   Sheik Ali is spearheading efforts to keep his nation's
economy-in-exile thriving despite the Iraqi occupation and a
world-wide asset freeze that hampers normal operations.
   Sheik Ali has spent recent days on a whirlwind tour of
Kuwaiti investments in Spain, Germany and Britain. He said
that because central banks world-wide are allowing Kuwait to
continue to manage its investments, the Kuwait government and
the KIO "don't feel in any way harmed" by the asset freeze.
   In fact, on Friday Kuwait's government-in-exile reportedly
enlarged its previous 20% stake in the West German trading,
metals and chemicals group Metallgesellschaft AG. The
Frankfurter Rundschau, a German newspaper, reported that the
KIO bought shares on the West German stock markets and that
Metallgesellschaft was one of the issues acquired. It didn't
identify the others.
   Sheik Ali said he and Kuwaiti fund managers in Europe have
concluded that recent declines in world market prices may
offer a good buying opportunity. "In the past we have made
money in being contrarians. We think the markets may have
gone down too much," he said.
   Sheik Ali appeared to base much of his reasoning on the
assumption of a quick resolution of the Gulf crisis. He
declined to specify what particular investments the Kuwaitis
are making. But he said the KIO's fund managers are planning
to commit more funds to the German markets and are
considering the same for Britain and much of Europe. He
didn't mention the U.S., where Kuwaiti financial holdings are
widely spread.
   He added that "just as our investment managers are taking
a contrarian view and perhaps going into the market, so our
oil people expect the price of oil to go down." He said some
of the traders responsible for assuring supplies to Kuwait
Petroleum, one of Europe's largest gasoline retailers, are
selling excess stocks.
   London traders say the Kuwaiti investment funds were
active sellers in the world markets for the first few days
after the Aug 2. invasion; since then they have sat mostly on
the sidelines. Sheik Ali said the invasion currently isn't
forcing any sales. "We have plenty of cash. We do not need to
liquidate anything," he said. He added that Kuwait intends to
hold on to its major strategic blocks in blue-chip companies.
In West Germany, for example, Kuwait owns roughly 14% of auto
maker Daimler-Benz AG and just under 20% of chemicals giant
Hoechst AG. In the U.S., it owns Santa Fe International
Corp., a San Francisco-based oil and gas concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australian Airlines Posts Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MELBOURNE, Australia -- Australian Airlines, a
government-owned domestic carrier, posted an operating loss
of 13.7 million Australian dollars (US$11.4 million) for the
fiscal year ended June 30, compared with year-earlier profit
of A$70.4 million, citing a 1989 pilots strike that disrupted
the industry for eight months. The loss totaled A$79.9
million before an income-tax credit and gains from selling
aircraft.
   Operating revenue fell 18% to A$1.02 billion from A$1.24
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chairman Ted Harris said he believes Australian Airlines
will return to profitability in the current fiscal year. He
said the airline is "well prepared" for partial deregulation
of Australia's airline industry that is to start in November.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France's Foreign Trade Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's seasonally adjusted foreign trade
deficit widened to a preliminary 4.64 billion francs ($893.9
million) in July from a revised 877 million francs in June,
which previously was estimated at 1.03 billion francs, the
National Customs office said.
   Unadjusted July results showed a deficit of 3.78 billion
francs, compared with a revised June gap of 415 million
francspreviously estimated at 592 million francs -- and a
July 1989 deficit of 3.38 billion francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest results brought France's adjusted trade deficit
for the first seven months of this year to 17.67 billion
francs, a narrowing from the year-earlier deficit of 24.73
billion francs. On an unadjusted basis, this deficit narrowed
to 23.55 billion francs from a gap of 29.3 billion francs in
the 1989 first seven months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Hong Kong's Outlook for GDP
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- The government lowered its 1990 gross
domestic product growth estimate to 2.5% from 3%, and
increased its estimate for this year's inflation rate to 9.5%
from 8.5%.
   An official said that the revisions were largely
influenced by the crisis in the Persian Gulf, but that the
weaker trends were in place even before Iraq seized Kuwait.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He declined to break down GDP growth on a quarterly basis,
but indicated that while first-quarter growth was close to
zero, GDP in the second quarter was slightly better. Growth
is expected to peak in the current quarter, before the full
economic effects of higher oil prices work their way through
the economy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Trickle-Down Theory
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   High-level leaks in Washington
   Are apparently hard to stop;
   The Ship of State is the only ship
   That seems to leak from the top.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   --
   Commerical Mood Swing
                                                                                                       

   Salespeople are always friendly
   They're rarely aloof or chilling.
   But once the sale's completed,
   There is no cooing -- just billing.
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   American Way
                                                                                                       

   I know now why my business is
   A corporate mirage;
   I simply wasn't smart enough
   To start in my garage.
   -- Ralph Shaffer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Golden Nugget Inc. Stock Is Sold
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GNG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Stephen A. Wynn, chairman of Golden Nugget
Inc., said he sold 150,000 shares in the Las Vegas, Nev.,
hotel and casino operator, reducing his stake to the
equivalent 31.1% of common shares outstanding.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Mr. Wynn
said he sold the shares from July 3 to July 11 for $34.375 to
$35.625 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Wynn said he continues to hold 5,460,831 Golden Nugget
shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Salomon Phibro Oil Trust Units
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   SB
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Salomon Brothers Inc.'s new Phibro Oil Trust
units were the most active issue on the American Stock
Exchange in their first day of trading Friday.
   Salomon said it priced 16 million units, four million more
than proposed, at $4.65 a unit. Almost 2.7 million units
traded, and the issue closed slightly higher at $4.75.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Phibro units, which allows investors to bet on the
price of crude oil five years from now, were brought to
market by Salomon and Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. after an earlier
proposed version was pulled in May when oil markets plunged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   North Star Ordered
   To Report Monthly
   On Its Finances
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   NSRU MIKL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. PAUL, Minn. -- Minnesota authorities, concerned about
North Star Universal Inc.'s debt load, are requiring the
company to report its financial health to the state monthly.
   State Commerce Commissioner Thomas H. Borman said the
requirement follows an investigation by his department into
North Star's sale of subordinated debentures in Minnesota, a
primary source of capital for the Minneapolis-based holding
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Questions had been raised in the media about North Star's
ability to service that unsecured debt, which exceeded $36
million as of last Dec. 31. All told, North Star had
long-term debt of $114 million at the end of 1989, compared
with $50.8 million a year earlier.
   Mr. Borman also said North Star must maintain its majority
control of Michael Foods Inc., although "we would have no
problem if they sell the stock and raise enough capital to
improve their liquidity situation or retire the debt. We want
to make sure they maintain control because the dividend
Michael pays to North Star is an important element in
servicing that debt."
   The Michael shares are pledged as collateral to First
National Bank of Minneapolis, North Star's primary lender.
The bank asked for the collateral after North Star
technically defaulted on its previous credit line.
   North Star officials recently indicated they were
considering selling all or part of its 53.9% stake in
Michael. Last year Michael accounted for 74% of North Star's
revenue and 80% of consolidated subsidiary operating profits.
North Star reported a loss of $2.3 million, or 28 cents a
share, last year.
   Under the agreement with the state, North Star must
maintain a .91:1 ratio of debt to cash and cash equivalents,
the commissioner said. The debt excludes salaries, wages and
current mortgage payments. The cash equivalents include the
Michael stock.
   Mr. Borman said his investigators concluded that North
Star currently has a "substantial liquidity cushion" because
of the value of its Michael stock. But he added that if
Michael shares fall below $12 a share, "there would be a
problem" and "we would have to get involved again."
   Should that occur, Mr. Borman said his office would "sit
down with the company and determine levels of liquid assets."
He added that North Star could improve both sides of its
balance sheet with certain asset sales. The company has
retained Goldman, Sachs to help explore restructuring
options.
   Mr. Borman said that should North Star not be in
compliance with the ratio, he has the authority to revoke its
right to issue debt within the state.
   North Star officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   Since 1987, when Michael Foods was formed, North Star says
it has experienced cash-flow deficits, resulting in increased
bank borrowings. But North Star has financed a substantial
portion of its non-food units through debenture programs,
which it markets itself. "Historically, a substantial portion
of maturing debentures has been reinvested in new debentures.
The company expects this trend to continue," its latest
annual report said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Oasis on Lake Superior
   ----
   By Paul Ingrassia
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Isle Royale National Park -- "I love the wilderness," says
Reino Koivunen. "I like cooking and camping and sleeping
outdoors. People who stay in motels don't have exciting
vacations."
   Millions of Americans profess those sentiments, but Mr.
Koivunen, of Laurium, Mich., is unusual. He's 82, and not
many people that old take to the woods. What's more, last
month Mr. Koivunen spent five days hiking and fishing on this
pristine, primitive island in the middle of Lake Superior,
which draws few people of any age.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Isle Royale had just 27,000 visitors last year -- making
it the nation's least used national park outside Alaska. At a
time when national parks look increasingly like traffic jams
surrounded by trees, Isle Royale may be one of the few
remaining parks where a great escape remains possible.
   The busiest of the 50 national parks is Great Smoky
Mountains in Tennessee and North Carolina. It drew 8.3
million visitors in 1989 -- almost as many per day as Isle
Royale got in the entire year. In contrast, Gates of the
Arctic park in northern Alaska attracted just 822 hardy
souls, making it low man on the totem pole. Besides that
park, only two other parks in Alaska were more lightly trod
than Isle Royale, which is the largest island in the world's
largest lake.
   It's easy to understand why. Even though Isle Royale and
Detroit are in the same state, it's faster and easier to
travel from the Motor City to Great Smoky Mountains park than
to this island wilderness. Both journeys require driving more
than 550 miles. But after that, it's a minimum 4 1/2-hour
ferry ride to Isle Royale.
   The boat trip is usually pleasant in midsummer, though
even in July you sometimes see your breath when you walk out
on deck because Lake Superior's water is so cold. But this
Great Lake (a.k.a. Gitche Gumee) can be capricious. "Last
year we had a group of girls on an Outward Bound trip, and
the lake got a little choppy," says Donald Kilpela, owner of
the Isle Royale Queen III, based in Copper Harbor, Mich. "So
many girls were hanging over the side of the boat throwing up
that we called it the communion rail."
   Also, consider the rigors of the island itself, which can
be visited mid-May through October. Isle Royale has a lodge
($70 a night per person, double occupancy, with all meals
included) or visitors can do their own cooking in individual
cabins ($38 per person double occupancy, with additional
guests $10.50 each).
   But most people leave the two "ports of entry" (Rock
Harbor and Windigo) and seek solitude by camping out. The
handy wood-and-screen lean-to shelters that dot the island's
campsites are a cut above tents, but the experience still
isn't exactly Club Med.
   Campers are warned to boil or filter thoroughly all the
water they drink. The problem isn't man-made pollutants, but
parasites that live in Isle Royale's animals. The main
culprits are the echinococcus granulosus tapeworm (it can
grow as long as its name) and the giardia. The latter, says
the park's special leaflet on drinking water, is a protozoan
that causes "backpackers disease or beaver fever," which is
characterized by diarrhea, cramps and "great abdominal
discomfort." The leaflet adds: "The diseases mentioned in
this brochure probably won't kill you, but they may make you
wish you were dead."
   Ironically, all these obstacles are part of the lure of
Isle Royale. After all, it's great to return home and say
you've visited a place that few other people will ever see.
Those who paddle a canoe to Ryan Island in the middle of Isle
Royale's inland Siskiwit Lake even can boast that they walked
on "the largest island on the largest lake on the largest
island on the largest lake in the world."
   But Isle Royale offers far more appeal than bragging
rights. "It's God's country; everything is so peaceful," says
Ron Feldpausch, a building contractor from Fowler, Mich., who
recently visited Isle Royale for the first time to hike and
camp with his two teen-aged sons and a 20-year-old nephew.
"On one of our canoe portages we saw a bull moose, and later
on we saw a mother moose and her baby swimming across a
lake."
   Researchers estimate that some 1,200 moose live on Isle
Royale, along with 14 wolves as of last winter. The wolf
population stands at just half of its long-term average, and
scientists are intensely studying what's wrong and what -- if
anything -- to do about the situation.
   The mosquitos are faring far better than the wolves.
"During the daytime there are no bugs whatsoever, but when
the sun sets you had better get inside a tent or a shelter,"
says Mr. Feldpausch. "The mosquitos are so thick that when
you're in a tent it sounds like you're in the middle of a
beehive."
   Return visits are old hat to Mr. Koivunen, a retired
lawyer and probate judge. He made his first trip in 1931, the
year that Isle Royale became a national park. Since then he's
returned 20 times, most recently in the company of his son,
grandson, and his "little brother" John, who's only 72.
   Mr. Koivunen likes exploring the island on foot, and
fishing around its perimeter from a rented motorboat. The
scenery is spectacular, partly because Isle Royale is really
an archipelago whose main island is surrounded by dozens of
others -- many of them tiny outcroppings.
   "I like seeing the moose and the foxes," says Mr.
Koivunen. "In all the years I've been there, I've never seen
a wolf. But maybe I will next year. We've already made plans
to go back."
   ---
   Mr. Ingrassia is the Journal's Detroit bureau chief.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wet Seal Net Nearly Doubles
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WTSLA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Wet Seal Inc., a specialty retailer that
went public last month, said that second-quarter net income
nearly doubled to $2.3 million, or 22 cents a share, on a 54%
sales increase.
   In the comparable quarter ended July 29, 1989, the
specialty retailer had net of $1.2 million, or 13 cents a
share. Sales in the latest quarter rose to $27.7 million from
$18.1 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wet Seal said the results reflected strong sales in its
mature stores as well as in seven new stores that opened in
the retailer's fiscal first half in California, Hawaii and
Arizona. In addition, the company has opened six stores this
month, including three in Florida, and plans to open seven
more this year.
   Wet Seal said it had 80 stores at the end of the quarter,
compared with 68 a year earlier. The recent openings bring
the total number of stores to 86. In national
over-the-counter trading Friday, Wet Seal's shares rose $1.50
to close at $13.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR MER SLM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                       CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Airlines -- $238.9 million of equipment trust
certificates through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets. The 25-part issue, with maturities ranging
from 2 1/2 to 24 1/2 years, was priced with yields varying
from 8.75% to 10.68%. The certificates were priced at spreads
ranging from 63 basis points to 160 basis points above
comparable Treasury issues. The certificates are secured by
three McDonnell Douglas DC-9-82 aircraft and five Boeing
757-223 aircraft. According to the preliminary prospectus,
American Airlines, a subsidiary of AMR Corp., leases the
aircraft from an owner-trustee, Wilmington Trust Co. Although
the certificates are not direct obligations of American
Airlines, the lease provides that the payments American makes
to lease the aircraft together with certain other payments by
the airline will go toward interest and principal payments on
the certificates.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch Trust 45 -- $510 million of Remic mortgage
securities offered in 10 classes by Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets. The offering is backed by Government National
Mortgage Association 9 1/2% securities with a weighted
average coupon rate of 10% and weighted average remaining
term to maturity of 26.67 years. Among classes for which
details were available, yields ranged from 8.95%, or 55 basis
points above three-year Treasury yields, to 10.09%, or 115
basis points over 30-year Treasurys.
                                                                                                       

                          OTHER
                                                                                                       

   Student Loan Marketing Association -- $300 million of
floating-rate notes due Sept. 6, 1993, to be sold at various
prices in negotiated transactions from time to time. The
interest rate will float at 55 basis points above the bond
equivalent yield of the 91-day U.S. Treasury bill auction
rate. The rate will be reset the day after each weekly
Treasury bill auction. Interest will be paid quarterly
beginning Dec. 6, 1990. The offering is being managed by
Lehman Brothers.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   There were no major European debt issues priced Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AmBase Accepts New Bid Involving Sale
   Of Stake, Retention of Home Insurance
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   ABC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- AmBase Corp., which already had agreed to sell
its Home Insurance Co. unit, agreed Friday to an offer by
another investor group to acquire 50.1% of AmBase.
   Shareholders and large investors said the latest
agreement, which is valued at a total of about $1.15 billion,
appears better but cautioned that not enough details have
been provided to properly evaluate either agreement. The
valuation includes $68 million for the equity stake, a $68
million cash infusion and assumption of $730 million of debt
and a $285 million preferred-stock issue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest agreement comes on the heels of an Aug. 14
accord AmBase reached with Vik Brothers International, a
European-based investor group, to sell the troubled property
and casualty insurance unit in a transaction valued at $905
million, which would include $544 million in cash and
assumption of $76 million of debt and the preferred. That
deal would leave AmBase debt-free but much smaller, with only
Carteret Bancorp, a thrift institution, as its main business.
   However, the investor group, in its agreement, said it
would retain Home Insurance, which generates about 70% of
AmBase's revenue. That would entail little change for the
company, which is saddled with the $730 million in debt. But
shareholders, who have seen AmBase stock plunge from $7.50
before the Vik agreement, could recoup some of the loss in
the group's $4-a-share offer for the 50.1% stake. AmBase
shares closed Friday at $2.375, up 37.5 cents, in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Also, A. Michael Frinquelli, an insurance analyst with
Salomon Brothers, said the latest accord appears better than
the first because it leaves shareholders with a promise that
the company can do better. "What's left could be worth more
later," he said.
   The investor group said it would assume AmBase's debt and
attempt to refinance about $410 million of it through a new
financing facility to be led by Westpac Banking Corp. The
accord also includes a cash infusion of $68 million and
assumption of $285 million in Home Insurance Co.'s preferred
stock.
   In addition, the investor group said it wouldn't retain
George T. Scharffenberger, AmBase chairman, president, and
chief executive officer who would retire if a definitive
agreement is signed. "We're interested in running the
company," said William Walsh, a general partner for Sequoia
Associates, a member of the investor group, which includes
Hermitage Capital Corp., a subsidiary of Financial Securities
Fund Limited Partnership, New York, and Whitman Heffernon
Rhein &amp; Co., New York.
   The group said it would appoint as AmBase chairman Donald
MacNaughton, former chairman of Prudential Insurance Co. of
America, and James J. Meenaghan, current chairman and
president of Home Insurance, as president and chief executive
officer.
   The investor group, which had sought Home Insurance
earlier this month but lost the bid to Vik Brothers, said it
didn't consider taking control of AmBase until AmBase stock
plunged to $1.50 last week. "We did not intend on bidding for
control of the company until the market reacted the way it
did to the Vik agreement," said John Mueller of Whitman
Heffernon. "The prospect is that AmBase businesses could be
more attractive in the future."
   Mr. Mueller said that if a final agreement is reached, the
investor group would initiate a tender offer for 50.1% of the
shares outstanding. If not enough shares are tendered by
current holders, the agreement calls for the company to issue
new shares to be purchased by the group, which would bring
its stake to the required 50.1%. AmBase has about 34 million
shares outstanding.
   The investor group also plans to raise as much as $68
million in cash through a rights offering. The rights include
zero-coupon notes, which would carry attached warrants to
purchase 34 million AmBase shares at $2 a share. Shareholders
would have as long as 10 years to exercise that right. If
shareholders don't accept the offer, however, the investors
said they are prepared to make a cash infusion of as much as
$68 million.
   An AmBase spokesman said the company will proceed with
both agreements, pending due diligence and regulatory
approvals, until a definitive agreement is reached one way or
the other, by Sept. 28.
   Under the latest offer, Mr. Scharffenberger would receive
as severance this year's salary of at least $750,000 plus a
five-year consulting contract with a decreasing fee in each
successive year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Smugglers `R' Us
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mexico has found a solution to its smugglers problem: free
trade. The Associated Press reports that the dropping of
Mexico's trade barriers has transformed Tepito, Mexico City's
400-year-old smugglers' market. Electronic goods are now
offered at cut-rate prices in stores with names like Super
Gringo. A five-story shopping center and parking garage are
under construction. The market's president, Miguel Galan,
says Tepito went upscale after vendors "realized it was
easier to pay taxes than to make payoffs." By bringing the
underground economy to the surface, free trade promises to
lift many Mexicans out of poverty at the same time the
government reaps a revenue windfall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Free Trade Sacrifices Textile Workers
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   "The Jesse and Pat Bill" (editorial, July 31) distorted
the real reasons why an overwhelming majority of the Senate
voted for the Textile, Apparel and Footwear Trade Act.
   We did so in order to preserve a vital manufacturing
industry and the jobs of more than 1.8 million of the world's
most productive workers. Sen. Pat Moynihan (D., N.Y.) and the
other 67 senators who voted for this bill realize that
textile, apparel and footwear workers, a majority of whom are
minorities and women, must compete against low wages and, in
the case of the People's Republic of China, slave labor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   You accuse Sen. Jesse Helms, (R., N.C.) of being against
competition and self-reliance when it comes to preserving the
textile industry. In fact, Sen. Helms knows that no
manufacturing industry has risen to meet the competitive
challenge as aggressively as the textile, apparel and trade
industry. Over the course of the past decade, the industry
invested $18 billion in modernizing plants and equipment. The
MIT Commission on Industrial Productivity found that "between
1975 and 1985, textile mill productivity increased an average
of 5.6% a year, more than any other manufacturing industry."
Yet, despite this massive restructuring, the industry has
steadily lost market share, overwhelmed by a flood of imports
from low-wage countries.
   Consumers do not benefit from lower-priced imports. Glance
through some mail-order catalogs and you'll see that
consumers pay exactly the same price for clothing, whether it
is U.S.-made or imported.
   This doesn't seem to weigh on the conscience of The Wall
Street Journal, however. We are moving from the Cold War into
a trade war; as geopolitics is replaced by geoeconomics, the
distinction between national security and economic security
becomes blurred. While our competitors pursue market share
and trample trade agreements, the Journal supports a trade
policy that can only be characterized as appeasement and
unilateral disarmament.
   In passing the textile bill, the Senate showed that it was
not willing to stand idly by while industry by industry is
sacrificed on the altar of free trade. The only thing this
bill protects is the 60% U.S. market share of foreign
producers. It allows that market share to grow along with the
growth of the U.S. market.
   Sen. Ernest F. Hollings (D., S.C.)
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE GM MER
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, August 24, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8% low, 8% near closing bid, 8
1/16% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.95% 5 to 35 days; 8% 36 to 59 days;
7.925% 60 to 89 days; 7.85% 90 to 119 days; 7.80% 120 to 149
days; 7.70% 150 to 179 days; 7.60% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.10%
30 days; 8.08% 60 days; 8.05% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.67% two
months; 7.69% three months; 7.91% six months; 8.05% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.15% one month; 8.20% three months;
8.30% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8% 30 days; 7.98% 60 days; 7.97% 90
days; 7.97% 120 days; 7.97% 150 days; 7.95% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% three months; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% four months; 8 3/8% 8 1/4% five months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/4% one month;
8 5/16% three months; 8 7/16% six months; 8 5/8% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.25%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, August 20, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.55% 13 weeks; 7.45% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.30%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.125%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.23%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.60%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.62%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.N. Hands Cuba a PR Coup
   ----
   By Jackson Toby
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   Every five years the United Nations holds an international
conference "on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of
Offenders." The Eighth Congress, which starts today, was,
fortunately, not scheduled for Baghdad, but the site chosen,
Havana, is almost as objectionable. How this inappropriate
choice for a U.N. congress on criminal justice came about
illustrates the inability of the U.N. to live up to its own
principles.
   In 1988 Cuba let it be known that it wished to host the
congress in Havana; and in May 1989 the Social Committee of
the United Nations Economic and Social Council voted 43 to 2
to accept Cuba's invitation. Only the U.S. and Oman voted
against.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. State Department had tried unsuccessfully to
persuade the U.N. that holding the congress in Havana would
give Fidel Castro's denials of human-rights violations in
Cuba greater plausibility. Mr. Castro's loud insistence that
Cuba was a just society had become increasingly dubious after
reports from Amnesty International, from Americas Watch, from
the Human Rights Commission of the Economic and Social
Council itself, and from a special committee of the New York
City Bar Association that described injustice in Cuban courts
and mistreatment in Cuban prisons. Cuba's public relations
grew worse and worse as such prominent dissidents as Huber
Matos and Armando Valladares, released after decades in Cuban
prisons, detailed the cruel conditions of their own
confinements.
   Consequently, Mr. Castro wanted the crime congress held in
Havana to give credibility to his claims of respecting the
U.N. Declaration of Human Rights. What with Third World
countries that didn't worry about Cuba's human-rights abuses,
Communist countries that supported Cuba automatically in 1989
although they wouldn't now, Latin American countries that
voted in a spirit of hemispheric solidarity, and countries
that simply wanted to get on with such trans-national crime
problems as drug trafficking and hijacking, Cuba had the
votes. Even such democratic countries as Canada, France and
Sweden agreed to the invitation.
   Some Western nations felt that the Americans were still
fighting the Cold War and were not purely concerned about
human rights; others hoped that, with the world press in
Havana for the congress, Mr. Castro would make a flamboyant
gesture. Maybe he would announce the release of a few hundred
political prisoners during his welcoming address to a plenary
session of the congress or while sipping cocktails at a
reception for delegates. In 1984 he acceded to Jesse
Jackson's appeal for mercy and released 26 political
prisoners, among them Humberto Noble Alexander, imprisoned
for 22 years because his "propaganda" as a Seventh Day
Adventist offended officials. Mercy for political prisoners
will be welcome -- but the congress is about criminal
justice, not mercy.
   Suppose that the U.S. had convinced the world that, as a
matter of principle, the Eighth U.N. Congress should not be
held in any country with major human rights abuses, be it
Cuba, Iraq or South Africa. Previous U.N. crime congresses
met in countries with freedom of speech, of religion, and of
association. Had the Eighth Congress been scheduled for such
a country, would it have been in a better position to work
for humane systems of criminal justice?
   One difference is that delegates meeting in a country
where freedoms are guaranteed can listen to what the general
public says about crime and justice. Take the Fourth
Congress, which met in August 1965 in Stockholm while the
Watts riots dominated television news and not long after
Nelson Mandela was arrested, tried, and sentenced to
imprisonment in South Africa. Thurgood Marshall, then
solicitor general of the U.S., led the American delegation.
He and the other delegates from many countries presented
papers and exchanged ideas about the causes of crime and how
to rehabilitate offenders.
   The Swedes were not impressed. Their newspapers and TV
programs criticized the presence of a South African
delegation led by the head of the prison system. And outside
the Folkethuset, where delegates deliberated, Swedish pickets
protested. The protest embarrassed the congress and may have
contributed to the adoption by the General Assembly the
following year of the "International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights" and in 1975 of a "Declaration on the
Protection of All Persons From Being Subjected to Torture and
Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment."
   In Havana no pickets, no critical newspaper stories, no
public protest will be permitted to embarrass the congress.
Fidel Castro will see to that. In a country where Jehovah's
Witnesses commit a major crime by mimeographing religious
tracts (and are imprisoned for decades), what Cuban will dare
say that Havana is not the appropriate site for a conference
on criminal justice?
   ---
   Mr. Toby is a professor of sociology and director of the
Institute for Criminological Research at Rutgers University.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   China Dissident Fang
   To Teach at Princeton
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<LP>
   PRINCETON, N.J. -- Fang Lizhi, 54-year-old Chinese
astrophysicist and exiled dissident, will join Princeton
University's astrophysics faculty next year.
   Mr. Fang -- one of China's most famous dissidents and a
leader of the democracy movement there -- is currently a
professor at Cambridge University's Institute of Astronomy, a
post he has held since he was permitted to leave the U.S.
Embassy in Beijing last month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Fang will move to Princeton after spending one term,
starting Jan. 1, at the nearby Institute of Advanced Studies
as a visiting scholar.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USAir to Cut
   2,100 Positions
   In New Layoff
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   U
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARLINGTON, Va. -- USAir Group Inc. said it would dismiss
by year end another 2,100 employees, many of them managers,
in the deepest cut yet of its payroll and one of the largest
layoffs by an airline in years.
   The action brings to 3,600 people the number of employees
that USAir has fired or furloughed in recent days. The
airline holding company blamed the layoffs, which affect 7%
of its 54,000 employees, on "softening of passenger demand,
poor economic conditions, escalating fuel costs and the
company's need to reduce operating expenses."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cuts also amount to a mid-course correction of
ambitious expansion plans at USAir. USAir said it slashed its
1991 projected capacity growth rate to a maximum of 2% from
6%.
   The layoffs at the nation's No. 6 air carrier are much
deeper than Wall Street analysts expected and are sure to
send a chill through the airline industry. Most of the
industry's massive personnel cuts in recent years have come
at financially troubled carriers such as Continental Airlines
and Eastern Airlines, both units of Continental Airlines
Holding Inc. But USAir has traditionally been one of the
country's most profitable carriers.
   To be sure, USAir has been posting losses since it
completed its merger with Piedmont Aviation Inc. last August.
In the first half of 1990, USAir has piled up net losses of
$113 million.
   "The cushion is gone, and they're facing a difficult,
uncertain future," said Edmund Greenslet, an airline
consultant at ESG Aviation Services. "They can't sit around
and wait."
   Already, other airlines have been hunkering down in
expectation of waning demand resulting from a recession.
Midway Airlines, a small Chicago-based carrier, started
laying off some employees in May. AMR Corp.'s American
Airlines Chairman Robert Crandall has issued an edict to cut
costs in his company.
   The USAir retrenchment, including Friday's move, affects
500 managers, 211 pilots, 650 flight attendants and 2,100
reservations, customer service and fleet service agents. Some
other employees would also be affected.
   USAir didn't say how much it expected to save as a result
of the layoffs. But it has been clear for some time that the
company had fat to trim from its operating expenses. USAir's
labor costs have been among the highest in an industry where
payroll is the biggest expense. Its merger with Piedmont
increased those costs.
   USAir indicated that the layoffs might be expensive in the
short run. It said it is "reviewing" early retirement and
voluntary separation programs, which typically involve
one-time payments to employees as compensation for leaving
their jobs.
   USAir announced the latest move after the close of trading
Friday. In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
USAir stock closed at $14.375 a share, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TRACKING TRAVEL
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST PN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Military Airlift May
   Pre-Empt Your Flight
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   WHILE MANY businesses are concerned by the U.S. call-up of
employees in the military reserves, the airlines have an
additional worry: the call-up of their aircraft. The military
use of some domestic airliners is causing a few disruptions
-- and there are signs it may get worse soon.
   Last week, the U.S. told 29 carriers to make 38 commercial
jets available to fly troops and cargo to the Middle East, if
needed. Initially, airlines said the move wouldn't cause
cancellations.
   But at least one, Pan American World Airways, now says it
canceled a handful of trips last week, including a
Washington-to-London flight that forced the rerouting of
numerous passengers. "The impact hasn't been major, but there
have been some disruptions," a spokesman says.
   Other carriers either decline to comment or say they have
avoided such cancellations with spare planes. But they
acknowledge that would change if the U.S. keeps sending
troops to the Persian Gulf. (The situation also would change
if the airlines lose many pilots to the call-up of military
reservists.) The Defense Department isn't saying how many
commercial aircraft it might conscript, but it does say the
military relies heavily on civilian airliners to transport
troops.
   "Obviously, if we send more troops we would be using the
civil fleet a lot more than now," says an Air Force
spokesman. He says that last week, the military actually used
about half of the 38 planes each day, allowing the airlines
to continue using the remaining aircraft.
   Even if more jets are used, the airlines aren't likely to
complain. Under the call-up program, known as the Civil
Reserve Air Fleet, the airlines charge the government to send
the troops -- about $100 a passenger for each 1,000 miles
flown one way. That's enough to make a modest profit on each
flight, consultants say, and the call-up comes at a time when
air travel is down. "It gives the airlines some business just
when they need it," says Paul Turk, an airline consultant for
Avmark Inc. in Arlington, Va.
                                                                                                       

   Travel Agents Compete
   For Beauty Crown
                                                                                                       

   TRAVEL AGENTS have put a lot of effort into trying to
improve their professional image; some now even earn special
travel agent degrees. But the annual Ms. Travel Agent Pageant
doesn't seem to fit into that effort.
   For 28 years, women travel agents from across the country
have competed in the pageant, complete with swimsuit and
cocktail-dress competitions. Some agents aren't thrilled. "I
would hope a client wouldn't decide whether to buy a ticket
from me based on how I looked in a bathing suit," says Nancy
Morris, a chapter president for the American Society of
Travel Agents.
   Still, the company that runs the contest, American/Wolfe
International, says it has received few complaints. "It's
just for fun," says Hans Engel, president of the Larchmont,
N.Y., company, which represents hotels.
   Already more than 200 travel agents have applied for this
year's pageant, which will be held in Antigua in December.
Based on two photos each contestant sends in, American/Wolfe
will narrow the field to six agents, who will then parade on
stage. "We don't call it a beauty contest, but that's what it
is," says Mr. Engel. Still, he says, some professionalism is
required. "They must have been a travel agent for a year," he
says.
                                                                                                       

   East Bloc Tourism
   Rises Only Slowly
                                                                                                       

   THE GATES to Eastern Europe are open, but tourists don't
seem to be using them.
   To the dismay of travel agents who had predicted that
travelers would flock to the East bloc, U.S. travel there
appears to have risen only marginally. Complete figures
aren't in yet, but travel agents and tour operators say U.S.
travel to most East bloc cities has increased less than 10%
this summer from a year ago -- a far cry from the 25% to 30%
increases they had been expecting.
   Many agencies say a shortage of hotels and tourist
facilities, as well as political and economic unrest in many
cities there, kept people away. One large tour operator, DER
Tours, says it canceled more than 25 departures this summer
to East Germany because the hotels there were sold out or
didn't meet Western standards yet. "The infrastructure just
isn't there," says Nigel Osborne, marketing vice president
for Trafalgar Tours, a London-based operator with New York
offices.
   Still, agencies insist that travel will take off as more
hotels go up in Eastern Europe. "It should take about two to
three years for the real boom to hit," says Art Kienle, vice
president of travel products management for American Express
Travel Related Services.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   TELEVISION images of President Bush vacationing while U.S.
troops take up positions in the Persian Gulf may upset some
people -- but not necessarily the folks in Kennebunkport,
Maine. As the yearly summer home for the president, this
small resort town apparently is benefiting from all the
publicity about President Bush's three-week vacation there.
Town officials say tourism, way down in the rest of New
England, is up somewhat from last summer. Ironically, the
town blamed the president's presence for hurting tourism last
year, saying publicity about his visit scared off travelers
who feared large crowds. . . . Amtrak says bookings for
September are running 10% higher than last year. Officials
say concern about rising air fares, brought on by the Persian
Gulf crisis, is probably a factor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hyundai Sets U.S. Price for Car
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   C.HYU
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   FOUNTAIN VALLEY, Calif. -- Hyundai Motor America said the
base price of its two-door Scoupe coupe is $8,395. The new
car will be introduced nationwide Sept. 17, the U.S. unit of
South Korea's Hyundai Motor Co. said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   After the Show, the Newscasters
   Climb In With Buckets and Shovels
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Forces in the Persian Gulf may be armed with
state-of-the-art equipment, but British television is relying
on turn-of-the-century visual aids.
   Since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, the British Broadcasting
Corp.'s flagship "Newsnight" program has used a studio model
about the size of a pingpong table to illustrate the naval
and troop buildup in the Persian Gulf. In nightly maneuvers
reflecting the day's military developments, tiny green tanks
deploy menacingly along the Iraqi-Saudi border. Miniature
U.S. jet fighters swoop over sand-colored polystyrene hills.
And the Persian Gulf becomes increasingly crowded with metal
warships marked with flags, like bite-sized sausages at a
July 4th picnic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The tone of the program -- usually a sophisticated hybrid
of ABC's "Nightline" and the U.S. networks' nightly news --
changes when avuncular BBC anchorman Peter Snow runs to his
table-top sandbox. There, he plays out tactics with a platoon
of retired British admirals and generals.
   To some people, this seems unseemly. "It struck me as
children playing with their toys -- like an elaborate train
set," says John Lyttle, television critic at Britain's
Independent newspaper.
   The BBC defends the #1,200 ($2,350) model as an efficient
way to illustrate the fast-changing Gulf situation. "It may
be seen to be unsophisticated," says Tim Gardam, editor of
"Newsnight." "But it has greater flexibility and greater
clarity than two-dimensional computer graphics." In
particular, he says it shows three-dimensional terrain --
useful for strategic commentary -- better than the "quick
graphic movements, little blobs and clipped interviews" that
he sees on U.S. networks.
   The program's producers may be just getting back into
practice; the BBC used similar models to illustrate the
Falklands War and the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. But
they display a gift for ingenuity. When news broke late that
hostages in Kuwait would be moved to city hotels, the BBC
improvised with what looked like matchboxes placed on end.
When Yemen decided an hour before airtime that it wouldn't
unload an Iraqi tanker, one metal ship found itself adrift in
the Gulf.
   But this model's days may be numbered. Mr. Gardam says the
program, which has a modeler, three producers and an
assistant manipulating the sandbox, is working on a bigger
and better version.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   East German Future
   Isn't Hopeless, Official
   At Bundesbank Says
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- The financial state and future prospects for
East German industry are not "hopeless," Claus Koehler, a
director of the Bundesbank said on West German radio.
   Mr. Koehler, who is the central bank's directorate member
responsible for credit markets, apparently is optimistic. "We
mustn't go on the assumption that we are in a hopeless
situation" regarding the health and outlook for East German
industry, the official said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He said the central bank polled 140 enterprises with more
than 200,000 employees in East Germany over their
expectations, and said the Bundesbank was "astonished" with
the favorable nature of the replies.
   Mr. Koehler said one-third of the respondents expect to
boost production, while another third foresee output trends
at current levels. Only one-third anticipate falling
production, Mr. Koehler said.
   He added that the companies noted that the East German
economy is "fully ailing," but asserted that their prospects
aren't bad. "We know that we have to pass through a deep
valley that will be especially characterized by high
unemployment. But expectations are improving," Mr. Koehler
said.
   Mr. Koehler also said that after Oct. 3, when the two
Germanys expect to merge, it would make sense for West
Germany to undertake an emergency financial cash infusion to
support the economically strapped area that is now East
Germany.
   He said the West German government shouldn't raise taxes
to finance the cost of integrating and overhauling East
Germany, but should be willing to broaden its budget deficit
if necessary.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pioneer Electric,
   IBM Sign Pact
   On Laser Disks
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6C
</SO>
<CO>
   PIO IBM
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Pioneer Electronic Corp. said it signed an
agreement with International Business Machines Corp. under
which IBM will market Pioneer's laser disk players to
corporate clients in the U.S.
   The Japanese company said its Pioneer Communications of
America Inc. subsidiary will provide industrial disk players
to hook up with IBM computers. IBM will adapt its graphics
software to operate on Pioneer's machines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The laser disk units can provide programs that interact
with the user by sound as well as by screen. Pioneer hopes to
provide its players programs for schools and for showrooms.
   While Pioneer is the leading maker of disk players, about
95% of its sales until now have been for home use -- mainly
for laser-disk movies. With IBM's software technology,
Pioneer hopes to make greater inroads in the industrial
market.
   A Pioneer spokesman declined to estimate how much sales
the agreement with IBM might generate. The industrial
machines range in price from $1,000 to $2,800, he said.
   Pioneer last year sold 100,000 laser-disk players to U.S.
consumers, giving it about 70% of the U.S. market, according
to the spokesman. The consumer units sell for around $600.
   In Japan last year Pioneer sold 700,000 laser-disk
players, including household and industrial units, and the
company hopes to increase the total to 1.2 million this year.
The company has about a 50% share of the market for consumer
units in Japan, the spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   FDIC Seeks Cravath Team
   For Drexel, Milken Inquiries
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Federal regulators have agreed to retain a high-powered
legal team from the New York law firm Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore
to recover thrift losses they believe may have been caused by
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. and Michael Milken, its former
junk-bond king.
   According to individuals familiar with the agreement in
principle, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said it would
retain Cravath partners David Boies and Thomas Barr earlier
this month. The unusual agreement, which calls for Cravath to
work partly on a contingency-fee basis, is expected to soon
be submitted to the FDIC's board for approval. In a
contingency-fee arrangement, law firms earn a percentage of
the money they win for their client.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Banking industry observers said that by agreeing to hire
Cravath, the FDIC is showing that it intends to use an
unprecedented amount of firepower to prove allegations that
Mr. Milken helped thrifts that were big Drexel customers to
fraudulently swap high-risk, high-yield "junk" bonds and
record artificial profits on the sales. No such charges have
ever been filed against Mr. Milken or Drexel. A Cravath
official declined to comment on the assignment. Spokesmen for
Drexel and Mr. Milken weren't available to comment.
   "You have to hire someone who's pretty sophisticated,
someone with a lot of resources, if you're going to get at"
the so-called daisy chain, said William M. Isaac, a
Washington banking consultant, referring to the network of
savings and loans Mr. Milken worked with. Retaining Cravath
is a "sensible way to proceed because you're going to have a
lot of big fights on this one," added Mr. Isaac, a former
chairman of the FDIC.
   Messrs. Boies and Barr are among the country's best-known
litigators. Mr. Boies made his name successfully defending
CBS Inc. against a libel suit brought by retired Gen. William
Westmoreland and guiding Texaco Inc. out of bankruptcy-court
proceedings. Mr. Barr was the chief strategist of
International Business Machines Corp.'s defense against
government antitrust cases more than a decade ago. They will
work with a team of more than a dozen Cravath partners and
associates.
   The FDIC, which investigates possible fraud at insolvent
thrifts, hires hundreds of outside law firms each year. Last
year, it paid about $500 million in legal fees to lawyers in
the private sector. But the FDIC usually must settle for
firms that are a cut below Cravath in quality because the
agency won't pay top dollar and many law firms with banking
expertise can't do the work because of conflicts.
   The FDIC launched a special task force in June to
investigate whether Drexel contributed to the savings and
loans failures and to pursue losses in Drexel's bankruptcy
case. Drexel filed for bankruptcy-court protection in
February.
   Besides assisting the FDIC in Drexel's bankruptcy case,
Cravath will help the agency develop legal theories that
could enable the FDIC to recover hundreds of millions of
dollars.
   Individuals familiar with the FDIC's investigation say
Cravath will be focusing on Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan
Association, CenTrust Savings &amp; Loan and Columbia Savings &amp;
Loan, among others.
   FDIC general counsel Alfred J.T. Byrne is understood to
have approached Cravath earlier this year about taking the
assignment. Mr. Byrne declined to comment, saying only that,
"We are considering, among other firms to assist us, major
New York firms." He added that an announcement would be made
soon.
   The FDIC won't have an easy time recovering losses
suffered by thrifts with ties to Drexel. But it may believe
it is in a no-lose situation. Plea agreements entered into by
both Drexel and Mr. Milken to settle civil and criminal
charges against them called for the establishment of
restitution funds. The more than $700 million is to be used
to settle civil claims against Drexel and Mr. Milken.
   Cravath is doing the work relatively inexpensively and has
incentive to try to recover as much money as possible for the
FDIC. Under the proposed arrangement, Cravath won't be
getting its usual fees, which top $400 an hour. Instead, the
FDIC will reimburse Cravath for many expenses and will pay a
sharply discounted hourly rate. The law firm will also get a
percentage of whatever money it recovers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Dexter Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   DEX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEXTER Corp. (Windsor Locks, Conn.) said its board
authorized the buy-back of as many as an additional one
million shares of common stock outstanding. The specialty
materials concern said the added shares covered under the
authorization represent about 4% of its more than 24.1
million common shares outstanding. Under a previous
authorization to buy back one million shares, Dexter has
bought 929,600 shares. It said no further purchases will be
made under that authorizaton.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Orders in July
   For Machine Tools
   Declined 11.9%
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Machine-tool orders placed with U.S. producers fell 11.9%
in July from June levels, as exports fell off sharply.
   Albert W. Moore, president of the machine tool builders
trade association which compiles the data, attributed the
decline to summer shutdowns in manufacturing plants and model
changeovers in the automobile industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said the decline may also reflect some weakness
in the economy, particularly among smaller machine-tool
customers who may now be deferring orders due to economic
uncertainty. Moreover, analysts noted that prospective buyers
appear to be waiting for the industry's semiannual trade show
in September, when new technologies will be introduced.
   The July 1990 level of $233.75 million in new orders
included a 3.5% decrease in domestic orders, which fell to
$213.45 million from $221.1 million in June. Overseas orders
showed a 54% month-to-month decline, according to the
association, falling to $20.3 million from $44.15 million in
June.
   On a year-to-year basis, though, total orders were up
22.5% from the $190.75 million level of July 1989.
   Orders are "basically hanging in there," said McDonald &amp;
Co.'s Ronald Petrie. "It's not looking great, but it's not
looking bad either."
   Mr. Petrie said large system orders, such as engine-making
machines, have been improving in recent months, while orders
for smaller machine tools are falling off, as buyers
anticipate a worsening economy. "Things that are easily
deferred are being deferred," he said.
   The events in the Middle East aren't likely to hurt the
industry, and rising need for fuel efficiency could boost
machine-tool orders, which tend to rise with oil prices.
   ---
                                                                                                       

                       MACHINE TOOLS

                      July 1990     June 1990     July 1989
                                                                                                       

   Comparative new orders for metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

   Domestic ....... $132,050,000  $151,200,000  $112,000,000
   Foreign ........   14,200,000    37,400,000    21,200,000
    Total .........  146,250,000   188,600,000   133,200,000
                                                                                                       

   Seven month total for 1990: $1,134,950,000; for 1989:
$1,195,300,000.
                                                                                                       

   Metal-forming machine orders:
                                                                                                       

   Domestic .......  $81,400,000   $69,900,000   $43,350,000
   Foreign ........    6,100,000     6,750,000    14,200,000
    Total .........   87,500,000    76,650,000    57,550,000
                                                                                                       

   Seven month total for 1990: $521,450,000; for 1989:
$487,250,000.
                                                                                                       

   Comparative shipment of metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

   Domestic ....... $144,000,000  $240,100,000  $155,450,000
   Foreign ........   17,800,000    35,600,000    20,150,000
    Total .........  161,800,000   275,700,000   175,600,000
                                                                                                       

   Seven month total for 1990: $1,346,450,000; for 1989:
$1,235,300,000.
                                                                                                       

   Metal-forming machine shipments:
                                                                                                       

   Domestic .......  $67,350,000   $70,850,000   $50,550,000
   Foreign ........    4,250,000     3,700,000    11,550,000
    Total .........   71,600,000    74,550,000    62,100,000
                                                                                                       

   Seven month total for 1990: $551,500,000; for 1989:
$507,900,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Apartheid Is
   Not Capitalism
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your July 30 article "In South Africa, Communists' Pact
With ANC Comes Under Pressure" quotes Jay Naidoo of the
Congress of South African Trade Unions as saying at a South
African Communist Party rally, "Apartheid has been proven to
be the most brutal and inhuman form of capitalism the world
has ever seen." This is an irresponsible and erroneous
statement, however emotionally appealing.
   Prior to the advent of legal apartheid, black South
African workers and farmers were competing successfully with
their white counterparts in the free-market economy. It was
because of this that the white government imposed
discriminatory labor and land-owning laws, hardly a
definition of "capitalism."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What black workers and budding entrepreneurs in South
Africa need is not more government intrusion, but less. To
jumble labels in such an emotional way is to prepare the
ground for tragedy, as has been proved by the recent plethora
of collapsed state-dominated economies, not least on the
African continent.
   Frederic Wile
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   FED POLICY MAKERS ARE increasingly worried about a U.S.
recession and lean toward a modest credit easing. But
officials of the central bank suggest that they won't cut
interest rates until the financial markets stabilize. The
bias toward easing may surprise those analysts who expected
the bank to maintain its policies in the face of rising oil
prices.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   OPEC's ministers began an informal round of talks in
Vienna about raising output to hold down oil prices. With its
big turnout, the session may become a full official meeting.
   ---
   Real GNP rose at a 1.2% yearly rate in the second period,
showing a continued weakness in the economy.
                                                                                                       

   Machine-tool orders dropped 11.9% in July as exports fell
sharply.
   ---
   Stocks rebounded Friday as the Dow Jones industrials
gained 49.50 points after a 173-point drop over the preceding
three days. The dollar also rose, but the 30-year Treasury
bond fell, as its yield rose to 9.15%.
                                                                                                       

   Less high-grade corporate debt is available, making issues
remaining in the market appear overpriced.
   ---
   Regulators are pleased with the stock market's pattern of
orderly moves, despite the Dow Jones industrials' nearly 16%
drop since mid-July.
   ---
   Thrift regulators promised more enforcement actions
against lawyers for S&amp;Ls that later failed. The development
follows a court ruling that harshly criticized attorneys
connected with the collapsed Lincoln Savings.
                                                                                                       

   Charles Keating resigned his post as chairman of Lincoln's
parent.
   ---
   The FDIC plans to retain a legal team from Cravath, Swain
&amp; Moore to recover thrift losses possibly caused by Drexel's
junk-bond operations.
   ---
   Ford and Chrysler made sharply different offers to the
UAW, as the union prepares to select a "target" company in
its new contract talks.
   ---
   Data General announced the layoffs of 2,000 workers. The
move could return the troubled computer maker to
profitability, say analysts.
   ---
   USAir set another 2,100 layoffs, bringing recent cutbacks
to 7% of its work force. Citing market weakness, the airline
also cut its projected 1991 capacity growth to 2% from 6%.
   ---
   The Brady debt plan is placing more emphasis on continued
bank loans to developing debtor nations, a shift from the
plan's initial stress on cutting debt and interest payments.
   ---
   AmBase accepted a takeover bid from an investor group
valued at $1.15 billion. The group intends to keep AmBase's
Home Insurance unit, which the company had planned to sell.
   ---
   Natural-gas deregulation rules were upheld by a federal
appeals court. The decision could spur investment in the
industry by reducing the likelihood of litigation.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 199,040,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2532.92, up 49.50; transportation 869.71, up 8.40; utilities
190.96, off 0.75.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3277.64,
off 10.82.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 135.84, up 0.82; spot
index 134.18, up 0.80.
   Dollar: 146.70 yen, up 0.55; 1.5605 marks, up 0.0161.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Death Be Not
   Legislated
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   As a lawyer and bioethicist, I was appalled by Bernard D.
Davis's suggestion (editorial page, July 31) that policies
concerning the discontinuation of life-sustaining treatment
should be determined by popular vote. There are many things
that can be determined by majority rule, but life and death
is not one of them.
   Whether or not a life that has been impaired severely by
irreversible loss of mental function is worth living is a
decision for the individual. Only when impairment is severe
enough to constitute death should anyone other than the
patient or the patient's designated representative have the
authority to stop treatment. Only the individual is in a
position to assess the value of his or her own existence.
Only the individual can transfer that right to another.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Perhaps we need to reconsider our definition of death.
Death used to mean the cessation of circulation of blood and
respiration. Today it means that and/or the total cessation
of brain function. If society redefines death to include an
irreversible loss of cerebral function, then at least people
in a persistent vegetative state and probably anyone who has
irreversibly lost consciousness would be dead and the issue
of robbing individuals of their rights to make treatment
decisions would be moot.
   Sigrid Fry-Revere
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   AN AUG. 17 ARTICLE reported incorrectly that a lawyer for
Nynex Corp. testified in a rate case in New York that New
York Telephone Co.'s general counsel John Clarke was one of
several Nynex officials who knew about bawdy parties in
Florida attended by Nynex purchasing personnel and suppliers.
In fact, the lawyer testified that company investigators had
been told that Mr. Clarke might have received a report of the
1985-86 investigation that mentioned the gatherings, known as
the perverts conventions. Mr. Clarke has since stated that he
never received a copy of the investigation report, nor was he
ever apprised of its contents.
   (See: "Nynex Officials Knew of Gatherings, Attorney
Testifies" -- WSJ Aug. 17, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Express Co.'s Shearson Takes
   Steps to Strengthen Brokerage Division
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., continuing an
internal restructuring, took several steps to beef up its big
brokerage division and make it a stand-alone organization.
   Jonathan Linen, the new brokerage-division chief brought
in by parent American Express Co. in May, said the division
for the first time will have its own chief administrative
officer, chief financial officer and personnel director. The
idea is to make the brokerage division "a single, integrated
business," Mr. Linen told employees in a letter Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shearson, the second-biggest U.S. brokerage firm behind
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., is trying to revive itself after posting
a record loss of $915 million in the first quarter to pay for
a big retrenchment plan. American Express has made the firm a
wholly owned unit and has been trying to reshape it in
American Express's image.
   Mr. Linen -- whose brokerage division has been split off
from Shearson's other half, the Lehman Brothers
capital-markets division -- gave new titles to three top
executives:
   -- Joseph Plumeri, 47 years old, was named president of
the Private Client Group for individual-investor businesses,
a post left vacant since Hardwick Simmons resigned at the
time of Mr. Linen's appointment. Mr. Plumeri remains head of
the 450-branch U.S. brokerage network but now will be
responsible for national sales. Shearson said he'll also form
a new unit, named Quality, to improve client relations.
   -- Jerome Miller, 50, was named president of the Asset
Management Group that also includes unit trusts and mutual
funds, businesses he was already running.
   -- Henry Gottmann, 52, who had been in charge of national
sales and marketing, fills the new post of chief
administrative officer for the brokerage division. While Mr.
Plumeri is assuming Mr. Gottmann's former sales
responsibilities, Shearson says it plans to hire a new
marketing director.
   Also to be filled are two other senior-level positions:
"human resources" director and chief financial officer.
   Mr. Linen also said he formed a new executive committee to
set policy in the division. The committee includes himself,
Messrs. Plumeri, Miller and Gottmann and eventually the new
marketing, personnel and financial heads.
   American Express has repeatedly denied the suggestion that
it is preparing Shearson, or a part of it, for a sale. Making
the brokerage division stand on its own is only part of an
effort to "decentralize" Shearson in the style of American
Express, Mr. Linen said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trade Commission Asked to Reconsider
   Ruling on Canadian Pork Exports to U.S.
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- A U.S.-Canada trade panel asked the U.S.
International Trade Commission to reconsider its earlier
ruling which found that subsidized Canadian pork exports to
the U.S. threatened to injure U.S. pig producers.
   The panel said the ITC's finding relied heavily on
"questionable" statistics of increased Canadian pork
production.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ITC ruled last year that subsidized exports of
Canadian fresh, chilled and frozen pork threatened to injure
U.S. pig producers and meat packers. As a result of the
ruling, the U.S. put in place countervailing duties of 3.6
Canadian cents per pound of processed pork.
   The U.S.-Canada panel said the appearance of a big
increase in Canadian pork production in 1988 was caused by a
change in the method of counting and reporting pork
production by the Canadian government. It said that Canadian
pork production grew 8.4% in 1988 from 1986 and not 31% as
thought by the ITC. The panel noted that the 8.4% increase
was less than U.S. production growth in the same period.
   Martin Rice, executive secretary of the Canadian Pork
Council, said pork exports to the U.S. are expected to
decline this year to about $300 million Canadian dollars
(US$265.8 million) from about C$400 million in 1989 because
of falling production. Canadian pork exports currently make
up less than 3% of the U.S. market.
   Mr. Rice said he was "encouraged" by the panel's decision
because, he said, it could lead to the removal of
countervailing duties on Canadian pork exports and boost
Canadian production.
   The panel instructed the ITC to reconsider the impact of
Canadian subsidies on U.S. pork production taking the smaller
production statistics into consideration. The ITC has 60 days
to respond to the panel's ruling.
   The trade panel was established under the dispute
settlement provisions of the U.S.-Canada free-trade agreement
which went into effect Jan. 1, 1989. The panel included three
Canadian and two U.S. members.
   The U.S. government investigation of Canadian pork exports
originated from complaints filed by the U.S. National Pork
Producers Council which had argued that Canadian packers
benefited from Canadian government subsidies to hog farmers.
   The governments of Canada, Alberta, Ontario and Quebec and
several Canadian industry groups have requested a separate
U.S.-Canada panel to review the method used by the U.S. to
determine the level of subsidy to hog farmers.
   The Canadian government also has requested a review of the
subsidy issue by a panel of the General Agreement on Tarrifs
and Trade, a Geneva organization that regulates trade between
most non-socialist countries. According to news reports, the
GATT panel has found that the U.S. violated GATT rules in
imposing countervailing duties on imports of processed pork
to offset government subsidies to pig farmers.
   A meeting of the full GATT council is expected to be held
Oct. 3 where it will decide to accept or reject the panel's
decision.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   Will Japan Throw Its Hat in the Ring?
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   "First, the obvious starting point is the recognition that
we no longer live in what is described as Pax Americana. At a
time when the maintenance of order under Pax Americana was
the rule of the game, the order in the system was maintained
primarily through the leadership of the United States. In
such a situation, in both the political and the economic
domains, the United States tended to practice what might be
termed as `unilateral globalism.' The United States was in
effect managing the international system through maintaining
a universally acceptable order through unilateral leadership.
With the arrival of diffusion of power, however, that is no
longer possible."
   -- Hisashi Owada, deputy foreign minister of Japan, in a
speech delivered at the Seventh International Lisbon
Conference on European Security in a Multipolar World, Nov.
8, 1989.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Oh well, we all make mistakes, especially when we peer
into the future. How could the thoughtful and able Mr. Owada
have foreseen that just nine months after his speech, the
world would again be relying on Pax Americana to get itself
out of a jam? When Iraq's Saddam Hussein grabbed Kuwait and
menaced Saudi Arabia, seeking effective control over 40% of
the West's oil supply, there was little question about who
would exercise unilateral leadership. It had to be George
Bush, President of the United States.
   I cite Mr. Owada's words not to embarrass him or to
reassert U.S. global hegemony, but to make another point:
News of the demise of military power as a factor in global
politics was decidedly premature. Mr. Owada certainly was not
the only one mistaken. The idea had become quite fashionable
that economic power, not military might, would be the most
important way of wielding global influence in the enlightened
1990s. Up until Aug. 2.
   That thesis had accorded Japan a major world role simply
because of the success of its corporations in operating on a
global scale. Toyota, Sony and all those other familiar
Japanese brand names have penetrated deeply into markets
everywhere. Dollars have piled up for the Bank of Japan and
in private accounts at a phenomenal rate. That wealth has
been reinvested in real assets around the globe, earning
Japan admiration but also resentment in some places, the U.S.
in particular.
   But now the Persian Gulf conflict has sharply boosted the
price of oil, an import vital to Japan's awesome industrial
machine. But Japan, that putative world power, has been
mainly on the sidelines. At the urging of George Bush, Prime
Minister Toshiki Kaifu signed on to the UN embargo of
Iraqi-Kuwaiti oil. That was an advance from the 1979 U.S.-EC
embargo against Iran during the hostage crisis, when Japan
only provided some lip service. But the U.S. is pressing
Japan to do much more. Pressure will rise after Congress
returns from recess.
   Japan was getting some 12% of its oil from Iraq and
Kuwait. It could be argued that using Japanese self-defense
forces to safeguard those supplies might be legitimate under
Japan's legal ban on their use for offensive purposes. Its
120-odd F-15s are primarily air superiority fighters, more
adapted to defensive use than attack. Its 57 frigates also
are primarily defensive, useful for protecting carriers and
other vessels against air or naval attack. Japan surely will
offer financial aid, but direct intervention is being debated
intensely in Tokyo.
   Japan bashers in the United States and Europe, with a
large head of resentment steam already, quite likely will
find cause for further bashing. But there will be some
ambivalence. Do those who still are suspicious of Japan,
nearly 50 years after Pearl Harbor and the Japanese conquest
of British and French holdings in Southeast Asia, want Japan
to become a global military power as well as an economic
titan? Do they really want Japan to slip the ties of its
security treaty with the U.S.? In short, do they really want
the end of Pax Americana to become a reality, with global
political power as well as economic power widely dispersed?
That would mean a genuine "triad," three independently
powerful blocs, the U.S., Japan and a Europe dominated by yet
another economic powerhouse, Germany. The Soviet Union, of
course, remains a major military power as well, despite its
troubles.
   Clearly, Bush administration officials have thought about
this. In June, the U.S. had a key role in organizing a North
Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting in Knokke, Belgium, with
a special objective. It aimed at pulling Japan and NATO
together into a closer global security alliance. The theme
was, "North American, European and Japanese Interdependence
in the 1990s."
   It was almost as if the U.S. and NATO had anticipated
Saddam Hussein. But he struck well before anything resembling
an effective working alliance had been formed to deal with
such problems as the Kuwait grab. NATO had traditionally
shunned what it called "out-of-area" involvements, despite
longstanding U.S. urging that Europe take a broader view.
Similarly, Japan had been reluctant to involve itself outside
a perimeter surrounding its own islands, although it has
enlarged that perimeter.
   Yet Paul Wolfowitz, U.S. undersecretary of defense for
policy, could do some cheerleading to the Knokke gathering.
He said that the coalition had in fact made progress in
pulling together for the defense of the Persian Gulf, an area
with threequarters of the world's proven oil reserves. Citing
the effort to protect shipping in the Gulf during the
Iran-Iraq war -- an endeavor dubbed Operation Earnest by the
U.S. -- Mr. Wolfowitz said the U.S. had provided "carrier and
conventional naval forces. Our European allies, operating
under the umbrella of the Western European Union, provided
naval forces and particularly minesweepers. And Japan
provided financial resources."
   Well, financial resources are not nothing. Japan has
granted significant aid to Egypt, Pakistan and Turkey, all
three of which quickly allied themselves with the U.S. in the
effort to bring down Hussein. Japan will get U.S. pressure to
provide still more financial support to help maintain
military forces in the Gulf region.
   Yet some experts think Japan has little choice but to
become more engaged in the world's military problems as well.
That was the view of Fred Ikle, undersecretary of defense for
policy in the Reagan administration, and Terumasa Nakanishi
of the Research Institute for Peace and Security in Tokyo, in
a provocative article in the summer issue of Foreign Affairs.
"It seems unlikely that Japan's body politic would remain
content through the end of this decade to see the nation a
mere bystander on matters that affect the strategic order of
the world," they wrote. Well, Mr. Owada was premature, and
these two intelligent men may be as well. We will know more
after events in the Gulf play themselves out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Kellogg Asks Court
   In Towns to Block Action
   Against Its Cereal Ads
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   K
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   BATTLE CREEK, Mich. -- Kellogg Co. said it asked a federal
court in Iowa to block the Iowa attorney general from acting
against the company's health claims in advertisements for
Special K, 40 + Bran Flakes and Frosted Flakes cereals.
   Kellogg said it filed its suit to end what it views as
"harassment" by Iowa Attorney General Thomas J. Miller and
the attorneys general of seven other states. The officials
raised questions two years ago about the Kellogg ads. Since
then, Kellogg said it has engaged in "long and fruitless
discussions" with the attorneys general and provided
thousands of pages of documents substantiating its claims.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We think it's time to bring this to an end and let the
courts decide," said Joseph M. Stewart, senior vice president
for corporate affairs. "We stand behind our advertising. . .
. They (the attorneys general) continue to say our
advertising is misleading."
   Mr. Miller, the Iowa attorney general, couldn't be reached
for comment. Kellogg said the attorneys general hadn't
produced a single consumer complaint or scientific study to
support their allegations.
   Kellogg said the issue involves its claims that Special K
is a high-protein cereal and can help dieters or exercisers
"keep the muscle, lose the fat;" that 40 + Bran Flakes is
rich in fiber and iron and is beneficial to those 40 and
older and that Frosted Flakes is "good for you" and has less
sugar than many snack foods.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   NaTec, Pollution-Control Firm, Strives
   To Lure a Big Customer and Wall Street
   ----
   By Sue-Sun Yom
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   NATC CRX
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- NaTec Resources Inc., which believes it has a
cheap, simple solution to air pollution, is finding that Wall
Street can be as fickle toward new technology as a child is
about a new toy.
   The pollution-control company is expecting to get a big
boost from pending revisions to the Clean Air Act. But its
shares have subsided to $4 amid congressional squabbling over
the legislation. Under the name Industrial Resources Inc.,
NaTec's shares soared as high as $9 last year when Congress
put acid rain legislation high on its agenda.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To make sure it lands a big customer, NaTec has been busy
peddling its bargain-basement solution to acid rain-spraying
baking soda on flue gas emissions with jet nozzles. This
approach -- costing much less to install than the
better-known lime-based techniques -- transforms polluting
sulfur dioxides and nitrogen oxides into a disposable white
bleach.
   But analysts say NaTec must snare a major contract for its
low-cost technology -- with or without passage of the law --
or its stock could fall even further.
   "Nobody knows what the bloom looks like right now --
whether it's a rose or a weed," says analyst John Cabell of
Lovett Underwood Neuhaus &amp; Webb Inc., Houston. Until NaTec
gets a big contract, it won't have the revenue to offset
widening losses caused by start-up research and development
costs. The company's first-half loss expanded to nine cents a
share from two cents a year earlier.
   NaTec claims to have a special niche in the anti-pollution
market. The company is aiming at aging, low-sulfur,
coal-fired power plants that probably aren't worth the cost
of installing bulky, expensive systems that leave cleaner
air.
   Much of the acid-rain abatement market will go to scrubber
manufacturers such as General Electric Co. and BBC Brown
Boveri Inc. Clean-coal technology will get another quarter of
the market. NaTec will be competing for the leftovers. The
company hopes to capture at least 7% of the market by 1995.
   "It's going to be very useful where utilities do not have
to make a huge reduction but a marginal reduction," says
research assistant Michael Driscoll of UBS Securities Inc.,
New York. NaTec so far has signed only one contract -- with
Western Slope Refining Co. to reduce emissions for a
35,000-kilowatt coke plant in Fruita, Colo. NaTec officials
say they got positive reviews from Wisconsin Electric Power
Co. and Public Service Co. of Colorado. Neither company has
signed a contract yet.
   "We still remain optimistic that we will receive one or
more large contracts before the end of the year," says Glenn
Hobratschk, chief financial officer. While expecting a loss
for 1990 of as much as $4 million, company officials say they
hope to see profitable quarters by late 1991.
   Analyst David Bartlett of First Hanover Securities Inc.,
New York, is optimistic about NaTec's prospects. He predicts
that NaTec will "be in the black in 1991" and that a major,
100,000-kilowatt contract would mean five cents to 10 cents a
share in earnings. "You will be able to see the earnings
potential in 1991 that would make the stock vastly
underpriced," he says.
   NaTec's executives expect the stock to rebound when
President Bush finally signs the sweeping new amendments to
the Clean Air Act requiring companies to clean up their
emissions. "The clean air passage is going to have a positive
effect on our stock. I don't see how it couldn't," says
Chairman Socrates S. Christopher. Mr. Hobratschk agrees that
"there will be a lot of excitement in the market" with
signing of the legislation. Significant benefits to NaTec
should materialize within six to 18 months, he adds.
   NaTec's management has won praise from analysts for
setting up two long-term priorities: controlling raw
materials essential to its technology, and brokering
pollution credits for its clients. The company has secured
federal land leases in Colorado that contain more than 85
million tons of natural sodium bicarbonate. It recently
bought AERX, a Washington, D.C., trader of pollution-emission
credits, which will be expanded under the pending clean-air
legislation.
   NaTec also can rely on the considerably deeper pockets of
CRSS Inc., seasoned engineers and architects. Formerly CRS
Sirrine Inc., the Houston company owns 44.8% of NaTec's
common shares.
   "CRSS, in my opinion, will not let NaTec be a failure
because of lack of financial resources," says Mr. Cabell of
Lovett Underwood.
   Analyst Robert W. McCoy Jr. of UBS Securities is
recommending NaTec indirectly through purchase of CRSS, which
trades on the New York Stock Exchange. But Mr. McCoy says
investors shouldn't expect short-term gains. "We expect a
gradual improvement in both stocks as contracts are signed,"
he says.
   David Garcia of Howard, Weil Financial Corp., New Orleans,
is also pessimistic about major short-term gains for
investors, noting the gradual implementation of the proposed
clean-air legislation. The plan calls for stripping annual
emissions of five million tons of sulfur dioxide by 1995,
with another five million tons coming out by 2000.
   Mr. Cabell says he's convinced NaTec's low-cost solution
works. It is just a matter of time, he says, before passage
of the clean-air legislation spawns a market for the
company's technology; until then it is a speculative stock.
"The expectations of the market for this company are very
high already," he says. "It's for an investor who realizes
the risk."
   ---
   NaTec Resources
   (OTC; Symbol: NATC)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Acid rain pollution control
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Revenue: 2.5 million
   Net Loss: $2.25 million; or 14 cents
   a share
                                                                                                       

   Second quarter, June 30, 1990:
   Per-share losses: 4 cents vs. 1 cent
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   28,243 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 25 million
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks reversed a three-week trend of
Friday declines.
   The Nasdaq composite index added 2% on the day, closing at
367.33, up 7.11. For the week, however, the index declined
6.6%, its biggest drop of the year.
   George Jennison, head of OTC trading for Wheat First
Butcher &amp; Singer, said institutions "cautiously and quietly"
resumed shopping among Nasdaq's biggest and best stocks. He
noted that the Nasdaq 100 index, which includes many of the
better-known technology stocks, added 3.7%, outstripping a
1.99% rise in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
   OTC gainers led decliners, 1,240 to 883. National Market
System volume was a modest 117,248,600 shares, down from
144,717,500 Thursday.
   Intel, the most active stock, added 2 3/4 to 36 on 3.5
million shares.
   MCI Communications added 1 1/8 to 32 7/8. The
cable-television company Tele-Communications Class A shares
were 3/8 higher to 10 1/8.
   Among computer stocks, Microsoft jumped 5 1/2 to 57 1/4
and Apple Computer gained 1 1/4 to 35 3/4.
   ---
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Keating Resigns
   From American
   Continental Corp.
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Charles H. Keating Jr., chairman of
American Continental Corp., and five other top officers of
the company resigned Friday, leaving unclear who would assume
the helm.
   Mr. Keating had been hanging on to his post in the hopes
that a lawsuit he filed would invalidate the government's
takeover of Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan Association, American
Continental's main operating unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He resigned one day after a federal judge dismissed Mr.
Keating's challenge to the government takeover of Lincoln
S&amp;L, saying that he and other associates looted Lincoln of
tens of millions of dollars.
   Judge Stanley Sporkin's ruling was the first court test of
federal regulators' claims that Mr. Keating transferred funds
from Lincoln to American Continental, which in turn paid
multimillion-dollar salaries to Mr. Keating and other
officials. "Bluntly speaking," Judge Sporkin wrote in his
decision, "their actions amounted to a looting of Lincoln."
   The government has said that the failure of Lincoln, one
of the biggest thrift debacles, could cost taxpayers more
than $2 billion. Thrift regulators had been seeking to remove
Mr. Keating as chairman of American Continental, along with
the five other officers, for some time. The regulators filed
a motion in December to name a court-appointed trustee to
succeed Mr. Keating.
   According to a spokeswoman, Mr. Keating wasn't available
to comment on his resignation. But a statement from his
lawyer, Stephen C. Neal, said that "it has become clear that
my client must now concentrate all his energy on aggressively
defending the legal charges against him."
   Mr. Keating faces a government civil fraud suit filed by
the Resolution Trust Corp. seeking $1.1 billion from him and
other executives of Lincoln, which is based in Irvine, Calif.
And, the Office of Thrift Supervision has filed
administrative charges against Mr. Keating and the five other
officials, seeking $40.9 million in restitution.
   Lincoln, which Mr. Keating bought in 1984, was seized by
the government in April 1989, one day after American
Continental filed for protection from creditors under Chapter
11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
   The other officers who resigned are: Judy J. Wischer,
president; Robert J. Kielty and Robert M. Wurzelbacher Jr.
(who is Mr. Keating's son-in-law), both of whom are listed in
the company's 1988 proxy as senior vice presidents; Andrew F.
Ligget, chief financial officer; and Bradley J. Boland, the
company's spokesman (and another of Mr. Keating's
sons-in-law).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Playing by the Rules
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (VET)
</GV>
<LP>
   Contrary to "S&amp;L Cleanup Law's Measures Weakened by Court
Rulings, Relaxed Regulations" (Politics and Policy, July 19),
the rules governing the operation of the nation's savings
institutions have not been weakened or relaxed. If anything,
our institutions are operating under some capital standards
that are tighter than those applied to commercial banks.
   The Office of Thrift Supervision has not relaxed its
rules. The loans-to-one-borrower transition period referred
to is only available to savings institutions that already
have more capital today than the law requires them to hold in
1995. They are hardly a threat to the deposit insurance fund.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also, there is no requirement in the law that savings
institutions hold more capital against certain Veterans
Administration loans (actually the servicing of VA loans in
Government National Mortgage Association pools of mortgages).
The OTS imposed a higher capital requirement on some VA loan
servicing, then rescinded its directive so that it could
follow a congressional mandate to conform capital
requirements for savings institutions with those for national
banks.
   Fred Webber
   President
   U.S. League of Savings Institutions
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wielding Power:
   Family Ties and Fear
   Keep Saddam Hussein
   In Firm Control of Iraq
   ---
   Within the Nation, Any Voice
   That Doesn't Echo His Is
   Usually Quickly Silenced
   ---
   A Minister's Sudden Death
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz and Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   Early in 1989, Iraq's defense minister fell out with his
cousin, Saddam Hussein. In May, during a tour of northern
Iraq, his helicopter fell out of the sky.
   In Baghdad, asked about the death of Iraq's leading
military mind, a senior government official responded
defensively: "There was a sandstorm. Ask anyone in the
north."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sandstorm or foul play, the rise and fall of Defense
Minister Adnan Khairallah reveals much about the way Saddam
Hussein wields power, and how he protects it. The Iraqi
president sits at the center of a web of power so carefully
spun that a twitch at the periphery triggers a swift and
deadly strike. Around him are only those with whom he has
blood ties -- of relationship, or of shared killings.
   With the defense minister, he had both. Mr. Khairallah's
father was uncle and foster-parent to Saddam Hussein, and his
sister was the wife of the Iraqi president. He also was the
enforcer of almost annual military purges that may have
claimed more senior officers than the eight-year war with
Iran. But Baghdad rumors say that when Saddam Hussein decided
to take a second wife, Mr. Khairallah's rage over the slight
to his sister snapped the family bond. At the same time, the
defense minister, prominent and popular, was emerging as a
potential rival to the president. Being the heir apparent in
Baghdad, says a Jordanian official, "is the most dangerous
job in Iraq."
   Being number one in Baghdad also isn't a job likely to end
with a gold watch and a quiet retirement. The modern history
of Iraq reads like Macbeth, only bloodier. In 1958, soldiers
gunned down King Feisal II while a mob dismembered his prime
minister's corpse and dragged it through the streets. Six
coups and revolts marked the decade between the monarchy's
fall and the Baath Party's final seizure of power. Extensive
purges followed. Since then, Saddam Hussein has survived
dozens of plots.
   Now, those near the top of the Iraqi pyramid either are
generals, carefully kept anonymous and without public
following, or well-known political figures whose fates are so
firmly fused with Saddam Hussein's as to render them impotent
to act against him. "All of them know that if they don't
defend him, they will fall with him, because he has made sure
they have shared in the killings," says Sahib al-Hakim, a
London-based Iraqi dissident. He believes that any Western
dream of a one-bullet solution to the Gulf crisis -- an
internal assassination -- is simplistic. Changing the Iraqi
regime is more like coring an apple -- the whole center may
have to go.
   When Saddam Hussein appears on Iraqi television, the
green-uniformed men standing at his elbow are part of that
center: ministers and members of the Revolutionary Command
Council, Iraq's foremost governing body. Most share the
Saddam Hussein look: middle-aged, military, mustachioed. Most
also share a common past, often beginning in the president's
hometown of Tikrit and passing through the violence, exile
and revolution that brought their Baath Party to power in
1968.
   The Iraqis "are the Prussians of the Arab world," says a
Jordanian who has made high-level visits to Baghdad. When the
Egyptian cabinet meets, he says, it is "very informal, with
everyone shouting their opinions, joking and making fun of
each other." But the tone in Baghdad is that of a military
parade. As ministers enter cabinet meetings, they salute
Saddam Hussein. As they leave, they click their boots and
bow. No one jokes. No one speaks without asking permission,
or unless called upon. "They may speak their mind, but their
mind is always the same as Saddam's," says the Jordanian.
   Years of living dangerously as an assassin and
revolutionary have taught Iraq's leader a thing or two about
watching his own back. Among the lessons:
   -- Eschew routine. When Saddam Hussein, at the age of 22,
tried to assassinate Abdul Karim Qassem, Iraq's leader at the
time, his hit squad had an advantage: It knew the exact route
of the presidential motorcade, thanks to lax security. Now,
the president keeps his schedule unpredictable and his inner
sanctum guarded. When a reporter with this newspaper arrived
for an interview in June, even her ballpoint pen was
carefully examined.
   -- Public trials make heros of your foes. When the Qassem
assassination attempt failed, Iraq put 78 of the plotters on
trial. Their courage and defiance on the stand won new
recruits to the Baathist cause. Now, enemies are dispatched
by summary execution or after swift, closed military
hearings.
   -- Exile and imprisonment don't neutralize enemies. Saddam
Hussein escaped Iraq after the Qassem assassination attempt
and continued plotting from exile in Egypt and, later, from
an Iraqi jail. Now, he quickly answers dissidence. At a 1982
cabinet meeting, the health minister, Riyadh Ibrahim,
suggested Saddam Hussein step down temporarily as a way to
end the war with Iran. The president, according to a
colleague of Mr. Ibrahim, took the health minister into a
side room and shot him. (Iraq said Mr. Ibrahim was executed
because tainted medicine got through to troops.) The same
year, he confirmed for Germany's Stern magazine that Iraq had
recently executed three senior officers. This, he said, was
"something very normal in all wars," because they "did not
undertake their responsibilities" in battle. There have been
reports that officers who refused to take part in the Kuwait
invasion have also been executed.
   -- Don't let a potential successor grab the spotlight.
Between 1968 and 1979, Saddam Hussein was technically number
two in Iraq to Ahmad Hassan Bakr, but he was given plenty of
billing: His portraits frequently hung beside those of the
leader. Mr. Bakr ended up under house arrest. Saddam
Hussein's are the only portraits displayed in Baghdad today.
   Fear isn't the only cement holding Iraq's leadership
together. The men surrounding Saddam Hussein began their
political lives linked by the powerful ideology of
"al-Baath," Arabic for "the Renaissance." Founded in the
1930s by Western-educated intellectuals, Baathism is a
secular, socialist creed devoted to Arab unity. But just as
Marxism in Russia begat the horrors of Stalinism, Baathists
who once espoused parliamentary democracy now rule two of the
Mideast's most repressive states, Iraq and Syria.
   Saddam Hussein also draws a deep personal response from
some Arabs. Those who admire him often use two Arabic terms
to describe their feelings. Saddam Hussein, they say,
represents "nakwa," the ancient Bedouin code of chivalrous
honor by which you starve yourself to feed a friend. He also
inspires "hayba," a mixture of fear and reverence.
   To many Iraqis, the rule of Saddam Hussein has a piercing
historical precedent. In the year 694, Iraq got a governor
named al-Hadjadj who brought stability, prosperity and terror
to the fractious land. Upon assuming power, he assembled the
people and gave the following speech, which Iraqi children
today learn by heart: "I see heads before me that are ripe
and ready for the plucking, and I am the one to pluck them,
and I see blood glistening between the turbans and the
beards. By God, oh people of Iraq, people of discord and
dissembling and evil character] . . . I swear by God that you
will keep strictly to the true path, or I shall punish every
man of you in his body." Legend says the crowd had gathered
rocks to hurl at al-Hadjadj, but the blood-curdling speech
was punctuated by the the plink of stones falling from
frightened fingers.
   The men around Saddam Hussein also probably dropped their
stones a long time ago. And, like him, they watch their
backs. One revolutionary hard-liner accessible to Western
visitors is Latif Jasim, a longtime Revolutionary Command
Council member and the current minister for information and
culture. A visitor to his office learns little of the
substance but much of the style of the Iraqi regime.
   When the elevator door swishes open, visitors find
themselves staring down the barrel of a guard's submachine
gun. A journalist, settling into one of a pair of identical
couches, is swiftly ejected from "the minister's seat." Mr.
Jasim, it seems, has an aversion to sitting with his back to
the door. The information minister arrives armed with a
pistol, but little information. Asked about his career before
1968, he replies: "I was a party member." At university? "Not
necessarily."
   The toughest among the inner circle reputedly is
51-year-old Taha Yassin Ramadan, a one-time bank clerk who
has had a seat on the Revolutionary Command Council since
1969.
   Jamal Sha'ir, a longtime Baath Party official now in
Jordan, describes Mr. Ramadan as the only political figure
with the stature to fill Saddam Hussein's shoes. "He has a
measure of charisma and all the right credentials," says Dr.
Sha'ir. "He is looked on as honest and nationalistic. And he
is certainly brutal." He recalls Mr. Ramadan giving a speech
in Amman, during which Moslem fundamentalists asked about the
Baath Party's attitude toward Islam. Mr. Ramadan responded
that Moslems could pray as much as they liked, "but if they
tried to harm a Baathist regime . . . the regime would break
their necks," Dr. Sha'ir recalls.
   But even the tough knuckle under when the edict comes from
Saddam Hussein. Just before the end of the war, the president
decided that all fat Iraqis should diet. Cabinet ministers
had their actual weights and target weights published in the
press, with exhortations to measure up -- and fast. The
corpulent Mr. Ramadan had to lose more than 60 pounds -- and
he did. "For someone that high up to starve himself says
something about the level of fear and discipline in Iraq,"
says a Jordanian analyst.
   Izzat Ibrahim, Iraq's official number two, is another
tough Tikriti-born revolutionary who demonstrated his
fearlessness of the previous regime by opening a coffee shop
for Baathist plotters. Now in failing health, Mr. Ibrahim has
never been allowed to develop to anything more than a
ceremonial deputy leader. But his daughter is married to one
possible successor, Saddam Hussein's son, Uday.
   Uday is the eldest son of the Iraqi president and his wife
Sajida. While in exile after the 1958 assassination attempt
on Qassem, Saddam Hussein proposed to his cousin Sajida
through a letter to his uncle. Later, imprisoned in Iraq, he
smuggled revolutionary messages to his followers hidden in
Uday's diapers. Until two years ago, his dynastic ambitions
were clear enough: Uday, with only a minor position as head
of a sports federation, was pictured in the newspapers almost
every day.
   But Uday's brutality exceeded even Iraqi bounds. One night
in October 1988, he bludgeoned to death the president's food
taster and bodyguard, Kamal Hana Gegeo, whose father was the
president's chef. The killing, though unpunished, slowed
Uday's fast-track rise to prominence.
   Right now, the rising star is not a son, but a son-in-law.
Hussein Kamel, minister for military industrialization, has
presided over Iraq's rapid and enormous acquisition of
missile technology and conventional weaponry and its
clandestine nuclear program. He also has close ties to the
army and the internal-security forces, forged during
Baghdad's successful campaign to crush Kurdish resistance in
northern Iraq.
   To replace Adnan Khairallah as defense minister, Saddam
Hussein moved to appease an army uneasy about the helicopter
crash. Abdel Jabber Shanshal is a career military man who has
stayed very much in the background.
   To find the regime's least-vicious face it is necessary to
look in the foreign ministry, a center of influence but
little power. Tariq Aziz, the white-haired foreign minister,
is a Christian who never would be accepted to lead Moslem
Iraq.
   A deputy foreign minister, Nizar Hamdoon, Iraq's
representative in Washington from 1983 to 1987, may be one of
the most effective envoys in modern diplomatic history. He
arrived just before the U.S. restored long-severed diplomatic
relations with Iraq and crisscrossed the country, speaking at
any public forum that would have him, from trade groups in
Sun Valley, Idaho, to college classes in Santa Cruz, Calif.
In Washington, he cultivated the State Department from desk
officers on upward and invited prominent pro-Israel lobbyists
to embassy dinners.
   The result was a sharp tilt in U.S. policy toward Iraq's
side in the Gulf war and a view of Iraq as a country with
which the U.S. could work.
   Just before the ceasefire with Iran in 1988, Mr. Hamdoon
preached of a post-war Iraq that "desperately needs peace and
security. It can't be a country that looks for troubles." He
wasn't the only official to have such a vision. Sadun
Hammadi, a more senior figure, also talked about an Iraq busy
reviving its economy, seeking "much more cooperation" with
other Arab countries and becoming "much more democratic than
it is now."
   Whether those dreams were genuine or merely bromides for
the West raises interesting questions about the existence of
alternative opinion close to Saddam Hussein. Mr. Hammadi, a
Shiite, is one of the founders of Iraq's Baathist revolution.
While studying business administration at the American
University in Beirut, he recruited travelers to smuggle
Baathist literature into Iraq. Later, studying agricultural
economics at the University of Wisconsin, he absorbed a
commitment to democratic ideals that makes him unique in
Iraq's top echelon.
   But no one from that circle could dream of moving against
Saddam Hussein without the support of the army, the Baath
Party or the vast internal-security network. A Romania-style
popular outburst also is unlikely since centers of unrest in
the country have been smashed. The two best-organized
resistance groups, the Kurds in the north and the radical
Shiites, have been all but vanquished: the Kurds by chemical
warfare and resettlement, and the radical Shiites by
execution and mass deportation to Iran. Iraq is a majority
Shiite country, led chiefly by a Sunni minority, which
includes Saddam Hussein.
   Unlike last year's revolutionaries in Eastern Europe,
Iraqis have little information to fan the sparks of
resistance. Shortwave broadcasts into the country are jammed,
Western publications are unavailable and photocopy centers
keep copies of customers' copies. A move that stuns the
outside world, such as Iraq's sudden capitulation to Iran's
peace terms, can be sold at home in whatever packaging the
government cares to design.
   In the end, Arab analysts insist that Saddam Hussein's
"nakwa" -- his Bedouin honor -- won't allow him to back down
in the crisis. They believe that, if defeated, he likely
would choose death by his own hand, after unleashing as much
destruction as possible on his enemies.
   However his end comes, Saddam Hussein's legacy is likely
to make a mockery of the Baathist dream of Arab unity to
which he has dedicated his life. Just as his occupation of
Kuwait has split the Arab world, his failure to anoint a
successor could tear Iraq apart: With no Saddam Hussein to
fear, his tough, ruthless underlings would battle each other
for power.
   That scenario recalls the epilogue of another warlord who
perished on Iraqi soil. Alexander the Great dreamed of
uniting his conquests, from Athens to Persia. As he lay dying
of fever in Babylon, his generals gathered to ask to whom his
crown should pass. His whispered reply -- "To the strongest"
-- set off a series of wars and feuds that, within a few
years, had reduced his dream of unity to dust and rubble.
   ---
   Robert S. Greenberger contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hedged Securities'
   Founder Stages
   Video Confession
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL WY UTH
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The world of business has been transformed in many ways by
video technology, from teleconferencing to televised sales
pitches. Now, James D. Donahue has taken the technology one
step further.
   At a bizarre meeting held Thursday for more than 500
investors of Hedged Securities Associates Inc., Mr. Donahue,
the Englewood, Colo., firm's founder, confessed to losing
more than $100 million of their money through risky stock
options trading, primarily involving shares of UAL Corp. But,
fearful for his personal safety, Mr. Donahue didn't deliver
his confession in person -- he did it on video.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a result of Mr. Donahue's trading losses, the company
plans to file this week for protection from creditors under
the federal Bankruptcy Code, according to Robert A. Dill, an
attorney for the investment firm.
   Despite Mr. Donahue's absence, Mr. Dill said the firm
hired security guards to keep order during the investors'
meeting. "There obviously were a number of very, very unhappy
people, and in a crowd that size, anything can happen," he
said, adding that Mr. Donahue has received several threats in
recent days.
   The still-unraveling scandal surrounding the secretive
firm has triggered four lawsuits in state courts in Colorado
and California and attracted the attention of Colorado
Securities Commissioner Philip Feigin. However, citing agency
policy, Mr. Feigin declined to comment on whether a formal
investigation is under way. "We're obviously aware of it,"
Mr. Feigin said in an interview.
   Launched as a limited partnership 11 years ago, Hedged
Securities was unregistered with either the Securities and
Exchange Commission or state regulatory agencies. Still, its
promises of a 15% or better return on investments proved
irresistible to pension funds representing employees of
Weyerhaeuser Co., the big lumber company based in Tacoma,
Wash.; Houston-based Union Texas Petroleum Holdings Inc.; and
other corporations.
   Meanwhile, dozens of wealthy Colorado doctors, lawyers and
business executives also made the $100,000 minimum required
investment despite warnings from professional money managers.
The managers' informal inquiries about Hedged Securities were
frustrated by Mr. Donahue's refusal to discuss details of the
firm's holdings or transactions. "It became the cliquish
thing to do," said Joe Tanis, a vice president with
Denver-based Boettcher &amp; Co. "A lot of people got burned."
   According to a prospectus given to potential investors,
the 62-year-old Mr. Donahue has a masters degree in
mathematics from Stanford University, worked in the research
department of Martin Marietta Corp. in the 1960s and was
employed by Science Applications Inc., a Denver computer
research firm, before launching Hedged Securities in 1979.
Operating with a small staff from the firm's modest office in
the Denver suburb, Mr. Donahue was known as an aggressive
trader in the often volatile arena of "put" and "call" stock
options.
   A call option entitles the holder to buy shares of an
underlying stock at a certain price within a specified period
and would be bought by someone betting on an increase in the
stock's price. A put gives the holder similar rights to sell
such shares and would be purchased by an investor looking for
a downturn in the stock's price.
   In a confidential 1985 memo to investors, Mr. Donahue said
Hedged Securities would seek to hedge its investments by
purchasing offsetting put and call positions in a wide
variety of stocks. But after years of apparently successful
results, investors became suspicious in recent weeks after
Hedged Securities began suffering substantial losses,
according to persons familiar with the situation.
   In a suit filed last week in a state district court in
Englewood, Paradigm Partners Inc. of Chicago said a pension
investment fund it controls lost more than $15 million
through its Hedged Securities investments. Paradigm alleged
that when the fund trustees tried to investigate earlier this
month, Mr. Donahue denied them access to his firm's books and
repeatedly canceled meetings.
   Thursday's session was scheduled after the Weyerhaeuser
pension fund, which lost an estimated $30 million through
Hedged Securities, and other investors began demanding an
accounting, according to persons involved in the case.
   In the videotape played for creditors, Mr. Donahue said
that since late 1989, he had sold off other investments to
spend increasing amounts of money in call positions in the
stock of UAL, parent company of United Airlines and the
target of a buy-out bid by employee unions. Hedged Securities
suffered huge losses after the buy-out bid floundered for
lack of financing and after the price of UAL stock fell
steeply on Iraq's recent invasion of Kuwait, Mr. Donahue told
investors.
   "The loss is extensive and involves almost all of the
total assets of the fund," he said, according to a transcript
of the videotape. "My words at this point cannot possibly
alleviate the emotion{sic} or financial impact on each person
involved nor can they express the deep sorrow I have over
this incident."
   Hedged Securities has about $2 million in assets remaining
and hasn't decided whether to file for a Chapter 11
reorganization or a Chapter 7 liquidation, according to Mr.
Dill. Since Thursday's meeting, Mr. Donahue has begun turning
detailed financial information over to investors, Mr. Dill
added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TMC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   AD REVENUE: Times Mirror Co. said ad revenue of its
Newspaper Publishing Group for the five weeks ended Aug. 5
edged up 0.6% to $143.6 million from $142.8 million for the
similar period a year earlier. For 31 weeks ended Aug. 5, ad
revenue fell 0.9% to $985.7 million. The cumulative results
for 1990 contain 31 Sundays, one less than a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southland Extends Its Debt-Swap Offer
   After Falling Short of Goal Last Week
   ----
   By Kevin Helliker
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   IYCOY SLCTC J.SEV
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Amid signs that some investors may be holding
out for a better deal, Southland Corp. again extended its
debt-swap offer after falling far short of obtaining
bondholder approval to complete a $430 million bailout
proposed by its Japanese partners.
   Southland extended the offer to Sept. 12, three days
before the scheduled expiration of its proposed deal with
Ito-Yokado Co., the Japanese operator of Southland's 7-Eleven
convenience stores.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To complete the transaction, which would give Ito-Yokado a
70% stake in Southland, the convenience-store chain needs
approval from bondholders representing 95% of the bonds
outstanding in each of five debt issues. When the first
extension of the offer expired last Thursday, Southland had
received tenders from holders of 46% of its 18% notes, 46.3%
of its 16.75% notes, 64% of its 16.5% notes, 65.9% of its
15.75% notes, and 89.9% of its 13.5% senior notes. Only
holders of the company's preferred stock exceeded the
minimums required in the complex deal, tendering 90.9% of the
shares outstanding. Only two-thirds approval of preferred
shareholders was required.
   "We plan to intensify our efforts to communicate with
those bondholders who have not yet tendered and expect
continued progress during the extension," said Clark
Matthews, Southland's chief financial officer. According to
John Gordon, president of Deltec Securities Corp. and
chairman of the Southland bondholder committee, at least one
big holder, with 12% of each of two issues, has been on
vacation and couldn't be contacted.
   Yet merely extending the offer may not be enough. William
Eddleman Jr. of Dallas-based Barre &amp; Co., a holder along with
its clients of about $30 million in Southland bonds, said,
"Officially, we're telling our clients we'd like to see if
there's going to be a better deal."
   "Anybody holding out for a better deal is totally
unreasonable, considering the economic environment we're in
now," countered Mr. Gordon, whose committee rejected three
earlier Southland offers before approving the fourth and
latest one. Calling it "the best deal that can be gotten,"
Mr. Gordon predicted that it would receive bondholder
approval by Sept. 12.
   Southland's current offer would give bondholders about 25%
of the company's common stock. The founding Thompson family
of Dallas would get about 5% of the stock.
   Southland went into default on its $1.8 billion of
publicly traded debt in mid-July, but avoided being forced
into filing for bankruptcy-law protection when the bondholder
committee endorsed the terms of its most recent exchange
offer.
   The company, which owns about 6,700 7-Eleven and other
convenience stores in the U.S. and Canada, went private in a
$4.9 billion leveraged buy-out in late 1987 to avoid a
threatened hostile takeover. But increased competition eroded
sales and profit margins and made it difficult for the
company to service the huge debt from the buy-out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   On the Rack:
   As More Men Choose
   Flashy Foreign Suits,
   A U.S. Maker Squirms
   ---
   Conservative Hartmarx Tries
   To Get Hip by Restyling
   Clothes, Stores, Sales Pitch
   ---
   Coming Up: Imitation Italians
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   HMX
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- For more than 100 years, a simple philosophy
has helped make Hartmarx Corp. the unrivaled mass producer of
the American corporate uniform: All men's suits basically
look alike.
   From its top-of-the-line Hickey-Freeman to its low-priced
Sansabelt and Johnny Carson brands, Hartmarx boasts a
top-ranked 11% share of the U.S. men's suit market, little
changed in recent years. Sales in its 251 Wallachs, Baskin
and other retail stores and in department stores and
boutiques nationwide are $1.3 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But all is not well for Hartmarx, or U.S. suit
manufacturers in general. More and more men are shunning the
traditional baggy, dark American suit for its more stylish
Italian and British competitors -- when they are buying at
all.
   Hartmarx admittedly has been slow in responding to
consumer demand for greater variety in suit colors and in
remodeling stores that some customers find monotonous. "Our
problem is an image of old fogies," says Richard Goldman,
president of Hartmarx's Hickey-Freeman line.
   Hartmarx is trying to fight back, altering suit design and
sales techniques, closing unprofitable stores and retiring
some executives. It is assembling an army of in-office
tailors, starting a "Suit University" for salesmen and
launching a sexually suggestive advertising campaign that has
shocked some of its own officials.
   But it won't be easy to reverse Hartmarx's fortunes, which
include a three-year financial slump, including a loss of
$55.1 million after a special charge in the fiscal quarter
ended May 31.
   On a recent shopping spree at a mall on Michigan Avenue,
Michael Volpe, a 34-year-old physician, ignores Hartmarx's
Baskin store and takes the mall escalator four floors up to a
suit boutique filled with designer labels, Bigsby &amp; Kruthers.
Dr. Volpe, a short man with glasses and thinning hair,
doesn't look anything like an Italian model, but he is intent
on buying a flashy Giorgio Armani suit cut stylishly enough
for the cover of GQ magazine. As for Hartmarx suits, he says,
"Too drab, too dull, too boring."
   Dr. Volpe and a woman friend sip white wine served up by a
Bigsby &amp; Kruthers salesman. He is fitted in a $725
grayish-green Armani suit and two Italian ties priced at $75
and $57. His companion makes every decision, except which
credit card to use.
   "Cuffs?" he asks between sips of chardonnay. "Yes," she
says, glancing up from a copy of GQ featuring Arnold
Schwarzenegger.
   Shortly thereafter, Richard Dawson is hardly a fashion
plate as he strolls into the same pricey store in a tank-top
shirt and gym shorts. But the suburban-Chicago airline worker
heads straight for an Italian-styled Andrew Fezza suit in
38-short.
   Hartmarx stores are "for my father; he bought me my first
suit in one of them," says Mr. Dawson, who borrows a white
shirt and a pair of dress shoes to see if the $425 Fezza
flatters him. "Fezza? Is that European?" he asks.
American-style suits, it seems, just won't do.
   Over recent years, sales of U.S.-made suits have slipped
24%, to 11.9 million in 1989 from 15.6 million in 1983. Sales
of imports rose 49% to 5.2 million from 3.5 million in the
period. Overall, Americans bought two million fewer suits of
any sort last year than seven years ago.
   The hottest properties this year are pricey,
limited-distribution designer brands like Ermenegildo Zegna
and Joseph Abboud. "Anything with mustard color in it is
hot," says John Moran, manager of Ultimo Ltd. on Chicago's
fashionable Oak Street. He has sold more than 40 Zegnas, at
about $1,200 each, in two weeks.
   GFT USA, a unit of Italy's Gruppo GFT, whose brands
include Armani and Abboud, estimates that its share of the
lucrative $300-and-up market has roughly doubled in the past
five years to 20%.
   Meanwhile, many big names in the traditional U.S.
business-suit market are reporting problems. Marks &amp; Spencer
PLC's Brooks Brothers, a standard-bearer of the Ivy-League
look, saw operating profit plunge 50% in the six months ended
last Sept. 30. Since then, it has stopped making operating
figures public.
   Hartmarx officials heap blame for their troubles on
workplace upheaval and shifting life styles. They point to
the leveraged buy-out wave, which emptied many an office of
potential suit shoppers, as has the Wall Street retrenchment.
Grimly, they joke that many customers who used to buy two
suits a year now need just one -- for job interviews.
   Further, many businesses are moving to suburban office
parks, where casual dress is more acceptable. The personal
computer allows some employees to work more at home, reducing
the suit to an occasional requirement.
   The very fact that Hartmarx has such a big market share
makes it in some ways more difficult to change. Besides its
11% overall share, the company has 40% of the $300-and-up
suit market and 23% of the $200-and-up market.
   Thus, Hartmarx officials worry about losing established
customers. And while trying to change with the times, the
company remains steeped in a tradition of practicality and
conservatism dating back to its founding in 1872, when Harry
and Max Hart opened their first clothing store on State
Street here, recognizing that many people had lost a lot of
their clothes to the great fire of 1871.
   Hickey-Freeman suits still feature buttons made from
water-buffalo horns, a century-old custom, even though most
customers can't tell them from plastic. For 101 years,
Hickey-Freeman's slogan has been "Our suit feels old when
it's new and looks new when it's old." A Hartmarx sportswear
line is named after Bobby Jones, whose golfing prime was in
the 1930s; he has been dead 19 years.
   The company is so slow to react to style changes that it
missed the leisure-suit boom of the early 1970s altogether.
It admits being at least a season behind competitors' recent
successful introductions of bright taupe and pearl-gray
suits. And when Hartmarx in recent years obtained the license
to sell such fashionable French labels as Christian Dior and
Pierre Cardin in the U.S., it stuck them on suits that lacked
the style the names implied.
   Thus, it is little wonder the company's new-image ad
campaign has shocked some of its own executives. "I almost
didn't recognize you with your clothes on," a young woman
tells a male model in a forthcoming ad for Hickey-Freeman.
The ad ends by explaining that she had earlier ogled the man
in his jogging shorts.
   Says Martin Landey, whose New York ad firm designed the
campaign, "Hartmarx must start bonding with younger buyers
who think its stores are boring places with suits for their
fathers."
   Somewhat reluctantly leading these changes is Hartmarx
Chairman Harvey Weinberg. He is a plain-spoken former
salesman who used to mop the floor himself at his own store
on Chicago's South Side before joining Hartmarx 20 years ago.
He mothballed his predecessor's chauffeured limousine when he
took command three years ago.
   Critics at the company say the 52-year-old Mr. Weinberg
has been too slow to change, for example keeping some
executives in critical jobs whose main accomplishment is
loyalty to him and the company. And he agrees. "It has
happened with some post-peak people. Maybe I'm too loyal, but
that's part of the culture of this company -- right down to
our second- and third-generation pressers," he says.
   But in the last few months Mr. Weinberg has replaced six
of his top seven merchandising managers, and the
latest-quarter earnings included a $51 million charge to
close 65 stores. More field and headquarters executives will
go, he says. "Several significant old-timers I started out
with will be retired."
   One Hartmarx tactic is to offer customers additional suit
brands. It now has 17, a big jump from a decade ago. Prices
range from $200 to $1,000.
   Virtually all models now have some Continental touches,
like wider lapels and more imaginative color schemes. Blues
and grays, accounting for 93% of Hartmarx suits sold two
years ago, are a mere 30% now. And next spring, Hartmarx
plans to introduce a U.S.-made Italian imitator called
Pallesco, with suits costing up to $800. The risk, says
designer and fashion consultant Alan Flusser, is that the
added labels and altered designs may not be distinctive
enough, or may confuse customers and blur Hartmarx's image.
   Another Hartmarx effort is the recent remodeling of its
flagship Baskin store on Michigan Avenue in Chicago at a cost
of more than $1 million. Gone are the worn yellow tile,
cheap-looking blond wood trim and generally cramped and
excessively bright quarters. The new flagship is twice the
original size, with green marble floors and stylishly dim
lighting.
   Yet even here, Hartmarx doesn't stray far from its sedate
men's-club look. The new store is adorned with hunting
trophies promising to offend any shopper sympathetic to the
wildlife-protection movement. And though it is aimed at
younger men, dressing rooms picture Britishers in
17th-century wigs. A display of history books ends in 1939.
   "I'm wondering if Baskin is an anachronism," says Edward
Johnson, a retailing consultant. Hartmarx officials say sales
are improving at the new store, but they won't provide
figures.
   In February, Hartmarx opened Suit University, a four-day
course for floor personnel aiming to hone their sales
techniques. The first lesson takes a back-to-basics approach
-- way back.
   "These are sheep," says Peter Huston, director of the
school, showing students a photo of woolly creatures grazing
on a Scottish hillside. "Point is, a lot of floor people
don't know where our product really comes from. You may win a
customer by explaining that we don't use wool from the rump,
or the underbelly."
   A class of 24 students, some veterans of 30 years of
selling suits, tramps into the school's mock retail floor,
complete with hundreds of suits hanging from racks. Mr.
Huston presents a list of faux pas he says are chasing away
many suit shoppers.
                                                                                                       

   Never jiggle change in your pocket within earshot of a
customer. "In his mind, the change jiggler is a hawk waiting
for a victim -- and he's a lazy bum. You should be dusting,
straightening the racks and taking care of the suits. Let the
customer see you're proud of the store," he says.
                                                                                                       

   Don't ask, "May I help you?" Most customers subconsciously
resent this most common sales approach, says Mr. Huston. "It
implies the customer needs help just to get to the washroom
by himself. He wants expertise. Ask if you may show him some
suits that just arrived."
                                                                                                       

   Don't let the customer try on a suit before a mirror until
you see that any needed alterations are minor. "If it looks
terrible, he'll just want to get it off his back and leave."
                                                                                                       

   Don't apologize for the high cost of suits. Retail suit
prices are up 30% from three years ago. "The customer says,
`Gee, $465 is a lot for a suit.' The salesman tends to say,
`True, but everything is higher these days.' Well, don't say
that," says Mr. Huston. "Instead, say, `It isn't much,
considering the value of the relationships this suit will
help you build.'"
   Another sales effort is the company's force of traveling
suit salesmen/tailors, such as Francisco Perez. The
29-year-old Mr. Perez, with a masters degree in marketing,
may ring up sales of $5,000 in a single visit to an executive
suite, although drumming up prospective customers takes up
much of his time. His prices are the same as those in stores,
and he doesn't accept tips. Such sales, begun last September,
are less than 1% of Hartmarx's total, but some officials see
them growing quickly.
   Mr. Perez is most successful with customers who have
special needs, such as Lars Anderson, a leasing official for
some shopping malls, whose 6-foot-3, 315-pound body precludes
off-the-rack suits. Some salesmen throw up their hands at the
sight of him and push any garment close to fitting, Mr.
Anderson says. "Later, my fiancee says, `You look like a hog
in that.'"
   Mr. Perez, who found Mr. Anderson through a referral,
quickly tells him Hartmarx suits can be custom-ordered in
special sizes and delivered in less than a month. He boasts
that the company made several Hickey-Freeman suits in a
63-long for football player William "Refrigerator" Perry.
(The largest store size is usually 56-long.) Mr. Anderson
agrees to buy three $1,000 suits from Mr. Perez. "I may not
look like a model," Mr. Anderson says, "but I'm still vain."
   ---
                      Major Suit Makers
                                                                                                       

                                                   Market
   Company                 Brands                  Share
                                                                                                       

   Hartmarx Corp.          Hart Schaffner &amp;          11%
                           Marx, Hickey-Freeman
                                                                                                       

   Genesco Inc.            Perry Ellis, Polo          5
                           University Club
                                                                                                       

   J. Schoeneman Inc.      Burberry's, Halston        3
                                                                                                       

   International           Cricketeer, Hugo Boss      3
   Fashion Apparel
   Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Crystal Brands Inc.     Palm Beach, Haspel        N.A.

   N.A.=Not available
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Data General Could Be Profitable Soon
   Due to 17% Cut in Force, Analysts Say
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   DGN
</CO>
<LP>
   6100 000 013 LNS 18:48 t czc czc WHATS NEWS sh Markets-
eh    Stocks: Volume 160,150,000 shares. Dow Jones
industrials 2611.63, up 78.71; transportation 908.03, up
38.32; utilities 194.42, up 3.46.   Bonds: Shearson Lehman
Brothers Treasury index 3326.27, up 48.63.   Commodities:
Dow Jones futures index 134.16, off 1.68; spot index 132.23,
off 1.95.   Dollar: 144.25 yen, off 2.45; 1.5510 marks, off
0.0095.
   Data General Corp. could become profitable in as little as
six months as the savings from a sweeping 17% work-force
reduction hit the bottom line, some analysts say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Westborough, Mass., minicomputer maker said Friday
that it would lay off at least an additional 2,000 people and
take a $70 million charge in the fiscal fourth quarter,
ending Sept. 29. It's the latest move in a bold gamble to
transform the troubled company into a smaller, nimbler
competitor in the booming workstation business.
   "This gives them a fighting chance," says Marc Schulman,
an analyst at UBS Securities Inc. in New York. "Cutting this
deeply, as painful as it is, is Data General's only shot at
becoming profitable quickly. And that's the only way it's
going to survive."
   Mr. Schulman estimates quarterly savings could be more
than 70 cents a share, enough to reverse recent operating
losses. He sees a return to profitability in the second
quarter, ending March 30, and expects fiscal 1991 to bring
the first annual profit in five years.
   In the latest nine months, Data General had a loss of
$50.5 million, or $1.69 a share, on revenue of $907.9
million, compared with a year-earlier loss of $35.7 million,
or $1.22 a share, on revenue of $957.3 million.
   Data General is engaged in a delicate balancing act,
trying to hold onto existing customers of its aging MV
minicomputer line while increasing sales of its Aviion line
of workstations and computer network servers. While the new
line has been well-received and is expected to hit $100
million in sales this year, competition from larger,
healthier companies has become more intense while sales of
the MV are dropping. Total revenue, which hit $1.36 billion
in 1988, are expected to fall to an estimated $1.23 billion
this year.
   Still, the company has slashed expenses so deeply that
"even assuming that revenue continues to slip a little bit
each quarter, Data General should be profitable again next
year," says Shao F. Wang, an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris
Upham &amp; Co. John Adams of Adams, Harkness &amp; Hill adds that
the balance sheet remains relatively strong and should
provide a cushion for another year.
   The cuts announced Friday will bring the payroll to fewer
than 9,700, down from 11,700 on June 30 and a peak of 17,700
in 1985.
   The layoffs are another blow to the state's ebbing economy
and to the Route 128 region, once considered the East Coast's
answer to California's booming Silicon Valley. Data General's
troubles are echoed at nearby Wang Laboratories Inc. and
Prime Computer Inc., which remain mired in losses. Even giant
Digital Equipment Corp., the largest employer in
Massachusetts and New Hampshire, has been struggling and
posted its first-ever loss last month.
   In consolidated New York Stock Exchange trading Friday,
Data General shares closed at $6, up 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   No ifs, ands or Butts,
   Soviets Are Fuming
   Over Cigarette Crisis
   ---
   Authorities Seek to Reassure
   Angry Public, Promising
   Relief From Shortage
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Soviet authorities sought to reassure smokers
that there will be enough tobacco in the days to come,
following increased public outrage over the worst cigarette
shortage in decades.
   State-run newspapers reported that a Moscow factory had
produced 45 million cigarettes in 24 hours over the weekend,
that a special command post was ensuring the packs made it to
tobacco kiosks instead of the hands of black marketeers, and
that authorities were cracking down on the black market
speculators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov tried to calm the Soviet
Union's 70 million smokers on national television by
similarly pledging that more cigarettes -- both domestic and
imported -- were on the way.
   But Mr. Ryzhkov dodged responsibility for the crisis,
saying the shortage wasn't the fault of the central
government, but of the leadership of the individual Soviet
republics. He also blamed panic-buying by the public.
   Beneath a banner headline pleading "Government, give us a
smoke]" the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper devoted its entire
front page to the crisis, chronicling the various "tobacco
rebellions" around the Soviet Union since July. The newspaper
reported that a pack of American Marlboro cigarettes would
bring up to 20 rubles ($32) on the black market in Moscow.
   The actions underscored how seriously national and local
authorities are taking the summer-long cigarette shortage,
especially in light of street demonstrations by angry smokers
that have been increasing in Moscow and Leningrad recently.
On Wednesday, scores of people blocked a street next to the
Kremlin until a nearby tobacco kiosk was restocked.
   The newspaper Moskovskaya Pravda reported that Muscovites
will be getting ration coupons for tobacco products as a
temporary, two- to three-month measure in order to combat
hoarding and black market speculation.
   The newspaper said that one black marketeer killed a buyer
over a pack of cigarettes in Moscow, but it provided no other
details.
   Komsomolskaya Pravda said that in the central Siberian
city of Barnaul, one brand of Soviet cigarettes was being
sold for 7 rubles on the black market. Soviet cigarettes
usually sell for about 45 kopecks per pack.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Movies:
   Sappy `Ghost'
   Is Beating Up
   Macho Movies
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- This was to be the summer of muscle-bound
macho in the movie business. Hollywood's big studios served
up a passel of big-budget pictures packed with pyrotechnics,
violent special effects, and bicep-flexing actors working for
eight-figure salaries.
   But the he-man likes of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Bruce
Willis are getting beat up at the box office by a sappy
little love story called "Ghost." This past weekend, the
Paramount Pictures film grossed another $7.8 million to hit
$112 million in ticket sales in 45 days, passing "Die Hard
2." By the end of this week, "Ghost" could surpass "Total
Recall" as the summer's top grosser, and it may yet outsell
"Pretty Woman" as the No. 1 film of the year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Ghost" is an unlikely success story that may offer a
lesson to a business obsessed with superstar salaries and
blow-'em-up stunts: Instead of going for the gut, making a
blatantly sentimental appeal to the heart can be just as
effective. And cheaper.
   The rest of Hollywood is taking note. Just as this
summer's overabundance of action flicks followed,
lemming-like, in the path of last summer's huge hit,
"Batman," next summer may be filled with films modeled after
"Ghost." "Every time a movie works, people tend to gravitate
toward the subject matter that made it work," says Barry
London, co-president of Paramount's motion picture group.
   "Ghost" tells the story of a regular Joe who is killed in
a mugging and finds himself hanging around, invisible to the
living, trying to console and protect his bereaved girlfriend
and solve his own murder.
   Few people can identify personally with Mr. Willis
outgunning terrorists in "Die Hard 2," or with Mr.
Schwarzenegger knocking off adversaries by the dozen on
planet Mars in "Total Recall." But many folks can hope for
life after death and wish for one more chance to say goodbye
to someone they love, the themes at play in "Ghost."
   "What was wonderful about it is it touches an emotional
port in people," says Lawrence Resnick, a clinical
psychologist who went with his wife, Elizabeth, to see
"Ghost" on his 41st birthday last week. He was moved to
tears. "It helps people realize it's so important to
appreciate what we have," he says.
   Even if "Ghost" doesn't finish No. 1 at the box office, it
may be the most profitable picture of the year. The movie is
likely to hit $130 million in North American ticket sales by
the end of the summer season after Memorial Day, and it could
exceed $165 million by the fall, projects Hollywood Reporter
film analyst Martin Grove. The studio, a unit of Paramount
Communications Inc., gets about half, plus additional revenue
when the film is released overseas and on cable, videotape
and network television.
   The movie was made for less than $20 million, only
one-third the cost of swaggering blockbusters "Total Recall"
and "Die Hard 2" and about half the cost of Paramount's two
big action films of the summer, the Tom Cruise vehicle "Days
of Thunder" and the Eddie Murphy epic "Another 48 HRS."
Instead of spending $10 million or more for a heavyweight
star, Paramount used three actors with uneven records at the
box office: Patrick Swayze, Whoopi Goldberg and Demi Moore.
   Rather than pay a million-plus for a "spec" script sold in
a bidding war, Paramount developed the story in-house with
writer Bruce Joel Rubin, a mystical sort who has spent time
in a Tibetan monastery. (The studio already has signed him to
direct his first feature.) Though Mr. Rubin's story is so
sweetly sentimental as to border on the hokey, the studio
tapped as director Jerry Zucker, an oddball writer better
known for such parodies as "Airplane]" and "Top Secret." (In
the latter, he filmed a cow that was wearing boots and
sporting painted polka dots.)
   "Summer seems to be a time when the studios all want to
bring out their big guns," says Mr. Zucker, interviewed by
phone from a film festival in Norway, where "Ghost" is about
to be released. "A lot of times big guns are the pictures
that have big budgets, big names, lots of explosions, films
that are visually extravagant." But in "Ghost," he played
down the special effects -- neat stuff like shots from Mr.
Swayze's point of view, showing the cellular insides of
people as they passed through him -- to focus on the story
and humor.
   "Ghost" spoofs spooks as Mr. Swayze, rookie poltergeist,
learns the ins and outs of the afterlife. Trying to make
contact with his girlfriend, he spots a storefront sign,
"Contact the Dearly Departed for $20," and hooks up with a
fake psychic played by Ms. Goldberg. When she refuses to
help, he haunts her bedroom late at night, singing "I'm Henry
the Eighth I Am" in heavy cockney.
   "Ghost," like "Pretty Woman," benefited by appealing to
people age 25-plus and women, in particular, in a market
crowded with action pictures aimed at young males.
   "Everyone wanted to have the next `Batman,' because the
upside was so high," says Alan Kassan, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley Co. "Batman" grossed $250 million last year, but no
film has come close this season. The willingness of teen-age
boys and 18-to-25-year-old men to see a hot film again and
again is critical to a huge box office, but their income is
limited, and this summer they had to stretch it over too many
pictures.
   To exploit the glut of macho movies, Paramount bumped up
the release date for "Ghost" by two weeks, to July 13. Then
it sold the film's soft side, sending critics fancy little
bags filled with a perfume sample, a split of French
champagne, a lace handkerchief, and a film poster and note
promoting the film. Television and print ads went heavy on
the romance, and by June 30, the studio had already spent
close to $3 million on TV spots, according to Arbitron Co.'s
Broadcast Advertiser Reports.
   Despite the film's success, Hollywood will continue to
churn out action/adventure fare because it can pay so well.
"Total Recall," from Carolco Pictures Inc., and "Die Hard 2,"
from Fox Inc.'s Twentieth Century Fox, could take in $160
million apiece in studio revenues against expenses of about
$100 million each, a profit margin approaching 40%, Mr.
Kassan estimates.
   Paramount itself has fared less well with Tom Cruise in a
race car and with Eddie Murphy out of jail, albeit the
windfall from "Ghost" could more than offset any
disappointments. Mr. Cruise's "Days of Thunder" cost $75
million to make and market, by some estimates, but had
brought in less than $40 million in revenue to the studio in
54 days. "Another 48 HRS." cost an estimated $62 million to
produce and release, with Paramount's share of receipts
coming to about $40 million in 73 days.
   ---
                Outmuscled at the Box Office
                                                                                                       

   An unlikely love story, "Ghost" may surpass all macho
summer rivals, grossing more money in far fewer days.
                                                                                                       

                                Box Office/     Drop-Off*
                                   Days        (1st to 2nd
   Film                        (in millions)      weekend)
                                                                                                       

   "Ghost"                      $99.2/38 days      19.2%
   "Total Recall"              $115.1/80 days      41.5
   "Another 48 HRS."            $78.5/73 days      45
   "Dick Tracy"                $103.1/66 days      31
   "Robocop 2"                  $43.9/59 days      55
   "Days of Thunder"            $78.7/54 days      31
   "Die Hard 2"                $104.9/48 days      31
                                                                                                       

   *Based on average revenue per screen
   Source: Variety, as of Aug. 19
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Seeks Concessions, Ford Offers
   More Job Security in Contract Proposals
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- As the United Auto Workers union prepares to
select a "target" company for negotiating a new three-year
contract, Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. put sharply
different offers on the table.
   Ford offered to negotiate improved job security and to
boost pensions for its UAW workers. Meanwhile, Chrysler asked
its UAW-represented employees to accept substantial
concessions in benefits. The offer virtually ensures that the
union will not select Chrysler to set the pattern for its
negotiations with the Big Three auto makers. Among the offers
submitted, General Motors Corp. was the only one to propose a
base wage increase.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford's offer includes unspecified lump-sum payments, but
no base wage increases. The auto maker also wants the union
to allow it to offer incentives to employees to move into
health maintenance organizations or preferred provider plans.
   Chrysler made its initial offer to the UAW Friday, while
Ford and GM submitted their proposals Thursday. The UAW is
bargaining separately with each of them, and is set to select
by tomorrow one of the three as its target for negotiating a
pattern-setting pact. The union will work to reach agreement
with the target company by Sept. 14, when contracts with all
three companies expire. After reaching agreement, the union
will then press the two other companies to agree to virtually
identical terms.
   Traditionally, the UAW chooses as its target the company
that best suits its objectives and strategies for the
negotiations. The union has said that obtaining job security
for its 450,000 members who work for the Big Three auto
makers will be its top objective in talks this year. It's
been widely speculated that GM will be the target this year
because the company has nearly twice as many UAW members as
Ford and Chrysler combined, and the No. 1 auto maker has
continually crossed swords with the UAW over job security.
Perhaps more important, the union's strongest personality is
Stephen Yokich, who heads the union's GM department.
   GM's offer last week included increased base wages, and
expanded benefits for workers it lays off, but didn't include
broader job guarantees for UAW members. In contrast, Ford
said it is willing to tackle the issue of job security, but
didn't provide any definitive proposal.
   Chrysler's offer drew sharp criticism from UAW officials
because, unlike the offers of GM and Ford, Chrysler's offer
seeks "givebacks." The No. 3 auto maker asked UAW bargainers
to move their workers out of their traditional Blue Cross and
Blue Shield healthcare coverage and into health maintenance
organizations and preferred provider plans.
   The auto maker also asked the union to drop the
requirement that Chrysler hire one worker for every two it
loses through attrition. Stan Marshall, the UAW's top
Chrysler bargainer, signaled his disappointment by walking
out of the bargaining room without discussion almost
immediately after Chrysler presented the offer.
   Chrysler's offer "more or less left (Mr. Marshall)
speechless," a UAW official said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   White House Ignored Early Warnings
   Of Iraqi President's Growing Militancy
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The day before Iraq invaded Kuwait, the Bush
administration was lobbying hard to kill a bill that would
impose sanctions on Baghdad in an effort to curb its
aggressive, bullying behavior.
   Rep. Howard Berman (D., Calif.) the author of the
sanctions measure, says that in four telephone calls -- two
from senior State Department officials and two from National
Security Council aides -- the administration argued for time,
saying it was "reviewing policy" towards Iraq. At that point,
Iraq already had amassed troops on its border with Kuwait.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the officials must have suspected that the time for
review was over. They confided to Rep. Berman that they were
reluctant to oppose his bill publicly. Indeed, when Rep.
Berman rejected their arguments and the House Foreign Affairs
Committee worked on the bill the next day, administration
officials didn't even show up.
   Their unwillingness to slap Iraq on the wrist culminated a
long history of mild responses by the Reagan and Bush
administrations to increasingly troublesome actions by
Baghdad, including the poison-gas killings of hundreds of
Kurdish civilians, the hanging of a British journalist,
attempts to import nuclear-weapons technology illegally,
escalation of anti-U.S. rhetoric and overt blackmail of its
neighbors.
   The initial U.S. passivity contrasts sharply with
President Bush's decisive military response to Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait, which has won support from virtually all
the world's major nations. Mr. Bush displayed a similar
pattern when he initially reacted passively to mounting
provocations by Panama's erstwhile dictator Manuel Noriega,
before sending in U.S. forces to topple him.
   It is impossible to say whether a tougher U.S. stance
earlier this year would have altered the behavior of Saddam
Hussein, Iraq's president. But some Mideast experts contend
that an early, clear signal of the U.S.'s willingness to use
force to protect its interests might have averted the current
showdown.
   "I think it's possible that we might have dissuaded Saddam
from making the overt military move," says William Quandt, a
Middle East specialist at the Brookings Institution. "He
might have settled for the bullying and the blackmail. He's a
gambler but he's not crazy."
   Laurie Mylroie, a fellow at Harvard's Center for Middle
East Studies, says: "Particularly when Saddam Hussein was
threatening Kuwait earlier and building up his forces, if
Bush had spoken up more strongly and said this could mean
war, it might have been an effective deterrent."
   Other analysts disagree, arguing that the U.S. attempt to
establish a working relationship with Iraq was worth the
effort because Iraq is a regional power. "It was just too
important to ignore," says James Placke, a former State
Department official who dealt with the Persian Gulf region
during the Reagan administration.
   The roots of the U.S. policy toward Iraq trace back to the
1979 Iranian revolution. U.S. officials saw Baghdad as a
bulwark against a wave of Iranian-inspired Islamic
fundamentalism that threatened to topple Mideast regimes and
jeopardize the free flow of oil to the West. As a result,
during the Iran-Iraq war the U.S. licensed the export of
considerable amounts of militarily applicable technology to
Iraq, including aircraft parts and personal computers. And,
U.S. officials say, Washington privately encouraged France to
arm Saddam Hussein.
   The U.S. also gave Iraq $4 billion in agriculture credits,
mainly to foster a market for U.S. products. Indeed, over the
last few years, when the White House dragged its heels on
sanctions, it had the support of lawmakers from grain states.
In July, when the Senate was debating a sanctions bill, Sen.
John Breaux, a Democrat from Louisiana, which until recently
shipped rice to Iraq, said, "I cannot imagine this Congress .
. . voting to take food out of the mouths of hungry children
and starving women because we do not like the leader of their
country."
   Saddam Hussein didn't repay the U.S. In August 1988, a
month after Iraq's war with Iran ended, Baghdad was shipping
weapons into Lebanon and working against U.S. peace efforts
there. Last February, the Iraqi dictator said it was time to
end the U.S. naval presence in the Persian Gulf. At an Arab
summit last spring, he bluntly demanded that the oil-rich
states provide him $12 billion to help rebuild his economy
and that they forgive some $70 billion he already owed. Then,
last month he bullied the Gulf states into raising the price
of oil.
   "We disregarded every principle we had when it came to
dealing with Saddam Hussein," Rep. Berman asserts. "It isn't
surprising that the Western world's track record over the
last ten years led him to believe that he could march into
Kuwait without there being any significant response."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Moody's Cuts Ratings
   On USG Corp. Debt
   Valued at $1.5 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   USG
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. cut its ratings
on $1.5 billion of USG Corp. long-term debt, saying in part
that the crisis in the Middle East is likely to reduce
housing starts and hurt the company's gypsum wallboard
business.
   The rating agency also cited "the prospect of continued
low prices for gypsum wallboard and the rigor of the
company's debt amortization schedule." It noted that USG is
currently operating at "about break-even" because of
depressed gypsum prices and high interest expenses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's said it expects that USG will be forced to
renegotiate its bank covenants and supplement operating cash
flow to meet interest and principal payments. Moody's said it
believes the company's $200 million revolving credit facility
should enable it to service its debt over the next year. But
with previously projected asset sales virtually complete,
Moody's said USG may be under pressure to sell additional
assets and to come up with alternative financing sources on
"an ongoing basis."
   The agency cut its rating to single-B-2 from single-B-1 on
the senior secured debt of USG's United States Gypsum Co.
unit. The agency also reduced its rating on USG senior debt
to single-B-3 from single-B-1 and on USG subordinated
debentures to single-B-3 from single-B-2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Feel
   Pressure on Aid
   For Gulf Effort
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The Japanese government this week is expected to
unveil "concrete measures" to deal with the Middle East
crisis, but some worriers in Japan doubt that Americans will
be satisfied. They expect Americans to grow increasingly
frustrated with Japan for not contributing more to the
U.S.-led multinational effort in the Middle East.
   The measures will seem "too little, too late," fears Hideo
Sato, a professor at Tsukuba University. "This will not help
U.S.-Japan relations."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan's measures are unlikely to include any direct
military contribution, despite Foreign Minister Taro
Nakayama's suggestion that Japan consider easing its legal
restrictions on sending forces abroad. The only personnel
Japan seems likely to provide are civilian medical teams.
   The inability to provide much in the way of direct
participation leaves the onus on Japan to subsidize the
international efforts financially. Japanese officials have
already pledged to increase their aid to countries such as
Turkey and Egypt, and there could also be an increase in
"host-nation" support for U.S. forces in Japan.
   But it isn't clear how big the financial contribution will
be. "Everyone in Japan keeps saying Japan's contribution
can't just be money. But it's got to be a hell of a lot of
money as well as something else," says a U.S. official. "I'm
afraid it's not going to be enough. Then they'll catch hell
from us."
   If Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu had a stronger voice in
drawing up the measures, there would probably be fewer
worries. Mr. Kaifu owes his current high popularity ratings
in large part to the Japanese public's perception that he has
done well in managing foreign affairs, in particular
relations with Washington. Popularity with the public
protects him from rival LDP Diet members, among whom he has a
weak power base. If a row develops with the U.S. and Mr.
Kaifu's ratings fall, the knives would be out for him.
   But both the Finance Ministry and the Foreign Ministry
will have a lot to say about the outcome, and both
bureaucracies have more reason than the prime minister to be
cautious. Sources say Mr. Kaifu has repeatedly sent them back
to the drawing board, urging them to be more creative. But
it's unclear that he has the power to make them agree to bold
measures.
   Tetsuo Kondo, a ruling-party Diet member, says the Finance
Ministry "is always reluctant" when it comes to spending
money. The Foreign Ministry's bureaucratic reflex is to look
for middle-ground compromises that take into account
competing interests.
   Mr. Kondo, who is close to Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu
but doesn't claim great influence over his views, is one of
those who wants Japan to do more. "We should be a major
supplier of funds -- a major, major player," he argues.
   Mr. Kondo suggests Japan's role ought to include helping
avoid a world economic downturn. Japan has the world's
strongest economy and is least likely to suffer from higher
oil prices, he argues. Japan should prepare, without foreign
pressure, an economic package to present to the World Bank in
late September, he says.
   Takashi Inoguchi, a Tokyo University professor, wants
Japan to use its economic might to discourage the U.S. from
going to war. If the U.S. slips into recession, Mr. Inoguchi
says, "Maybe then the Japanese government can give incentives
to the U.S. not to intervene militarily."
   Mr. Kondo agrees that Japan's top priority should be to
avoid war, but he wants to do that by helping U.S. forces
stay in the Mideast until sanctions force Iraq to back down.
He suggests that Japan use its ships to send water to U.S.
forces in Saudi Arabia. He would even have Japan build
desalination plants in Saudi Arabia to increase the
fresh-water supply.
   That may sound far-fetched, but Mr. Kondo thinks it makes
more sense than the oft-voiced suggestion that Japan send
minesweepers to the Gulf. "There are no mines to sweep --
it's nonsense. And we have a constitutional problem as well,"
Mr. Kondo says. Besides, he adds, "Our people are much better
at building desalination plants than at sweeping mines."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Fidelity Federal Bank:
   California Bank to Acquire
   Failed Savings and Loans
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Fidelity Federal Bank of Glendale, Calif., will acquire
two insolvent thrifts in California, the Resolution Trust
Corp. said.
   Fidelity Federal will acquire the six offices of Westwood
Savings &amp; Loan Association, Los Angeles, and assume $437.5
million in deposits and secured liabilities from the failed
thrift. The RTC will advance $395 million to Fidelity Federal
and retain about $301.1 million of the closed institution's
assets. After the sale of assets, the ultimate cost to the
RTC is estimated at $259.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fidelity Federal also will acquire Investment Federal
Savings &amp; Loan Association, Chatsworth, and assume about
$218.6 million in deposits and secured liabilities from the
failed thrift. The RTC is advancing an estimated $173.8
million to Fidelity Federal, and the ultimate cost to the RTC
is put at $10.4 million.
   The purchases were among several transactions announced by
the RTC Friday. In one of those transactions, the agency was
appointed receiver for First Federal Savings &amp; Loan
Association, Temple, Texas. The failed thrift had about
$350.4 million in assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   James River Assigns
   Broader Responsibility
   To 4 Senior Officials
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   JR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- James River Corp. said four executives
were given broader responsibilities as part of an effort to
simplify the paper-products company's business structure and
boost its resources for expansion.
   Charles E. Eberle, who had directed the company's U.S.
towel and tissue operations, was named executive vice
president in charge of all consumer-product businesses. The
new grouping accounts for about 50% of James River's domestic
sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Norman K. Ryan, who had headed paperboard operations, was
named executive vice president for packaging. Combined
operations for food and consumer packaging contribute about
30% of total company sales.
   Ernest S. Leopold, a former senior vice president and
group executive, was picked as executive vice president of
communications papers, the company's coated printing-papers
business.
   Ronald B. Estridge, the company's technology executive in
charge of research and development, assumed additional duties
for directing fiber and energy operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   This Time, Pentagon
   Procurement Shows
   Rapid Deployment
   ---
   But Quickly Ordered Outfits
   For Chemical Warfare
   Won't Be Desert Brown
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3B
</SO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- When the Pentagon called up the reserves, it
bought them some new clothes, too. If the reservists are
lucky, they will never have to wear them.
   The Defense Logistics Agency said on Friday that it
ordered 450,000 chemical-warfare suits from two privately
held clothing makers. Gibralter, Puerto Rico Inc., based in
San Lorenzo, Puerto Rico, won a $19.3 million award to make
250,000 of the outfits; Sidran Inc. in Dallas got a $15.5
million award for 200,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the Pentagon, this was a rapid-deployment procurement.
Seth Maxwell, Gibralter's senior vice president, said the
logistics agency put out the bid, made a decision and awarded
the contract in about six days. The last time the U.S. bought
chemical warfare garb -- 1.8 million suits in March 1989 --
it took the government a year to award the contracts.
   The Pentagon's haste was evident in their choice of color
-- woodland green, instead of desert brown. "It would have
taken a while to get the fabric" in the desert colors, Mr.
Maxwell said.
   The two companies are supplying chemical warfare coats and
pants at a cost of about $77 an outfit. (A full chemical
warfare outfit includes a gas mask and boot coverings, too.)
   "That's not so expensive" compared to ordinary trousers
and coats, says Mr. Maxwell, "and they're considerably more
useful."
   Each outfit is made of a cotton-nylon fabric lined with
activated charcoal, which can protect a soldier for four
hours from microbes that kill, he says. After that, the
soldier must change clothes because the charcoal gets
saturated. Clothing industry talk suggests the Pentagon
figures it needs four uniforms for each soldier, but the
Defense Department won't say.
   Making the uniforms is messy work. Sewing-machine
operators get covered with soot from the charcoal, Mr.
Maxwell says, and often quit. Even so, he promises to start
churning out about 25,000 suits a month by about
Thanksgiving.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Seoul Plans Non-Lethal Aid
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL -- The South Korean government intends to supply
only non-lethal aid, and possibly transport support, to the
forces arrayed against Iraq in the Persian Gulf -- but is
hesitant to announce even that because of possible diplomatic
and economic repercussions.
   According to Korean journalists who had been briefed by
government officials, Seoul intends to provide boots,
uniforms, medicines, tents and other non-lethal aid to
Mideast allies of the U.S. No weapons or munitions will be
sent, but South Korea, one of the world's biggest users of
tear gas, will provide one of its specialties: gas masks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Korean officials refused to give details of the assistance
package to foreign reporters. "It isn't the right time to
make a comment," said Lee Joung Binn, assistant foreign
minister.
   Providing aid to nations that might clash with Iraq is an
extremely delicate situation for Korea. Because Seoul is
totally dependent on imported oil, it balances its supplies
from among Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, Iran and others, and
takes pains to offend no one. South Korea also has billions
of dollars in major construction contracts with both sides in
the conflict, and it doesn't want to put those in jeopardy.
   South Korea also still has about 600 citizens in Iraq and
Kuwait and the South Korean government is owed about $138
million by Iraq and Kuwait. So it has tried hard to appear
neutral, while, analysts say, it struggles to fulfill its
responsibilities as an industrialized democracy with trade
ties to the U.S. and other countries committed against Iraq's
Saddam Hussein.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Is a Year of College
   Worth a Summer
   On the Slime Line?
   ---
   Students Find That Scraping
   Detritus Off Dead Salmon
   Has Just One Reward
   ----
   By Ken Wells
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   CORDOVA, Alaska -- The workday is a half-hour old and Todd
Danson is already up to his elbows in slime.
   He grabs slippery salmon. He slices off bad salmon parts.
He scrapes away unsightly salmon detritus. There is water,
water everywhere; he breathes air soggy with salmon aromas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By night, the 19-year-old Mr. Danson has handled so many
salmon that he is slathered in slime from his boots to the
top of his rain slicker. Off duty, after 12 hours on a
swift-moving processing line of nothing but salmon, salmon,
salmon, he closes his eyes to sleep and often sees the
silvery fish swimming on the darkened ceiling above.
   Mr. Danson is a "slimer" at North Pacific Processors Inc.,
a salmon cannery here on the shores of scenic Prince William
Sound. It is a job with a name succinctly describing its
nature, and one little changed over the 112 years that
Alaska's huge schools of salmon have made the journey from
sea to can. By Sept. 1, the traditional end of the
eight-weeklong salmon season, Alaska's commercial fishermen
will have harvested about 580 million pounds of salmon, with
a wholesale value of more than $1 billion.
   Virtually all of that fish passes through the gloved hands
of slimers, the bottom feeders on the employment chain of the
state's 22,000 seasonal cannery workers. Slimers clean up
fish as they leave a machine that removes heads and slices
out entrails; by paring off fins, leftover membranes, bruised
flesh and any mystery parts, slimers ensure that no salmon is
too slimy, or unsightly, to earn a place in a can bound for
the supermarket shelf.
   "This entire industry depends on them," says Ken Roemhildt
superintendent at North Pacific.
   "You have to be a psycho, a subhumanoid or a college
student out for money and adventure to do this," says Mark
Muro, a New York native who spent eight years in cannery
work, a lot of it on slime lines, before recently moving to
Anchorage to work in film production. Mr. Muro pauses and
gets a far-away look in his eyes: "It's like the gulag," he
says.
   "It's wet, it's cold, it's gross," agrees Sherri Brooks, a
22-year-old Idaho math major who has journeyed to Cordova for
the past three summers to work in North Pacific's cannery, at
least part of the time on the slime line. Ms. Brooks these
days is the envy of anyone who has ever picked up a sliming
knife, having climbed the cannery ladder out of the slime and
into a dry job slinging hash in North Pacific's mess hall,
where slimers come to feed.
   "No," Ms. Brooks says, anticipating the obvious question,
"We hardly ever serve them salmon."
   Like salmon returning to spawn, slimers and other cannery
workers are drawn by a stream of money. Wages start at about
$7 a hour, and the grueling 15-hour workdays often allow
workers to rack up hundreds of hours of overtime during the
short summer season. A journeyman slimer during a peak salmon
harvest can net over $10,000. For 23-year-old Bruce Waller of
Idaho, in his fourth season at North Pacific, this year's
cannery wages will essentially mean a financially worry-free
year at graduate school, he says.
   College students constitute about half the work force at
most Alaska canneries. The remaining jobs are filled by a
smattering of hardy locals, and by contract laborers, notably
from the Philippines and Mexico, who are often able to parlay
a summer's earnings into a life of leisure back home.
   Dalia Calbrio and Carlos Gonzales are a Mexico City couple
who have worked at North Pacific for three summers. Their
wages allow Mr. Gonzales to take the rest of the year off to
climb mountains; Ms. Calbrio, a geologist by training,
teaches part time and runs in marathons.
   Most canneries provide room and board, charging workers
about $15 a day for a Spartan bunk and three hot meals a day
-- a bargain in a state where motels in bush towns can cost
$100 a night and a breakfast of bacon and eggs $10. But it's
traditional, especially among adventuresome college students,
to save room and board charges by camping out.
   So each summer, in virtually every Alaskan canning town,
entire "slimer colonies" crop up. Here in Cordova the area of
choice is Hippie Cove, a clearing, sliced by a stream,
between spruce forest and the icy waters of Orca Inlet.
Typical of slimer colonies, it is a mish-mash of tents,
leantos and other makeshift quarters.
   Jessica Mathon and a friend commandeered a junked van and
had it towed to the cove, where they have lived since June.
Ms. Mathon, a Santa Cruz, Calif., college student, says the
cove has been a generally neighborly place -- there are
communal salmon bakes, and a cooperatively maintained sauna
-- but is not without its drawbacks.
   "Not too long ago, there was a guy who pulled out a gun
and started shooting the place up," Ms. Mathon says. "A few
bullets whizzed by our van. It was crazy." The incident
persuaded her to come in from the cove and seek safer lodging
in Cordova, she says.
   Cordova is notoriously rainy, and the cove is subject to
periodic flooding. One year, while workers were on duty, a
flash flood washed an entire slimer tent colony into the
nearby inlet. Aware of that, Ric Cook, a Bremerton, Wash.,
college student who works the North Pacific slime line, chose
higher ground, moving into a plywood crate, rainproofed with
a bright blue tarp, in an equipment yard adjacent to a North
Pacific bunkhouse. About 20 other slimers share the location,
some of them jammed like sardines into a cavernous surplus
stainless steel fish bin.
   Mr. Cook's life is made somewhat easier by shower
privileges at the North Pacific bunkhouse; he dines on
care-packages mailed to him by his mother, a diet
considerably better than typical slimer-colony fare of Oreo
cookies and peanut butter sandwiches.
   If there is adventure outside the cannery, there is almost
never any inside of it. Slimers and other workers say their
worst enemy is the tedium of long days on the fish
disassembly line. Some try to pass the time by counting the
countless stream of fish; others carve messages, including
vulgar ones, on fish and send them down the line to their
friends.
   Occasionally, slimers resort to mischief. Fishhead fights,
a practice understandably frowned upon by cannery management,
are an inevitability of any canning season. Ex-slimer Mr.
Muro, who worked the rough-and-tumble fish processing plants
on Kodiak Island in the Gulf of Alaska, recalls even more
gross behavior. "There was always somebody there who thought
it was hysterically funny to put fish guts down your back,"
he says.
   Sometimes nothing helps the monotony. Mr. Danson, after
being promoted from the slime line, says his new job
literally lulled him to sleep one day. He was demoted back to
sliming, an act so demoralizing that the University of
Nebraska student -- like 70% of all first-year cannery
workers -- will wash his hands of cannery work after his
rookie season.
   Of course, Mr. Danson's promotion wasn't exactly to a
prized post, since sliming isn't the only slimy cannery job.
He was helping to supervise a gutting machine that sometimes
bathes workers in a pink fog of pulverized salmon. Then there
is cleanup, a job involving emptying "scum traps" and
crawling around under bloody, slimy machinery with a
high-pressure steam hose.
   "That job lobotomizes some people. We had one kid --
really bright, articulate. After a week, he no longer spoke
in complete sentences," says Casey Crooks, a 26-year-old
quality-control foreman at the Chugach Alaska Corp. cannery
here.
   For some, a little time on a fish processing line is
experience enough for a lifetime. After 12 days of cannery
life, Ms. Mathon found the work "disgusting" and quit to wait
on tables at a restaurant here. In lull periods between
delivering platters of eggs to hungry fishermen she says she
still hears the "clack, clack, clack" of cans moving along
the conveyor belt.
   She recites the oath commonly heard on the slime line: "I
will never eat canned salmon."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ericsson Profit Rise
   Before Taxes Slows
   Quarter-to-Quarter
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3B
</SO>
<CO>
   ERICY GE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson said its rate of
pretax profit growth slowed to 14% in the second quarter from
94% during this year's first three months, and its share
prices tumbled on nervous world equity markets.
   The big Swedish telecommunications concern insisted its
biggest divisions are performing above expectations and
reaffirmed an earlier forecast for a 25% increase in
full-year profit before tax.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ericsson's American depositary receipts fell $13 to
$180.50 yesterday in national over-the-counter trading.
   Ericsson management remained optimistic, dealing special
accolades to the U.S.-based joint venture for cellular phone
equipment formed with General Electric Co. last year.
Ericsson's chief executive officer, Lars Ramqvist, said sales
at the cellular venture with GE are running between 10% and
15% above the year's budgeted target of $1 billion.
   He added that the Ericsson-GE venture has picked up market
share in the U.S. at the expense of local competitors and has
reached preliminary agreements with several big American
network operators to replace their existing cellular systems
with new ones from Ericsson. The Ericsson executive declined
to name any of the operators but said pending successful
completion of financing he expected announcement of several
major orders before year end.
   Shrugging off the second-quarter profit slowdown, Mr.
Ramqvist insisted he was "more optimistic about the quality
of earnings now than after the year's first three months.
We're seeing a continued positive trends in markets that have
been strong the past few years."
   Ericsson said profit before tax in the second quarter
climbed to 1.2 billion kronor ($208.3 million) from 1.06
billion kronor a year earlier. Sales in the period rose 22%
to 12.08 billion kronor from 9.9 billion kronor, the company
said.
   First-half pretax profit surged 43% to 2.39 billion kronor
from 1.67 billion kronor the previous year, mainly due to the
strong first quarter. However Ericsson officials noted that
the first-quarter year-on-year comparison had been distorted
by heavy one-time charges that left last year's profit figure
unusually weak.
   Installation of a cellular system that was under way in
Kuwait has been halted, Ericsson said. But company executives
added that operations in the Mideast were marginal,
accounting for less than 3% of sales and a smaller chunk of
profit in the first quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Fokker N.V.:
   Profit for First Half Soared,
   Due Partly to Special Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Koninklijke Nederlandse Vliegtuigenfa briek Fokker N.V., a
Dutch aerospace concern, said its first-half profit more than
doubled to 41.9 million guilders ($24.1 million) -- exceeding
analysts' estimates -- from 14.1 million guilders a year
earlier.
   The latest results were boosted by a special gain of 10
million guilders related to disposal of 50% of Fokker's
Aircraft Financing &amp; Trading B.V. unit. Total operating
income advanced 19% to 1.61 billion guilders from 1.35
billion guilders. But operating costs rose 19% to 1.556
billion guilders from 1.31 billion guilders. Operating profit
increased 6.5% to 50.9 million guilders from 47.8 million
guilders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 17% to 1.312 billion guilders from 1.12 billion
guilders.
   Fokker, which had 1989 profit of 42.4 million guilders,
said that "if the U.S. dollar remains weak for an extended
period . . . this could depress profits in the years ahead."
Nevertheless, Ata Kahrel, director of Wesselius &amp; Co., said,
"I think they will double their (1990) profit and resume
paying a dividend."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Employers Scramble to Handle Call-Up
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   By the end of the month, as many as 40,000 U.S. military
reservists may be called to leave their jobs, and employers
across the U.S., from auto makers to penitentiaries, are
scrambling to figure out how their work forces will be
affected.
   The call-up, following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and the
establishment of a U.S. force in Saudi Arabia, has raised
delicate issues for employers. Not only must they shuffle
work forces because of job vacancies, but they must also
decide how -- and if -- reservists are to be paid if called
up. Benefits, too, both for the employee and for the
employee's dependents, pose another question.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sudden crisis in the Persian Gulf has caught most
employers off-guard. Many, ranging from small businesses to
corporate giants such as Xerox Corp. and International
Business Machines Corp. don't even know how many reservists
they employ. "We really have no handle on this," said a Xerox
spokesman. "Until they get called up, we have no idea of who
is a reservist and who is not." Of 29 employers responding to
a poll by consultant Hewitt Associates, only three said they
have a significant number of reservists.
   Questions of pay and benefits for reservists are equally
difficult. Employers aren't required to pay active-duty
reservists, but some make up the difference between the
military and regular pay for a time. Many companies are
maintaining their usual pay plans, but some quickly acted to
bolster the package. Union Pacific Corp. promised to make up
any difference in pay or benefits indefinitely. Insurer USAA
will be paying employees called to duty the difference in pay
for 12 months; health and insurance benefits will be
maintained for two years.
   In the Hewitt survey, 11 companies said they wouldn't
continue the reservists' pay. Another nine said they'd make
up the salary shortfall for periods from two weeks up to six
months. Of the others that responded to the pay question, six
planned to continue pay for varying periods. In a similar
survey by consultant Towers Perrin, 13 of 22 employers said
they wouldn't continue the employee's pay, while nine said
they would (three for just two weeks).
   In general, employers weren't concerned that critical
employees might be called up, but there are notable
exceptions. At General Motors Corp.'s Saturn subsidiary,
Bruce G. McDonald, the unit's vice president for
communications, is a brigadier general in the Army Reserve.
Mr. McDonald says that, for now, he doesn't expect to be
called up, which may be fortunate for Saturn. The GM unit is
due to launch its first car this fall.
   The call-up also could put a kink into the space shuttle
Columbia mission that is set to be launched Sept. 1. John
"Mike" Lounge, a physicist, is one of three mission
specialists scheduled to fly aboard the shuttle, and a
reservist with the U.S. Air Force. The National Aeronautics
and Space Administration isn't sure how it would handle the
situation if Mr. Lounge were to be called up, but a
spokeswoman said, "The mission wouldn't be scrapped."
However, no replacement would be fielded.
   Concern about the call-up is felt even at the smallest of
employers. At the Cortland Christian Church in tiny Cortland,
Ohio, Pastor Tom C. Gibson is nervously awaiting a possible
call. Mr. Gibson can't be sure of keeping his particular
position, but he is trying to work out an agreement with
church elders to hold his job and pension and hire an interim
minister if he is called. Last Sunday, the congregation
gathered in its century-old white frame church and prayed for
a peaceful resolution in the Gulf.
   Here are the plans of employers in a variety of industries
for handling the reserve call-up:
   Most auto makers don't know how they will be affected by
President Bush's call-up of the reserves, but the initial
impact looks minimal.
   Ironically, the U.S. plants of Japanese auto makers may be
more affected than Big Three plants. That's because the
Japanese "transplants" have far younger work forces than Big
Three factories, where the average age of workers is about 45
years old.
                                                                                                       

   AUTOS
                                                                                                       

   At Diamond-Star Motors Corp., an auto-making joint venture
between Chrysler Corp. and Mitsubishi Motors Corp., about 4%
of the company's 3,000 employees are reservists. At Toyota
Motor Corp's. plant in Georgetown, Ky., 139 of the 3,350
employees are reservists.
   Most companies, including GM and Ford Motor Co., say
they're studying what to do about the pay issue, and will
announce their decisions soon. GM makes up the difference
between civilian and military pay for 30 days, but is
studying whether to extend that. GM already gives salaried
employees a slightly more generous break than hourly
employees, but it's uncertain whether that will continue.
                                                                                                       

   COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                       

   Some communications companies moved to bolster pay to
reservists called up to active duty. Nynex Corp., which
believes it has some 300 to 500 reservists, enhanced its
program for military reservists by extending the time it will
pay the difference between an employee's salary and military
pay to six months from two weeks. Group insurance programs
will be continued at current levels.
   Pacific Telephone, Pacific Telesis Group's telephone
operating company, said some 766 employees are active
reservists. The phone company has 61,000 employees. Vacancies
may be filled by temporary help, the company said.
   For reservists who have worked for Pacific Tel for more
than a year, salary differences will be made up for three
months if they have no dependents and up to six months if
they have dependents. For employees with less than a year of
service, the difference will be made up for one week. Pac Tel
will continue benefits until the military starts to pay for
them. Reservists won't lose tenure for up to five years.
   Bell Atlantic Corp. doesn't know how many of its employees
are reservists, but it sweetened its benefit package for
those called to active duty.
   Employees with dependents at Bell Atlantic will receive
salary differential payments for six months if they have been
with the company for more than a year; those with less than a
year at the company will receive it for 3 1/2 months. For
employees with no dependents, the differential pay is for
three months and two weeks, respectively.
                                                                                                       

   HIGH TECH
                                                                                                       

   Like IBM and Xerox, many high-tech companies are trying to
figure out what effect the call-up may have.
   "We're just assessing what the impact might be," said
George Burger, vice president of human resources at Tandy
Corp. The company doesn't know how many of its 39,000
employees are reservists. But its Radio Shack retail outlets
are already feeling the pinch in areas around military bases,
where full-time military personnel frequently work part-time
as Radio Shack clerks.
   E-Systems Inc. surveyed its divisions recently and found
that only about 50 of its 18,000 employees could be affected
by a call-up of the reserves. E-Systems will continue to
provide insurance and other benefits to reservists and their
families for six months.
   Digital Equipment Corp. had just six employees out of
125,000, called to active duty as of last week. The total is
expected to rise as reservists get their orders in coming
days.
                                                                                                       

   POLICE

   Like corporate America, police forces are trying to assess
the impact of the callup. The assessments vary widely.
   In Jackson, Miss., the police are hoping that not all 23
of their policemen in the reserves are called up anytime
soon. The department, which has about 350 policemen, is
already about 75 officers short, partly because of attrition,
partly because of a budget squeeze. The force expects to
bring on 18 new police recruits in November. But, says Sgt.
Chip Pippen, "If we lose 23 people, it would deplete our
ranks pretty good."
   Mayer A. DeRoy, chief of police in Pittsburgh, said he
expects up to 24 of his force's 1,150 officers, ranging from
the lowest in rank up to commanders, to be called. "This will
spread us a little bit thinner," said Chief DeRoy. "But it
won't wreak havoc on the city of Pittsburgh."
   At the Georgia Department of Corrections, 390 correctional
officers, or 7% of the state's total, are reservists. A
spokesman said the corrections department immediately
developed contingency plans to ensure that the level of
security wasn't diminished. In some cases, officers will work
overtime to fill vacancies caused by reservists. Certain work
programs outside the facilities, such as prisoner's picking
up litter along highways, may be curtailed or cut altogether
to be sure there are enough bodies to guard the jails.
                                                                                                       

   SMALL BUSINESS
                                                                                                       

   According to the National Federation of Independent
Business, the largest membership organization for
small-business owners with about 600,000 members, some
smaller firms still are confused about their obligations to
reservists and have begun calling NFIB's Washington
headquarters for information.
   One potential problem is that most business owners are
assuming that the reservists will be on active duty for a
short period of time, perhaps three to four weeks, said NFIB
spokesman Terry Hill. He notes that small business would be
seriously hurt if they lose key employees or the owner and
chief executive for an extended time.
   "We're very concerned. There are so many aspects to this
thing, no one knows which way it'll go," he said.
                                                                                                       

   DEFENSE
                                                                                                       

   Martin Marietta Corp. estimates that fewer than 1,000 out
of its total work force of 65,000 are reservists. Marietta is
studying the financial impact this crisis might have on
employees and their dependents. No new policy or changes have
been developed yet.
   United Technologies Corp. said it would continue to pay
employees who are called up for active reserve duty the
difference between their military pay and their normal
salaries, and would continue all benefits. A spokesman for
the Hartford-based company said the extra pay would be
extended for 90 days from departure, and that the policy
would be re-evaluated at that time.
   The company estimates that roughly 1,000 of its 115,000
U.S. employees are in the military reserves. By late Friday
afternoon, none had informed the company that they had been
called to active duty.
   Boeing Co. hurriedly began sorting its personnel files for
reservists among its 160,000 employees world-wide late last
week in an effort to determine how many might be affected.
Although the count hadn't been completed by Friday, a Boeing
spokesman said it may have a "large number" of test pilots
and aircraft maintenance workers who are in the reserves.
Boeing makes up the difference between reservists' regular
pay and military pay for as many as 20 days of military duty
over a two-year period.
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH CARE
                                                                                                       

   The University of Illinois Hospital's and Clinics in
Chicago is bracing for the worst. "It could cripple some of
our hospital services" if its reservists are called, a
spokeswoman said. Although she didn't know how many of the
hospitals 150 doctors and 1,100 nurses are reservists, "there
are key staff members, departments heads and head nurses, who
are members of the reserves. They're not the type of
employees you could replace easily."
   Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas said it doesn't know
how many of its employees are in the reserves but it has
identified about a dozen employees, none doctors, who belong
to the reserves. But of those, three are nurse midwives.
   FHP International Corp., a health maintenance organization
with 7,500 employees, said 75 employees, or 1% of its work
force, are in the reserves, and that the potential for being
called up has already had a broad effect on the company. "You
lose some productivity when people are uncertain and worried
about what is going to happen to them," says Wanda Lee, vice
president of human resources.
   Earlier this week, the company began intensifying its
recruiting efforts, contacting temporary services for
physicians and nurses, alerting them that they will be in
need of personnel in the coming months. Unfortunately, other
medical companies are doing the same, and shortages may
result, Ms. Lee said.
                                                                                                       

   AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Airlines may be hit particularly hard by the call-up
because both pilots and aircraft are needed. Out of some
7,500 to 8,000 Delta Air Lines' pilots, several hundred are
reservists. A few pilots have been called up sporadically in
recent days. A Delta spokesman says the airline has been
filling in the vacancies as it normally does, with pilots on
standby to substitute. "We don't anticipate any schedule
disruptions," he said.
   A spokesman for AMR Corp.'s main carrier, American
Airlines, said that 22 of its 8,500 pilots had been called up
for active duty. American said it suspended a regularly
scheduled daily round-trip flight on each of two routes,
Dallas/Fort Worth-Honolulu and Newark-Los Angeles, freeing up
two DC-10 aircraft, which American said the government had
requested to shuttle personnel and cargo to the Middle East.
A company spokesman noted that two daily flights are still
available on each route.
   AMR's regional carrier division, AMR Eagle, said that 86
of its 5,200 employees, including 52 of about 1,500 pilots,
had been contacted by the military. "We aren't losing a lot
of people from any one place," said a spokesman.
   On the ground, Union Pacific, went a step further than
many firms, promising to make up any difference in pay or
benefits indefinitely. A company spokesman said Friday that
about 400 of Union Pacific's 48,000 employees are active
reservists, but he didn't know how many of them had been
called up.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Hall Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   HALL
</CO>
<LP>
   HALL FINANCIAL Corp. (Dallas) said it was notified by one
of its principal lenders that the company is in default on
two working capital loans totaling $21.4 million. The
real-estate concern said the default notice wasn't triggered
by non-payment of the loans but by an alleged default on a
$6.5 million guaranty of a separate loan to an affiliated
partnership. The company said it is disputing the claims of
default and is in negotiations with the lender, which the
company didn't identify.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ASKO Deutsche Kaufhaus AG:
   Firm Expects to Increase
   Group Sales 11% for 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.ASK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   West Germany's ASKO Deutsche Kaufhaus AG said Friday that
it expects to boost world-wide group sales by 11% in 1990
from the previous year to around 12 billion Deutsche marks,
accompanied by "considerably higher" pretax operating
earnings.
   The Saarbrucken-based retailing group's Chairman Helmut
Wagner told shareholders at the annual meeting that besides
strong sales and earnings developments of the underlying
businesses thus far this year, the ongoing corporate
reorganization has been improving the company's overall
profitability.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Wagner wasn't more specific about 1990 full-year
earnings, although he had told reporters in July that ASKO's
operating earnings in the first five months of this year were
"considerably higher" than the year-earlier period.
   In 1989, ASKO had profit of 91 million marks on 10.6
billion marks of sales. The company hasn't yet reported
complete financial details for last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Waxman Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   WAX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WAXMAN INDUSTRIES Inc. (Bedford Heights, Ohio) said it
plans to buy back as many as 750,000 shares of the 9.9
million shares outstanding. Waxman is a supplier to the
home-repair and remodeling market in the U.S. and Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, August 24, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                              Stock    N.A.   Stock     %
   Fund Name                  Exch.   Value   Price   Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Baker Fentress             NYSE   20.80   16 1/8  - 22.48
   Blue Chip Value            NYSE    6.50    5 3/4  - 11.54
   Clemente Global Gro        NYSE  b10.47    9 7/8  -  5.68
   Gemini II Capital          NYSE   12.32   10 5/8  - 13.76
   Gemini II Income           NYSE    9.70   12 3/8  + 27.58
   General Amer Invest        NYSE   21.07   17 1/8  - 18.72
   Growth Stock Outlook       NYSE   10.26    9 3/4  -  4.97
   Liberty All-Star Eqty      NYSE    8.59    7 1/8  - 17.05
   Niagara Share Corp.        NYSE   16.24   12 7/8  - 20.72
   Nicholas-Applegate         NYSE   10.01    9 1/4  -  7.59
   Quest For Value Cap        NYSE   15.86   11 3/8  - 28.28
   Quest For Value Inco       NYSE   11.63   12 3/8  +  6.41
   Royce Value Trust          NYSE    9.18    8 1/2  - 7.41
   Salomon Fd                 NYSE   13.26   10 7/8  - 17.99
   Source Capital             NYSE  a35.89   37 3/8  +  4.14
   Tri-Continental Corp.      NYSE   25.44   21 3/4  - 14.50
   Worldwide Value            NYSE   16.63   15 1/4  -  8.30
   Zweig Fund                 NYSE   10.40   10 5/8  +  2.16
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs        AMEX    6.72    5 1/8  - 23.74
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr       NYSE   b7.69    7 7/8  +  2.41
   Franklin Universal Tr      NYSE   b7.24    7      -  3.31
   Municipal High Inco        NYSE    9.25    9 1/8  -  1.35
   Zenix Income Fund          NYSE   a6.04    4 7/8  - 19.29
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       


   European Warrant Fd        NYSE    9.91    8      - 19.27
   Franklin M-M Inco          NYSE   b8.25    7 3/4  - 6.06
   Zweig Total Return Fd      NYSE    8.94    8 3/4  - 2.13
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd     NYSE   12.78    9 1/4  - 27.62
   Alliance New Europe Fd     NYSE   10.64    9 1/8  - 14.24
   American Capital Conv      NYSE   20.39   17 1/8  - 16.01
   ASA Ltd                    NYSE bc65.42   53      - 18.99
   Asia Pacific               NYSE   13.09   10 7/8  - 16.92
   Austria Fund               NYSE   12.79   10 5/8  - 16.93
   Bancroft Convertible       AMEX   19.52   16 3/8  - 16.11
   Bergstrom Capital          AMEX   57.87   60      +  3.68
   BGR Precious Metals        TOR  be11.17    9 1/2  - 14.95
   Brazil                     NYSE   10.38    8 7/8  - 14.50
   CNV Holdings Capital       NYSE    8.54    4 5/8  - 45.84
   CNV Holdings Income        NYSE    9.51   10 1/2  + 10.41
   Castle Convertible         AMEX   19.82   16 3/4  - 15.49
   Central Fund Canada        AMEX   b5.34    5 1/4  -  1.69
   Chile Fund                 NYSE   15.79   14 1/8  - 10.54
   Couns Tandem Secs          NYSE   11.30    9 1/4  - 18.14
   Cypress Fund               AMEX    8.37    8 1/8  -  2.93
   Duff&amp;Phelps Sel Utils      NYSE    7.62    8      +  4.99
   Ellsw Conv Gr&amp;Inc          AMEX    7.72    6 1/2  - 15.80
   Emerging Ger Fd            NYSE    9.85    7 5/8  - 22.59
   Engex                      AMEX    9.33    7 1/4  - 22.29
   Europe Fund                NYSE   13.76   10 5/8  - 22.78
   1stAustralia               AMEX   10.25    7 3/4  - 24.39
   First Financial Fund       NYSE    5.49    5 1/2  +  0.18
   First Iberian              AMEX    9.79    8 7/8  -  9.35
   First Philippine Fund      NYSE   10.08    7 1/8  - 29.32
   France Growth Fund         NYSE   10.86    7 1/4  - 33.24
   Future Germany Fund        NYSE   16.15   11 7/8  - 26.47
   Gabelli Equity Trust       NYSE   10.23   10 1/8  - 1.03
   Germany Fund               NYSE   11.80   12 3/8  +  4.87
   Global Utilities Fund      NYSE   10.35    8 1/2  - 17.87
   Growth Fund Spain          NYSE   10.94    8 5/8  - 21.16
   GT Greater Europe Fd       NYSE   12.55   11 1/8  - 11.35
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv         NYSE   11.21    9 3/8  - 16.37
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap       AMEX  b10.05    9 1/8  -  9.20
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref      AMEX  b49.41   48 1/2  - 1.84
   India Growth Fund          NYSE  f16.84   13 3/8  - 20.58
   Indonesia Fund             NYSE   13.27   11 3/4  - 11.45
   Inefficient Market Fund    AMEX    9.65    8      - 17.10
   Irish Investment Fd        NYSE    9.77    7      - 28.35
   Italy Fund                 NYSE  b13.76    9 1/8  - 33.68
   Korea Fund                 NYSE   12.21   15 7/8  + 30.02
   Latin America Inv Fd       NYSE   12.62    9 7/8  - 21.75
   Malaysia Fund              NYSE   12.31   11 1/4  -  8.61
   Mexico Fund                NYSE  b13.95   11 1/2  - 17.56
   Morgan Grenf SmCap         NYSE    9.08    9 1/8  +  0.50
   New Germany Fund           NYSE   13.35   11      - 17.60
   Pacific Eur Growth Fd      NYSE    9.74    8 3/4  - 10.16
   Patriot Prem Div Fd        NYSE    7.81    9 5/8  + 23.24
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II     NYSE    9.03   10 1/4  + 13.51

   Pilgrim Regional           NYSE    7.66    7 1/4  -  5.35
   Putnam Dividend Inco       NYSE    9.32    9 1/4  -  0.75
   Portugal Fund              NYSE   12.42    9      - 27.54
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd      AMEX    5.86    5 1/8  - 12.54
   ROC Taiwan Fund            NYSE    7.46    6 7/8  -  7.84
   Scudder New Asia           NYSE   16.42   13      - 20.83
   Scudder New Europe         NYSE   11.31    8 3/4  - 22.63
   SE Savings Inst Fd         OTC    b6.83    6      - 12.15
   Spain Fund                 NYSE   13.20   12 3/4  -  3.41
   Swiss Helvetia Fd          NYSE   13.81   12      - 13.11
   Taiwan Fund                NYSE  b15.66   20 1/4  + 29.31
   TCW Convertible Secs       NYSE   b7.34    7 3/4  +  5.59
   Templeton Em Mkts          AMEX  b14.49   11 3/4  - 18.91
   Templeton Global Util      AMEX   10.30   10 3/4  +  4.37
   Templeton Value Fund       NYSE   b8.52    8 1/8  -  4.64
   Thai Capital Fund          NYSE    9.26    8 1/2  -  8.21
   Thai Fund                  NYSE   16.21   16 1/2  +  1.79
   Turkish Inv Fund           NYSE   13.98   11      - 21.32
   United Kingdom Fund        NYSE   11.38    8 5/8  - 24.21
   Z-Seven                    OTC    12.37   13      +  5.09
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Is Signaling
   Readiness to Set
   Talks With Iraq
   ---
   As Sanctions Are Tightened,
   Diplomatic Path to End
   Standoff Is Being Sought
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger and Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   After three weeks of saber rattling, the Bush
administration began signaling that with economic sanctions
now in place it is willing to look for a diplomatic way out
of its standoff with Iraq's Saddam Hussein.
   Tensions also eased somewhat in the Mideast over the
weekend, as Iraq reversed its decision and permitted 55 U.S.
diplomatic dependents who had traveled to Baghdad from Kuwait
to leave Iraq. The Associated Press reported that 52 members
of the group crossed into Turkey last night. Three male
dependents of Kuwait Embassy staffers reportedly were
detained by Iraqi border guards. Iraqi troops also didn't
make any move to oust the U.S. diplomats remaining in the
beseiged U.S. Embassy in Kuwait City.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the potential for confrontation still remains. The
United Nations Security Council over the weekend authorized
the world's navies to use force to put teeth in the trade
embargo against Iraq. (However, the Soviet Union, which had
supported the resolution, said it wouldn't use force.) And 54
male U.S. diplomatic personnel, who had left Kuwait for Iraq,
were in the U.S. embassy in Baghdad and not allowed to leave
Iraq.
   Brent Scowcroft, President Bush's national security
adviser, said yesterday on ABC-TV's "This Week with David
Brinkley" that it would be "clearly acceptable" for United
Nations Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar to begin
efforts to negotiate an end to the crisis. The U.N. official
also got a green light over the weekend from Saddam Hussein,
who welcomed the U.N. call for negotiations. The U.N. chief
reportedly will meet with Iraq's foreign minister in Jordan
Thursday.
   Mr. Scowcroft, who refrained from making the harsh
personal attacks on Iraq's Hussein made earlier by President
Bush, reiterated that Iraq must withdraw from Kuwait, restore
its government and free foreigners being held hostage. But he
also began laying some domestic political groundwork to
justify the military buildup by asserting that if a
settlement is reached, the U.S. would have gotten more for
its display of military muscle than just a return to the
status quo.
   "There will still be a fundamentally different situation
in that area, in that collective action will have been shown
to work against a case of aggression," he said. "And,
therefore, the situation will not be the same afterwards."
Earlier, administration officials had given the impression
that Saddam Hussein must go.
   The public signals reflect a private belief of the
administration that it isn't necessary, or perhaps even
desirable, to use the current crisis to push out Saddam
Hussein. The Bush administration isn't sure that any
successor would be better; indeed, Saddam Hussein's top
deputy, Taha Yassin Ramadan, is known to be equally tough,
and many of the top officers who fought in the war with Iran
also are hardline.
   The U.S. shift in tone reflects an assessment by
administration officials that Saddam Hussein is squirming as
a result of the big American military buildup and U.N.-backed
embargo. While administration officials spent the past three
weeks comparing Saddam Hussein to Hitler, Mr. Scowcroft
yesterday seemed to be appealing to his sense of reason.
   "The course of prudence for a leader in this situation,"
Mr. Scowcroft said, referring to the squeeze on Iraq, would
be to give in to U.S. demands and begin negotiations. And,
noting that Saddam Hussein recently agreed to a settlement
with Iran that gave up all he had won in the Iran-Iraq war,
Mr. Scowcroft said: "He's shown that he can be a realist when
it needs to be done."
   Mr. Scowcroft said he believes that Saddam Hussein "is
casting about for a way out of the box in which he finds
himself." The national security adviser also said that once
Iraq met the U.S. requirements, any grievances between Kuwait
and Iraq that led to the invasion in the first place could be
negotiated.
   John Kelly, the assistant secretary of state for the
Mideast, underscored that the U.S. is willing to talk to
Iraq. Yesterday on NBC's "Meet the Press," he said the senior
U.S. diplomat currently in Baghdad "has been talking to the
Iraqis" and is willing to continue to hold talks. The
administration also is signaling privately that it is willing
to hold talks at a higher level.
   The administration still calculates that diplomacy won't
succeed unless economic sanctions continue to squeeze Iraq.
And in pursuit of that goal, the U.S. is likely to begin
stopping, boarding and possibly even firing on Iraqi ships in
the next few days. The Bush administration had been holding
off on full-scale naval interdiction awaiting passage of the
U.N. resolution explicitly authorizing use of naval force to
enforce the trade embargo.
   The Arabian peninsula country of Yemen could be a focal
point as the U.S. steps up its naval interdiction efforts.
The administration believes that Iraq had hoped to use Yemen
as a trans-shipment point for its oil to circumvent the trade
embargo, sending oil tankers there to unload oil that then
could be intermingled with other oil and shipped to the world
markets anonymously.
   Under pressure from the U.S. and other nations, Yemen last
week forced an Iraqi tanker that was unloading to leave port
with half of its oil still on board, and then refused entry
to a second tanker at which the U.S. Navy had fired warning
shots. Over the weekend, there were at least three other
tankers destined for Yemen. U.S. officials will be watching
closely to see whether Yemen keeps its word to honor the
embargo.
   If ships believed to be carrying Iraqi cargo try to elude
U.S. ships, American naval commanders intend to fire at the
ships' rudders to disable them. But in the case of oil
tankers, the ships sometimes are floating so low in the water
that the rudder isn't visible, and captains are likely to
disable such ships by firing at the bridge or at the cables
linking the bridge to the rudder.
   The U.S. is hoping these pressures will take their toll on
Iraq. Although administration officials remain intrigued by
the notion of using the current crisis to knock out Iraq's
chemical-weapons and nuclear programs, they worry that they
may get trapped in a prolonged and unpredictable conflict by
pursuing such broader goals rather than the short-term goal
of forcing Iraq out of Kuwait.
   It isn't clear, though, that others in the U.S. or the
Middle East would share the administration's view that such a
limited outcome would be a success. Some of America's best
friends in the region -- particularly Egypt and Saudi Arabia
-- want the U.S. to remove Saddam Hussein from power, and
some American analysts suggest that any arrangement that is
seen as a draw between Iraq and the U.S. will erode U.S.
credibility in the long run.
   Yesterday, Mr. Kelly suggested the hope that if the U.S.
keeps up the pressure, opposition to Saddam Hussein may begin
to develop even in Iraq's repressive society. Referring to
Hussein's leading Iraq into the Iran-Iraq war, which ended
without gain, and the Kuwait invasion, which has brought
world condemnation, Mr. Kelly said Iraqis "must be wondering
where he's taking them."
   If the conflict ends short of an all-out war,
administration officials envision a scenario in which a
United Nations force guards the Iraqi-Kuwaiti border,
significant stockpiles of American military equipment are
left in Saudi Arabia for use in any future emergency, some
American airmen remain based permanently in Saudi Arabia, and
the U.S. assumes a bigger explicit role in protecting other
Gulf countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Motors Corp.:
   Pontiac, Chevrolet, Buick
   Set Rebates for 1991 Models
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Motors Corp.'s Pontiac, Chevrolet and Buick
divisions set rebates of as much as $1,250 for most
1991-model cars that are only now arriving in dealer
showrooms. The three incentive programs took effect Friday
and are scheduled to run until Sept. 24.
   GM's Oldsmobile division said Thursday that it was
discounting many of its 1991 models with rebates as high as
$1,500.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Incentives offered by Buick ranged from $250 to $1,250.
The highest Buick discount is on the top-of-the-line versions
of its midsized Regal. Buick also said it is offering buyers
the option of taking special financing rates as low as 3.9%
on 24-month loans.
   GM is also offering $1,000 off the Chevrolet Caprice and
Camaro, the Geo Prizm and Tracker and the Pontiac Firebird.
   Auto makers have increasingly turned to putting incentives
on new vehicles before the start of a model year to overcome
consumer wariness about price increases.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Leningrad Hopes
   To Shed Influence
   Exerted by Moscow
   ---
   City's Leaders Want to Issue
   Currency of Their Own,
   Deal With Foreigners
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LENINGRAD, U.S.S.R. -- In the city where Vladimir Ilyich
Lenin hatched plans for the Communist Revolution, today's
leaders are dreaming their own revolutionary dreams.
   "We'll put out our own currency and it will be
convertible," newly elected city council member Alexander
Trubachev says excitedly. "We want every Leningrader to have
an international credit card, backed by the Leningrad ruble.
This will immediately integrate us with world economies."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The idea of a city setting up its own currency and using
it for independent deals with foreign countries may sound
treasonous, but Mr. Trubachev is just one of a group that
thinks Leningrad will succeed best by going it alone.
Leningraders have long been proud of their city's history as
the gateway to the West. Now they are feeling stifled by
Moscow's dictates.
   Many of the Soviet Union's 15 republics feel the same way
and the initiative for economic reform is shifting from the
central government to regional areas. From the huge Russian
Federation to tiny autonomous regions, districts are saying
they can move faster alone.
   Leningrad's leaders hope to take advantage of the fact
that their city was one of five areas declared by the Russian
parliament as "joint enterprise zones." But as with many such
declarations, nobody knows exactly what this means, or how a
free economic zone operates.
   The cacophony of ideas takes form in the grand marble
building that houses the Leningrad Parliament. In a tiny,
jammed office, politicians hold a running discussion while
phones jangle and visitors pop in with their own proposals.
   One commission is holding a contest for the best idea on
how to transfer to a market economy. People send in their
ideas, but they probably won't see light because the contest
runs beyond the deadline for Leningrad's proposal to be
submitted to the Russian government.
   Many of the goals may prove to be grandiose since no one
has convincingly described how to achieve them: International
economic ties should be liberalized so that foreign companies
receive tax breaks and no longer have to register with the
Finance Ministry; a separate banking system should be
established; and huge industrial monopolies should be broken
up into thousands of smaller companies.
   "This disintegration seems to be easily achievable," Pyotr
Filipov says almost blithely.
   A representative on the Leningrad City Council and the
Russian Federation parliament, Mr. Filipov describes another
project already under way: persuading foreign investors to
buy some of Leningrad's graceful but decrepit buildings,
refurbish them and then lease them for 25 to 50 years.
   Mayor Anatoli Sobchak is visiting the U.S. with an even
more straightforward appeal. One of his missions is to
collect donations that will serve as the core of a fund to
reconstruct his city. Nevsky Prospect, the center of fashion
and elegance in Czarist Russia, could become the center of
tourism and hard currency, he figures. Once a grand avenue of
delicately ornamented architecture, today it is full of
potholes and the buildings are shabby.
   Some foreign and Soviet businessmen have started pushing
Leningrad toward its goal. Hard currency, increasingly the
favored means of transaction in Moscow, is even better
established in Leningrad. Some Leningrad economists are even
toying with the idea of making the dollar the city's new
currency.
   Taxis accepting only dollars line the airport curb.
Hamburger stands sell Cokes for hard currency but only Soviet
soda for rubles. Refreshment stands sell vanilla ice cream
for 30 kopeks on the street while a nearby German-Soviet
joint venture sells pricey Italian parfaits for hard
currency.
   Leningrad may be the first to open a Soviet stock
exchange. New York Stock Exchange officials visited recently
to discuss the idea with Mr. Sobchak's team. "They'll
probably be the first," says a Western diplomat. "Leningrad
just has a more maverick personality than Moscow."
   A group of computer experts and economists are leading the
thrust. Sergei Petrov heads a team whose current pet project
is creating an automated stock exchange. Mr. Petrov has ties
to the Midwest Stock Exchange, which may offer advice on how
to establish an automated exchange.
   "At first we wondered whether there would be an exchange
at all," says Mr. Petrov. "Then we applied the main rule of
marketing: Create your own market."
   This kind of vigor and enthusiasm also expresses itself in
a public confidence in the government that has long since
vanished in Moscow and other parts of the country.
Leningraders are unusually forgiving of their local
government. They often excuse the fact that few concrete
improvements have been made, saying that the council was only
elected a few months ago and it needs time to work.
   Leningrad's first free elections in March led to a city
council in which two-thirds of the deputies are new, and most
ally themselves with democratic movements. Even before Boris
Yeltsin, the popular leader of the enormous Russian
Federation, announced he was going to quit the Communist
Party, a poll in Leningrad showed that 49% of the city's
Communists had already left the party or were planning to as
soon as possible.
   Mr. Kesselman argues that even more important than the
enlightened leadership of Mr. Sobchak and his city council is
the change in the way Leningraders are thinking about life.
"Now the old structures don't work and new ones are just
being formed," he says. "In such a situation, the changes
which are going to take place are very dependent on the
readiness of the population for change."
   And for all the politicians' bright ideas, few have begun
to tackle exactly how they should be achieved. Take the
break-up of monopolies: cities, regions and the central
government have yet to agree on who actually owns a given
factory, a hot argument that must be resolved before the
first steps to privatization can take place.
   "Of course we have contradictions with the central
government," says Mr. Filipov. "We live in a very unbalanced
time in which republics don't ask for rights, they simply
take them themselves."
   But such contradictions don't worry him. "Suppose we make
the decision to introduce free prices in our zone. Would
anyone be able to stop us? I don't think so."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Monoclonal Antibodies Inc.:
   Merger With Quidel Hits
   Snag as Investor Pulls Out
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MABS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Monoclonal Antibodies Inc. said its merger with Quidel
Corp. has been put on hold because an investor who was
considering putting $7 million into the transaction has
gotten cold feet.
   Monoclonal Antibodies was to merge with Quidel by swapping
a total of 9.7 million Monoclonal shares for all Quidel
shares outstanding. At current prices, the transaction is
valued at about $30.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the over-the-counter market Friday, Monoclonal was
quoted at $3.125 bid, down 50 cents. At the time of the
initial announcement, the companies said they were
negotiating with David Blech, a private investor, for a $7
million equity infusion into Quidel before the merger was
completed. Monoclonal said Mr. Blech has decided not to do
that. He couldn't be reached to comment.
   Monoclonal, based in Sunnyvale, Calif., makes diagnostic
test kits, primarily for fertility tests. Quidel, based in
San Diego, also makes diagnostic kits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar's Prospects Are Expected
   To Brighten in the Long Term
   ----
   By Alison Woods and Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST JAPAN CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- There are glimmers of hope for the dollar's
long-term health, even though short-run prospects are
decidedly bearish.
   The long-term picture is brighter because the U.S.
merchandise trade deficit is expected to shrink further,
helping to ease worries about the economy, some analysts say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moreover, they contend, the dollar may fare better if the
mark faces tough times as German political union gets under
way in the fall and if the yen keeps suffering from Japan's
troubled financial markets and stubborn inflation.
   Those factors are seen breathing some life into a currency
that's been pummeled by concerns about the weak U.S. economy
and forecasts for further Federal Reserve easing.
   Although the dollar rose on flight-to-quality buying
Friday as the Iraq-Kuwait crisis continued, its track record
for the week was worrisome.
   In late trading here Friday, the dollar was quoted at
1.5605 marks and 146.70 yen, up from 1.5444 marks and 146.15
yen late Thursday. But the dollar hit new lows of 1.54 marks
and 1.2553 Swiss francs Thursday, and the pound traded as
high as $1.9590 that day, the highest level in almost nine
years.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was quoted at
145.30 yen, down from 145.70 yen at the close there Friday.
Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.5495 marks, up
from Friday's Tokyo close of 1.5466 marks.
   In the long term, the dollar's fortunes could improve if
the U.S. trade gap keeps narrowing, some currency specialists
say.
   While trade data haven't significantly affected the dollar
in the last few years, some market participants are now
latching on to the figures, calling them the dollar's
potential life preserver.
   The trade gap narrowed to $5.07 billion in June from May's
$7.77 billion, contracting to a seven-year low as exports
rose to a record level and imports fell substantially.
   The trade deficit totaled $45.81 billion through June, a
substantial reduction from the $54.36 billion gap a year
earlier.
   The dollar's weakness is expected to keep exports on track
by making U.S. goods cheaper for foreigners, fueling demand.
   But imports aren't expected to decline much in the near
term because higher oil prices are seen offsetting any
declines that may be caused by sluggish consumer demand.
   In all, though, economists are generally encouraged by the
trade picture.
   "On the trade front, you can be optimistic" and have some
hope for the dollar, says Michael Moran, chief economist at
Daiwa Securities America Inc. "We could see substantial
improvement {in the trade picture} and I would think that
would be good for the dollar."
   Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics
Ltd., agrees. "I see a couple of constructive things
happening for the dollar. One is a long-term improvement in
the trade balance," he says.
   The trade picture aside, some currency analysts say the
dollar has the potential to strengthen a little against the
mark and the yen in coming months.
   In dollar-mark dealings, the dollar's fortunes could turn
if any rough spots in German unification hurt the mark, some
analysts say.
   West Germany's economy could suffer if unification causes
higher taxes, greater unemployment and any further plant
shutdowns, says Earl Johnson, a foreign-exchange adviser at
Harris Trust &amp; Savings Bank in Chicago.
   "That's the kind of scenario that could get the dollar" up
against the mark, possibly to 1.65 marks to the dollar by
year-end, Mr. Johnson says.
   Mr. Johnson sees the dollar at 145 yen at the year's
close, not far below the current level. The dollar, he says,
stands a good chance of remaining buoyant against the yen:
Investors are staying clear of Japan's financial markets and
any disruption of Japan's oil supply because the Gulf crisis
could aggravate the nation's inflation problem.
   While brighter times could be ahead for the dollar, there
are few expectations that its troubles will be over anytime
soon.
   With the U.S. economy wobbly and the Federal Reserve seen
poised to ease credit in the next few months, more heavy
dollar losses are seen probable in the near term.
   Separately, on the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday,
gold for current delivery settled at $415 an ounce, up $3.
Estimated volume was a moderate 4.5 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Monday, there wasn't any trading in gold
because of a holiday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ford Motor Co.:
   Closure of Assembly Plant
   Is Extended for Two Weeks
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ford Motor Co. said it's extending for two weeks a
temporary shutdown at its Dearborn, Mich., assembly plant
because of a parts shortage.
   The plant was scheduled to reopen Sept. 4 but now is
slated to reopen the week of Sept. 10, the company said. Ford
said the temporary shutdown "is necessitated by a parts
shortage related to start-up of the new 2.3-liter engine."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The assembly plant builds about 3,700 Ford Mustangs a week
and already has been idle for two weeks. Initially, Ford
idled the plant for one week in mid-August because of weak
demand for the Mustangs. Since then it has been idle because
of the parts shortage.
   The combined four weeks of no production will result in
about 14,000 fewer Mustangs and will idle 2,100 hourly
workers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Fed's Concerns
   Over Recession
   Are Increasing
   ---
   Top Officials Are Leaning
   To Slight Credit Easing,
   But After Markets Settle
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   GRAND TETON NATIONAL PARK, Wyo. -- Federal Reserve policy
makers are increasingly concerned about the possibility of a
recession in the U.S., and lean toward a modest easing of
credit.
   But at the same time, Fed officials suggest they won't
move to cut short-term interest rates until financial markets
settle down. The crisis in the Middle East has caused the
U.S. dollar and the bond market to fall sharply in recent
days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's the conclusion drawn from interviews with a
half-dozen top Fed officials attending a conference here.
Some spoke for the record; others asked that their names not
be used. Their comments strongly suggest that at its meeting
this past week, the Fed's policy-making committee adopted a
directive that allows Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan to reduce
short-term interest rates modestly in the next few weeks, if
market conditions allow. The panel adopted a similar
directive at its meeting in early July.
   The two dissenting voices at last week's meeting of the
Federal Open Market Committee appear to have been Fed Gov.
Wayne Angell and Cleveland Fed President Lee Hoskins, who
both opposed any tilt toward easing. Mr. Angell closely
watches the price of gold and apparently feels the rise in
that price over recent weeks suggests inflation fears are
building. Mr. Hoskins has long argued that the Fed should
hold to its inflation-fighting course regardless of
fluctuations in the economy.
   It isn't clear, however, whether Mr. Hoskins and Mr.
Angell actually voted against the policy directive. The
official minutes of the meeting, and the details of the vote,
won't be disclosed by the Fed until after the customary delay
of six weeks.
   The Fed's penchant for easing may come as a surprise to
many private analysts. Several of those attending the
conference here said they expected the Fed to hold its
policies unchanged in the wake of rising oil prices. "I don't
think they'll do anything," said Mellon Bank economist Norman
Robertson.
   The crisis in the Middle East and the resulting rise in
oil prices present a particularly painful dilemma for Fed
policy makers. Rising oil prices will clearly add to
inflation, at least temporarily, over the coming year. But
the increased spending on oil will also be a serious blow to
economic growth.
   "We know the economy is expanding through the second
quarter at a very slow rate, and at this rate it doesn't take
much to have a recession," said Fed Gov. Edward Kelley.
   "It's obviously slow growth, and with what's happened to
oil prices, it's going to be even slower," said Dallas Fed
President Robert Boykin, who like Mr. Kelley is a voting
member of the 11-person Fed policy committee.
   Nevertheless, Mr. Kelley said that while he believes there
is a risk of recession, "it's not baked in the cake." And Mr.
Boykin, as well, said he isn't yet ready to conclude that
recession is inevitable.
   Kansas City Fed President Roger Guffey also expressed
concern about the growth rate. "If you had asked me before
the first of August, I'd have said we aren't going into a
recession," he said. "But today, I'm tempted to say `no
comment.' If you consider moving from $16-a-barrel to
$26-a-barrel oil translates into a $25 billion to $30 billion
hit to the economy, that's like a tax increase. It's going to
depress growth. It's a question of how long and how much."
   Despite their concerns, however, none of the Fed officials
appears poised for an aggressive easing of policy. With
inflation a serious threat, any move to ease is certain to be
small. "The way to have a serious recession and a serious
economic problem," said Mr. Kelley, "is to allow inflation to
accelerate."
   In expressing their concerns about the economy, some Fed
officials noted that the declines in home and stock prices
have undercut the wealth of many households. That, in turn,
seems certain to depress spending.
   In addition, some Fed officials, including Chairman
Greenspan, remain concerned that tightening credit standards
among banks are pushing down economic growth. Mr. Guffey,
however, said he has no evidence that "credit is being denied
credit-worthy borrowers."
   On Friday, the Fed released the minutes of the July 2
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. Those minutes
showed that the policy makers leaned toward easing, and gave
Fed Chairman Greenspan the authority to ease slightly in the
subsequent weeks. The Fed cut the key federal funds interest
rate on July 13 to 8% from 8 1/4%. The federal funds rate is
the interest banks charge on loans to each other, and is
heavily influenced by Fed policy.
   None of the 11 members of the Fed committee dissented from
the policy decision. In justifying their willingness to ease,
members noted tightening credit policies at banks and the
unusually slow growth of money supply.
   Also at the July meeting, the Fed panel adopted new
targets for growth in money supply measures. Those targets
were disclosed when Mr. Greenspan testified before Congress
in July.
   The minutes show that Fed Gov. Martha Seger was the lone
dissenter from a decision to lower the 1990 target for M3 to
1% to 5% a year from 2 1/2% to 6 1/2%. M3 is the broadest
measure of money supply. Ms. Seger said she feared the lower
range would present a risk to the economic expansion.
   And Ms. Seger and Gov. John Laware both dissented from the
tentative targets for 1991. The committee voted to lower the
range for M2, which includes currency, checking accounts and
some savings accounts, to 2 1/2% to 6 1/2%, from 3% to 7%
this year. And the panel voted to leave the range for M3 at
1% to 5%. Ms. Seger dissented because she felt both ranges
were too low; Mr. Laware dissented because he felt the range
for M3 should be even lower, because of technical factors
resulting from the savings-and-loan industry crisis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Wellman Inc.:
   Plastics Concern Acquires
   New England CRInc, Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WLM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wellman Inc. said it completed the acquisition of New
England CRInc, and its subsidiary, Materials Recovery Inc.
   To complete the acquisition, Wellman issued about 300,000
shares of its common stock to CRInc shareholders valued at
$7.5 million, and retired about $4.5 million of CRInc's debt.
Before issuing the new shares, Wellman had about 32 million
common shares outstanding. For the first six months of 1990,
Wellman posted net sales of $418 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For Wellman, based in Shrewsbury, N.J., a leading
manufacturer of fibers and plastic resins from recyclable
waste products, the acquisition of CRInc will mean a steady
source of raw materials. CRInc, a closely held company formed
in 1982 and based in Billerica, Mass., designs, builds and
operates recycling facilities. The company also has exclusive
North American rights to a West German technology that
mechanically separates waste products.
   CRInc's shareholders plan to form a new limited
partnership to continue the firm's deposit container and
curbside pickups in New England, Wellman officials said.
Plastics collected by the company will then be sold to
Wellman under a five-year purchase agreement.
   In New York Stock Exchange trading Friday, Wellman closed
at $17.625, up $1 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Electric Co.:
   Unit Plans More Layoffs,
   Cites Military Budget Cuts
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Electric Co.'s aerospace division announced
additional layoffs, citing cutbacks in the U.S. military
budget.
   GE Aerospace of Valley Forge, Pa., said that as part of a
restructuring of its Automated Systems department, it will
eliminate 650 out of the 950 jobs at its Burlington, Mass.,
plant by 1992. The plant makes automatic test equipment for
military programs. Some of the operations at the plant will
be transferred to other GE Aerospace facilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GE Aerospace will also close its Huntsville, Ala., plant
by the end of 1991 and move the operations to facilities in
Daytona Beach, Fla. The Huntsville plant employs 400 people.
A GE spokesman said that half of them will be offered
relocation, and the rest of the jobs will be eliminated
through early retirement and attrition.
   The latest cutbacks follow the division's announcement a
week earlier that it would eliminate 100 jobs as part of
consolidating its Re-Entry Systems department into one
facility. Last April, the division eliminated 4,200 jobs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sun Microsystems Inc.:
   Computer Maker Withdraws
   Public Stock Offering Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sun Microsystems Inc. dropped its planned public offering
of 5.9 million shares of new common stock.
   The computer maker, which is based in Mountain View,
Calif., had been having second thoughts about the plan to
raise $150 million through the offering because of the
stock's sharp dive since the proposal was announced 11 days
ago. At the time, the stock was trading at $32 a share, and
Sun had been seeking $31 a share for the new shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, the stock
closed at $27.625, up $1.25.
   "We do not believe it is in the best interest of
shareholders to sell additional shares under current market
conditons," said Scott McNealy, Sun's chairman, president and
chief executive officer. Mr. McNealy said the company is
studying other options to raise capital, but that Sun doesn't
plan another stock offering any time soon.
   Some analysts had criticized Sun for proposing the
offering just a few days after announcing a separate plan,
under a long-running agreement, to issue 4.6 million shares
to American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Everest &amp; Jennings International:
   Medical Equipment Maker
   Posts Loss in 2nd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EJ.A H.IEP A.BRY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Everest &amp; Jennings International Ltd. reported a
second-quarter loss of $4 million, or 44 cents a share, and
said that its ability to continue domestic operations depends
on successful negotiation of a new credit agreement.
   In the year-earlier quarter, the maker of wheelchairs and
other medical equipment, posted a loss of $5.5 million, or 68
cents a share. Sales rose 15% to $52.8 million from $45.9
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Everest &amp; Jennings, which is based in Camarillo, Calif.,
said the losses have significantly hurt its financial
condition and its ability to obtain long-term financing. The
company said it took steps last week to cope with its cash
shortages, including laying off about 55 employees at its
main domestic plant in Camarillo.
   Everest &amp; Jennings said it has been trying to negotiate a
long-term financing arrangement with its primary domestic
lender. The company's credit agreement expired on Dec. 31.
Since then, the company has obtained periodic cash infusions
from its controlling shareholder, Industrial Equity (Pacific)
Ltd., a Hong Kong investment firm.
   Barre L. Rorabaugh, president and chief executive officer,
said that Everest &amp; Jennings's foreign subsidiaries are
profitable and are exceeding their projected performance for
the year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   July Consumption
   Of Newsprint Rose
   Among U.S. Users
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6C
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The American Newspaper Publishers
Association estimated July newsprint consumption by all U.S.
users at 989,533 metric tons, up 4% from a year earlier.
   The trade group said consumption by U.S. daily newspapers
was little changed at 718,651 metric tons, compared with
719,080 tons in July 1989. A metric ton is equal to about
2,204.62 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first seven months of 1990, the association
estimated consumption by all U.S. users was 7,063,463 metric
tons, up 1.6% from a year earlier. It said daily newspapers'
consumption rose slightly to 5,246,353 metric tons from
5,223,757 tons.
   The association said newsprint inventories of newspapers
in its statistical sample averaged a 41-day supply in July,
down from 43 days in the year-earlier month. It said stocks
of North American mills in July were down about 16% from a
year earlier.
   The association said Canadian newsprint mills operated at
94% of rated capacity in July and 95% in the first seven
months. It said U.S. mills operated at 98.6% and 96.6% in the
respective periods.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Short Interest
   Drops in OTC's
   Two Categories
   ---
   TW Holdings Inc. Figure
   Shows Largest Increase
   In Month to Mid-August
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
SHORT SALES AND SHORT INTEREST (SHO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Short interest among over-the-counter stocks,
both large and small, edged down in the month ended in
mid-August after small issues leaped the prior month and
larger issues edged up.
   TW Holdings Inc., Spartanburg, S.C., which owns and
operates restaurants, principally 470 Hardee's fast-food
outlets, led the issues with the largest increase in short
interest. Short position in the company rose more than one
million shares, to nearly 2.2 million. Last month it reported
second-quarter and six-month losses of $12.7 million and
$58.8 million, respectively, against net income of $20.8
million and $29.6 million. The losses were attributed to debt
and other expenses in the 1989 acquisition of TW Services
Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Acclaim Entertainment Inc., a major licensee of Nintendo
computer games based in Oyster Bay, N.Y., saw short interest
in its shares soar to 785,281 from 225,643 a month earlier.
Acclaim recently lifted restrictions on a block of its stock
held by entertainment giant MCA Inc., clearing MCA to sell
it. Also, it plans to make a new offering of two million
shares; current shares outstanding total 18.7 million.
   Puget Sound Bancorp, Tacoma, Wash., had practically no
short position in the prior month, but in the recent period
short interest shot up to 544,633 shares. It was one of
several bank and thrift issues that were among the leaders in
short interest. Puget Sound, however, recently reported good
quarterly results and last month increased its dividend,
raising the possibility that investors were seeking to
capture the dividend.
   First Executive Corp., a Los Angeles life insurance
company that once held a large portfolio of junk bonds, again
was the volume leader in short interest, with nearly 8.5
million shares, up from 8.3 million at mid-July.
   Among the companies with the largest decreases in short
interest, Intel Corp. dropped 80%, to 588,393 shares from the
previous month's 4.3 million. The chip maker in July reported
substantial increases in profit and revenue for the second
quarter and six months.
   Furon Co., a Laguna Niguel, Calif.-based maker of
polymers, had short interest practically disappear, to 6,700
shares from more than 900,000. The company in June announced
a plan to redeem a debenture issue for either cash or stock.
   Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it, betting
that the stock's price will decline and that they can buy the
shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender.
   Short interest is the number of shares that haven't yet
been purchased for return to lenders. Although a substantial
short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's
price will decline, some investors consider an increase in
short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually
must be bought back.
   And some short interest doesn't reflect any opinion on the
stock at all but shows up as part of another strategy, such
as arbitrage or dividend capture.
   The National Association of Securities Dealers, the
self-regulatory agency that operates the Nasdaq computerized
system on which more than 4,300 OTC issues trade, compiles
short interest data in two categories: the approximately
two-thirds, and generally biggest, Nasdaq stocks that trade
on the National Market System; and the other, generally
smaller stocks that don't.
   NASD reported that short interest in 2,335 National Market
System issues, the largest OTC stocks, totaled 255.5 million
shares at mid-August, down from a revised 256.9 million in
mid-July among 2,299 issues.
   Short interest in 1,232 smaller securities traded on
Nasdaq declined to 37.7 million shares in August from a
revised 38.5 million in July among 1,212 issues.
   The National Market System's short-interest ratio at
mid-August fell to 2.19 from a revised 2.58 a month earlier,
while the short-interest ratio for other OTC issues climbed
to 1.06 from a revised 0.96.
   The ratio -- the number of trading days at the market's
average daily trading volume that would be required to
convert the total short interest position -- is a measure of
negative trader sentiment. Some analysts suggest, however,
that the ratio has weakened in value as an indicator because
options and other products can be used to hedge short
positions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   After Slowdown, New Strategies for Venture Capitalists
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   "For venture capitalists, it'll never again be business as
usual. The industry is paying the price of success."
   So says William Sahlman, a professor of entrepreneurial
finance at the Harvard Business School.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After successfully financing some of America's best-known
high-growth companies, including Federal Express Corp., Apple
Computer Inc. and Compaq Computer Corp., the venture-capital
industry began to hit rough times. The industry's average
annual return on investment, which ran as high as 30% a
decade ago, has been falling sharply for the past five years.
Many venture funds have had trouble raising capital.
   Venture-capital partnerships, which provide financing for
young companies, attracted a wave of new capital after their
phenomenal success in the 1970s and early 1980s. But the
increase in capital bid up the prices venture capitalists
paid for investments and cut returns, Mr. Sahlman says. "Too
many companies were being funded in the same industries, and
the inevitable result was competitive mayhem."
   The 39-year-old Mr. Sahlman has been studying
entrepreneurship and venture capital for over a decade. His
Harvard Business School course on entrepreneurial finance
attracts over 50% of the school's second-year class. He is
also a director of two Boston companies, Avid Technology
Inc., a provider of video editing software, and Butcher Co.,
a 110-year old manufacturer of industrial sanitary supply
goods.
   "The rates of return for the foreseeable future will not
reach the levels" of the late '70s and early '80s, he
predicts. But the problems of the past five years seem to be
clearing the way for new opportunities and new strategies. In
an interview, Mr. Sahlman considered the future of venture
capital and entrepreneurship in America:
                                                                                                       

   Q. Is venture capital dead?
   A. Not by a long shot. The prospects for the industry in
the 1990s are better than they have been for over a decade.
   Less capital and fewer funds means fewer companies will be
financed. The companies that do receive money will get more
attention from their investors and have a better chance of
survival. The rates of return will increase from the low
levels experienced in the past five or six years.
                                                                                                       

   Q. Will we see a change in the way venture capitalists
invest?
   A. Yes. Venture capitalists are going to look for fewer
home runs -- companies that potentially can achieve sales of
$500 million or so. They are going to invest in smaller
companies that can dominate a niche, companies that often may
be no bigger than $50 million to $100 million in sales, but
highly profitable.
                                                                                                       

   Q. What else will have to change?
   A. Venture capitalists will have to open up their
investment horizons. That means going beyond traditional
high-tech ideas such as workstations and semiconductors. It
might make more sense to look at service businesses that
could improve with the application of technology. More
important, they will have to cast the entrepreneurial net
wider to include women, as well as minorities.
                                                                                                       

   Q. What role will venture capitalists have to play in this
new environment?
   A. They have to provide more than just money. They will
need to develop closer ties with the companies they invest
in, provide more help with recruiting and strategic
partnering. They also will have to help their companies with
competitive positioning in a new and ever-changing global
marketplace.
   Venture capitalists have to recognize that they aren't the
only sources of capital for fast-growing companies. They face
competition from other venture capitalists, from angels, from
corporate investors and from institutions investing directly
in start-up businesses.
                                                                                                       

   Q. What are the implications for entrepreneurs?
   A. There are plenty of sources of risk capital for
entrepreneurs today. They need to choose their sources of
capital carefully for the best chances of success.
   Searching for the cheapest capital may not be in the best
long-term interest of a growing company. From whom you raise
money often is more important than the terms on which you
obtain that money.
   Going public may seem like a good way to get cheap money,
but it also can cause long-term business strategies to be
jettisoned. Many managers hurt their companies in order to
try to live up to the unrealistic expectations embedded in
high public market stock prices.
                                                                                                       

   Q. What are the alternatives to venture capital?
   A. Angels, for one. The entrepreneurial revolution created
many successes, such as H. Ross Perot, who themselves are
investing in new ventures. Institutional investors -- Harvard
University's endowment, for example -- that only invested
through venture-capital partnerships are investing directly.
   And then there are the corporations, both domestic and
international, that are moving up the food chain, investing
earlier in the development of new companies. For many small
companies, finding a corporate partner that can help in their
overall growth may be more helpful than trying to cash out
quickly by going public.
                                                                                                       

   Q. Should government try to provide capital for
entrepreneurial businesses?
   A. No. Government efforts to encourage entrepreneurship
would be more effective if focused on helping companies sell
products and services than if focused on access to financing.
Loan guarantees often result in poor investment decisions and
shift risk to taxpayers without sufficient macroeconomic
benefits. Such efforts might make more sense if there was a
genuine shortage of risk capital, but I don't believe a
shortage exists.
                                                                                                       

   Q. Should the government play any role in helping the
entrepreneurial climate?
   A. Government should stop changing policies that have an
impact on risk-taking and entrepreneurship. It also can
simplify and reduce the cost of raising capital by getting
rid of such regulations as state blue sky laws {regulations
governing securities offerings} which make it harder and more
costly to raise money without offsetting benefits. In
Massachusetts, for example, it can cost as much as $20,000 to
register securities for sale under the blue sky laws.
                                                                                                       

   Q. What are prospects for the future?
   A. The entrepreneurial revolution hasn't run out of steam.
It's alive and well and venture capitalists will continue to
play a role in financing high-potential ventures. Both
investors and entrepreneurs will likely achieve better
financial results in the next five years than they have in
the past five.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Steve's Homemade Ice Cream:
   Second-Period Loss Totaled
   $86,000 as Sales Fell 24%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   STVEA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Summer is normally the best time for ice cream sales, but
for Steve's Homemade Ice Cream Inc. this year it has been
dripping with problems.
   The Lindenhurst, N.Y., company reported a loss of $86,000,
or a penny a share, for the second quarter, compared with net
income of $531,000, or four cents a share, a year ago.
Revenue fell 24% to $6.8 million from $8.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ice cream maker attributed the loss to problems with
the inventory control program of a major buyer, a temporary
disruption of the company's distribution system in California
and Florida, and a dispute with a major New England area
developer licensee. Officials declined to identify the
customers involved.
   Company officials say they are confident that earnings
will turn in the third quarter. The company continues to
spend heavily on advertising, investing $1.2 million more on
promotion in the first six months of this year than it did in
the 1989 period. Officials also say they expect to resolve
the dispute with the developer and licensee soon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Top French Horse Auction
   Is Reined In by Gulf Crisis
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<LP>
   DEAUVILLE, France -- France's top horse-flesh market took
a big hit from the Persian Gulf crisis.
   The six-day auction of thoroughbreds here this past week
attracted winning bids totaling 112.7 million French francs
($21.7 million), down 16% from last year's total of 134.5
million francs, organizers said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to observers, breeders from Kuwait and other
Gulf states -- big buyers at past auctions -- were
conspicuous by their absence this year. Japanese and other
Asian buyers only partly made up the difference, including a
bid of 6.5 million francs for one horse by a Japanese
shipping magnate.
   According to the French Thoroughbred Sales Agency, which
organizes the annual sale, 375 horses were sold this year, at
an average price of 286,679 francs, compared with 413 horses
sold last year for an average of 325,750 francs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sceptre Resources
   May Profit From Rise
   In Crude-Oil Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SRL T.SRL
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALGARY -- The sharp jump in crude oil prices could boost
Sceptre Resources Ltd.'s 1990 cash flow by about 15 million
Canadian dollars (US$13.3 million) and earnings by C$10
million, said Richard Gusella, the company's president and
chief executive officer.
   Gusella said the figures assume an average price for West
Texas Intermediate crude of about US$25 a barrel for the rest
of 1990, or $5 above Sceptre's previous expected price. At
US$30 a barrel, Sceptre's cash flow would jump C$30 million
and earnings would rise C$20 million this year, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After a disappointing first half, Gusella said that
Sceptre in July scaled down its expectations for the current
year, only to see its revised numbers completely changed by
the oil price spiral that followed Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
"Our old assumptions are all wrong now," he said in an
interview, although Sceptre may "coincidentally" now reach
its initial cash flow estimate for 1990 of about C$90
million.
   That would represent a sharp gain over Sceptre's 1989 cash
flow of C$59 million or 85 cents a share. On the earnings
side, Gusella said Sceptre expected a break-even year for
1990, and a small loss on a per-share basis, before the
recent jump in crude prices.
   In 1989, Sceptre reported a net loss of C$24.2 million or
40 cents, after a C$19 million write-down of foreign assets,
on revenue of C$198.3 million.
   Gusella said the company continues to whittle down debt
from its 1989 acquisition of cash-strapped Oakwood Petroleums
Ltd., and sees bank debt shrinking to C$196 million by year
end, down from C$305.9 million at the end of 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Laura Ashley PLC
   Chief James Resigns,
   Effective Saturday
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<CO>
   U.ALY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Laura Ashley PLC, a clothing and home
furnishings concern, said its chief executive officer, John
James, will resign on Saturday.
   A spokesman said that Mr. James's departure was amicable,
and that the executive's plans weren't known.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. James's post will be assumed temporarily by Mike
Smith, chairman of Laura Ashley's British retail operations.
Laura Ashley said it intends to seek a successor from outside
the company.
   Laura Ashley, which expanded rapidly overseas in the past
decade, had a #4.6 million ($9 million) pretax loss in the
year ended Jan. 27, a reversal from year-earlier pretax
profit of #20.3 million, despite an 18% rise in sales to
#296.6 million.
   The company experienced a sharp decline in several sectors
of its important domestic and U.S. markets, and introduced a
line of furniture in Britain just as the local housing market
entered a slump.
   Mr. James, who joined Laura Ashley in 1974 when its sales
stood at #2 million a year, was widely criticized by analysts
as the fortunes of the company soured in the past year. "The
business has now outgrown him," said Richard Ratner of Carr
Kitcat &amp; Aitken, a London stockbrokerage firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- A.O. Smith Corp.:
   Auto-Equipment Company
   Resumes Stock Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   SMCA
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   A.O. Smith Corp. said it resumed a stock-repurchase
program which had been suspended in June 1989.
   The remaining authorization allows the Milwaukee-based
automotive-equipment company to buy back up to $7.5 million
of its common and convertible exchangeable preferred shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A growing number of companies have opted to either dust
off old share-repurchase plans, or authorize new buy-backs,
in response to the stock market's recent sharp downturn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Discusses '91 Budget
   In Light of Events in Gulf
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush met with his top economic
advisers to discuss the fiscal 1991 budget in light of recent
events in the Persian Gulf, administration officials said.
   The meeting, which included Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady, Budget Director Richard Darman and White House Chief
of Staff John Sununu, focused on the proposed mix of spending
cuts for fiscal 1991, when the administration is pledged to
shrink the federal deficit by $50 billion. It is widely
expected that cuts in defense spending may now be smaller
than originally planned because of Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of
Kuwait and the subsequent deployment of U.S. forces in the
region.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It was a planning session, they're going to be getting
together later, in September," an administration official
said after the meeting, which was held in Kennebunkport,
Maine, where the president is spending his summer vacation.
   "The administration remains firm and resolute that a
budget agreement is critical," this official said, adding
that the proposed $50 billion of savings for fiscal 1991,
which begins Oct. 1, is "still a fairly firm number."
   Meanwhile, President Bush signed the paperwork needed to
authorize the Office of Management and Budget to carry out
the automatic spending cuts required under the Gramm-Rudman
deficit-reduction act. The presidential order specifies that
the automatic spending restraints take effect Oct. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Regulators View Market's Steep Descent
   Also as Example of Controls That Work
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- It may be crying time for Wall Street and
stock-market investors, but for regulators things are going
just fine, thank you.
   Despite a partial recovery Friday, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average has dropped almost 16%, with almost-daily
poundings, since July 16 when New York Stock Exchange
officials gathered on the exchange floor. They had planned to
celebrate what they thought would be the first close above
3000 for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. But the average
ended that day -- and the following tantalizing session -- at
2999.75, and the 28 trading days since have been nightmarish
for most investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But while Wall Street and investors agonize, regulators
are pleased with the way the markets have reacted. A series
of orderly, methodical drops has been easily handled by the
exchanges and back-office systems. Investors have generally
kept their money in equity mutual funds and appear to be
sitting tight with their stock holdings. Clearly, this isn't
1987 when computer-trading strategies helped create wave
after wave of selling until the Dow industrials fell 22.6% in
a single day.
   Most importantly, the five-week bear market has been
driven by major news events rather than oblique market forces
such as program trading, regulators say.
   "Here you had the convergence of two very bad sets of
news, namely, substantially bad earnings and the bad news in
the Middle East," says Richard Ketchum, chief market watcher
for the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Notwithstanding
the two very bad stories, you haven't seen it dramatically
react in one bulge. I think that suggests there is more
stability in the market and that should give more comfort to
investors."
   Today's market is a victim of the military confrontation
with Iraq, the resulting huge jump in oil prices and dire
economic forecasts, regulators note. "I think the market is
reacting pretty rationally to very dramatic news," says SEC
Commissioner Mary Schapiro. "The drop for the most part has
been very orderly."
   Regulators note that the October 1987 crash of 508 points
caused more carnage on a percentage basis in a stunning 6 1/2
hours. Moreover, it left an air of panic from which many
individual investors still haven't recovered.
   "The {recent} changes have come in response to information
and events, and average people out there see those things
more easily," contends Wendy Gramm, chairman of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, which regulates the stockindex
futures market. "It's more easily understandable to them.
When people don't understand, it becomes much tougher."
   That's not to say the markets haven't been volatile. Price
moves have been sharp and quick during much of the past five
weeks, often in response to announcements or rumors about
U.S. involvement in the Middle East. Eight times since Aug.
2, when Iraq invaded Kuwait, the Dow industrials have moved
more than 50 points in a day.
   "While there certainly has been a lot of intraday
volatility and prices have bounced around a lot, the markets
have moved in 30- to 90-point intervals rather than big
185-point moves," says Mr. Ketchum. "That has given people
more time to react to the market and less time to panic."
   Slow, steady drops are substantially easier for the
behind-the-scenes operations at Wall Street firms,
clearinghouses and exchanges to handle. This year, unlike in
1987, firms and exchanges haven't been forced to shorten
trading hours to handle massive order flows. Margin calls, by
which investors are asked to put up more money for securities
bought on credit, are more orderly in this environment. And
market makers report that although they have sustained losses
during the slide, they aren't in dire need of capital.
   One key element in the smoother performance, regulators
note, has been the introduction of "circuit breakers" into
the stock and futures markets. The most frequently used one
prevents market participants from trading Standard &amp; Poor's
500-stock-index futures at lower prices for 30 minutes after
the index has fallen 12 points. Those futures, which
represent a bet on the 500-stock basket, are frequently used
in computerized program trades.
   Moreover, earlier this month the Big Board instituted a
rule that bars most program traders from operating any time
the Dow industrials fall by 50 points. The SEC gave tepid
approval to the rule several weeks ago, saying that it was
obligated to allow exchanges to try new processes but voiced
concerns whether the 50-point threshold might be breached too
often.
   But the Big Board's rule appears to have helped brake
sharp drops, regulators say. While Mr. Ketchum says he's
uneasy about endorsing the New York Exchange's rule, he
notes, "Our impression is that New York's arbitrage
restriction results in substantially reducing the amount of
arbitrage once it goes into place. And on a number of
occasions the market has turned after that has occurred."
   The benefit, he adds, is that the circuit breakers have
kept the futures market from "overshooting" the level at
which fundamentals suggest it should be. In the prior two big
drops, the SEC has said, the futures markets overshot their
"normal" levels and dragged stocks down with them. Circuit
breakers halt the futures activity or keep it from
overshooting, he said.
   Indeed, a senior Federal Reserve official, who says he was
initially skeptical about the value of circuit breakers,
believes they have worked surprisingly well over the last few
weeks.
   But he and others note that it is too early to declare
victory over runaway markets. They worry that a shooting war
in the Middle East, for instance, still could slam the U.S.
investment markets.
   On Capitol Hill, Rep. Edward Markey, who heads the House
subcommittee that oversees the SEC, thinks the latest market
drop, along with the jump in oil prices, will push Congress
to move on "financially prudent legislation."
   "Combined with the S&amp;L bailout, this is a clear signal
that we will be moving into a more prudent and financially
conservative era," Rep. Markey contends. "It will allow us to
put on the books prudent policies" to rein excesses of the
1980s, he adds.
   The Massachussetts Democrat says the market's drop will
help propel Congress to "move forward a lot of the
market-reform legislation we have put forward this year as
well as lay the groundwork for additional legislation later
on." Several securities-related bills are pending, including
legislation that would allow the SEC to ban some forms of
program trading and give the agency the clout to seek more
data from brokerage firms.
   But generally, Mr. Markey appears to be satisfied with the
pace of the stock market's decline. "Although it is not
something we would welcome in terms of its comment on the
state of our economy or the prospects," he said, "it is
infinitely preferable to the Maalox moments that we had in
the markets in 1987 and 1989."
   ---
   Alan Murray in Jackson Hole, Wyo., contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   SO
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOUTHERN Co. (Atlanta) -- Moody's Investors Serv- ice Inc.
said it cut its ratings on $490 million of securities of this
electric holding company's Gulf Power Co. unit, Pensacola,
Fla. The rating concern cited a "weakening of Gulf Power's
financial performance, and further pressure on prospective
credit quality measurements, given an unconstructive rate
decision recently issued by the Florida Public Service
Commission." Earlier this month, the commission granted Gulf
Power a rate increase of only $11.8 million; the company had
requested a $26.3 million boost. Moody's lowered ratings on
Gulf Power's first mortgage and secured pollution control
bonds to single-A-2 from single-A-1; unsecured
pollution-control bonds to single-A-3 from single-A-2; and
preferred stock to single-A-2 from single-A-1. A Gulf Power
spokesman said the downgrades are "further evidence that the
Florida Public Service Commission decision was
counterproductive."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   Foreign Travels, Foreign-Exchange Travails
   ----
   By Herbert Stein
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   I was traumatized by exchange rates long ago. It was in
1936, to be exact, when I had a course in international
finance with the redoubtable Prof. Jacob Viner. I could never
understand why the exchange rate on the British pound was
$4.88 whereas the rate on the French franc was 20 to the
dollar. If the pound was $4.88 why wasn't the franc $.05? Or
if the franc was 20 to the dollar why wasn't the pound .205
to the dollar? I just didn't know which country was up. So I
gave up thinking about the subject for a long, long, time.
   When I can't avoid the subject it still baffles me. For
example, I do some work on the Israeli economy. Now, when
Americans say that the exchange rate went up they mean that
the dollar rose relative to other currencies. But when the
Israelis say that the exchange rate went up they mean that
other currencies rose relative to the shekel. Baffling] Maybe
it's because they read from right to left.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   My allergy to exchange rates really hurts when I have to
meet a foreign currency hand to hand, as was seen on a recent
trip to Israel and France.
   Leaving Israel to fly to Paris I had a handful of leftover
shekels. I decided to exchange them for francs. Going from
the exotic shekel to the romantic franc without passing
through the humdrum dollar made me feel like a sophisticated
jet-setter.
   I received 279 francs, which somehow seemed enough for
taxi fare from Charles de Gaulle Airport to my Paris hotel. I
also got a printout saying that the rate was .39. Since I
thought that the shekel was worth about 50 cents and the
franc about 20, it seemed reasonable enough that a figure
like .39 should appear somewhere, although I wouldn't have
bet on doing the algebra right the first time.
   Five hours later I am speeding along in a French taxi and
the taximeter is clicking off two francses at an even more
furious pace, alongside a sign saying "No checks accepted." I
worry about whether my 279 francs are going to survive this
race, at the same time trying to remember whether I should
multiply the francs by .2 or by five to get them into my
native currency.
   To my relief, the taxi and the meter slow down as we enter
the XVI Arrondissement, and the meter says only 132 when we
stop in front of the hotel. "One hundred and sixty," says the
driver. (All this is a blur in my mind now, and I'm not sure
what language we were using. I suppose English.) "Why?" I
ask. "Luggage," he explains. I am so annoyed and angry about
this, as well as by his general manner, that I determine to
give him no tip. I had barely reached the sidewalk, however,
when I realized that I had only 19 francs left. I had given
the driver 260. But he assured me that I was mistaken. He
showed me that in one pocket he had a lot of money, which was
his, and in the other pocket he had a little, which was what
had been mine. Before we could pursue the subject he drove
off.
   The receptionist in the hotel was philosophical. She
explained that the event was not uncommon and there was
nothing I could do about it.
   So there my wife and I were on a Sunday afternoon,
Ascension Day, in a small hotel, sans restaurant, in a quiet
part of Paris, having had no dinner and with about $2 in
francs, after tipping the bellman. I asked the receptionist,
who for some reason reminded me of "A Tale of Two Cities,"
whether she could cash a traveler's check. She could, and the
rate was 4.9. She saw my surprise and explained that the rate
had gone down (this was three days after the invasion of
Kuwait) but maybe it would go up next week. She was still
philosophical. "It's only a few centimes," she said. Later in
a calmer mood I figured out that 4.9 is 2% less than five.
   All the money amounts are trivial. This story is not about
the amounts; it is about confusion, mental anguish,
humiliation. It is about states of mind, which is, after all,
what economics is all about.
   Armed with $50 worth of francs we set out to find a light
supper. Fortunately, French restaurants, brasseries and
bistros all have menus posted outside, so you can review your
options before committing yourself. Even with $50 my options
were not great. But the second time around the place I
realized that the solution to my problem was the brasserie
whose menu welcomed credit cards. There I would not have to
worry about running out of francs and someone else would have
to figure out how much my bill was in dollars. (When I did
get my credit card bill at home my franc expenditures had
been translated into dollars at a rate more favorable to me
than any I encountered in Paris.)
   The next morning we went to the bank to change money.
There was the usual bulletin board with exchange rates in two
columns -- Vente and Achat. Which was I, buying or selling? I
was selling dollars and buying francs. The bank was selling
francs and buying dollars. I knew that whichever it was, I
was going to get the smaller amount. And even the smaller
amount was 5.2 with some more decimals, much more than La
Tricoteuse at the hotel had paid. In fact, the rate was
5.27719 francs to the dollar. I cashed only $50 because I
still had the money I had exchanged at the hotel. Also,
hadn't I learned that when the oil price rose the dollar did
too, because people had to pay for oil in dollars? Probably I
would get a better rate the next day.
   The net I received was 234.21. The commission and
value-added tax had eaten up 29.61 francs. Later I figured
out the net rate had been 4.6842, almost 5% less than I had
gotten from La Tricoteuse, whom I had unjustly maligned.
   We now had almost 500 francs and started out to spend
them. Our first stop was a fruit stand. Have you ever tried
to calculate in your head what is the price in cents of two
oranges when they cost 35.75 francs per kilo and you do not
have access to scales? Or how much money you should give the
cashier when you are not immediately sure whether quinze is
15 or 50? You hold out a handful of change and let her pick
what she wants. She seems honest.
   Having managed to get rid of quite a few francs, we
undertook to get more the next morning. I proposed to La
Tricoteuse that she should sell me some, but she declined. I
think she had an agreement with the bank next door not to do
any banking during hours when the bank was open. At the bank
I discovered that, contrary to my speculation about the price
of oil, the dollar had declined from 5.27719 francs to
5.22027. But we had learned about the commission, which was a
constant, so by buying $200 worth we reduced (raised?) the
net price to 5.072.
   Now we were really flush with francs, and I had a sudden
insight into the truth of monetarism. The idea is that
individual behavior is significantly governed by the
possession of a certain kind of asset, called "money." Here I
was with dollar currency, traveler's checks, credit cards,
and checks on an account in an internationally known bank.
With a call to my broker I could get a telegraphic transfer
of a large amount of money from a money market fund. Compared
to my total liquid assets, the amounts of French currency I
ever held were minute. But the difference between feeling
that I had little French currency and feeling that I had much
was significant. When I felt that I had little I tried to
hold on to it, fearing to find myself in a place or time when
it would be indispensable to me. When I felt that I had much
I was quite prepared to get rid of it, lest I have it "left
over" at some point, or have to trade it in at a great loss.
I had demonstrated that money matters. How much it matters I
leave to econometricians.
   Feeling flush with francs we presented ourselves on the
day before we were to leave Paris at a very expensive
restaurant for lunch. As soon as I looked at the menu my
franc anxiety returned. I had never seen such prices. I began
a hasty and not reassuring estimate of how many francs were
in my wallet and my wife's pocketbook. There was nothing on
the menu to indicate that credit cards were accepted. I
couldn't see any money passing at other tables or even anyone
signing checks. Presumably the waiter knew without being told
whose lunch was to be charged to the duc de Guermantes. But
he would know that I wasn't the duc of anything. For one
thing, I had had to borrow a coat and tie from the checkroom
to get admitted in the first place. I wondered how many hours
of dishwashing it would take to work off 500 francs. When the
check came I inquired, appearing as confident as I could,
whether they took credit cards. The answer was affirmative,
and I was rich again.
   That left us with an unexpectedly large amount of francs.
Even after some splurging I had some to turn in at the bank
at the airport, where I sold at 5.77 to the dollar francs
that I had bought at an average price of 4.9787. I was glad
to get rid of them. Now I could stop thinking about centimes
and resume thinking about trillions of dollars in the budget
or the GNP.
   ---
   A former chairman of the president's Council of Economic
Advisers, Mr. Stein is an American Enterprise Institute
fellow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chicago Trader Pleads
   Guilty to Felony Counts
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- One of the 16 defendants accused of trading
improprieties in the yen pit of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange pleaded guilty to two felony counts in U.S. District
Court here, as part of an agreement with federal prosecutors.
   Aric H. March, the 34-year-old defendant, hasn't been
considered a pivotal figure in the alleged yen-pit scheme.
But his plea-bargain -- in which he agreed to testify on
behalf of the prosecution at the upcoming trial -- is the
first the government has been able to obtain from the yen
traders and brokers facing charges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To bolster their case in complex, multidefendant cases,
prosecutors routinely seek to strike such arrangements with
some defendants. The yen trial is scheduled to begin Sept. 4,
and to last for months.
   Mr. March pleaded guilty to charges that in 1986, he
participated in prearranged trades in the Merc's Standard &amp;
Poor's 500 trading pit, including one charge that he
committed mail fraud by allowing a confirmation of one of the
trades to be sent to a customer by U.S. mail. The charges
associated with his yen pit activities were dropped, as part
of the agreement.
   The trader faces a maximum of ten years in prison, and
$500,000 in fines; sentencing will take place after the
yen-pit trial concludes.
   Mr. March's guilty plea to trading violations in the
Merc's S&amp;P pit marks the first formal admission of criminal
wrongdoing by a trader in that Merc operation. Subpoenas were
issued some months ago against 30 to 50 S&amp;P pit traders, and
indictments against an unknown number are expected sometime
in the future.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   London Panel Criticizes
   Chairman of Polly Peck
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP U.POL
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The Quotations Panel of London's Stock Exchange
Friday criticized the chairman of Polly Peck International
PLC for the manner in which the chairman attempted to take
the company private.
   In a lengthy statement released after the market closed,
the panel said Asil Nadir failed to follow "normal standards"
when advising the company's board that he wished to make an
offer for the diversified company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The panel has powers to delist or suspend a company's
shares if it finds wrongdoing or it can issue a public
statement on its report. The panel has conveyed its findings
to the relevant authorities, but didn't elaborate.
   The stock exchange also was disapproving of Mr. Nadir's
decision to ignore advice from financial advisers as well as
his calling a board meeting at such short notice on a Sunday.
Additionally, they found that the wording used in announcing
that an offer might be made for the company was misleading in
that it didn't state discussions were still at a preliminary
stage.
   The company and chairman said it noted the findings of the
panel. It added that Polly Peck is "committed to ensuring the
long-term maximization of shareholder value and will continue
to work towards this end." It said neither the company nor
Mr. Nadir wish to make any further comment on the panel's
announcement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                        U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $18.4 billion of three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   $8.5 billion of five-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Lazare Kaplan International Inc. -- one million common
shares, via Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co.
   Office Club Inc. -- 1.3 million common shares, via Salomon
Brothers Inc.
   Preferred Health Care Inc. -- 4.155 million common shares,
via Furman Selz Mager Dietz &amp; Birney Inc.
   Rocky Mountain Helicopters Inc. -- initial 1.5 million
common shares, via Blunt Ellis &amp; Loewi Inc.
   Sonat -- $575 million zero-coupon subordinated convertible
notes, via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   SFP Pipeline Holdings Inc. -- $210 million variable rate
exchangeable debentures, via Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   Sun Microsystems Inc. -- seven million common shares, via
Goldman, Sachs.
   Total Pharmaceutical Care Inc. -- initial 1.7 million
common shares, via Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   Trans World Music Corp. -- one million common shares, via
Goldman, Sachs.
   Vital Signs Inc. -- 1.275 million common shares, via
Hambrecht &amp; Quist Inc.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                         Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   California -- $700 million of various purpose general
obligation bonds, via competitive.
                                                                                                       

                        Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Houston, Tex. -- $75 million of water and sewer system
revenue bonds, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                    One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   New Jersey Housing and Mortgage Finance Authority -- $287
million of home buyer revenue bonds, Series E and F,
(Alternate Minimum Tax, non-AMT), via a Donaldson Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette Securities Corp. group.
   Oregon -- $81.92 million of department of general service
certificates of participation, via a Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
group.
   Wyoming Community Development Authority -- $50 million of
single-family mortgage revenue bonds, Series B and C (AMT),
via a Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. Inc. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ASK Corp.:
   Pact Set With Union Fund
   For a $20 Million Infusion
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6C
</SO>
<CO>
   ASKC LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ASK Corp. of Waco, Texas, said it entered into a letter of
understanding with the Sheet Metal Workers' National Pension
Fund, regarding the previously announced plan of the fund and
another institution to infuse $20 million of debt and equity
into the maker of natural gas heating and airconditioning
systems.
   ASK said the letter sets out the main elements of a
proposed definitive agreement, and establishes projected time
frames for completion of due diligience and closing of the
transaction, subject to approval by the boards of the three
parties involved.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it plans to use the $20 million to
acquire "certain technology and equipment," but ASK President
Brian D. Pardo declined to discuss details of the proposed
acquisitions or identify the third party involved in the
negotiations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Granite Co-operative Bank:
   A Cease-and-Desist Order
   Is Proposed by the FDIC
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   GNTE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Granite Co-operative Bank, Quincy, Mass., reported a
fiscal first-quarter loss of $82,000, or 10 cents a share,
and said the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. has proposed
that the bank consent to a cease-and-desist order.
   The loss for the quarter, ended July 31, came after a
provision for possible loan losses of $138,000. Granite had
net income of $144,000, or 18 cents a share, in the
year-earlier period. In last year's first quarter, the loss
provision was $38,000. The bank's assets at July 31 declined
to $109,496,000, from $129,643,000 at July 31, 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Granite said the order with the FDIC will outline
corrective action designed to improve the bank's condition.
It said it expects to negotiate specific terms of the order
with the FDIC.
   Many New England banks, suffering from economic woes and a
downturn in the area real estate market, have entered into
similar agreements with various regulatory agencies.
   Granite's loss for the first quarter follows the bank's
loss of $4,768,000, or $5.87 per share, for the year ended
April 30, after a loan loss provision of $2,730,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo, London Post First Gains in Seven Sessions;
   Most Continental European Markets Also Advance
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo's major stock-price index finished higher in a
volatile session Friday, posting its first gain in seven
trading days.
   London share prices also rose for the first time in seven
sessions. Most other European markets posted gains, Asian and
Pacific bourses were mixed, and South African gold stocks
skidded.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nikkei Index of 225 issues was up 428.13 points at
24165.76, helped by buying focused on blue-chip issues in the
late afternoon, traders said. The index plunged 1473.28
points Thursday.
   In Tokyo Monday, the Nikkei index added another 398.89
points to close the morning session at 24564.65.
   In Friday's trading, volume on the first section was
estimated at 550 million shares, up from 477 million
Thursday. Declining issues still outnumbered gainers,
526-367, with 80 issues unchanged. But the Tokyo Stock Price
Index of all issues listed in the first section, which
plummeted 110.58 points Thursday, was up 16.47, or 0.90%, at
1845.72.
   The Second Section Index, which fell 204.17 Thursday, was
down 79.41, or 2.19%, to close at 3554.74. Volume on the
second section was estimated at 10.3 million shares, up from
7.7 million Thursday.
   After a weak opening, the Nikkei Index shot up nearly 750
points by midmorning. A Japanese news wire's headline at the
time said that Iraq was withdrawing from the Kuwait-Saudi
Arabian border. However, participants soon learned from
reports by other news services that Iraq wasn't withdrawing
but was replacing some elite troops at the border with less
highly trained units.
   As investors sold again, the Nikkei fell back to an
intraday low of 23547. The afternoon rebound was prompted by
heavy buying by one of Japan's "Big Four" brokerage houses,
market sources said. That buying encouraged institutions and
investment trust funds to buy blue-chip shares in the
electric and construction sectors.
   Although participants said the market has gradually been
discounting a possible outbreak of fighting between Iraq and
U.S.-led forces in the Persian Gulf area, as well as a
possible increase in the official discount rate by the Bank
of Japan, market psychology is still highly vulnerable,
according to Kimitoshi Hasegawa, head of separate account
management at Dai-Ichi Mutual Life Insurance.
   But Yoshiaki Mitsuoka, director of investment information
at Daiwa Investment Trust &amp; Management, cited a group of
shares that seemed generally immune to last week's plunge,
when the Nikkei Index lost more than 11% from Monday through
Thursday. In the group, he said, are bluechip shares such as
Hitachi, Matsushita Electric Industrial, Nippon Steel and
Kajima, which attracted buying Friday.
   Hitachi was up 70 yen (48 cents) to 1,310 yen ($8.96) a
share, while Sony gained 250 to 7,100. Matsushita Electric
Industrial advanced 80 to 1,800, and Sharp was up 90 to
1,390. These electrical shares were boosted by investors
including institutions and foreigners, traders said.
   Steel shares also firmed, with NKK gaining 43 to 493 and
Kawasaki Steel up 15 to 480. Among construction companies,
Kajima rose 70 to 1,390, and Taisei gained 29 to 979. Another
big winner was Toyota Motor, which advanced 120 to 2,000.
   The London market, after reaching an intraday high in
early afternoon, slowed and began to retreat but still
managed to close in positive territory ahead of a three-day
holiday weekend. A trader for at least one securities house,
however, said his company was preparing to come to work today
despite the holiday, in case of a flare-up in the Mideast
crisis.
   At the close, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share
index stood at 2086.4, up 11.4 on the day but well below its
high of 2103.5. The Financial Times 30-share industrial index
was up 12.6 at 1616.8. Volume was 347.7 million shares,
considerably slower than Thursday's 492.6 million.
   Interest rate-sensitive stocks had a good day amid
speculation that the strength of the pound will allow the
British government to ease interest rates.
   Among construction-related stocks, BPB Industries rose 3
pence (5.9 cents) to close at 175 pence ($3.42) a share, and
Tarmac climbed 11 to 234.
   The oil sector had the greatest losses of the day, as
profit-taking set in after Thursday's poor performance of oil
stocks on Wall Street. Ultramar fell 8 to 341, and British
Petroleum slid 5 to 354.
   Wellcome, the pharmaceutical giant, dropped 21 to 423
after an unconfirmed report of a downgrading of its stock by
a U.K. brokerage house.
   Trafalgar House lost 22 to 230. Rumors of a dividend cut
and of a seller in the market were said by one trader to have
triggered the fall.
   In other European markets, shares closed higher in Paris,
Frankfurt, Zurich, Brussels, Stockholm and Madrid, lower in
Milan and mixed in Amsterdam.
   In Frankfurt, shares gained on pre-weekend covering of
short, or selling, positions and on bargain-hunting, traders
said. The German Stock Index rose 2.5% as large institutions
started buying after the market hit a 1990 low Thursday.
   Another factor in Friday's bounce, one trader said, was
that the German Stock Index has fallen more steeply than the
Dow Jones Industrial Average over the past month, despite the
fact that the West German economy is considered stronger than
the near-recessionary U.S. economy.
   South African gold stocks started showing signs of
recovery late in the session but still were down steeply in
active trading. The Johannesburg Gold Index fell 100 points
to close at 1808.
   In other Asian and Pacific markets, prices closed higher
in Hong Kong, Singapore and Manila and lower in Sydney,
Seoul, Wellington and Taipei.
   Sydney's All-Ordinaries Index skidded 1.6% after a 2.4%
fall Thursday, bringing its total decline to 4.8% for the
week. Brokers cited a combination of uncertainty about the
Middle East crisis, a sharply higher Australian dollar and
the volatility in the Tokyo market.
   The gains in Singapore and Hong Kong were largely
attributed to technical factors, and brokers said the
advances are unlikely to hold unless Mideast tensions ease.
Taipei shares, meanwhile, fell 5.9% on a government decision
to raise oil product prices about 30%, brokers said. The
market's Weighted Index ended at a 30-month low of 3135.56,
down 197.9.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                   % This
                              Aug 23     Aug 22     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .....................  283.9      292.3    - 12.7
   Britain ..................  616.4      626.2    - 14.5
   Canada ...................  372.3      380.2    - 13.9
   Japan .................... 1015.5     1072.4    - 38.6
   France ...................  438.6      446.3    - 22.6
   Germany ..................  245.3      252.1    - 14.0
   Hong Kong ................ 2098.4     2158.8    +  0.1
   Switzerland ..............  176.7      184.4    - 20.0
   Australia ................  304.0      312.6    -  8.2
   World index ..............  448.3      463.3    - 21.0
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE U.S. SIGNALED willingness to seek a diplomatic
solution in the Persian Gulf.
   The Bush administration indicated that, with economic
sanctions now in place, it is willing to look for a
negotiated resolution of its standoff with Iraq. U.S.
national security adviser Scowcroft said it would be "clearly
acceptable" for U.N. chief Perez de Cuellar to begin trying
to mediate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Iraq's foreign minister is expected to meet with Perez de
Cuellar on Thursday. On Saturday, the U.N. Security Council
authorized the world's navies to enforce an embargo of Iraq.
   Iraq allowed the departure of 52 U.S. diplomatic
dependents who had come from Kuwait, but three dependents and
54 embassy staffers were held. Baghdad didn't act to oust
U.S. diplomats in the besieged embassy in Kuwait City.
   ---
   An explosion trapped at least 169 coal miners underground
in central Yugoslavia, and an official said there was little
chance any survived. One man working near the surface was
pulled out alive, according to rescue officials, who said the
blast probably was caused by coal dust or methane gas, or a
combination of the two.
   ---
   Bulgarian demonstrators set fire to the headquarters of
the former Communist Party in Sofia. Up to 15,000 people
swarmed around the building as it burned, while protesters
inside hurled furniture from upper floors. President Zhelev
called the violence a "senseless act" that could push
Bulgaria toward military dictatorship.
   ---
   A pro-Iranian group in Beirut freed hostage Brian Keenan.
The 39-year-old Belfast teacher, who spent 52 months in
captivity, arrived in Ireland Saturday. He said he recently
had seen two Americans held in Lebanon, Thomas Sutherland and
Terry Anderson, and that both are well.
   ---
   Rival tribal chiefs blamed the white-led South African
government for the black factional fighting near Johannesburg
that has claimed over 500 lives in two weeks, and the African
National Congress urged blacks to strike today. On Friday,
the government declared townships around the city "unrest
areas," giving police expanded powers.
   ---
   A federal grand jury indicted five state legislators in
South Carolina on Friday, accusing them of accepting bribes
in exchange for their support for a bill legalizing betting
on horses and greyhounds. A 16-month FBI sting operation led
to the indictments.
   ---
   Michigan authorities charged a California man with murder
for allegedly helping his cancer-stricken wife die at a
Detroit-area motel. Officials said they want to keep Michigan
from becoming a haven for assisted suicides. The charges
follow by two months the suicide of an Oregon woman who was
aided by a retired Michigan doctor.
   ---
   Anti-abortion groups vowed to seek restoration of
restrictions overturned Friday by a federal judge in
Pennsylvania. The ruling struck down provisions of the
state's abortion law that would have required a woman to tell
her husband and to wait 24 hours before getting an abortion,
and would have forced minors to obtain parental consent.
   ---
   Romanian riot police clashed with anti-government
demonstrators on the fifth successive night of protests in
central Bucharest. The protesters, mostly youths, complained
of food shortages and called for President Iliescu to resign.
   ---
   A tourist boat overturned Saturday night on a lake in
Taiwan, and police reported that at least 21 people drowned
and 34 were missing. Shell Taiwan, which chartered the boat,
said 88 people were on board, including employees of the oil
company, their families and three British executives.
   ---
   A state judge in Reno, Nev., ruled Friday that the British
heavy-metal band Judas Priest and CBS Records weren't
responsible for the deaths of two youths who shot themselves
after they listened to alleged hidden messages on the rock
band's "Stained Class" album.
   ---
   The Sri Lankan government said its troops overran a
rebel-held island and killed more than 80 Tamil guerrillas in
an advance toward Jaffna Fort, which has been under siege by
the insurgents since June.
   ---
   Dissident Southern Baptists voted overwhelmingly to set up
their own budget and government, but fell short of seceding
from the Southern Baptist Convention. The dissident group
represents the moderate faction of the denomination, which is
dominated by fundamentalists.
   ---
   The Defense Department said it would slash by 40% the
number of LH helicopters it plans to buy and would postpone
production of the new lightweight Army aircraft by about two
years.
   ---
   Died: Michael D. Spear, 49, president of Rouse Co., a
real-estate development firm, Friday, in Boston, in a plane
crash.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Penn Central Corp.:
   Concern Seeks More Shares
   In Amended Buy-Back Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6C
</SO>
<CO>
   PC AFINP
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Penn Central Corp., amending its previously announced
offer, said it will buy back 10 million shares of its 62.7
million outstanding at $23 a share.
   Penn Central, which has businesses in industrial
manufacturing, defense services, insurance and energy, said
it was modifying its offer because of a "deterioration in
general market conditions, including the market price of the
company's common stock."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Previously Penn Central had offered to purchase up to six
million shares at a price of $26 a share.
   The Cincinnati-based company said its repurchase offer
expires midnight Sept. 10 and is not contingent upon a
miniumum number of shares being tendered. American Financial
Corp., which owns 34.3% of Penn Central's comon stock, said
it does not plan to tender any of its shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Thrift Agency Is to Sue Some Attorneys,
   Others in Wake of Lincoln S&amp;L Decision
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr. and Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In the wake of a court decision that harshly
criticized the role of lawyers in the failure of Lincoln
Savings &amp; Loan Association, thrift regulators promised more
enforcement actions against attorneys.
   Moreover, a Resolution Trust Corp. official, who asked not
to be identified, said the thrift-bailout agency is likely to
sue at least some of the attorneys connected with the
collapse of Lincoln, which is expected to cost taxpayers more
than $2 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Possible targets include the New York law firm of Kaye,
Scholer, Fierman, Hays &amp; Handler, which represented Lincoln
in a number of dealings with regulators and whose aggressive
tactics have been widely noted.
   Timothy Ryan, director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision, said the OTS plans to make enforcement actions
against lawyers -- and other professionals, such as
accountants, hired by thrifts -- a high priority in coming
months. Asked about the decision by federal Judge Stanley
Sporkin, which blamed lawyers for contributing to the Lincoln
debacle, Mr. Ryan said: "I agree with Judge Sporkin's view
and it's a view I hope you'll see reflected soon in
enforcement actions."
   Harris Weinstein, OTS chief counsel, said the office plans
to use new powers granted in last year's thrift-bailout law
against attorneys and accountants. The law gave the OTS the
power in administrative actions to bar the professionals from
representing clients before regulators, bar them from
representing any federally insured institution, and impose
fines. However, the regulators believe these enforcement
powers don't apply to actions that occurred prior to when the
thrift law was passed and thus can't be used in the Lincoln
case. However, regulators can bring civil suits against the
lawyers and accountants who worked for Lincoln.
   Judge Sporkin, who in his decision lashed out at Charles
Keating for "looting" Lincoln, raised questions about the
scores of accountants and lawyers hired by Mr. Keating. "What
is difficult to understand," Judge Sporkin wrote, "is that
with all the professional talent involved . . . why at least
one professional would not have blown the whistle."
   Though Judge Sporkin found no indication that lawyers had
conspired with Mr. Keating's "illicit activities" he said the
attorneys should have been more attentive to the "public
interest." He expressed astonishment that lawyers and
accountants signed off on complicated business deals that,
the judge said, had no "economic substance."
   The judge's high dudgeon was all the more notable because
the case had little to do with the actions of lawyers. The
ruling dismissed a suit brought by Mr. Keating contending
that regulators illegally seized Lincoln in April 1989.
   Judge Sporkin didn't name specific lawyers or firms in his
decision, and most of the transactions he criticized were
apparently handled by in-house lawyers for Lincoln and its
parent, American Continental Corp. But Kaye Scholer was
responsible for at least one of the actions he assailed.
   Judge Sporkin termed "unacceptable" a letter from Kaye
Scholer partner Peter Fishbein demanding that federal
examiners in Phoenix, Ariz., route their document requests
through Kaye Scholer in New York. Mr. Weinstein of the OTS
said that the lawyers assisted Lincoln in an "improper effort
to defeat the examination process."
   "That's what the client asked us to do," answers Kaye
Scholer spokesman Stanley Robinson, a partner with the firm.
Mr. Robinson said that a compromise was reached in which a
Kaye Scholer associate worked with the examiners in Phoenix.
   Judge Sporkin accused Lincoln attorneys of writing
"menacing letters" and preparing "ill-founded lawsuits" that
impeded government action. Mr. Robinson said he didn't know
what Judge Sporkin was referring to in these remarks, but
conceded that the latter might be a reference to a lawsuit,
prepared by Kaye Scholer, asserting that the regulators
leaked information. The lawsuit has since been dropped.
   "As far as Kaye Scholar is concerned, we are satisfied
that there was no impropriety in anything we did for Lincoln
or American Continental Corp.," Mr. Robinson said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Top Corporates'
   Scarcity Helps
   To Firm Prices
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR AN BMY LLY EMR XON GE IBM JNJ K MMM RD SC WMT
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The amount of high-grade corporate debt has
dwindled to the point that what's left appears way
overpriced. But that hasn't stopped money managers from
buying what's out there.
   Investors who own top-quality bonds issued by industrial
corporations "are holding all the cards right now," said
William Mast, a bond strategist at Shearson Lehman. "We spend
a lot of time looking for bonds we want to buy, but there are
not many sellers."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's in part because top-quality corporate bonds are
scarce. Consider the shrinking size of the elite Triple-A
club of industrial corporations. Credit analysts said the
group had more than 30 members a decade ago compared with
between 13 and 15 today. (Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. counts 15
and Moody's Investors Service Inc. counts 13.)
   If you expand the group to include double-A-rated
companies, which still have very good ratings, the list would
have about 50 members, down from well over 100 a decade ago.
   The reason for the shrinkage is no surprise: The leveraged
buy-outs of the 1980s, which loaded companies with debt and
reduced their credit-worthiness while mergers and
acquisitions brought about a consolidation in corporate
America.
   What is a surprise is that the corporate market appears to
be behaving better than most other sectors of the bond market
-- an unusual development considering corporate debt often is
more sensitive to changes in the economy.
   After all, talk of recession and fears of inflation are
trends that in the past have caused investors to seek safety
by investing in short-term Treasury notes and bills while
bailing out of corporate bonds. That's because investors
worry that lean economic times translate into poor corporate
credit quality and high default rates.
   Although such concerns certainly have shaken the stock
market, the high-grade corporate bond market has held firm.
The reason, say analysts, is that fixed-income money managers
are under pressure to find ways to raise the total return of
their portfolios without taking on too much risk. Because
bond prices have been essentially flat or lower this year,
the only way portfolio managers can eke out a positive return
is to offset the depreciating prices with higher yields. One
solution, of course, is a high-grade corporate bond.
   "The amount of cash looking for incremental yield is
enormous and is growing," said Jon Winklereid, a vice
president in the new issues department at Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co. At the same time, high-grade companies just aren't
issuing as much debt as they have in the past. The result,
said Mr. Winklereid, is "a fair amount of money chasing not
that many securities," which is keeping the corporate bond
market relatively strong.
   The scarcity factor has made it possible for prices of
corporate bonds to fall more slowly than prices of comparable
Treasury securities. Although some analysts believe this
trend won't last much longer, for now corporate bonds are
considered expensive.
   It's not that corporate bond prices haven't eroded along
with the rest of the bond market. It's just that the yields
on the bonds relative to Treasury bonds have remained
unchanged, or in some cases have narrowed. The exception is
financial-company bonds, especially those issued by banks,
where the yield gap has widened considerably against Treasury
bonds.
   To appraise the relative value of corporate bonds,
analysts most often watch the "yield spread," which compares
yields on a given security with those of a U.S. Treasury
security having a similar maturity. Because U.S. government
notes and bonds are considered the safest securities of all,
other taxable fixed-income securities are priced at yields
that are higher than Treasurys to reflect their higher credit
risk.
   When yields on corporate bonds move closer to yields on
Treasury bonds, they are considered expensive relative to
Treasurys and when they move further away they are said to be
cheap.
   The yields on several new top-quality issues have narrowed
the fastest. Dayton Hudson Corp., for example, issued $200
million of 12-year notes on June 26 priced at par to yield
9.75%, 1.25 percentage points higher than the yield on
10-year Treasury notes. On Friday, the bonds were yielding
10.13%, or a narrower 1.1% percentage points above Treasurys.
   Another recent issuer, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., sold $500
million of 10-year notes July 16 priced at par to yield
9.10%, for a spread that was 0.65 percentage point higher
than the yield on 10-year Treasury notes. On Friday, the
spread was only 0.53 percentage point.
   Mr. Winklereid at Goldman Sachs is among a small number of
analysts who aren't convinced that corporate bonds are
expensive. Instead, he says, they are priced correctly
considering they are in short supply. And with yields now
between 9% and 10%, he says this is "a buying opportunity"
for investors.
   But not everyone would agree. "If oil prices continue to
rise and the economy remains under pressure, prices of
corporate bonds have to fall relative to Treasurys," said
David Glenn, a portfolio manager at Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark,
which manages mutual funds.
   Wayne Wong, a portfolio manager at Marinvest, a subsidiary
of Marine Midland Bank, said fear that the spreads will widen
soon has kept him away from new corporate bonds. For extra
yield, he has been buying mortgage-backed securities instead.
   "If I have to reach for yield, I'd rather be in securities
that are backed by a government agency," which are sometimes
considered nearly as solid as Treasurys, said Mr. Wong. Many
mortgage-backed securities are collateralized by mortgages
that are guaranteed by agencies such as the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp. and the Federal National Mortgage Association.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices continued to decend as the possibility of war
between the U.S. and Iraq escalated.
   The benchmark 30-year Treasury bonds ended at 95 26/32,
down nearly 1/4 point from 96 1/32 on Thursday. That
translates into a loss of about $2.50 for a bond with a
$1,000 face amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the
opposite direction of its price, rose to 9.15% from 9.13%
Thursday.
   For the entire week, the price of the benchmark 30-year
bond slipped 2 5/32 points and the yield jumped more than 1/5
percentage point.
   Early in the day on Friday, Treasurys found support in
lower oil prices and moved slightly higher. After reaching
levels not seen in five years earlier in the week, October
crude oil futures ended the week at $30.91 a barrel, down
$1.02 from Thursday.
   But a midday White House announcement that Iraqi forces
had surrounded the U.S. embassy in Kuwait and were preventing
people from entering and leaving the embassy compound knocked
Treasurys off their highs.
   Meanwhile, traders and investors worried about this week's
government bond auctions. In addition to the regular Treasury
bill auction today, the government is scheduled to sell $11.5
billion of two-year notes Tuesday and $8.5 billion of
five-year notes Wednesday. In when-issued trading activity,
the two-year notes were quoted at a price to yield 8.27%
while the five-year notes were quoted to yield 8.69%.
   In the corporate bond market, a late-afternoon rally in
the stock market sparked a flurry of buying interest for junk
bonds, but even that wasn't enough to inspire much trading.
   Most high-yield bonds, which had tumbled all week in
tandem with sharp declines in the stock market, ended the
session little changed in light dealings.
   The pay-in-kind debentures of RJR Nabisco Inc., which had
been battered in the recent sell-off, managed to creep higher
Friday. The company's 17.375% convertible pay-in-kind
debentures finished 5/8 point higher to close at 106 7/8 on
the New York Stock Exchange. The gains, however, only
represent a fraction of the losses the bonds have suffered in
the past week. Since last Friday, the convertible pay-in-kind
debentures have shed nearly five points.
   In the investment-grade corporate debt market, high-grade
corporate bonds posted losses, with some long-term issues
falling as much as 7/8 point.
   ---
                  Exclusive Triple-A Club
                                                                                                       

   These companies have senior unsecured debt rated triple-A
by both major credit rating services.
                                                                                                       

                               BOND        BOND
                              PRICE       PRICE
 COMPANY                     8/1/90     8/23/90      YIELD
                                                                                                       

 Amoco 9.2%                  101.71       97.89      9.47%
                                                                                                       

 Bristol-Myers 8 5/8%         99.65       96.68      9.47
                                                                                                       

 Carnation 8 1/2%             97.88       93.63      9.59
                                                                                                       

 Eli Lilly 10 1/4%           103.39      102.65      8.80
                                                                                                       

 Emerson Electric 8%         101.08       99.20      9.80
                                                                                                       

 Exxon 6.5%                   88.20       92.59      9.24
                                                                                                       

 General Electric 8.5%        98.28       92.59      9.48
                                                                                                       

 IBM 9 3/8%                  101.99       98.55      9.56
                                                                                                       

 Johnson &amp; Johnson 9 1/8%      n/a        98.21      8.95
                                                                                                       

 Kellog 9.5%                 101.62      100.57      9.01
                                                                                                       

 Minn. Mining (3-M) 8.85%    101.02       97.58      9.15
                                                                                                       

 Shell Oil 8.75%              99.46       94.11      9.50
                                                                                                       

   Source: Bloomberg Financial Services
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   `New' Fund American's Portfolio
   Makes Its Stock an Oil-Patch Play
   ----
   By David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   FFC FTX LLX BP PBT MBI X.FRE G.ALL
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
PETROLEUM (PET)
INSURANCE (INS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- There's a gusher of an oil play inside Fund
American Cos., better known as the parent of Fireman's Fund
Insurance.
   Fund American, which was called Fireman's Fund Corp. until
last December, agreed a few weeks ago to sell its insurance
operations to the West German insurer Allianz for $3.3
billion. Fund American, based in Greenwich, Conn., will
remain a publicly traded company, and its first move will be
to buy back its former insurance unit's stockholdings for
$2.2 billion, which was the market value of the portfolio on
May 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In effect, Fund American will be transformed into a
publicly traded "closed-end" investment company. Its value
will depend, more than anything else, on its stock portfolio,
not on the insurance business.
   As it happens, this stock portfolio is positioned squarely
in the oil patch, thanks to money manager Bob Bruce's
one-time hunch that America's thirst for oil and the
Mideast's volatile politics would someday combine to drive
energy prices back up. About 66% of the portfolio is invested
in energy-related issues. These include big stakes in
Freeport-McMoRan, Louisiana Land &amp; Exploration and British
Petroleum.
   The Allianz agreement initially drove Fund American's
stock price to a new high of 51 3/4, prompting many Wall
Street insurance analysts to advise clients to unload their
shares. The stock has since declined to 46 3/4. Now analysts
say Fund American is beginning to look attractive, because
its shares are trading at a significant discount to the value
of the oil-rich fistful of stocks in the portfolio.
   If the insurance unit had been sold as of last Monday,
says Ira Malis at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons in Baltimore, the
remaining company would have had a net asset value of roughly
$65.15 a share. Based on his estimate, Fund American shares
last Friday were selling at a 28% discount to the company's
worth, known in Wall Street jargon as the net asset value.
Fund American will say only that the transaction should cause
its book value to exceed $60 a share, based on its financial
position as of last May 31.
   It is common for a closed-end fund to trade at a discount
to the value of the stocks it holds, especially after brokers
stop pushing a fund's initial offering. But a 29% discount is
unusually big.
   Closed-end funds that invest chiefly in U.S. companies are
trading at about a 15% discount to their net asset value,
according to Richard Barone of Maxus Investment Group,
Cleveland, who follows closed-end funds. In the past 20
years, he says, trading discounts for closed-end funds have
ranged from about 25% in the mid-1970s to about 10% just
before the October 1987 stock market crash. Based on these
historical ranges, investors could reasonably expect Fund
American shares to close some of the gap.
   Moreover, the portfolio value itself could increase if oil
prices -- and energy stocks -- resume the sharp rise that
stalled last week. Mr. Malis of Alex. Brown calculates that
the value of Fund American's portfolio increased about $130
million, or 6.4%, from June 30 to last Monday, a period in
which the overall stock market, as measured by the Standard &amp;
Poor's 500 index, fell 8.2%.
   A number of factors, however, could diminish Fund
American's longer-term value. The resulting uncertainty
accounts for at least some of the discount built into the
stock's price, analysts say.
   For one thing, there is the timing of Allianz's purchase
of Fireman's Fund. The sale is expected to close early next
year, but Fund American shareholders and insurance regulators
in 13 states must first approve the deal. There shouldn't be
much trouble in obtaining the approvals, but such procedures
often are subject to delay. Fund American shareholders aren't
expected to receive proxy materials explaining the
transaction in detail until October.
   Fund American has said that, after the sale is completed,
it plans to pay out more than $800 million to holders of
common shares, either through a self-tender offer or a cash
distribution. This prospect raises another uncertainty.
Tax-paying shareholders, for example, might prefer a stock
buy-back that would increase the market value of their shares
without forcing them to accept taxable income. But tax-exempt
holders, such as pension funds, might prefer a cash
distribution that they could reinvest. (The rest of Fund
American's net cash proceeds of $1.1 billion from the sale
will be used to redeem a closely held preferred stock issue
for $434 million.)
   Afterward, Fund American plans to liquidate its remaining
assets "in an orderly fashion" over the next three to five
years. Or, in the words of Chairman Jack Byrne, "We're going
to be a melting ice cube."
   But before drinking deeply of that cool water, investors
should know about a few impurities. One, coincidentally, is
known as liquidity. Fund American's portfolio has several big
positions in certain energy stocks and partnerships that
don't trade very actively and could be tough to sell without
depressing the price.
   Mr. Malis cites Permian Basin Royalty Trust as an example.
Fund American holds 1.3 million shares, but on Friday, only
11,700 traded, a typical daily volume. Another big holding is
a 24% stake in MBIA, a municipal-bond insurance company owned
mostly by other big insurers. Only about 15% of MBIA's shares
are in public hands.
   "How do they get out of some of these large, illiquid
assets?" Mr. Malis says.
   Executives of Fund American won't discuss their plans
until after the proxy materials are filed. But the company
has said it is considering, among other things, block sales
of securities, distribution of assets, formation of
partnerships or formation of a registered investment company.
   Capital gains taxes could complicate the liquidation. Fund
American has said that it expects to pay "little or no income
taxes" on the sale of Fireman's Fund, but hasn't indicated
how the gains in its stock portfolio will be handled.
   Finally, there is the business that analysts view as the
real clunker in Fund American's portfolio, Fireman's Fund
Mortgage Corp. A mortgage banking company that Fund American
bought from Manufacturers Hanover Trust in 1986 for $260
million, the unit now is valued at about $250 million. Though
the mortgage unit earned only about $7 million last year,
Fund American has led analysts to believe that it will earn
$12 million to $13 million this year.
   In announcing the sale of Fireman's Fund to Allianz, Fund
American said it would consider future acquisitions of
"financial service companies to augment the activities of the
mortgage company." Skeptics believe that this statement, and
the prospect that Fund American may try to expand its way out
of a blunder into the mortgage business, is holding down the
stock's price.
   On Wall Street, Chairman Byrne is given high marks for
astute management and a tight focus on delivering value to
shareholders, though at least one of his decisions has proved
unfortunate. The company's name change from Fireman's Fund
Corp. to Fund American last December occurred just a few
months before a discount-buying club named FundAmerica Inc.
burst into the news. The club, whose founder was arrested on
fraud charges, hired the well-known doomsday investment
strategist Howard Ruff and then entered bankruptcy-law
proceedings. Fund American officials now find themselves
continually reassuring investors that the company isn't
related in any way to the alleged pyramid scheme.
   ---
   Fund American
   (NYSE; Symbol: FFC)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Insurance

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Net income: $73.3 million; 99 cents a share (fully
diluted)
                                                                                                       

   Second quarter, June 30, 1990:
   Per-share earnings*; $1.41 vs. 83 cents** (fully diluted)
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   255,208 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 33.7 million
                                                                                                       

   *Includes profit from continuing operatins of 61 cents vs.
32 cents
   **Year-ago figure restated to reflect discontinued
operations
   ---
       Fund American Cos.' Biggest Stock Investments
                                                                                                       

             Market value as of June 30, 1990
                 (In millions of dollars)
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Freeport-McMoran                            $251.0
   Louisiana Land &amp; Exploration Co.             224.5
   San Juan Basin Royalty Trust                 138.8
   Permian Basin Royalty Trust                   95.7
   PSI Resources                                 93.8
   Ocean Drilling &amp; Exploration                  83.4
   British Petroleum warrants                    72.6
   Placer Dome Inc.                              51.8
   Murphy Oil                                    39.3
   Mesa Royalty Trust                            30.9
   Sabine Royalty Trust                          28.0
   Mesa L.P.                                     19.6
   Helmerich &amp; Payne                             15.0
   Texas Pacific Land Trust                      13.6
   Lone Star Technologies                        13.5
   Cliffs Drilling conv. pfd.                    13.3
   Texas Industries                              13.0
                                                                                                       

   Media
                                                                                                       

   A.H. Belo                                    $80.5
   Lee Enterprises                               66.4
   Media General                                 59.4
   Central Newspapers                            30.9
   CUC International Inc.                        23.1
   Time Warner conv. pfd. series D               11.4
                                                                                                       

   Insurance
                                                                                                       

   MBIA Inc.                                   $370.7
   Alexander &amp; Alexander Services                44.6
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Subliminal Messages Didn't Cause
   2 Shootings, Nevada Judge Finds
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS SNE PNC
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A state judge ruled that a British rock band and CBS
Records are not to blame for the actions of two young men who
shot themselves after listening to alleged hidden messages in
heavy metal music.
   In a ruling Friday, Washoe District Judge Jerry Whitehead
of Reno, Nev., found that hidden words do exist in the music
but that the band had not placed them there intentionally.
And Judge Whitehead ruled that the families of the two men
failed to prove that the subliminal messages caused the
youths' behavior.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Judge Whitehead ordered CBS to pay $40,000 to
the plaintiffs' attorneys because the company did not
properly comply with a court order to supply the original
master tape of the album.
   The case was closely watched because some legal experts
feared that a ruling against CBS would open up media
companies and artists to liability concerning possible hidden
messages in their work.
   Shortly before Christmas 1985, Raymond Belknap and James
Vance shot themselves with a 12-gauge shotgun after drinking
beer and listening to "Stained Class," an album by the band
Judas Priest. Mr. Belknap, 18 years old, died instantly. Mr.
Vance, 20, survived the shooting but died three years later.
   The men's families contended in a lawsuit that subliminal
messages in the music induced their sons to shoot themselves
and that the band, CBS Records, which distributed the album,
and CBS Inc. bore responsibility for the tragedy.
   The suit is part of a growing trend of cases in which
plaintiffs attempt to spread the responsibility for tragic
events caused by their own behavior. Traditionally the makers
of albums, unlike the makers of products such as power lawn
mowers or swimming pools, have been shielded from such suits
by the First Amendment. But in a pre-trial ruling, Judge
Whitehead found that subliminal messages aren't protected by
the First Amendment.
   Kenneth McKenna, a Reno lawyer representing the families,
said that the case had been hampered by a lack of scientific
studies on the effect of subliminal messages on human
behavior but should nevertheless send a signal to the music
industry.
   "We've made major inroads with this decision. The judge
ruled that subliminal messages do in fact exist on this
recording and probably other heavy metal recordings. We're
two-thirds of the way to victory," Mr. McKenna said. He said
his clients had not decided yet whether to appeal.
   CBS had argued that no subliminal messages exist on the
album and that Mr. Belknap and Mr. Vance were troubled youths
who abused drugs and alcohol and whose behavior wasn't
connected to the music.
   In the decision, Judge Whitehead wrote that the subliminal
message "do it" appeared throughout the album but that it was
the result of a chance combination of sounds. But Judge
Whitehead wrote that after hearing all the evidence, he
believed "that the position taken by the plaintiffs in this
action was an arguable one."
   Gail Edwin, a CBS in-house lawyer, said the judge's
finding that there was no proof of intentional hidden
messages would dissuade other people from bringing such
suits. She said the company is still reviewing whether to
appeal the $40,000 in sanctions and said CBS "did everything
appropriate at all times."
   But Ben B. Mills Jr., who is representing plaintiffs in
two similar suits pending against the singer Ozzy Osbourne,
said the ruling will help his cases. "We've been fighting the
issue of whether subliminals exist all along. We'll be
building on this ruling," said Mr. Mills of Fitzgerald, Ga.
   Nonetheless, some experts say it will be difficult for
plaintiffs to prove that hidden messages cause harmful
behavior. "There is still no scientific evidence that human
behavior is affected by such messages," says Anthony
Greenwald, a professor of psychology at the University of
Washington who studied commercially available audiotape
programs that claimed to improve memory or increase
self-esteem through subliminal messages.
   Media lawyers said they are troubled by Judge Whitehead's
ruling that subliminal messages are not protected by the
First Amendment.
   "Once we start saying that certain types of messages are
off-limits in terms of First Amendment protection, we start
down a very treacherous road," said Floyd Abrams of the New
York firm Cahill, Gordon &amp; Reindel, a media defense lawyer.
   ---
   A LAW FIRM PARTNER in New Jersey is indicted on
racketeering charges.
   A federal grand jury has indicted Richard P. Console, a
senior partner with the Berlin, N.J., law firm of Console,
Marmero &amp; Curcio, on charges of violating the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law. He allegedly
participated in a scheme to defraud insurance companies by
fabricating medical bills in personal-injury cases.
   Kathleen Baldwin Sabath, a paralegal with the firm, also
was charged in the RICO and fraud scheme.
   Mr. Console was charged on 11 counts of fraud and
racketeering. Ms. Sabath was charged on 12 counts, including
one alleged lying to a grand jury.
   Mr. Console's attorney, Stephen Dunbar, said he assumes
Mr. Console will plead not guilty when he is arraigned in
September. "He is innocent of all charges," Mr. Dunbar said.
   Charles Nugent, Ms. Sabath's attorney, said his client
will be vindicated. "She is merely a secretary in the
office," he said.
   A spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in Newark said
the indictment by a Camden, N.J., grand jury takes precedence
over related indictments filed last year that were "the first
RICO charge that identified a law firm and a medical office
as a RICO enterprise."
   In 1989, two other partners of Console Marmero;
osteopathic physician Morton Markoff of Cherry Hill; the law
firm's administrator; and a medical office employee were
indicted.
   According to the U.S. attorney's office, alleged all the
defendants defrauded 26 insurance companies by inflating
medical costs in personal-injury cases, creating false
medical bills, and backdating treatment records.
   Partner Philip J. Livolsi, one of the defendants charged
last year, has pleaded guilty to one count of racketeering.
Mr. Livolsi is cooperating with prosecutors and has agreed to
forfeit his 20% interest in the law firm.
   The law firm said that the indictments were a "concerted
campaign to subdue or eliminate a law firm which has
successfully . . . vigorously and vigilantly defended the
legal and civil rights of its clients."
   ---
   INDICTED YEN TRADER switches Chicago law firms.
   An indicted currency futures trader fired his attorneys
from 275-lawyer Jenner &amp; Block over what he thought were
exorbitant fees and the apparent unwillingness of the law
firm partner he originally retained to try the case, three
individuals familiar with the case said.
   Yen trader John M. Baker Jr., who is among 21 yen traders
indicted for alleged illegal trading practices at the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange, told U.S. District Judge William T. Hart
last week that Joseph J. Duffy of 205-lawyer Schiff, Hardin &amp;
Waite would represent him during the trial, scheduled to
begin Sept. 5. Mr. Baker was named in more than 100 of the
393 counts in the indictment against the traders.
   "I fired Jenner &amp; Block due to circumstances," Mr. Baker
told the judge at a hearing. "I don't wish Jenner &amp; Block to
be my attorney any more." Mr. Baker has paid Jenner &amp; Block
$250,000 in legal fees and was facing about $500,000 more in
fees for the law firm's trial work, the three individuals
said.
   When the indictments against the traders were announced a
year ago by former U.S. attorney Anton R. Valukas, now a
partner at Jenner &amp; Block, Mr. Baker hired partner Thomas P.
Sullivan. When Mr. Sullivan recently indicated that he would
not try the case himself, Mr. Baker began looking for another
lawyer, the people familiar with the case said.
   The judge ordered Jenner &amp; Block to assist Mr. Duffy in
his trial preparation and refused to postpone the trial date.
   Mr. Sullivan wouldn't comment. Mr. Duffy said only that
Mr. Baker "just decided he wanted new counsel." Mr. Baker
couldn't be reached.
   ---
   EDUARDO MARTINEZ ROMERO pleads guilty to money-laundering.
   Mr. Martinez, charged with laundering more than $1 billion
in Colombian drug money, made the plea at an early-morning
hearing that was unpublicized for security reasons. Before
U.S. District Judge William C. O'Kelley of Atlanta, Mr.
Martinez pleaded guilty to aiding and abetting the Medellin
cartel in the laundering of money through an organization
called La Mina, meaning "the mine."
   Mr. Martinez, who was extradited to the U.S. from Colombia
last fall, faces a maximum sentence of 30 years without
parole.
   ---
   FORMER LAWYER SENTENCED in Pittsburgh for stealing from
clients.
   Charles M. Thorp III, who had losses of upward of $20
million on the options market, was sentenced by a federal
judge in Pittsburgh to 57 months in prison for stealing about
$2.6 million from clients.
   U.S. District Judge Gustave Diamond also ordered Mr.
Thorp, whose thefts occurred from 1982 to 1989, to pay
restitution to his former clients. The 50-year-old Mr. Thorp
will remain under court supervision for three years after his
release, the judge ruled.
   Mr. Thorp pleaded guilty in June to charges of interstate
transportation related to sending stolen cash and bonds to
Boston and New York and bank fraud related to a $400,000 loan
he obtained from Pittsburgh National Bank by using a client's
name and credit. Pittsburgh National is a unit of PNC
Financial Corp.
   Mr. Thorp is the grandson of the founder of one of
Pittsburgh's prestigious law firms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tektronix Inc.:
   Board Adopts `Poison Pill'
   To Deter Hostile Takeovers
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   TEK
</CO>
<LP>
   Tektronix Inc. said its board adopted a shareholder rights
plan aimed at discouraging unwanted takeovers.
   The "poison pill" plan would make any hostile takeover
attempt much more expensive. Tektronix said it didn't adopt
the plan in response to any specific threat.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Beaverton, Ore., electronics testing and measurements
concern has been plagued for years by stagnant sales and
dwindling margins. In May, it announced plans to lay of 1,300
workers and close down some business lines. For the fiscal
year ended May 26, it had a net loss of $92.6 million, or
$3.19 a share, on revenue of $1.4 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Sued If You Do...
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   PKD
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   In litigious times, it's crucial for business to keep up
to date with possible new liabilities. Current events offer
some simple lessons on the risks of employees who use alcohol
or drugs on the job. If you help run an oil company and get
information that a captain on an oil tanker has a drinking
problem, waste no time getting him off that ship. If you run
an airline and three of your pilots are spotted at a bar
before takeoff, ground them and yank their wings.
   Simple, common-sense rules -- unless you operate in
Alaska, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana,
Nevada, Oregon, Washington or the Northern Mariana Islands.
These unlucky places are in the jurisdiction of the federal
Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The new rule there is that if
you fire a worker you reasonably suspect of using drugs on
even a hazardous job site, expect a huge lawsuit as your
reward.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This is the nightmare result for an oil drilling firm
operating in Alaska's North Slope, which must now pay
$360,000 to three former employees it suspected of smoking
marijuana while working on an oil rig. This month's case of
Sanders v. Parker Drilling is a court-made Catch-22, making
efforts to fight drugs on the job at least as risky as
failing to stop drug use. As Judge Alex Kozinski wrote in an
outraged dissent, "This strikes me as a result so
preposterous it would be laughable if it were not so scary."
   Oil drilling in the tundra is dangerous business,
involving delicate work on heavy pipes and equipment in
temperatures of 30 degrees below zero. Serious accidents are
so frequent that Parker Drilling flatly bans the use of drugs
or alcohol. Several years ago, the firm discovered stashes of
cocaine, amphetamines and even LSD, so managers were
understandably alarmed when they got reports that three
workers routinely smoked dope on the job. After getting
signed statements from several co-workers who claimed to be
eyewitnesses, and after confronting the three, the firm
suspended them.
   Naturally, they sued. The appeals court somehow treated
the jury verdict for the workers as a ruling that the three
hadn't used drugs. In fact, there has been no criminal trial
on drug charges. The only legal issue at the trial was
supposed to be whether the firm had violated its contractual
duty to its workers to use good faith in deciding to fire
them. There was good reason to think the three had used
drugs.
   "By affirming the jury verdict against Parker, we are
saying that management erred grievously by failing to send
the employees back onto the oil rig after receiving three
eyewitness reports that they were regularly observed abusing
drugs on the job," Judge Kozinski wrote. "We should not
require company officials to catch employees with a lit joint
hanging from their lips before they can dismiss them for
misconduct."
   The case includes an instructive clash of judicial views.
One of the country's most liberal judges, Stephen Reinhardt,
wrote a separate opinion that treated this as a standard
labor-rights case. The Kozinski view, he said, "would leave
workers stripped of their basic job rights and personal
security." Judge Kozinski, a libertarian/conservative Reagan
appointee, replied that the majority opinion had misconstrued
the contractual issues here and, besides, being protected
from drugged-out coworkers is also a job right.
   For now, count the courts -- or at least the Ninth Circuit
-- as part of the problem when it comes to fighting drugs. It
makes a mockery of justice for the courts to hold an Exxon or
Northwest Airlines liable for failing to keep their employees
sober, then to hold Parker Drilling liable for trying to do
just that. The new rule is: Sued if you do, sued if you
don't.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Telling It
   On the Mountain
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thank you for bringing to your readers' attention the
current debate over Flat Mountain Pond in the Sandwich Range
Wilderness here in the White Mountain National Forest (July
26).
   I and other members of the Sandwich Conservation
Commission have appealed the U.S. Forest Service's decision
to build a road on this trail. The commission is a town board
appointed by the Sandwich selectmen. Town voters discussed
this issue at our March town meeting and resoundingly opposed
the road. Appellants in this case are not a uniform group of
ignorant and rabid environmentalists. Nor are we "unnatural
foes" of the disabled. We are the citizens of a small
American town that happens to include 20,000 acres of a
national forest; we have worked with the U.S. Forest Service
since before the White Mountain National Forest was
established in 1911.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There was extended public debate and then consensus on a
boundary for the Sandwich Range Wilderness. More debate
yielded consensus on a 10-year management plan that allows
motorized access on some trails and no motorized access on
others, Flat Mountain Pond Trail for one. And we have offered
to help the Forest Service develop various new facilities for
disabled visitors to the Sandwich Range.
   Now suddenly, the Forest Service has made a decision to
bring motors to the edge of a pond recognized as the most
remote and isolated water in the entire national forest. Our
argument is not with who drives those motors. Our argument is
with motors in a federal wilderness.
   This is not a battle between environmentalists and the
disabled. This is a protest by ordinary citizens against a
federal administrative decision that countermands years of
public consensus.
   Martha Carlson
   Center Sandwich, N.H.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Eastern Reformers
   Seek Western Advice
   ----
   By Alan Murray
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Central bankers must forever warn their countrymen that
what feels good today may prove painful tomorrow. It is a
very unpopular task. And because it is so unpopular, it has
always been especially difficult in democracies.
   That's doubly true for the world's newest democracies --
the nations of Eastern Europe. The central banks of these
nations stand at the center of a wrenching effort to convert
socialist economies into capitalist ones. Their actions will
determine whether that effort is a success, or whether it
leads the Eastern European nations down the hyperinflationary
path traveled by so many Latin American nations.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   For most of Eastern Europe, inflation has not been a
problem. Prices are set by the government and, therefore, are
easy to keep under control. The average inflation rate in
Czechoslovakia and Romania over the past five years has been
less than 1%. In Bulgaria, it has been barely 2%. The only
horror story in the region has been Poland, which has seen
the rate of consumer price inflation soar to 270% a year in
1989 from 15% a year in 1985.
                                                                                                       

   But the official inflation numbers bely a more serious
problem. In each of these countries, the state banks for
years have been printing money to subsidize hugely
inefficient state-owned enterprises. The result is a classic
inflationary prescription -- too much money chasing too few
goods. Once prices are decontrolled, the central banks will
have to keep a tight rein on credit to prevent inflation from
galloping out of sight. And the crushing economic damage
caused by tight credit will be substantial. Poland, the
nation racing most rapidly toward economic reform, already
has seen the incomes of its people drop 30% this year as a
result of its anti-inflation policies.
   Eager for help in dealing with this dilemma, central
bankers from Poland, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia,
Bulgaria, Romania and the Soviet Union traveled to the Grand
Teton National Park over the weekend to consult with the best
of the Western world's central bankers. They heard ample
advice. Some told them their policies should be geared toward
restricting domestic credit expansion. Others said they
should peg their exchange rates to another currency. A few
even recommended gold as an anchor.
                                                                                                       

   Whenever a consensus seemed about to emerge, someone else
took the floor to dispute it. "You are getting
well-intentioned but bad advice from your colleagues,"
Carnegie Mellon economist Allan Meltzer told the Easterners
at one point. "I don't see how we can give advice overseas if
we are so unsure of it ourselves," said Bear Stearns
economist Lawrence Kudlow at another.
                                                                                                       

   The Westerners were unanimous in advising their Eastern
counterparts to make the central banks as independent as
possible of their respective governments. That's a common
concern of central bankers; they feel a universal need to
insulate themselves from democratic governments, fearing
public pressure will stop them from carrying out their
unpleasant tasks.
   On this point, many of the Eastern Europeans seem to
already have taken heed. Wladyslaw Baka, president of the
National Bank of Poland, said his institution already enjoys
independence from the government, with Parliament arbitrating
any differences between the two. And Imre Tarafas, first
deputy president of the National Bank of Hungary, said his
institution is drafting a law that will provide for a largely
independent central bank, with governors appointed to fixed
terms, as in the United States.
   But as Western countries have discovered, independence
goes only so far. The Federal Reserve has certainly had to
bend at times to pressure from the White House and Congress.
And even the famed independence of the German Bundesbank
collapsed recently in the face of immense popular support for
a plan to unify the East and West German economies on terms
the central bank thought unwise.
   Thus, public support is still critical. And a compelling
description of the difficulties the economic reformers in
Eastern Europe face in maintaining public support was given
here by Vaclav Klaus, the charismatic finance minister of
Czechoslovakia who is preparing a free-market reform plan
nearly as radical as Poland's. Mr. Klaus said in his country
the battle for public opinion carries down to the man in the
streets, with reformers advocating politically unpopular
"restrictive" policies to fight inflation, and anti-reformers
calling for expansionary policies. "The debate between
restrictive and expansionary policies is a public debate
going on in Czechoslovakia every day," he said.
                                                                                                       

   The Middle East crisis multiplies the reformers' problems.
Higher oil prices will hit the oil-dependent Eastern European
nations just as they are weaning themselves from Soviet oil.
"For us, it comes at the worst possible time," said Mr.
Klaus. "We will be blamed for what is going on in the Middle
East."
                                                                                                       

   Already, economic reformers such as Mr. Klaus are under
heavy attack. One joke circulating Prague, he says, goes as
follows: Czechoslovakian President Vaclav Havel comes across
an old man eating grass in the city park. "Since the
elimination of subsidies, I've had no food to eat," the man
complains. "Here's 100 crowns; go eat," Mr. Havel responds.
The next day Finance Minister Klaus comes across another old
man eating grass, who also complains of subsidy cuts. "Here's
one crown," Mr. Klaus responds, "take the tram to the edge of
the city; the grass is much greener there."
   The reformers will have to find a way to keep public
support on their side if their bold economic experiments are
to succeed. In the end, no amount of technical expertise or
institutional refinement from the West can replace that.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Venezuela Set
   For New Loans
   By Brady Plan
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM F.CLC F.BNP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Brady debt strategy is placing more
emphasis on continued bank lending to indebted developing
nations.
   In the latest transaction under the Brady strategy,
Venezuela's creditor banks have mostly opted either to make
new loans or to cut loan interest rates in exchange for more
collateral, such as U.S. Treasury bonds that guarantee
principal repayments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady's strategy, announced in
March 1989, stressed cutting back bank debt and interest
payments of several heavily indebted developing nations in
order to alleviate the international debt problem.
   More recently, though -- as in the Venezuelan transaction
-- banks have been offered stronger incentives for continuing
lending to big debtor countries. In the current Venezuelan
debt agreement, the banks' new loans -- made by buying
tradeable bonds issued by the country -- offer the banks
better opportunities to convert loans into equity investments
in the country.
   A shortage of further bank loans for Mexico hampered the
first transaction made under the Brady strategy. But new
loans totaling more than $100 million from two French
government-owned banks -- Credit Lyonnais and Banque
Nationale de Paris -- played an important role in ensuring
there were sufficient funds to complete that transaction,
bankers say.
   Under an agreement reached this past March, Venezuela's
creditor banks were offered a number of options for loans to
that country: The banks could either tender their credits at
a discount, offer Venezuela cuts in its debt principal or
interest payments in exchange for more collateral, or lend
the country new money.
   By Friday, banks holding 90%, or $18.45 billion, of
Venezuela's long-term foreign commercial bank debt had chosen
their options. According to bankers close to the transaction,
banks holding about $5.5 billion of that country's $20.5
billion of foreign long-term debt have decided to lend
further funds, meaning Venezuela will receive at least $1.15
billion in additional bank loans over two years.
   In recent days, however, some bankers have begun to wonder
if Venezuela needs new loans in light of the sharp increase
in the price of oil, which makes up almost all of that
country's exports.
   Meantime, banks holding more than $6 billion of Venezuelan
debt have chosen to exchange their existing loans for
so-called par bonds, which carry a fixed-interest rate of
6.75% and will be collateralized with securities from the
U.S. Treasury or some other Western government. This gives
Venezuela an important break in its interest payments;
currently the country pays a floating rate of about 10% on
most of its borrowings.
   Bankers say that they will continue to lend to countries
such as Venezuela if the terms are attractive. "There's a
lesson here, new money properly packaged is available in a
Brady deal for a country with a history of paying its bills,"
said Peter McPherson, executive vice president of Bank of
America and a negotiator in the Venezuelan talks. Mr.
McPherson, though, added that his bank didn't lend further
money but, instead, "chose the par bond option (which holds
the interest rate to a fixed 6.75%) because it gave it
substantial additional collateral with a trade-off of
somewhat lower interest rates."
   In addition, banks holding more than $2 billion of
Venezuelan bank debt tendered their credits for purchase by
the country's government, bankers said. Terms of this
so-called buy-back will be set later. Meantime, banks with
about $3 billion of Venezuelan debt opted to take a 30%
discount in the face value of their loans in exchange for
more collateral. Venezuela has a total of $35 billion in
government and private-sector foreign debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baxter International
   Plans to Lower Stake
   In Genetics Institute
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   BAX GENI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Baxter International Inc. said in a
Securities and Exchange filing that it intends to sell "all
or part of" its 7.3% stake in Genetics Institute Inc.
   Baxter, a medical products and services concern based in
Deerfield, Ill., currently holds 1,021,374 shares; in
national over-the-counter trading Friday, Genetics Institute
stock fell $2 to close at $27.25 a share, valuing Baxter's
stake at $29.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Baxter's filing gave no reason for its decision to sell
its holdings in the Cambridge, Mass., pharmaceuticals
concern. Baxter doesn't have a representative on Genetics
Institute's board.
   Under a licensing agreement with Genetics Institute,
Baxter will make and market a genetically engineered
hemophilia drug developed by Genetics Institute. Genetics
Institute and Baxter applied in May for approval from the
Food and Drug Administration to market the drug; a Genetics
Institute spokeswoman said the companies expect approval in
"mid- to late 1991."
   Baxter president Wilbur H. Gantz said in a statement: "Our
decision to reduce our holdings in Genetics Institute stock
supports our own financial goals," and that proceeds would be
used to reduce Baxter's debt. He added that Baxter has "an
excellent working relationship" with Genetics Institute, and
is "especially enthusiastic" about their joint effort to
develop and market the hemophilia drug.
   The drug, known as Recombinate, is a genetically
engineered form of the bloodclotting protein Factor VIII,
which is used by hemophiliacs. The drug is thought to hold
promise as one way to prevent the transmission of blood
diseases through the use of Factor VIII derived from plasma.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   GOP Fund-Raising Group Finds a Way
   To Get More Cash to Senate Candidates
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The cash-rich Republican Party has come up
with a new fund-raising vehicle it plans to use to funnel
millions of dollars above federal spending limits to its 1990
Senate candidates.
   A new fund-raising committee, the Republican Senatorial
Inner Circle 1990, has already distributed more than $1
million to GOP Senate candidates in the past few months and
plans to disburse $10 million more, according to a recent
fund-raising solicitation sent out over the signature of Vice
President Dan Quayle.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Inner Circle committee gives the GOP a significant new
weapon in closely contested senate races this year. It is the
brainchild of the National Republican Senatorial Committee,
which in past election cycles has sought creative ways to get
around the legal ceilings on its donations to GOP nominees.
"This is industrial-strength fund-raising taken to the next
plateau," says William Canfield, a lawyer for the NRSC.
   But several Democratic campaign strategists charge that
the Inner Circle is a ruse to circumvent legal spending
limits. "Every two years they come up with a scheme to put
illegal money into GOP campaigns," said William Sweeney, a
former top aide at the Democratic National Committee.
   Common Cause's Fred Wertheimer also said that the 1990
Inner Circle committee looks like another attempt by the NRSC
"to get around the contribution limits. Our lawyers are
looking at it closely."
   Earlier this year, a federal judge here ruled in a suit
filed by Common Cause that the NRSC had illegally routed $2.7
million to a dozen of its Senate candidates in 1986 and
exceeded legal spending limits through a complex maneuver
called "bundling." On Friday, the Federal Election Commission
asked the federal court to assess a civil penalty against the
NRSC of as much as the entire $2.7 million.
   But Mr. Canfield says the new plan is "so clean it's like
Caesar's wife."
   Under federal election laws, the NRSC can use a committee
to direct individual contributions to candidates as long as
the money never technically passes through the NRSC treasury.
The Inner Circle must pay its own overhead and keep its
fund-raising separate.
   The new committee supplants a fund-raising program the
NRSC has had for the last 11 years in which wealthy donors,
for annual contributions of $1,000, joined an "inner circle"
and were brought to Washington for issues briefings and
social events with GOP lawmakers.
   In closely contested states such as Hawaii, Illinois,
Rhode Island, Nebraska and Iowa, as well as states like
Alabama and New Hampshire that the GOP also views as
competitive, the additional contributions from the new Inner
Circle committee will give Republican candidates significant
extra funding for television time and other crucial items.
   The NRSC has raised a staggering $52 million this election
cycle, according to the Federal Election Commission, dwarfing
the $13 million raised by the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee. With this huge war chest, the NRSC is certain to
reach the maximum legal level of funding in many campaigns.
Legally, the NRSC and the DSCC can give as much as $17,500 to
each of its candidates and spend an additional sum, called
"coordinated expenditures," on behalf of candidates, ranging
from $100,245 in small states to $1.2 million in California.
Inner Circle contributions don't count toward these limits.
   The Inner Circle has already disbursed contributions
ranging from $43,500 to $34,800 to 23 of the GOP's 1990
Senate candidates, according to the Federal Election
Commission. Twenty incumbent GOP senators who aren't running
in 1990 have each received $7,200.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900827-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900827-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nynex Officials
   Knew of Gatherings,
   Attorney Testifies
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Several top officials at Nynex Corp. knew about parties
involving company suppliers and Nynex purchasing officials
well before informants prompted the company to investigate
the annual gatherings, according to testimony in a New York
rate case.
   Charles Many, head of Nynex Mobile Communications Co. and
Joseph Farina, who headed Nynex Properties, were aware of the
Florida gatherings because they were friends of Lawrence
Friedman, the Nynex Materiel Enterprises vice president who
organized them, an attorney for Nynex testified at a
rate-case hearing in Albany, N.Y. At issue in the rate case
are allegations that suppliers at the gatherings received
favored treatment in the granting of Nynex contracts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He also testified that Raymond Burke, Nynex's executive
vice president and general counsel, and John Clarke, New York
Telephone's general counsel, knew about the gatherings from a
1985 investigation into Mr. Friedman's partial ownership of a
company that had done business with Nynex. That
investigation, however, didn't focus on the gatherings, which
were believed to be small, private parties held on employees'
own time, a Nynex spokesman said.
   Guy Miller Struve, a partner at Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell who
led the 1988 investigation, testified that interviews in the
investigation also indicated that former Nynex Chairman
Delbert C. Staley and Robert Eckenrode, Nynex's vice
chairman, were also aware of the gatherings. But
investigators didn't pursue whether Messrs. Staley or
Eckenrode knew about weeklong parties, the spokesman said.
   The 1988 investigation led to the firing of Mr. Friedman
and another Nynex purchasing official as well as disciplinary
action against seven other employees who attended the
gatherings. Nynex retained Davis Polk after receiving
anonymous allegations about the gatherings.
   Nynex's New York Telephone unit, which is seeking a $1.4
billion rate increase over three years, said its president,
Fred Salerno, "had no knowledge of the alleged improprieties"
at the Florida gatherings. The statement followed testimony
Wednesday that Mr. Salerno may have been invited to one of
the gatherings and had advised an employee against attending.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   AN AUG. 17 ARTICLE reported incorrectly that a lawyer for
Nynex Corp. testified in a rate case in New York that New
York Telephone Co.'s general counsel John Clarke was one of
several Nynex officials who knew about bawdy parties in
Florida attended by Nynex purchasing personnel and suppliers.
In fact, the lawyer testified that company investigators had
been told that Mr. Clarke might have received a report of the
1985-86 investigation that mentioned the gatherings, known as
the perverts conventions. Mr. Clarke has since stated that he
never received a copy of the investigation report, nor was he
ever apprised of its contents.
   (WSJ Aug. 27, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
